Smoking cue-provoked craving is an intricate behavior associated with strong changes in neural networks. Craving is one of the main reasons subjects continue to smoke; therefore interventions that can modify activity in neural networks associated with craving can be useful tools in future research investigating novel treatments for smoking cessation. The goal of this study was to use a neuromodulatory technique associated with a powerful effect on spontaneous neuronal firing - transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) - to modify cue-provoked smoking craving. Based on preliminary data showing that craving can be modified after a single tDCS session, here we investigated the effects of repeated tDCS sessions on craving behavior. Twenty-seven subjects were randomized to receive sham or active tDCS (anodal tDCS of the left DLPFC). Our results show a significant cumulative effect of tDCS on modifying smoking cue-provoked craving. In fact, in the group of active stimulation, smoking cues had an opposite effect on craving after stimulation - it decreased craving - as compared to sham stimulation in which there was a small decrease or increase on craving. In addition, during these 5 days of stimulation there was a small but significant decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked in the active as compared to sham tDCS group. Our findings extend the results of our previous study as they confirm the notion that tDCS has a specific effect on craving behavior and that the effects of several sessions can increase the magnitude of its effect. These results open avenues for the exploration of this method as a therapeutic alternative for smoking cessation and also as a mean to change stimulus-induced behavior.
In the central nervous system (CNS), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) induces the synthesis and release of neurotrophic factors, cell proliferation, and differentiation. The olfactory system is one site where multipotent progenitor cells continue to proliferate and differentiate into neurons throughout life. We tested the hypothesis that ATP initiates proliferation in olfactory epithelium by measuring 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation. Adult mice were pre-treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) or intranasally with saline or purinergic receptor antagonists (pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonate+suramin) 30 min prior to nasal instillation of ATP, uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP), adenosine 5'-(3-thiotriphosphate) (ATP gamma S) or saline (0 h). Mice received three injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine between 42 and 46 h, and were sacrificed at 2, 9 or 16 days post-ATP instillation. ATP, UTP or ATP gamma S significantly increased 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation compared to intranasal saline controls in groups pre-treated with saline. Saline, ATP, UTP or ATP gamma S instillation did not significantly increase 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation in groups pre-treated with purinergic receptor antagonists. Similar results were observed in neonates and in a cultured slice preparation. Intranasal instillation of ATP also increased the protein levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen in adults. Pre-treatment with purinergic receptor antagonists inhibited the ATP-induced increase in proliferating cell nuclear antigen. In adults, a subset of the cells that incorporated 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine was immunoreactive to neuronal markers mammalian achaete-schute homolog 1, growth-associated protein 43, and olfactory marker protein at 2, 9, and 16 days, respectively. Collectively, these data indicate that purinergic receptor activation induces proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the mouse olfactory epithelium. We propose that extracellular ATP released upon injury could induce proliferation and promote the neuroregeneration of the olfactory epithelium.
Altered gene expression mediated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and other intracellular signaling molecules plays an important role in activity-dependent neuroplasticity. We discovered that sustained depolarization induced by KCl, a commonly used paradigm for studying activity-dependent gene expression, surprisingly caused a decrease in CaMKII activity in rat mesencephalic dopamine neurons. This decrease in CaMKII activity, after 2 days of depolarization, occurred in the presence of a continued elevation in intracellular calcium concentration. An increase in calyculin-sensitive phosphatase activity was at least partly responsible for the decrease in CaMKII activity. Phosphatase assays revealed that activity but not the abundance of protein phosphatase-2A was increased by sustained depolarization. Decreased CaMKII activity was accompanied by a selective decrease in dopamine transporter (DAT) mRNA, while tyrosine hydroxylase and actin mRNA abundance was unaltered. On the other hand, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA abundance was increased by sustained depolarization, further demonstrating the specificity of changes. Depolarization also caused a significant decrease in DAT protein abundance and DAT-mediated uptake. Taken together, these data illustrate a novel signaling paradigm in which the activity of protein phosphatase-2A is associated with CaMKII activity and gene expression.
In the human sleep literature there is much controversy regarding the existence and the characteristics of hippocampal rhythmic slow activity (RSA). Generally the human RSA is believed to occur in short bursts of theta activity. An earlier study, however, reported mesiotemporal RSA during rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep that instead of theta fell in the delta frequency band. We conjectured that if this RSA activity is indeed a human analogue of the animal hippocampal theta then characteristics associated with the animal theta should also be reflected in the human recordings. Here our aim was to examine possible phase coupling between mesiotemporal RSA and gamma activity during REM sleep. The study relied on nine epilepsy surgery candidates implanted with foramen ovale electrodes. Positive half-waves of the 1.5-3 Hz RSA were identified by an automatic algorithm during REM sleep. High-frequency activity was assessed for 11 consecutive 20 Hz-wide frequency bands between 20 and 240 Hz. Increase in high frequency activity was phase coupled with RSA in most frequency bands and patients. Such a phase coupling closely resembles that seen between theta and gamma in rodents. We consider this commonality to be an additional reason for regarding delta rather than theta as the human analogue of RSA in animals.
Neuroblastoma is the childhood malignancy that mainly occurs in adrenal glands and is found also in the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. New therapeutic strategies are urgently needed for successful treatment of this pediatric cancer. In this investigation, we examined efficacy of the retinoid N-(4-hydroxyphenyl) retinamide (4-HPR) and the isoflavonoid genistein (GST) alone and also in combination for controlling the growth of human malignant neuroblastoma SK-N-BE2 and SH-SY5Y xenografts in nude mice. Combination of 4-HPR and GST significantly reduced tumor volume in vivo due to overwhelming apoptosis in both neuroblastoma xenografts. Time-dependently, combination of 4-HPR and GST caused reduction in body weight, tumor weight, and tumor volume. Combination of 4-HPR and GST increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of Smac, downregulation of baculovirus inhibitor-of-apoptosis repeat containing (BIRC) proteins including BIRC-2 and BIRC-3, and activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis inducing factor (AIF). Further, downregulation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) was also detected. In situ immunofluorescent labelings of tumor sections showed overexpression of calpain, caspase-12, and caspase-3, and also AIF in the course of apoptosis. Combination therapy increased apoptosis in the xenografts but did not induce kidney and liver toxicities in the animals. Results demonstrated that combination of 4-HPR and GST induced multiple molecular mechanisms for apoptosis and thus could be highly effective for inhibiting growth of malignant neuroblastoma in preclinical animal models.
Recent studies have shown that in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT), increased neuronal activity and kainate receptor-mediated activation of intracellular protein kinase A (PKA) are important physiological and molecular steps for the generation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. In the present study performed on rats, phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) immunostaining was used as a marker for increased intracellular PKA activation and as a reflection of increased neuronal activity. To identify whether activated cells were either cholinergic or noncholinergic, the PPT and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) cells were immunostained for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in combination with pCREB or c-Fos. The results demonstrated that during high rapid eye movement sleep (HR, approximately 27%), significantly higher numbers of cells expressed pCREB and c-Fos in the PPT, of which 95% of pCREB-expressing cells were ChAT-positive. With HR, the numbers of pCREB-positive cells were also significantly higher in the medial pontine reticular formation (mPRF), pontine reticular nucleus oral (PnO), and dorsal subcoeruleus nucleus (SubCD) but very few in the locus coeruleus (LC) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). Conversely, with low rapid eye movement sleep (LR, approximately 2%), the numbers of pCREB expressing cells were very few in the PPT, mPRF, PnO, and SubCD but significantly higher in the LC and DRN. The results of regression analyses revealed significant positive relationships between the total percentages of REM sleep and numbers of ChAT+/pCREB+ (Rsqr=0.98) cells in the PPT and pCREB+ cells in the mPRF (Rsqr=0.88), PnO (Rsqr=0.87), and SubCD (Rsqr=0.84); whereas significantly negative relationships were associated with the pCREB+ cells in the LC (Rsqr=0.70) and DRN (Rsqr=0.60). These results provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that during REM sleep, the PPT cholinergic neurons are active, whereas the LC and DRN neurons are inactive. More importantly, the regression analysis indicated that pCREB activation in approximately 98% of PPT cholinergic neurons, was caused by REM sleep. Moreover the results indicate that during REM sleep, PPT intracellular PKA activation and a transcriptional cascade involving pCREB occur exclusively in the cholinergic neurons.
An acute brain insult such as traumatic head/brain injury, stroke, or an episode of status epilepticus can trigger epileptogenesis, which, after a latent, seizure-free period, leads to epilepsy. The discovery of effective pharmacological interventions that can prevent the development of epilepsy requires knowledge of the alterations that occur during epileptogenesis in brain regions that play a central role in the induction and expression of epilepsy. In the present study, we investigated pathological alterations in GABAergic interneurons in the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA), and the functional impact of these alterations on inhibitory synaptic transmission, on days 7 to 10 after status epilepticus induced by kainic acid. Using design-based stereology combined with glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 67 immunohistochemistry, we found a more extensive loss of GABAergic interneurons compared to the loss of principal cells. Fluoro-Jade C staining showed that neuronal degeneration was still ongoing. These alterations were accompanied by an increase in the levels of GAD and the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor, and a reduction in the GluK1 (previously known as GluR5) subunit, as determined by Western blots. Whole-cell recordings from BLA pyramidal neurons showed a significant reduction in the frequency and amplitude of action potential-dependent spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs), a reduced frequency but not amplitude of miniature IPSCs, and impairment in the modulation of IPSCs via GluK1-containing kainate receptors (GluK1Rs). Thus, in the BLA, GABAergic interneurons are more vulnerable to seizure-induced damage than principal cells. Surviving interneurons increase their expression of GAD and the alpha1 GABA(A) receptor subunit, but this does not compensate for the interneuronal loss; the result is a dramatic reduction of tonic inhibition in the BLA circuitry. As activation of GluK1Rs by ambient levels of glutamate facilitates GABA release, the reduced level and function of these receptors may contribute to the reduction of tonic inhibitory activity. These alterations at a relatively early stage of epileptogenesis may facilitate the progress towards the development of epilepsy.
GABAergic neurotransmission contributes to shaping the response properties of inferior colliculus (IC) neurons. In rodents, the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) is a prominent and well-defined cell group of the superior olivary complex that sends significant but often neglected GABAergic projections to the IC. To investigate the trajectory, distribution and morphology of these projections, we injected the neuroanatomical tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the SPON of albino rats. Our results demonstrate that: (1) the SPON innervates densely all three subdivisions of the ipsilateral IC: central nucleus (CNIC), dorsal cortex (DCIC) and external cortex (ECIC). The SPON also sends a sparse projection to the contralateral DCIC via the commissure of the IC. (2) SPON axons are relatively thick (diameter &gt;1.2 microm), ascend to the midbrain tectum in the medial aspect of the lateral lemniscus, and, for the most part, do not innervate the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus. (3) SPON fibers ramify profusely within the IC and bear abundant en passant and terminal boutons. (4) The axons of neurons in discrete regions of the SPON form two laminar terminal plexuses in the ipsilateral IC: a medial plexus that spans the CNIC and DCIC parallel to the known fibrodendritic laminae of the CNIC, and a lateral plexus located in the ECIC and oriented more or less parallel to the surface of the IC. (5) The projection from SPON to the ipsilateral IC is topographic: medial SPON neurons innervate the ventromedial region of the CNIC and DCIC and the ventrolateral region of the ECIC, whereas more laterally situated SPON neurons innervate more dorsolateral regions of the CNIC and DCIC and more dorsomedial regions of the ECIC. Thus, SPON fibers follow a pattern of distribution within the IC similar to that previously reported for intracollicular and corticocollicular projections.
Chronic opiate administration alters the expression levels of the stress-responsive peptide, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). This brain region contains CRF receptors that drive drug-seeking behavior exacerbated by stress. We used electron microscopy to quantitatively compare immunolabeling of the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor (CRFr) and CRF in the anterolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTal) of mice injected with saline or morphine in escalating doses for 14 days. We also compared the results with those in non-injected control mice. The tissue was processed for CRFr immunogold and CRF immunoperoxidase labeling. The non-injected controls had a significantly lower plasmalemmal density of CRFr immunogold particles in dendrites compared with mice receiving saline, but not those receiving morphine, injections. Compared with saline, however, mice receiving chronic morphine showed a significantly lower plasmalemmal, and greater cytoplasmic, density of CRFr immunogold in dendrites. Within the cytoplasmic compartment of somata and dendrites of the BSTal, the proportion of CRFr gold particles associated with mitochondria was three times as great in mice receiving morphine compared with saline. This subcellular distribution is consistent with morphine,- and CRFr-associated modulation of intracellular calcium release or oxidative stress. The between-group changes occurred without effect on the total number of dendritic CRFr immunogold particles, suggesting that chronic morphine enhances internalization or decreases delivery of the CRFr to the plasma membrane, a trafficking effect that is also affected by the stress of daily injections. In contrast, saline and morphine treatment groups showed no significant differences in the total number of CRF-immunoreactive axon terminals, or the frequency with which these terminals contacted CRFr-containing dendrites. This suggests that morphine does not influence axonal availability of CRF in the BSTal. The results have important implications for drug-associated adaptations in brain stress systems that may contribute to the motivation to continue drug use during dependence.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and angiotensin II (AngII) play critical roles in cardiovascular and neurohumoral regulation ascribed in part to vasopressin (VP) release. The AngII actions in the PVN are mediated largely through angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptors. However, there is indirect evidence that the functionally elusive central angiotensin II type 2 (AT2) receptors are also mediators of AngII signaling in the PVN. We used electron microscopic dual immunolabeling of antisera recognizing the AT2 receptor and VP to test the hypothesis that mouse PVN neurons expressing VP are among the cellular sites where this receptor has a subcellular distribution conducive to local activation. Immunoreactivity for the AT2 receptor was detected in somatodendritic profiles, of which approximately 60% of the somata and approximately 28% of the dendrites also contained VP. In comparison with somata and dendrites, axons, axon terminals, and glia less frequently contained the AT2 receptor. Somatic labeling for the AT2 receptor was often seen in the cytoplasm near the Golgi lamellae and other endomembrane structures implicated in receptor trafficking. AT2 receptor immunoreactivity in dendrites was commonly localized to cytoplasmic endomembranes, but was occasionally observed on extra- or peri-synaptic portions of the plasma membrane apposed by astrocytic processes or by unlabeled axon terminals. The labeled dendritic plasmalemmal segments containing AT2 receptors received asymmetric excitatory-type or more rarely symmetric inhibitory-type contacts from unlabeled axon terminals containing dense core vesicles, many of which are known to store neuropeptides. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that AT2 receptors in PVN neurons expressing VP and other neuromodulators are strategically positioned for surface activation by AngII and/or intracellular trafficking.
Cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury is characterized by the development of inflammatory response, in which vascular macrophages and endogenous microglia are involved. Recent studies showed marked induction of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase (HPGDS) after ischemic/reperfusion injury and its localization in microglia, but the molecular mechanism(s) of HPGDS actions in cerebral ischemia is not clear. To clarify the role of HPGDS in cerebral ischemia, C57BL/6 mice and bone marrow chimera mice with cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury were treated with (4-benzhydryloxy-(1) {3-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-propyl}piperidine (HQL-79), a specific inhibitor of HPGDS. The bone marrow chimera mice exhibit expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in bone marrow/blood-derived monocytes/macrophages. Mice were subjected to ischemia/reperfusion and either treated with HQL-79 (n=44) or vehicle (n=44). Brain sections prepared at 72 h and 7 days after reperfusion were analyzed for neuronal nuclei (NeuN), HPGDS, ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba1), inducible NO synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). The mortality rate (80%) and infarct size were larger in HQL-79- than vehicle-treated mice (58.7+/-8.5 versus 45.2+/-4.9 mm(3); mean+/-SEM, P&lt;0.0001) at 7 days after reperfusion. HQL-79 reduced NeuN expression in the transition area and Iba1 expression (P&lt;0.0001) in the ischemic peri- and penumbra area, but increased COX-2 (P&lt;0.05) and NF-kB expression (P&lt;0.05) in ischemic penumbra and increased formation of nitrotyrosine (P&lt;0.0001) and iNOS (P&lt;0.0001) in the ischemic core area at 72 h and 7 days after reperfusion. In EGFP chimera mice, HQL-79 increased the migration of Iba1/EGFP-positive bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages, and simultaneously upregulated iNOS expression in the ischemic core area (P&lt;0.0001), but increased intrinsic microglia/macrophages in ischemic peri-area and penumbra (P&lt;0.0001) at 72 h and 7 days after reperfusion, suggesting involvement of monocytes/macrophages in HQL-79-induced expansion of ischemic injury. Our results demonstrated that the neuroprotective effects of HPGDS in our model are mediated by suppression of activation and infiltration of inflammatory cells.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) induces a number of pathological events ranging from neuronal degeneration and tissue loss to impaired neuronal plasticity and neurochemical dysregulation. In rodents, exposure of brain-injured animals to environmental enrichment has been shown to be an effective means of enhancing learning and memory post-injury. Recently, it has been discovered that environmental enrichment may enhance neuronal plasticity through epigenetic changes that involve enhanced histone acetylation, a property that can be mimicked by the use of histone deactylase (HDAC) inhibitors. We therefore evaluated the consequences of the HDAC inhibitor sodium butyrate on the learning and memory of brain-injured mice. In contrast to a previous report using a mouse neurodegeneration model, sodium butyrate (1.2 g/kg daily for four weeks) did not improve learning and memory when tested after the completion of the drug treatment paradigm. In addition, sodium butyrate administration during the reported period of neurodegeneration (days 0-5) also offered no benefit. However, when administered concurrently with training in the Morris water maze task (beginning on day 14 post-injury), sodium butyrate improved learning and memory in brain-injured mice. Interestingly, when these mice were subsequently tested in an associative fear conditioning task, an improvement was observed. Taken together, our findings indicate that HDAC inhibition may mimic some of the cognitive improvements seen following enriched environment exposure, and that the improvement is observed when the treatment is carried out current with behavioral testing.
I.c.v. administration of the peptide insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has been shown to be an effective neuroprotective strategy in the brain of different animal models, a major advantage being the achievement of high concentrations of IGF-1 in the brain without altering serum levels of the peptide. In order to exploit this therapeutic approach further, we used high performance recombinant adenoviral (RAd) vectors expressing their transgene under the control of the potent mouse cytomegalovirus immediate early (mCMV) promoter, to transduce brain ependymal cells with high efficiency and to achieve effective release of transgenic IGF-1 into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We constructed RAd vectors expressing either a chimeric green fluorescent protein fused to HSV-1 thymidine kinase (TK/GFP)(fus), or the cDNA encoding rat IGF-1, both driven by the mCMV promoter. The vectors were injected into the lateral ventricles of young rats and chimeric GFP expression in brain sections was assessed by fluorescence microscopy. The ependymal cell marker vimentin was detected by immunofluorescence and nuclei were labeled with the DNA dye 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. Blood and CSF samples were drawn at different times post-vector injection. In all cerebral ventricles, vimentin immunoreactive cells of the ependyma were predominantly transduced by RAd-(TK/GFP)(fus), showing nuclear and cytoplasmic expression of the transgene. For tanycytes (TK/GFP)(fus) expression was evident in their cytoplasmic processes as they penetrated deep into the hypothalamic parenchyma. I.c.v. injection of RAd-IGF-1 induced high levels of IGF-1 in the CSF but not in serum. We conclude that the ependymal route constitutes an effective approach for implementing experimental IGF-1 gene therapy in the brain.
The responsiveness of the rat anterior substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) GABAergic neurons to GABA(A)ergic drugs changes with age and gender, altering its role in seizure control. To determine whether maturational and gender-specific differences in the properties of spontaneous GABA(A)Rs-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) underlie these events, we studied sIPSCs at baseline and after application of the alpha1 GABA(A)Rs subunit selective agonist zolpidem, at postnatal days (PN) 5-9, PN12-15, and PN28-32. Results were correlated with the alpha1 and alpha 3 GABA(A)Rs subunit immunoreactivity (-ir) at PN5, PN15, and PN30, using immunochemistry. The mean frequency, amplitude and charge transfer increased whereas the 10-90% rise time and decay time accelerated with age in both genders. The faster sIPSC kinetics in older rats were paralleled by increased alpha1-ir and decreased alpha 3-ir. At PN5-9, males had more robust sIPSCs (frequency, amplitude, charge carried per event and charge transfer) than females. At PN28-32, males exhibited higher amplitudes and faster kinetics than females. The zolpidem-induced increase of decay times, amplitude and charge transfer and alpha1-ir expression were the lowest in PN5-9 males but increased with age, in both genders. Our findings demonstrate that alterations in GABA(A)Rs subunit expression partially underlie age- and gender-specific sIPSC changes in SNR neurons. However, the observation of gender differences in sIPSC kinetics that cannot be attributed to changes in perisomatic alpha1 expression suggests the existence of additional gender-specific factors that control the sIPSC kinetics in rat SNR.
Acetylcholine (ACh) plays important roles in the modulation of activity and plasticity of primary sensory cortices, thus influencing sensory detection and integration. We examined this in urethane-anesthetized rats, comparing cholinergic modulation of short latency, large amplitude field postsynaptic potentials (fPSPs) in the visual cortex (V1) evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), reflecting direct thalamocortical inputs, with longer latency, smaller amplitude fPSPs elicited by contralateral LGN stimulation, reflecting indirect, polysynaptic inputs. Basal forebrain (BF) stimulation (100 Hz) produced a significant (approximately 45%), gradually developing potentiation of the smaller, contralateral fPSPs, while ipsilateral fPSPs showed less enhancement (approximately 15%), shifting the relative strength of dominant/ipsi- and weaker/contralateral inputs to V1. Systemic or local, cortical blockade of muscarinic receptors (scopolamine) reduced potentiation of contralateral fPSP without affecting ipsilateral enhancement, thus preventing the relative amplification of contralateral inputs following BF stimulation. Systemic nicotinic receptor blockade (mecamylamine) resulted in depression of ipsilateral, and reduced enhancement of contralateral fPSPs after BF stimulation. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade (systemic MK-801) abolished ipsilateral fPSP enhancement without affecting contralateral potentiation. Neither drug reduced the amplification of contralateral relative to ipsilateral signals in V1. In a second experiment in the barrel cortex, BF stimulation enhanced multiunit activity elicited by whisker deflection in a muscarinic-sensitive manner. Similar to the observations in V1, this effect was more pronounced for weaker multiunit activity driven by a surround whisker than activity following principal whisker deflection. These experiments demonstrate that ACh release following BF stimulation exerts surprisingly selective effects to amplify non-dominant inputs to sensory cortices. We suggest that, by diminishing the imbalance between different afferent signals, ACh release during states of behavioral activation acts to induce a long-lasting facilitation of the detection and/or integration of signals in primary sensory fields of the cortical mantle.
The nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) opioid peptide receptor (NOPr) is a new member of the opioid receptor family consisting of mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors. The anti-opioid properties of its endogenous ligand, N/OFQ provide the receptor interesting potentials in symptoms and processes related to drug addiction, learning and memory, anxiety and depression, and nociception. Using target-selected N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-driven mutagenesis we recently generated a rat model bearing a premature stop codon in the opioid-like receptor (oprl1) gene, and here we describe the primary characterization of this novel model. Data revealed that [(3)H]N/OFQ binding to brain slices was completely absent in rats homozygous for the premature stop codon (oprl1(-/-)). Heterozygous rats displayed an intermediate level of NOPr binding. Oprl1 receptor transcript levels, as determined by Northern blot analysis, were reduced by approximately 50% in oprl1(-/-) rats compared to wild-type controls (oprl1(+/+)), and no alternative spliced transcripts were observed. Quantitative autoradiographic mapping of mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors using [(3)H]DAMGO, [(3)H]deltorphin and [(3)H]CI-977, respectively, did not show any changes in opioid receptor binding. In conclusion, we present a novel mutant rat lacking NOPr without compensatory changes in mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors. We anticipate that this mutant rat will have heuristic value to further understand the function of NOPr.
Urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) is functionally a pleiotropic mediator involved in cell adhesion, proliferation, differentiation and migration as well as in matrix degradation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis in cancer tissue. Comparable cellular alterations occur in the brain during post-injury tissue repair. As the first step to assess the role of uPAR in brain tissue remodeling, we tested a hypothesis that uPAR expression is altered in the hippocampus during epilepsy-related circuitry reorganization. Epileptogenesis was triggered by inducing status epilepticus (SE) with electrical stimulation of the amygdala in rats. To monitor the development of SE and the occurrence of spontaneous seizures animals were continuously video-EEG monitored until sacrificed (1, 2, 4 or 14 days after SE). The hippocampal expression of uPAR was studied with real time qPCR and immunohistochemistry. Double-immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to investigate the expression of uPAR in astrocytes, microglia and neurons. We show that in the normal hippocampus the expression of uPAR was low and confined to small population of astrocytes and interneurons. In animals undergoing SE, uPAR expression increased dramatically, peaking at 1 and 4 days after SE. According to double-immunohistochemistry, uPAR was highly expressed in parvalbumin positive interneurons in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus, and in a subgroup of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y positive hilar interneurons. Increased uPAR expression during post-injury phase supports its contribution to tissue remodeling in the brain. Surviving hilar interneurons that are known to be denervated due to loss of afferent inputs in post-SE brain provide a target for future studies to investigate the contribution of uPAR in reinnervation of these cells, and to identify the signaling cascades that mediate the effects of uPAR.
Stress is a major driving force in reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) has been identified as a key brain region in this behavior, and receives a dense input of the stress-neurotransmitter norepinephrine through the ventral noradrenergic bundle. Activation of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors (alpha(2)-ARs) in the BNST blocks stress-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking, indicating a potentially important role for these receptors. Currently, it is unclear how alpha(2)-AR agonists elicit this behavioral action, or through which alpha(2)-AR subtype. Activation of alpha(2)-ARs decreases glutamatergic transmission in the BNST, an effect which is nearly absent in the alpha(2A)-AR knockout mouse. Here, we take advantage of a knock-in mouse in which a hemagglutinin-tagged alpha(2A)-AR was inserted into the endogenous locus, along with the alpha(2A)-AR selective agonist guanfacine, to further study the role of the alpha(2A)-AR subtype in modulation of neurotransmission in the BNST. Using immunohistochemistry, we find that alpha(2A)-ARs are highly expressed in the BNST, and that this expression is more similar in distribution to the vesicular glutamate transporters than to either norepinephrine transporter or tyrosine hydroxylase positive terminals. Using whole cell patch-clamp recordings, we show that guanfacine causes a depression of evoked excitatory and, to a more limited extent, inhibitory fast synaptic transmission. In total, these data support a prominent heterosynaptic role for alpha(2A)-ARs in modulating fast synaptic transmission in the BNST.
Several lines of evidence strongly suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is associated with the formation, storage and recall of memory in the hippocampus and that it is important to maintain a considerable level of hippocampal BDNF in order to keep normal functions. BDNF can be synthesized in an activity-dependent manner. In fact, kainic acid or AMPA enhances BDNF levels in hippocampal granule neurons. However, the mechanisms of BDNF production are largely unclear. Recently, we have found that riluzole, which blocks voltage-gated sodium channels and thereby reduces glutamate release, actually strengthens immunoreactivity of BDNF in hippocampal granule neurons of rats. Therefore, we examined the riluzole-activated signaling pathways for BDNF production. Riluzole increased levels of phospho-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), as well as BDNF levels. Inhibition of p38 MAPK by SB203580 reduced riluzole effects, while activation of p38 MAPK by anisomycin increased levels of BDNF, suggesting that p38 MAPK can mediate BDNF production. Riluzole-induced elevation of phospho-activating transcription factor-2, a transcription factor downstream of p38 MAPK, was also observed. A blocker of N-type voltage-gated calcium channels reduced the effects of riluzole on BDNF production and p38 MAPK activation. We also examined a possible involvement of the adenosine A1 receptor in BDNF production because riluzole can influence ecto-nucleotide levels. An A1 receptor agonist inhibited riluzole-induced elevation of BDNF levels, whereas an antagonist not only increased levels of BDNF and active p38 MAPK but also augmented riluzole effects. These results indicate that, in the rat hippocampus, there is an in vivo signaling pathway for BDNF synthesis mediated by p38 MAPK, and that N-type voltage-gated calcium channels and/or adenosine A1 receptors contribute to p38 MAPK activation.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) coexpress the acetylcholine (ACh)-synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase and different peptides in their cell bodies, but can express them independently in separate varicosities, indicating that SPN segregate transmitters to different synapses. Consequently, there are populations of preganglionic varicosities (peptidergic and noncholinergic) that store peptides but not ACh. We studied in the cell bodies and axon processes of the rat SPN the expression and the proportional coexpression of the vesicular ACh transporter-like immunoreactivity (VAChT), a specific marker of cholinergic synaptic vesicles or ChAT-like immunoreactivity (ChAT), and the peptide methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (mENK), and confirmed the presence of a population of SPN peptidergic, noncholinergic varicosities. We characterized these varicosities by exploring the occurrence of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity (Syn), a marker of small clear vesicles, and synaptotagmin-like immunoreactivity (Syt), a preferential marker of large dense core vesicles. We found that (i) VAChT and mENK, like ChAT-mENK, were coexpressed in only 59% of the mENK-containing varicosities, although they colocalized in the SPN cell bodies; and (ii) almost 60% of the population of mENK-containing varicosities did not express Syn or Syt, and over 80% of the mENK-containing varicosities negative for VAChT also lacked Syn. These data prove that SPN segregate mENK from VAChT and ChAT, and show that most of the subset of mENKergic varicosities negative for VAChT also does not express Syn, suggesting the presence of a different vesicular pattern in these sympathetic preganglionic varicosities.
A fundamental feature of the human cortex is the capability to express plastic changes that seem to be present even during physiological aging. The paired associative stimulation (PAS) protocol is a paradigm capable of inducing neuroplastic changes, possibly by mechanisms related to spike timing-dependent associative neuronal activity, and represents a suitable tool for investigating age-dependent neuroplastic modulations of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1). To examine age dependency of S1 plasticity, the amplitude changes of median nerve somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) before and after PAS intervention were investigated in young and elderly subjects. The main finding of our study is that low-frequency medial nerve stimulation paired with transcranial magnetic stimulation over the contralateral cortex enhances S1 excitability. Moreover, the S1 long term potentiation-like plasticity changes as a function of aging, with a significant increase of N20-P25 complex in the elderly compared to young subjects. These results are congruent with the hypothesis that some elderly subjects retain a high level of plasticity in specific neuronal circuits. Such plasticity could represent a compensatory mechanism, in terms of functional reserve of somatosensory cortex, used by the aging brain to counterbalance the cortical degeneration associated with aging.
The development of monoaminergic axons is affected by pharmacological and environmental manipulations during early periods of brain development. In addition, it has been proposed that changes in the density of monoaminergic axons are involved in the pathophysiology of depression. The present experiments examined the effects of neonatal treatment with antidepressants on the density of monoaminergic axons containing 5-HT or noradrenaline (NA) and depressive behavior in rats. In this study, clomipramine (CL) was used as an antidepressant, because a large amount of data has been accumulated on the effects of neonatal CL treatment on monoaminergic neurons and depressive behavior. It was also examined whether the effects of neonatal CL treatment could be further modified by environmental conditions. In the present experiments, postweaning isolation rearing (Iso) was examined as an environmental condition, because postweaning Iso is reported to change the density of 5-HT axons in the rat brain. Unexpectedly, neonatal CL treatment alone had no effect on the density of 5-HT or NA axons or depressive behavior. Postweaning social Iso rearing reduced the density of 5-HT axons in the central nucleus and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and CA3 of the hippocampus. In the prelimbic area and infralimbic area of medial prefrontal cortex and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, the density of 5-HT axons was not affected by social Iso alone, but was reduced when animals were socially isolated after neonatal CL treatment. Postweaning Iso, but not neonatal CL treatment, increased immobility in the forced swim test in adolescence/early adulthood. These findings suggest that postweaning social Iso alters the density of monoaminergic axons, particularly 5-HT axons, and induces a possible model of depression, while neonatal CL treatment alone has no effect on the density of NA or 5-HT axons or depressive behavior in adolescence/early adulthood.
The aims of the present study were to establish if nalfurafine, a kappa opioid agonist, inhibits compulsive scratching in mice elicited by the s.c. administration (behind the neck) of 5'-guanidinonaltrindole (GNTI), a kappa opioid antagonist; to assess if nalfurafine prevents c-fos expression provoked by GNTI or compound 48/80, two chemically diverse pruritogens; and to distinguish on the basis of neuroanatomy, those neurons in the brainstem activated by either GNTI-induced itch or formalin-induced pain (both compounds given s.c. to the right cheek). Pretreatment of mice with nalfurafine (0.001-0.03 mg/kg s.c.) attenuated GNTI (0.3 mg/kg)-evoked scratching dose-dependently. A standard antiscratch dose of nalfurafine (0.02 mg/kg) had no marked effect on the spontaneous locomotion of mice. Tolerance did not develop to the antiscratch activity of nalfurafine. Both GNTI and compound 48/80 provoked c-fos expression on the lateral side of the superficial layer of the dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord and pretreating mice with nalfurafine inhibited c-fos expression induced by both pruritogens. In contrast to formalin, GNTI did not induce c-fos expression in the trigeminal nucleus suggesting that pain and itch sensations are projected differently along the sensory trigeminal pathway. Our data indicate that the kappa opioid system is involved, at least in part, in the pathogenesis of itch; and that nalfurafine attenuates excessive scratching and prevents scratch-induced neuronal activity at the spinal level. On the basis of our results, nalfurafine holds promise as a potentially useful antipruritic in human conditions involving itch.
Male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are a valuable model in which to study the neurobiology of sociality because, unlike most mammals, they pair bond after mating and display paternal behaviors. Research on the regulation of these social behaviors has highlighted dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in both pair bonding and parenting. We recently described large numbers of dopaminergic cells in the male prairie vole principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (pBST) and posterodorsal medial amygdala (MeApd), but such cells were very few in number or absent in the non-monogamous species we examined, including meadow voles. This suggests that DA cells in these sites may be important for sociosexual behaviors in male prairie voles. To gain some insight into the function of these DAergic neurons in male prairie voles, we examined expression of the immediate-early genes (IEGs) Fos and Egr-1 in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (TH-ir) cells of the pBST and MeApd after males interacted or not with one of several social stimuli. We found that IEGs were constitutively expressed in some TH-ir neurons under any social condition, but that IEG expression in these cells decreased after a 3.5-h social isolation. Thirty-minute mating bouts (but not 6- or 24-h bouts) that included ejaculation elicited greater IEG expression in TH-ir cells than did non-ejaculatory mating, interactions with a familiar female sibling, or interactions with pups. Furthermore, Fos expression in TH-ir cells was positively correlated with the display of copulatory, but not parental, behaviors. These effects of mating were not found in other DA-rich sites of the forebrain (including the anteroventral periventricular preoptic area, periventricular anterior hypothalamus, zona incerta, and arcuate nucleus). Thus, activity in DAergic cells of the male prairie vole pBST and MeApd is influenced by their social environment, and may be particularly involved in mating and its consequences, including pair bonding.
The transmembrane isoform of agrin (Tm-agrin) is the predominant form expressed in the brain but its putative roles in brain development are not well understood. Recent reports have implicated Tm-agrin in the formation and stabilization of filopodia on neurites of immature central and peripheral neurons in culture. In maturing central neurons, dendritic filopodia are believed to facilitate synapse formation. In the present study we have investigated the role of Tm-agrin in regulation of dendritic filopodia and synaptogenesis in maturing cultures of rat hippocampal neurons. We did this by infecting the neurons with an RNAi lentivirus to deplete endogenous agrin during the developmental period when filopodia density on the dendritic arbor was high, and synapse formation was rapid. We found that dendritic filopodia density was markedly reduced, as was synapse density along dendrites. Moreover, synapse formation was more sharply reduced on dendrites of infected neurons contacted by uninfected axons than on uninfected dendrites contacted by infected axons. The results are consistent with a physiological role for Tm-agrin in the maturation of hippocampal neurons involving positive regulation of dendritic filopodia and consequent promotion of synaptogenesis, but also suggest a role for axonal agrin in synaptogenesis.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterised by cell dysfunction and death in the basal ganglia and cortex. Currently there are no effective pharmacological treatments available. Loss of cannabinoid CB1 receptor ligand binding in key brain regions is detected early in HD in human postmortem tissue [Glass M, Dragunow M, Faull RL (2000) The pattern of neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease: a comparative study of cannabinoid, dopamine, adenosine and GABA(A) receptor alterations in the human basal ganglia in Huntington's disease. Neuroscience 97:505-519]. In HD transgenic mice environmental enrichment upregulates the CB1 receptors and slows disease progression [Glass M, van Dellen A, Blakemore C, Hannan AJ, Faull RL (2004) Delayed onset of Huntington's disease in mice in an enriched environment correlates with delayed loss of cannabinoid CB1 receptors. Neuroscience 123:207-212]. These findings, combined with data from lesion studies have led to the suggestion that activation of cannabinoid receptors may be protective. However, studies suggest that CB1 mRNA may be decreased early in the disease progression in HD mice, making this a poor drug target. We have therefore performed a detailed analysis of CB1 receptor ligand binding, protein, gene expression and levels of endocannabinoids just prior to motor symptom onset (12 weeks of age) in R6/1 transgenic mice. We demonstrate that R6/1 mice exhibit a 27% decrease in CB1 mRNA in the striatum compared to wild type (WT). Total protein levels, determined by immunohistochemistry, are not significantly different to WT in the striatum or globus pallidus, but are significantly decreased by 19% in the substantia nigra. CB1 receptor ligand binding demonstrates significant but small decreases (&lt;20%) in all basal ganglia regions evaluated. The levels of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl glycerol are significantly increased in the cortex (147%) while anandamide is significantly decreased in the hippocampus to 67% of WT. Decreases are also apparent in the ligand binding of neuronal D1 and D2 dopamine receptors co-located with CB1, while there is no change in GABA(A) receptor ligand binding. These results suggest that in this R6/1 mouse colony at 12 weeks there are only very small changes in CB1 protein and receptors and thus this would be an appropriate time point to evaluate therapeutic interventions.
The present study investigated the time course of segment and tone encoding in Chinese spoken production with an event-related brain potentials (ERPs) experiment. Native Chinese speakers viewed a series of pictures and made Go/noGo decisions along dimensions of segmental onset or tone information of picture names. Behavioral data and onset latency of the N200 effect indicated that segmental information became available prior to tonal information. Moreover, the results of scalp distributions and onset latency patterns of the N200 effect on segmental and tonal decisions suggest that segmental and metrical encoding is relatively disassociated in Chinese spoken production. Our findings provide additional evidence from Chinese as a kind of non-alphabetic language concerning theories of phonological encoding based on alphabetic languages.
Decreased availability or efficacy of neurotrophic factors may underlie an increased susceptibility of mesencephalic dopaminergic cells to age-related degeneration. Neuregulins (NRGs) are pleotrophic growth factors for many cell types, including mesencephalic dopamine cells in culture and in vivo. The functional NRG receptor ErbB4 is expressed by virtually all midbrain dopamine neurons. To determine if levels of the NRG receptor are maintained during aging in the dopaminergic ventral mesencephalon, expression of ErbB4 mRNA and protein was examined in young (3 months), middle-aged (18 months), and old (24-25 months) Brown Norway/Fischer 344 F1 rats. ErbB4 mRNA levels in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), but not the adjacent ventral tegmental area (VTA) or subtantia nigra pars lateralis (SNl), were significantly reduced in the middle-aged and old animals when compared to young rats. Protein expression of ErbB4 in the ventral midbrain was significantly decreased in the old rats when compared to the young rats. Expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels was significantly reduced in the old rats when compared to young animals in the SNpc, but not in the VTA or SNI. TH protein levels in the ventral midbrain were also decreased in the old animals when compared to the young animals. These data demonstrate a progressive decline of ErbB4 expression, coinciding with a loss of the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme TH, in the ventral midbrain of aged rats, particularly in the SNpc. These findings may implicate a role for diminished NRG/ErbB4 trophic support in dopamine-related neurodegenerative disorders of aging such as Parkinson's disease.
Positive effects on lateral center of mass (CoM) shifts during balance recovery have been seen with voluntarily unilateral arm raising but not with voluntarily bilateral knee flexion. To determine whether unilateral voluntary knee movements can be effectively incorporated into balance corrections we perturbed the balance of 30 young healthy subjects using multi-directional rotations of the support surface while they simultaneously executed unilateral knee flexion. Combined pitch and roll rotations (7.5 degrees and 60 degrees/s) were presented randomly in six different directions. Subjects were tested in four stance conditions: balance perturbation only (PO); cued flexion of one knee only (KO); combined support surface rotation and cued (at rotation onset) flexion of the uphill knee, contralateral to tilt (CONT), or of the downhill knee, ipsilateral to tilt (IPS). Outcome measures were CoM motion and biomechanical and electromyography (EMG) responses of the legs, arms and trunk. Predicted measures (PO+KO) were compared with combined measures (CONT or IPS). Unilateral knee flexion of the uphill knee (CONT) provided considerable benefit in balance recovery. Subjects rotated their pelvis more to the uphill side than predicted. Downhill knee bending (IPS) also had a positive effect on CoM motion because of a greater than predicted simultaneous lateral shift of the pelvis uphill. KO leg muscle activity showed anticipatory postural activity (APA) with similar profiles to early balance correcting responses. Onsets of muscle responses and knee velocities were earlier for PO, CONT, and IPS compared to KO conditions. EMG response amplitudes for CONT and IPS conditions were generally not different from the PO condition and therefore smaller than predicted. Later stabilizing responses at 400 ms had activation amplitudes generally equal to those predicted from the PO+KO conditions. Our results suggest that because EMG patterns of anticipatory postural activity of voluntary unilateral knee flexion and early balance corrections have similar profiles, the CNS is easily able to incorporate voluntary activation associated with unilateral knee flexion into automatic postural responses. Furthermore, the effect on movement strategies appears to be non-linear. These findings may have important implications for the rehabilitation of balance deficits.
Extensive peripheral nerve injuries can result in the effective paralysis of the entire limb or distal portions of the limb. The major determinant of functional recovery after lesions in the peripheral nervous system is the accurate regeneration of axons to their original target end-organs. We used the mouse femoral nerve as a model to study motor neuron regeneration accuracy in terms of regenerating motor neurons projecting to their original terminal pathway to quadriceps muscle vs. the inappropriate pathway to skin. Using a variety of surgical manipulations and the selective removal of Schwann cells in the distal nerve via molecular targeting, we have examined the respective roles of end-organ influence (muscle) vs. Schwann cells in this model system. We found evidence of a hierarchy of trophic support that regulates motor neuron regeneration accuracy with muscle contact being the most potent, followed by the number or density of Schwann cells in the distal nerve branches. Manipulating the relative levels of these sources of influence resulted in predictable projection patterns of motor neurons into the terminal pathway either to skin or to muscle.
Amygdala function is altered in patients with bipolar disorder (BD), but may be normalized by treatment with mood stabilizers. Lithium remains the most effective mood stabilizing therapy for BD, but the relevance of its neuroprotective effects in pre-clinical studies to clinical outcomes is unknown, and the targeting of amygdalar neurons by therapeutic interventions for BD has not yet been examined. Chronic stress in rodents increases activation of the amygdala and induces dendritic hypertrophy, thus providing a quantifiable marker of neuronal structural pathology that may be reversed by lithium treatment. Rats underwent restraint stress for 21 days, with or without concurrent administration of lithium in their diet. The overall length and complexity of neuronal dendritic arbors of principal pyramidal neurons in the basolateral amygdala were quantified using Golgi-Cox impregnation and three-dimensional neuron tracing. Lithium treatment prevented stress-induced increases in dendritic branching of amygdalar pyramidal neurons by reducing total dendritic length (18.0%; P=0.006) and the number of dendritic branch points (21.0%; P=0.02). Despite its protective effect when administered during stress, lithium did not alter amygdalar dendritic morphology when administered to non-stressed control rats. Our results demonstrate that lithium attenuates structural remodeling in the amygdala during stress, but has contrasting effects on neuronal morphology under pathological versus healthy conditions. This may reflect an ability of lithium to stabilize excitatory neurotransmission in the amygdala of individuals with BD, reducing the need for compensatory adjustments of dendritic architecture.
Dendritic electrical coupling increases the number of effective synaptic inputs onto neurones by allowing the direct spread of synaptic potentials from one neurone to another. Here we studied the summation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) produced locally and arriving from the coupled neurone (transjunctional) in pairs of electrically-coupled Retzius neurones of the leech. We combined paired recordings of EPSPs, the production of artificial excitatory postsynaptic potentials (APSPs) in neurone pairs with different coupling coefficients and simulations of EPSPs produced in the coupled dendrites. Summation of the EPSPs produced in the dendrites was always linear, suggesting that synchronous EPSPs are produced at two or more different pairs of coupled dendrites and not in both sides of any one gap junction. The different spatio-temporal relationships explored between pairs of EPSPs or APSPs produced three main effects. (1) Synchronous pairs of EPSPs or APSPs exhibited an elongation of their decay phase compared to single EPSPs. (2) Asymmetries in the amplitudes between the pair of EPSPs added a &quot;hump&quot; to the smallest EPSP. (3) Modelling the inputs near the electrical synapse or anticipating the production of the transjunctional APSP increased the amplitude of the compound EPSP. The magnitude of all these changes depended on the coupling coefficient of the neurones. We also show that the hump improves the passive conduction of EPSPs by adding low frequency components. The diverse effects of summation of local and alien EPSPs shown here endow electrically-coupled neurones with a wider repertoire of adjustable integrative possibilities.
Depolarization-induced suppression of excitation and inhibition (DSE/DSI) appears to be an important form of short-term retrograde neuronal plasticity involving endocannabinoids (eCBs), the activation of presynaptic cannabinoid CB1 receptors, and the suppression of neurotransmitter release. Using murine autaptic hippocampal cultures, we have distinguished five populations of autaptic inhibitory neurons that exhibit differential cannabinoid responses, including three temporally distinct forms of DSI. One remaining population responded to cannabinoids but did not have DSI while a fifth had neither DSI nor cannabinoid responses. Of the two chief candidate eCBs, 2-AG reversibly inhibited inhibitory post synaptic currents (IPSCs) while anandamide did so irreversibly, the latter's action inconsistent with a role as a bona fide eCB mediator of DSI. The duration of depolarization necessary to elicit the two most prominent forms of DSI (effective dose (ED-50) approximately 210, approximately 280 ms) was far less than for autaptic DSE. However the nearly identical concentration response for 2-AG to inhibit excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and IPSCs indicates that this difference is not due to differential cannabinoid receptor sensitivity. Interestingly, of the two populations exhibiting prominent DSI, one had a substantially faster recovery time course both after DSI and 2-AG, this despite being cultured under identical conditions. Several enzymes have been proposed to play a role in 2-AG breakdown, presumably determining the time course of DSI: fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), monoacyl glycerol lipase (MGL), and alpha/beta-hydrolase domains 6 and 12 (ABHD6 and ABHD12). We tested the impact on DSI duration by blockers of FAAH, COX-2, MGL and ABHD6. Notably, the population with slow DSI was regulated only by MGL, whereas the fast DSI population was regulated by both MGL and COX-2. This suggests that the faster DSI time course may occur as a result of the concerted action of multiple enzymes, which may represent a more general mechanism for regulation of the duration of different forms of DSI and DSE.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), a region critical for the tonic and reflex control of arterial pressure, contains a group of adrenergic (C1) neurons that project to the spinal cord and directly modulate pre-ganglionic sympathetic neurons. Epidemiological data suggest that there are gender differences in the regulation of blood pressure. One factor that could be involved is angiotensin II signaling and the associated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by NADPH oxidase, which is emerging as an important molecular substrate for central autonomic regulation and dysregulation. In this study dual electron microscopic immunolabeling was used to examine the subcellular distribution of the angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptor and two NADPH oxidase subunits (p47 and p22) in C1 dendritic processes, in tissue from male, proestrus (high estrogen) and diestrus (low estrogen) female rats. Female dendrites displayed significantly more AT(1) labeling and significantly less p47 labeling than males. While elevations in AT(1) labeling primarily resulted from higher levels of receptor on the plasma membrane, p47 labeling was reduced both on the plasma membrane and in the cytoplasm. Across the estrous cycle, proestrus females displayed significantly higher levels of AT(1) labeling than diestrus females, which resulted exclusively from plasma membrane density differences. In contrast, p47 labeling did not change across the estrous cycle, indicating that ROS production might reflect AT(1) receptor membrane density. No significant differences in p22 labeling were observed. These findings demonstrate that both sex and hormonal levels can selectively affect the expression and subcellular distribution of components of the angiotensin II signaling pathway within C1 RVLM neurons. Such effects could reflect differences in the capacity for ROS production, potentially influencing short term excitability and long term gene expression in a cell group which is critically involved in blood pressure regulation, potentially contributing to gender differences in the risk of cardiovascular disease.
The behavioral and motivational changes that result from use of abused substances depend upon activation of neuronal populations in the reward centers of the brain, located primarily in the corpus striatum in primates. To gain insight into the cellular mechanisms through which abused drugs reinforce behavior in the primate brain, changes in firing of neurons in the ventral (VStr, nucleus accumbens) and dorsal (DStr, caudate-putamen) striatum to &quot;natural&quot; (juice) vs. drug (i.v. cocaine) rewards were examined in four rhesus monkeys performing a visual Go-Nogo decision task. Task-related striatal neurons increased firing to one or more of the specific events that occurred within a trial represented by (1) Target stimuli (Go trials) or (2) Nogotarget stimuli (Nogo trials), and (3) Reward delivery for correct performance. These three cell populations were further subdivided into categories that reflected firing exclusively on one or the other type of signaled reward (juice or cocaine) trial (20%-30% of all cells), or, a second subpopulation that fired on both (cocaine and juice) types of rewarded trial (50%). Results show that neurons in the primate striatum encoded cocaine-rewarded trials similar to juice-rewarded trials, except for (1) increased firing on cocaine-rewarded trials, (2) prolonged activation during delivery of i.v. cocaine infusion, and (3) differential firing in ventral (VStr cells) vs. dorsal (DStr cells) striatum cocaine-rewarded trials. Reciprocal activations of antithetic subpopulations of cells during different temporal intervals within the same trial suggest a functional interaction between processes that encode drug and natural rewards in the primate brain.
Granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a multi-modal hematopoietic growth factor, which also has profound effects on the diseased CNS. G-CSF has been shown to enhance recovery from neurologic deficits in rodent models of ischemia. G-CSF appears to facilitate neuroplastic changes by both mobilization of bone marrow-derived cells and by its direct actions on CNS cells. The overall objective of the study was to determine if G-CSF administration in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) (Tg APP/PS1) would impact hippocampal-dependent learning by modifying the underlying disease pathology. A course of s.c. administration of G-CSF for a period of less than three weeks significantly improved cognitive performance, decreased beta-amyloid deposition in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex and augmented total microglial activity. Additionally, G-CSF reduced systemic inflammation indicated by suppression of the production or activity of major pro-inflammatory cytokines in plasma. Improved cognition in AD mice was associated with increased synaptophysin immunostaining in hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions and augmented neurogenesis, evidenced by increased numbers of calretinin-expressing cells in dentate gyrus. Given that G-CSF is already utilized clinically to safely stimulate hematopoietic stem cell production, these basic research findings will be readily translated into clinical trials to reverse or forestall the progression of dementia in AD. The primary objective of the present study was to determine whether a short course of G-CSF administration would have an impact on the pathological hallmark of AD, the age-dependent accumulation of A beta deposits, in a transgenic mouse model of AD (APP+ PS1; Tg). A second objective was to determine whether such treatment would impact cognitive performance in a hippocampal-dependent memory paradigm. To explain the G-CSF triggered amyloid reduction and associated reversal of cognitive impairment, several mechanisms of action were explored. (1) G-CSF was hypothesized to increase activation of resident microglia and to increase mobilization of marrow-derived microglia. The effect of G-CSF on microglial activation was examined by quantitative measurements of total microglial burden. To determine if G-CSF increased trafficking of marrow-derived microglia into brain, bone marrow-derived green fluorescent protein-expressing (GFP+) microglia were visualized in the brains of chimeric AD mice. (2) To assess the role of immune-modulation in mediating G-CSF effects, a panel of cytokines was measured in both plasma and brain. (3) To test the hypothesis that reduction of A beta deposits can affect synaptic area, quantitative measurement of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in hippocampal CA1 and CA3 sectors was undertaken. (4) To learn whether enhanced hippocampal neurogenesis was induced by G-CSF treatment, numbers of calretinin-expressing cells were determined in dentate gyrus.
Regular exercise has displayed a beneficial effect on the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the mechanism is poorly understood. We here present that regular exercise on a treadmill induces metallothioneins (MTs: MT-1, MT-2, and MT-3) in spinal cords of mice. As MTs are strong scavengers of reactive oxygen species and have some neurotrophic activities, exercise may have some beneficial effects on spinal motor neurons in patients with ALS owing to the induction of MTs. The running exercise on a treadmill for 30 min/day increased the mRNA expression levels of MT-1, MT-2, and MT-3 up to 193%, 298%, and 196%, respectively, of the control value 12 h after the start of exercise. After two weeks of daily exercise, Western blotting of the MTs proteins showed that the expression levels of MT-1/2 and MT-3 reached 173% and 146%, respectively, compared with those in sedentary mice. Running exercise on a treadmill for 2 weeks led to the gradual accumulation of MT proteins in the spinal cords of the mice. In addition, MT-1/2 and MT-3 immunoreactivities were enhanced in astrocytes particularly in the gray matter of the spinal cord. We revealed that regular exercise induced transient increases in the expression levels of MT mRNAs and resulted in accumulation of MT proteins in the spinal cords of the normal mice.
Nociceptive primary afferents have the capacity to induce a state of increased excitability in the dorsal horn neurons of the spinal cord. It is well accepted that capsaicin-sensitive C-fibers transduce noxious stimulation and acute pain and that capsaicin-insensitive A beta-fibers are responsible for touch and innocuous sensation. It has been reported that the intrathecal (i.t.) administration of prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (PGF(2 alpha)) and ATP induces mechanical allodynia via the capsaicin-insensitive primary afferent pathway. In the present study, we investigated the interaction of purinoceptor P2X and the PGF(2 alpha) receptor (FP) in the induction of allodynia by use of mice lacking FP (FP(-/-)). Both PGF(2 alpha) and the P2X receptor agonist alphabeta-methylene ATP administered i.t. strongly induced allodynia for 50 min by tactile stimuli to the flank of mice. The allodynia induced by alphabeta-methylene ATP, but not that by PGF(2 alpha), was suppressed by simultaneous i.t. administration of P2X receptor antagonists pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2,4-disulphonic acid and A-317491. In contrast, the allodynia induced by alphabeta-methylene ATP as well as that by PGF(2 alpha) was not observed in FP(-/-) mice. Immunostaining of beta-galactosidase, a reporter knocked into the endogenous FP locus in FP(-/-) mice, showed that the FP receptor was co-localized with P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors in neurons of the spinal cord. alphabeta-Methylene ATP evoked a transient or sustained [Ca(2+)](i) increase in most of the PGF(2 alpha)-responsive cells in the deeper layer of the spinal cord, and the alphabeta-methylene ATP-evoked increase was blocked by the FP receptor antagonist AL-8810 in two-thirds of the cells. Neither PGF(2 alpha) nor alphabeta-methylene ATP induced the activation of spinal microglia. The present study demonstrates that the alphabeta-methylene ATP-evoked allodynia is mediated by the FP receptor, possibly via the functional coupling between the activation of P2X(2/3) receptors on the central terminal of capsaicin-insensitive fibers and FP receptors on spinal neurons.
The present study systematically investigated the effects of agmatine administered i.p. in several commonly used behavioral tasks. In Experiment 1, pre-test treatment of agmatine (1 and 40 mg/kg) appeared to improve animals' performance in the water maze probe test conducted 24 h, but not 120 s, after training, when the effect was evaluated within subjects. In Experiment 2, pre-test agmatine treatment (40 mg/kg) did not affect animals' performance in the open field, and the place navigation, probe tests (1-4 and 6), reversal test and cued navigation in the water maze, but significantly facilitated performance in probe 5 which was conducted 96 h after training. In Experiment 3, rats with pre-test agmatine treatment (40 mg/kg) were less anxious relative to the controls, with no performance changes in the open field. In the water maze task, post-training agmatine treatment (40 mg/kg) did not affect place and cued navigation, but significantly improved animals' performance in the probe test conducted 24 h after training and the reversal test. In the working memory version of the task, agmatine treated rats took significantly less time and generated markedly shorter path length to reach the platform at the 180 s, but not 30 s, delay relative to the controls. In the object recognition task, rats with pre-test agmatine treatment (40 mg/kg) spent significantly more time exploring displaced objects, but not novel object, as compared to the controls. In Experiment 4, pre-test agmatine treatment (40 mg/kg) had no effect on the task acquisition in the delayed non-match to position task in the T-maze, but significantly facilitated performance at the 600 s delay. These results suggest that the behavioral effects of agmatine are task- and delay-dependent, and agmatine facilitates memory particularly when the task difficulty is increased due to memory trace decay and/or greater interference.
Small-conductance calcium-activated K(+) channels 1-3 (SK1-3) are important for neuronal firing regulation and are considered putative CNS drug targets. For instance non-selective SK blockers improve performance in animal models of cognition. The SK subtype(s) involved herein awaits identification and the question is difficult to address pharmacologically due to the lack of subtype-selective SK-channel modulators. In this study, we used doxycycline-induced conditional SK3-deficient (T/T) mice to address the cognitive consequences of selective SK3 deficiency. In T/T mice SK3 protein is near-eliminated from the brain following doxycycline treatment. We tested T/T and wild type (WT) littermate mice in five distinct learning and memory paradigms. In Y-maze spontaneous alternations and five-trial inhibitory avoidance the performance of T/T mice was markedly inferior to WT mice. In contrast, T/T and WT mice performed equally well in passive avoidance, object recognition and the Morris water maze. Thus, some aspects of working/short-term memory are disrupted in T/T mice. Using in situ hybridization, we further found the cognitive deficits in T/T mice to be paralleled by reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus and CA3 of the hippocampus. BDNF mRNA levels in the frontal cortex were not affected. BDNF has been crucially implicated in many cognitive processes. Hence, the biological substrate for the cognitive impairments in T/T mice could conceivably entail reduced trophic support of the hippocampus.
At the developing vertebrate neuromuscular junction, the acetylcholine receptor becomes aggregated at high density in the postsynaptic muscle membrane. Receptor localization is regulated by the motoneuron-derived factor, agrin, and requires an intracellular, scaffolding protein called rapsyn. However, it remains unclear where rapsyn binds on the acetylcholine receptor and how their interaction is regulated. In this study, we identified rapsyn's binding site on the acetylcholine receptor using chimeric constructs where the intracellular domain of CD4 was substituted for the major intracellular loop of each mouse acetylcholine receptor subunit. When expressed in heterologous cells, we found that rapsyn clustered and cytoskeletally anchored CD4-alpha, beta and epsilon subunit loops but not CD4-delta loop. Rapsyn-mediated clustering and anchoring was highest for beta loop, followed by epsilon and alpha, suggesting that rapsyn interacts with the loops with different affinities. Moreover, by making deletions within the beta subunit intracellular loop, we show that rapsyn interacts with the alpha-helical region, a secondary structural motif present in the carboxyl terminal portion of the subunit loops. When expressed in muscle cells, rapsyn co-immunoprecipitated together with a CD4-alpha helical region chimera, independent of agrin signaling. Together, these findings demonstrate that rapsyn interacts with the acetylcholine receptor via an alpha-helical structural motif conserved between the alpha, beta and epsilon subunits. Binding at this site likely mediates the critical rapsyn interaction involved in localizing the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction.
The cytokine transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) has proangiogenic and proneurogenic effects and can potentially reduce infarct volumes. Therefore, we administered TGF alpha or vehicle directly into the area surrounding the infarct in female mice that received gender-mismatched bone marrow transplants from green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing males prior to undergoing permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. Newborn cells were tracked with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling and immunohistochemistry at 90 days after stroke onset. We also studied the ingress of bone marrow-derived cells into the ischemic brain to determine whether such cells contribute to angiogenesis or neurogenesis. Infarct volumes were measured at 90 days poststroke. The results show that TGF alpha led to significant increments in the number of newborn neurons and glia in the ischemic hemisphere. TGF alpha also led to significant increments in the number of bone marrow-derived cells entering into the ischemic hemisphere. Most of these cells did not label with BrdU and represented endothelial cells that incorporated into blood vessels in the infarct border zone. Our results also show that infarct size was significantly reduced in animals treated with TGF alpha compared with controls. These results suggest that TGF alpha can induce angiogenesis, neurogenesis and neuroprotection after stroke. At least part of the pro-angiogenic effect appears to be secondary to the incorporation of bone marrow-derived endothelial cells into blood vessels in the infarct border zone.
Typical antipsychotic drugs, including haloperidol and pimozide, have been shown to produce parkinsonian motor effects such as akinesia and tremor. Furthermore, there is an antagonistic interaction between adenosine A(2A) and dopamine D(2) receptors in the basal ganglia, which is important for motor functions related to the production of parkinsonian symptoms. Several experiments were conducted to assess the effects of the selective adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW 6002 on both the motor and cellular effects of subchronic administration of pimozide. The motor test employed was tremulous jaw movements, which is used as a model of parkinsonian tremor. In addition, c-Fos expression in the ventrolateral neostriatum, which is the striatal area most associated with tremulous jaw movements, was used as a marker of striatal cell activity in animals that were tested in the behavioral experiments. Repeated administration of 1.0 mg/kg pimozide induced tremulous jaw movements and increased ventrolateral striatal c-Fos expression, while administration of 20.0 mg/kg of the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine did not. The tremulous jaw movements induced by pimozide were significantly reduced by co-administration of either the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW 6002 or the muscarinic antagonist tropicamide. Pimozide-induced increases in ventrolateral striatal c-Fos expression were reduced by a behaviorally effective dose of KW 6002, but c-Fos expression in pimozide-treated rats was actually increased by tropicamide. These results indicate that two different drug manipulations that act to reduce tremulous jaw movements can have different effects on DA antagonist-induced c-Fos expression, suggesting that adenosine A(2A) antagonism and muscarinic receptor antagonism exert their motor effects by acting on different striatal circuits.
Basal ganglia striosomes, or patches, are rich in mu opioid receptors (MOR) and form a three-dimensional labyrinth of cells that extend throughout the mid- and anterior striatum in mice. Though previous studies have suggested that striosomes could affect drug-induced motor output in rodents, the functional role of these compartmentalized MOR-rich striosomes is not well understood. To investigate any relationship between the striosomes and motor behavior we used the toxin dermorphin-saporin (DS) to selectively ablate MOR-rich striosomal cells. FVB mice were bilaterally infused with DS in the midstriatum alone or in the mid- and anterior striatum, and were tested on three motor tasks and in an open field. Two volume measurement procedures and stereological cell counts were used to confirm the induced pathology. Mice that received DS injections showed significantly smaller volumes (-26% to -44%) and fewer cells (-30% to -49%) in the striosome compartment compared to mice that received control injections of saline or saporin. Striosome pathology was greatest in the dorsolateral striatum. The extrastriosomal matrix was not significantly affected, resulting in an imbalance in the ratio of striosome-to-matrix cells. Behaviorally, toxin injections caused deficits on an accelerating rotarod task and the deficit was worse in mice that received mid and anterior injections than those that received midstriatal injections alone. However, DS-injected mice did not differ from control mice on other motor tasks. We conclude that the MOR-rich cells of the striosomes are necessary for optimal rotarod performance, including learning and/or improvement on the task.
Pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) is a convulsant used to model epileptic seizures in rats. In the PTZ-model, altered heat shock protein 27 (HSP-27) expression highlights seizure-affected astrocytes, which play an important role in glutamate and GABA metabolism. This raises the question whether impaired neurotransmitter metabolism leads to an imbalance in neurotransmitter receptor expression. Consequently, we investigated the effects of seizures on the densities of seven different neurotransmitter receptors in rats which were repeatedly treated with PTZ (40 mg/kg) over a period of 14 days. Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography was used to measure the regional binding site densities of the glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, the adenosine receptor type 1 (A(1)), which is part of the system controlling glutamate release, and the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors GABA(A) and GABA(B) as well as the GABA(A)-associated benzodiazepine (BZ) binding sites in each rat. Our results demonstrate altered receptor densities in brain regions of PTZ-treated animals, including the HSP-27 expressing foci (i.e. amygdala, piriform and entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus). A general decrease of kainate receptor densities was observed together with an increase of NMDA binding sites in the hippocampus, the somatosensory, piriform and the entorhinal cortices. Furthermore, A(1) binding sites were decreased in the amygdala and hippocampal CA1 region (CA1), while BZ binding sites were increased in the dentate gyrus and CA1. Our data demonstrate the impact of PTZ induced seizures on the densities of kainate, NMDA, A(1) and BZ binding sites in epileptic brain. These changes are not restricted to regions showing glial impairment. Thus, an altered balance between different excitatory (NMDA) and modulatory receptors (A(1), BZ binding sites, kainate) shows a much wider regional distribution than that of glial HSP-27 expression, indicating that receptor changes are not following the glial stress responses, but may precede the HSP-27 expression.
Many neuroscientific reports reference discrete macro-anatomical regions of the brain which were delineated according to a brain atlas or parcellation protocol. Currently, however, no widely accepted standards exist for partitioning the cortex and subcortical structures, or for assigning labels to the resulting regions, and many procedures are being actively used. Previous attempts to reconcile neuroanatomical nomenclatures have been largely qualitative, focusing on the development of thesauri or simple semantic mappings between terms. Here we take a fundamentally different approach, discounting the names of regions and instead comparing their definitions as spatial entities in an effort to provide more precise quantitative mappings between anatomical entities as defined by different atlases. We develop an analytical framework for studying this brain atlas concordance problem, and apply these methods in a comparison of eight diverse labeling methods used by the neuroimaging community. These analyses result in conditional probabilities that enable mapping between regions across atlases, which also form the input to graph-based methods for extracting higher-order relationships between sets of regions and to procedures for assessing the global similarity between different parcellations of the same brain. At a global scale, the overall results demonstrate a considerable lack of concordance between available parcellation schemes, falling within chance levels for some atlas pairs. At a finer level, this study reveals spatial relationships between sets of defined regions that are not obviously apparent; these are of high potential interest to researchers faced with the challenge of comparing results that were based on these different anatomical models, particularly when coordinate-based data are not available. The complexity of the spatial overlap patterns revealed points to problems for attempts to reconcile anatomical parcellations and nomenclatures using strictly qualitative and/or categorical methods. Detailed results from this study are made available via an interactive web site at http://obart.info.
Apoptosis occurs widely during brain development, and p73 transcription factors are thought to play essential roles in this process. The p73 transcription factors are present in two forms, the full length TAp73 and the N-terminally truncated DeltaNp73. In cultured sympathetic neurons, overexpression of DeltaNp73 inhibits apoptosis induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal or p53 overexpression. To probe the function of DeltaNp73 in vivo, we generated a null allele and inserted sequences encoding the recombinase Cre and green fluorescent protein (EGFP). We show that DeltaNp73 is heavily expressed in the thalamic eminence (TE) that contributes neurons to ventral forebrain, in vomeronasal neurons, Cajal-Retzius cells (CRc), and choroid plexuses. In DeltaNp73(-/-) mice, cells in preoptic areas, vomeronasal neurons, GnRH-positive cells, and CRc were severely reduced in number, and choroid plexuses were atrophic. This phenotype was enhanced when DeltaNp73-positive cells were ablated by diphtheria toxin expression. However, ablation of cells that express DeltaNp73 and Wnt3a did neither remove all CRc, nor did they abolish Reelin secretion or generate a reeler-like cortical phenotype. Our data emphasize the role of DeltaNp73 in neuronal survival in vivo and in choroid plexus development, the importance of the TE as a source of neurons in ventral forebrain, and the multiple origins of CRc, with redundant production of Reelin.
Adolescence is characterized by increased vulnerability to developing neuropsychiatric disorders and involves a period of prefrontal cortical dendritic refinement and synaptic pruning that culminates in cytoskeletal stabilization in adulthood. The Abl-related gene (Arg) acts through p190RhoGAP to inhibit the RhoA GTPase and stabilize cortical dendritic arbors beginning in adolescence. Cortical axons, dendrites, and synapses develop normally in Arg-deficient (arg(-/-)) mice, but adult dendrites destabilize and regress; thus, arg(-/-) mice present a model of adolescent-onset dendritic simplification. We show that arg(-/-) mice are impaired in a reversal task and that deficits are grossly exacerbated by low-dose cocaine administration. Although ventral prefrontal dopamine D2 receptor levels predict &quot;perseverative&quot; error counts in wild-type mice, no such relationship is found in arg(-/-) mice. Moreover, arg(-/-) mice are insensitive to the disruptive effects of the D2/D3 antagonist haloperidol in reversal but show normal sensitivity to its locomotor-depressant actions. Arg deficiency and orbitofrontal cortical Arg inhibition via STI-571 infusion also enhance the psychomotor stimulant actions of cocaine. These findings provide evidence that stabilization of dendritic structure beginning in adolescence is critical for the development of adaptive and flexible behavior after cocaine exposure.
To elucidate the genetic architecture of familial schizophrenia we combine linkage analysis with studies of fine-level chromosomal variation in families recruited from the Afrikaner population in South Africa. We demonstrate that individually rare inherited copy number variants (CNVs) are more frequent in cases with familial schizophrenia as compared to unaffected controls and affect almost exclusively genic regions. Interestingly, we find that while the prevalence of rare structural variants is similar in familial and sporadic cases, the type of variants is markedly different. In addition, using a high-density linkage scan with a panel of nearly 2,000 markers, we identify a region on chromosome 13q34 that shows genome-wide significant linkage to schizophrenia and show that in the families not linked to this locus, there is evidence for linkage to chromosome 1p36. No causative CNVs were identified in either locus. Overall, our results from approaches designed to detect risk variants with relatively low frequency and high penetrance in a well-defined and relatively homogeneous population, provide strong empirical evidence supporting the notion that multiple genetic variants, including individually rare ones, that affect many different genes contribute to the genetic risk of familial schizophrenia. They also highlight differences in the genetic architecture of the familial and sporadic forms of the disease.
The nonreceptor tyrosine phosphatase Shp2 (PTPN11) has been implicated in tyrosine kinase, cytokine, and integrin receptor signaling. We show here that conditional mutation of Shp2 in neural crest cells and in myelinating Schwann cells resulted in deficits in glial development that are remarkably similar to those observed in mice mutant for Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) or the Nrg1 receptors, ErbB2 and ErbB3. In cultured Shp2 mutant Schwann cells, Nrg1-evoked cellular responses like proliferation and migration were virtually abolished, and Nrg1-dependent intracellular signaling was altered. Pharmacological inhibition of Src family kinases mimicked all cellular and biochemical effects of the Shp2 mutation, implicating Src as a primary Shp2 target during Nrg1 signaling. Together, our genetic and biochemical analyses demonstrate that Shp2 is an essential component in the transduction of Nrg1/ErbB signals.
Positron tomography was used to investigate modulations of brain activity during the so-called resting state that may occur due to a concurrent cognitive training. Twelve subjects were repeatedly scanned during resting periods and while solving logical problems containing a bias causing them to make reasoning errors. At experiment mid-time, eight subjects were trained to inhibit the reasoning bias so that their performance in solving logical problems dramatically increased afterwards, while the other four subjects were trained to logical reasoning only which did not help improving their performance. In the subgroup of subjects who increased their performance after training, we found that during the post-training resting periods, as compared to pre-training resting periods, brain activity increases in areas not belonging to the classical resting network, namely the midbrain, thalamus, peristriate, inferior frontal, and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. Strikingly, in this subgroup of subjects, these same areas were found to be also more active during post-training successful execution of the logical task, as compared to pre-training erroneous execution of the task. Such findings were not observed in the subgroup of subjects who did not improve their performance after training to logic only. These results indicate that the brain default mode is a dynamic state during which context dependent local increases of cerebral blood flow may occur on a short-term, likely for the consolidation of newly acquired knowledge.
We hypothesized that religiosity, a set of traits variably expressed in the population, is modulated by neuroanatomical variability. We tested this idea by determining whether aspects of religiosity were predicted by variability in regional cortical volume. We performed structural magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in 40 healthy adult participants who reported different degrees and patterns of religiosity on a survey. We identified four Principal Components of religiosity by Factor Analysis of the survey items and associated them with regional cortical volumes measured by voxel-based morphometry. Experiencing an intimate relationship with God and engaging in religious behavior was associated with increased volume of R middle temporal cortex, BA 21. Experiencing fear of God was associated with decreased volume of L precuneus and L orbitofrontal cortex BA 11. A cluster of traits related with pragmatism and doubting God's existence was associated with increased volume of the R precuneus. Variability in religiosity of upbringing was not associated with variability in cortical volume of any region. Therefore, key aspects of religiosity are associated with cortical volume differences. This conclusion complements our prior functional neuroimaging findings in elucidating the proximate causes of religion in the brain.


Apolipoprotein E (apoE), a ligand for the low-density lipoprotein receptor family, has been implicated in modulating glial inflammatory responses and the risk of neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease. Glial cells activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) have decreased apoE levels and we recently showed that apoE itself can modulate the inflammatory response by reducing c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. Reduced JNK phosphorylation is vital to overcome the LPS-induced decrease in apoE expression, suggesting that JNK inhibition may be an effective way to increase apoE protein and protract its anti-inflammatory properties. This study investigates the impact of JNK inhibition on apoE production using two JNK inhibitors. Our work in primary glia and in vivo in mice injected with JNK inhibitor demonstrates that inhibition of JNK may be an effective way to increase apoE expression.
Methamphetamine (Meth) use and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection are major public health problems in the world today. Ample evidence indicates that HIV transfection risk is greatly enhanced with Meth use. Studies have shown that both HIV infection and Meth abuse can cause neuronal injury leading to neurodegeneration. While many studies have focused on the individual effects of Meth and HIV on the brain, few investigations have been carried out on their co-morbid effect in the nervous system. In this review, we try to summarize recent progress on individual effects of Meth and HIV on neurodegeneration and their potential underlying mechanisms, in addition to exploring their co-morbid effect on the brain.


The cerebral cortex is a laminated sheet of neurons composed of the arrays of intersecting radial columns. During development, excitatory projection neurons originating from the proliferative units at the ventricular surface of the embryonic cerebral vesicles migrate along elongated radial glial fibres to form a cellular infrastructure of radial (vertical) ontogenetic columns in the overlaying cortical plate. However, a subpopulation of these clonally related neurons also undergoes a short lateral shift and transfers from their parental to the neighbouring radial glial fibres, and intermixes with neurons originating from neighbouring proliferative units. This columnar organization acts as the primary information processing unit in the cortex. The molecular mechanisms, role and significance of this lateral dispersion for cortical development are not understood. Here we show that an Eph receptor A (EphA) and ephrin A (Efna) signalling-dependent shift in the allocation of clonally related neurons is essential for the proper assembly of cortical columns. In contrast to the relatively uniform labelling of the developing cortical plate by various molecular markers and retrograde tracers in wild-type mice, we found alternating labelling of columnar compartments in Efna knockout mice that are caused by impaired lateral dispersion of migrating neurons rather than by altered cell production or death. Furthermore, in utero electroporation showed that lateral dispersion depends on the expression levels of EphAs and ephrin-As during neuronal migration. This so far unrecognized mechanism for lateral neuronal dispersion seems to be essential for the proper intermixing of neuronal types in the cortical columns, which, when disrupted, might contribute to neuropsychiatric disorders associated with abnormal columnar organization.
Recent studies have used fMRI signals from early visual areas to reconstruct simple geometric patterns. Here, we demonstrate a new Bayesian decoder that uses fMRI signals from early and anterior visual areas to reconstruct complex natural images. Our decoder combines three elements: a structural encoding model that characterizes responses in early visual areas, a semantic encoding model that characterizes responses in anterior visual areas, and prior information about the structure and semantic content of natural images. By combining all these elements, the decoder produces reconstructions that accurately reflect both the spatial structure and semantic category of the objects contained in the observed natural image. Our results show that prior information has a substantial effect on the quality of natural image reconstructions. We also demonstrate that much of the variance in the responses of anterior visual areas to complex natural images is explained by the semantic category of the image alone.
Olfactory perception is initiated by the recognition of odorants by a large repertoire of receptors in the sensory epithelium. A dispersed pattern of neural activity in the nose is converted into a segregated map in the olfactory bulb. How is this representation transformed at the next processing center for olfactory information, the piriform cortex? Optical imaging of odorant responses in the cortex reveals that the piriform discards spatial segregation as well as chemotopy and returns to a highly distributed organization in which different odorants activate unique but dispersed ensembles of cortical neurons. Neurons in piriform cortex, responsive to a given odorant, are not only distributed without apparent spatial preference but exhibit discontinuous receptive fields. This representation suggests organizational principles that differ from those in neocortical sensory areas where cells responsive to similar stimulus features are clustered and response properties vary smoothly across the cortex.
Memory storage and memory-related synaptic plasticity rely on precise spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression. To explore the role of small regulatory RNAs in learning-related synaptic plasticity, we carried out massive parallel sequencing to profile the small RNAs of Aplysia californica. We identified 170 distinct miRNAs, 13 of which were novel and specific to Aplysia. Nine miRNAs were brain enriched, and several of these were rapidly downregulated by transient exposure to serotonin, a modulatory neurotransmitter released during learning. Further characterization of the brain-enriched miRNAs revealed that miR-124, the most abundant and well-conserved brain-specific miRNA, was exclusively present presynaptically in a sensory-motor synapse where it constrains serotonin-induced synaptic facilitation through regulation of the transcriptional factor CREB. We therefore present direct evidence that a modulatory neurotransmitter important for learning can regulate the levels of small RNAs and present a role for miR-124 in long-term plasticity of synapses in the mature nervous system.
We review and synthesize recent neurophysiological studies of decision making in humans and nonhuman primates. From these studies, the basic outline of the neurobiological mechanism for primate choice is beginning to emerge. The identified mechanism is now known to include a multicomponent valuation stage, implemented in ventromedial prefrontal cortex and associated parts of striatum, and a choice stage, implemented in lateral prefrontal and parietal areas. Neurobiological studies of decision making are beginning to enhance our understanding of economic and social behavior as well as our understanding of significant health disorders where people's behavior plays a key role.
The response of a neuron to sensory stimuli can only give correlational support for functional hypotheses. To experimentally test causal function, the neural activity needs to be manipulated in a cell-type-specific as well as spatially and temporally precise way. We review recent optogenetic experiments on parvalbumin-positive cortical interneurons that link modeling studies of synchronization to experimental studies on attentional modulation of gamma oscillations in primates.
Single neurons in several brain areas intervening between sensation and action signal the accumulation of sensory evidence favoring a particular behavioral response. Two new studies show that these same neurons encode decision confidence and that decision makers continue to process relevant sensory information even after a choice has been made.
Recent works suggest that one of the roles of gap junctions in sensory systems is to enhance their dynamic range by avoiding early saturation in the first processing stages. In this work, we use a minimal conductance-based model of the ON rod pathways in the vertebrate retina to study the effects of electrical synaptic coupling via gap junctions among rods and among AII amacrine cells on the dynamic range of the retina. The model is also used to study the effects of the maximum conductance of rod hyperpolarization activated current I(h) on the dynamic range of the retina, allowing a study of the interrelations between this intrinsic membrane parameter with those two retina connectivity characteristics. Our results show that for realistic values of I(h) conductance the dynamic range is enhanced by rod-rod coupling, and that AII-AII coupling is less relevant to dynamic range amplification in comparison with receptor coupling. Furthermore, a plot of the retina output response versus input intensity for the optimal parameter configuration is well fitted by a power law with exponent approximately 0.5. The results are consistent with predictions of more theoretical works and suggest that the earliest expression of gap junctions along the rod pathways, together with appropriate values of rod I(h) conductance, has the highest impact on vertebrate retina dynamic range enhancement.
Recently, several in vitro studies have shown that the golli-myelin basic proteins regulate Ca2+ homoeostasis in OPCs (oligodendrocyte precursor cells) and immature OLs (oligodendrocytes), and that a number of the functions of these cells are affected by cellular levels of the golli proteins. To determine the influence of golli in vivo on OL development and myelination, a transgenic mouse was generated in which the golli isoform J37 was overexpressed specifically within OLs and OPCs. The mouse, called JOE (J37-overexpressing), is severely hypomyelinated between birth and postnatal day 50. During this time, it exhibits severe intention tremors that gradually abate at later ages. After postnatal day 50, ultrastructural studies and Northern and Western blot analyses indicate that myelin accumulates in the brain, but never reaches normal levels. Several factors appear to underlie the extensive hypomyelination. In vitro and in vivo experiments indicate that golli overexpression causes a significant delay in OL maturation, with accumulation of significantly greater numbers of pre-myelinating OLs that fail to myelinate axons during the normal myelinating period. Immunohistochemical studies with cell death and myelin markers indicate that JOE OLs undergo a heightened and extended period of cell death and are unable to effectively myelinate until 2 months after birth. The results indicate that increased levels of golli in OPC/OLs delays myelination, causing significant cell death of OLs particularly in white matter tracts. The results provide in vivo evidence for a significant role of the golli proteins in the regulation of maturation of OLs and normal myelination.

The neuromodulator serotonin has been implicated in a large number of affective and executive functions, but its precise contribution to motivation remains unclear. One influential hypothesis has implicated serotonin in aversive processing; another has proposed a more general role for serotonin in behavioral inhibition. Because behavioral inhibition is a prepotent reaction to aversive outcomes, it has been a challenge to reconcile these two accounts. Here, we show that serotonin is critical for punishment-induced inhibition but not overall motor response inhibition or reporting aversive outcomes. We used acute tryptophan depletion to temporarily lower brain serotonin in healthy human volunteers as they completed a novel task designed to obtain separate measures of motor response inhibition, punishment-induced inhibition, and sensitivity to aversive outcomes. After a placebo treatment, participants were slower to respond under punishment conditions compared with reward conditions. Tryptophan depletion abolished this punishment-induced inhibition without affecting overall motor response inhibition or the ability to adjust response bias in line with punishment contingencies. The magnitude of reduction in punishment-induced inhibition depended on the degree to which tryptophan depletion reduced plasma tryptophan levels. These findings extend and clarify previous research on the role of serotonin in aversive processing and behavioral inhibition and fit with current theorizing on the involvement of serotonin in predicting aversive outcomes.
Microglia are the brain's tissue macrophages and are found in an activated state surrounding beta-amyloid plaques in the Alzheimer's disease brain. Microglia interact with fibrillar beta-amyloid (fAbeta) through an ensemble of surface receptors composed of the alpha(6)beta(1) integrin, CD36, CD47, and the class A scavenger receptor. These receptors act in concert to initiate intracellular signaling cascades and phenotypic activation of these cells. However, it is unclear how engagement of this receptor complex is linked to the induction of an activated microglial phenotype. We report that the response of microglial cells to fibrillar forms of Abeta requires the participation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and the coreceptor CD14. The response of microglia to fAbeta is reliant upon CD14, which act together with TLR4 and TLR2 to bind fAbeta and to activate intracellular signaling. We find that cells lacking these receptors could not initiate a Src-Vav-Rac signaling cascade leading to reactive oxygen species production and phagocytosis. The fAbeta-mediated activation of p38 MAPK also required CD14, TLR4, and TLR2. Inhibition of p38 abrogated fAbeta-induced reactive oxygen species production and attenuated the induction of phagocytosis. Microglia lacking CD14, TLR4, and TLR2 showed no induction of phosphorylated IkappaBalpha following fAbeta. These data indicate these innate immune receptors function as members of the microglial fAbeta receptor complex and identify the signaling mechanisms whereby they contribute to microglial activation.
Glutamate receptors mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. The AMPA-subtype has rapid kinetics, with activation, deactivation and desensitization proceeding on the millisecond timescale or faster. Crystallographic, biochemical, and functional studies suggest that GluR2 Cys mutants which form intermolecular disulfide cross-links between the lower D2 lobes of the ligand binding cores can be trapped in a conformation that represents the desensitized state. We used multi-channel rapid perfusion techniques to examine the state dependence of cross-linking in these mutants. Under reducing conditions, both wild-type GluR2 and the G725C and S729C mutants have normal activation and desensitization kinetics, but the Cys mutants can be efficiently trapped in nonconducting states when oxidized. In contrast the I664C mutant is only partially inactivated under oxidizing conditions. For S729C, disulfide cross-links form rapidly when receptors are desensitized in the presence of glutamate, but receptors also become trapped at rest, in the absence of agonist. We assessed such spontaneous trapping in various conditions, including CNQX, a competitive antagonist; kainate, a weak partial agonist; or when desensitization was blocked by the L483Y mutation that stabilizes the D1 dimer interface. These experiments suggest that trapping in the absence of glutamate is due to two motions: Spontaneous breaking of the D1 dimer interface and hyperextension of the lower lobes of the ligand binding core. These data show that the glutamate binding domains are surprisingly mobile in the absence of ligand, which could influence receptor activity in the brain.
Chemotaxis in Caenorhabditis elegans depends critically on the rate of change of attractant concentration computed as the worm moves through its environment. This computation depends, in turn, on the neuron class ASE, a left-right pair of pair of chemosensory neurons that is functionally asymmetric such that the left neuron is an on-cell, whereas the right neuron is an off-cell. To determine whether this coding strategy is a general feature of chemosensation in C. elegans, we imaged calcium responses in all chemosensory neurons known or in a position to contribute to chemotaxis to tastants in this organism. This survey revealed one new class of on-cells (ADF) and one new class of off-cells (ASH). Thus, the ASE class is unique in having both an on-cell and an off-cell. We also found that the newly characterized on-cells and off-cells promote runs and turns, respectively, mirroring the pattern reported previously for ASEL and ASER. Our results suggest that the C. elegans chemotaxis network is specialized for the temporal differentiation of chemosensory inputs, as required for chemotaxis.
Recent work suggests that concurrent excitation and inhibition originating in central pattern generators (CPGs) may be used to control rhythmic motoneuronal activity. The specific roles that the inhibition plays in such cases are not well understood, however, in part because of the lack of identification of presynaptic inhibitory neurons. Here we demonstrate that, in the Aplysia feeding CPG, inhibitory inputs may be critical for flexible control of the activity of motoneurons in different forms of behavior. The feeding CPG generates ingestive and egestive motor programs, differing in the high and low activity, respectively, of the motoneuron B8 during the retraction phase of the programs. We show that, during retraction, B8 receives concurrent excitation and inhibition that produces a high-conductance state. The inhibition originates in two types of CPG neurons, B4/5 and B70, that are more active in egestion than ingestion and play a role in suppressing B8 activity during egestion. In turn, the activities of both B4/5 and B70 are suppressed by the ingestion-promoting descending interneuron CBI-3 (for cerebral-buccal interneuron 3). Thus, concurrent excitation and inhibition may be an effective means of controlling motoneuronal activity in a behavior-dependent manner. More detailed analyses reveal, furthermore, that B4/5 and B70 exert complementary actions by acting preferentially in the early and late part of retraction, respectively. Thus, the use of multiple neurons to generate inhibitory inputs to motoneurons that receive concurrent excitation and inhibition brings an additional level of flexibility that allows a temporally specific control of motoneuronal activity within a single phase of motor programs.

Neurogenesis persists in certain adult brain regions including the dentate gyrus. Recent studies have shown that long-term potentiation (LTP) induction in the afferent pathway enhances adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. Here, we investigated whether long-term depression (LTD) induction also affects adult neurogenesis. We induced LTD in the dentate gyrus in one hemisphere and compared the amount of progenitor proliferation with that in the other hemisphere. Unlike LTP induction, LTD induction per se did not affect progenitor cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus. However, when LTD was induced a day before LTP induction, neuronal progenitor cell proliferation facilitated by LTP induction was markedly blunted. These results show that two forms of synaptic plasticity, LTP and LTD, differentially influence hippocampal adult neurogenesis.

A behavior-related deficit in the release of ascorbate (AA), an antioxidant vitamin, occurs in the striatum of R6/2 mice expressing the human mutation for Huntington's disease (HD), a dominantly inherited condition characterized by striatal dysfunction. To determine the role of corticostriatal fibers in AA release, we combined slow-scan voltammetry with electrical stimulation of cortical afferents to measure evoked fluctuations in extracellular AA in wild-type (WT) and R6/2 striatum. Although cortical stimulation evoked a rapid increase in AA release in both groups, the R6/2 response had a significantly shorter duration and smaller magnitude than WT. To determine if corticostriatal dysfunction also underlies the behavior-related AA deficit in R6/2s, we measured striatal AA release in separate groups of mice treated with d-amphetamine (5 mg/kg), a psychomotor stimulant known to release AA from corticostriatal terminals independently of dopamine. Relative to WT, both AA release and behavioral activation were diminished in R6/2 mice. Collectively, our results show that the corticostriatal pathway is directly involved in AA release and that this system is dysfunctional in HD. Moreover, because AA release requires glutamate uptake, a failure of striatal AA release in HD is consistent with an overactive glutamate system and diminished glutamate transport, both of which are thought to be central to HD pathogenesis.
Morbidity and mortality in stroke are attributed to cerebral edema. To date, six aquaporins (AQPs) have been found in rat brains. Whereas studies have been focused on AQP1, -4 and -9, little is known about the expression of AQP3, -5 and -8. To clarify roles of AQP3, -5 and -8 in water movement, we examined the expression patterns of AQP3, -5 and -8 in ischemic brains from the rats with permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). We also investigated the expression of AQP4 after ischemia, which was used as a positive control. We found that the expression of AQP4 increased continuously until 24 h after pMCAO in both the ischemic core and the border region. The increased expression was correlated with brain swelling, whereas the expression of AQP3, -5 and -8 continued to increase until 24 h after pMCAO in the border region but decreased 6 h after pMCAO in the ischemic core. We also found AQPs were colocalized with GFAP-positive astrocytes and/or NeuN-positive neurons in rat brains. This is the first study describing the expression of AQP3, -5 and -8 in rat brains subjected to pMCAO. Our findings indicated that dynamic changes of AQP3, -4, -5 and -8 expression could contribute to the development of cerebral edema after brain ischemia. Besides, AQP3, -5 and -8 may be involved in the neuronal swelling.
Currently, notalgia paresthetica (NP) is a poorly-understood condition diagnosed on the basis of pruritus, pain, or both, in the area medial to the scapula and lateral to the thoracic spine. It has been proposed that NP is caused by degenerative changes to the T2-T6 vertebrae, genetic disposition, or nerve entrapment of the posterior rami of spinal nerves arising at T2-T6. Despite considerable research, the etiology of NP remains unclear, and a multitude of different treatment modalities have correspondingly met with varying degrees of success. Here we demonstrate that NP can be caused by long thoracic nerve injury leading to serratus anterior dysfunction, and that electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) of the serratus anterior can successfully and conservatively treat NP. In four cases of NP with known injury to the long thoracic nerve we performed transcutaneous EMS to the serratus anterior in an area far lateral to the site of pain and pruritus, resulting in significant and rapid pain relief. These findings are the first to identify long thoracic nerve injury as a cause for notalgia paresthetica and electrical muscle stimulation of the serratus anterior as a possible treatment, and we discuss the implications of these findings on better diagnosing and treating notalgia paresthetica.


Neurotransmitter ligand binding in blood cells was assessed in borderline personality disorder (BDP) patients, testing the possibility that different biochemical endophenotypes might lie beneath a specific clinical presentation. The density of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) and serotonin transporters were assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and platelets, respectively, showing a decrease of both parameters. Moreover, a further significant decrease of PBR in PBMC was shown for those patients with a depressive trait. Further confirmation of the presence of different molecular endophenotypes underlying the dissimilar clinical presentations in BPD may advance our possibility of successfully treating these patients.


Alternatively spliced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) transcripts are targeted to distinct cellular compartments in neurons but the mechanisms underlying this sorting are unknown. Although only some BDNF isoforms are targeted to dendrites, we have found that the coding region common to all BDNF transcripts contains a constitutively active dendritic targeting signal and that this signal is suppressed in transcripts containing exons 1 or 4, which are restricted to the cell soma and proximal dendrites. This dendritic targeting signal is mediated by translin, an RNA-binding protein implicated in RNA trafficking, and is disrupted by the G196A mutation associated with memory deficits and psychiatric disorders. Molecular modeling and mutational studies indicate that the G196A mutation blocks dendritic targeting of BDNF mRNA by disrupting its interaction with translin. These findings implicate abnormal dendritic trafficking of BDNF mRNA in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders linked to the G196A mutation.
In many parts of the vertebrate nervous system, synaptic connections are remodeled during early postnatal life. Neural activity plays an important role in regulating one such rearrangement, synapse elimination, in the developing neuromuscular system, but there is little direct evidence on roles of pre- or postsynaptic activity in regulating synapse elimination in the developing brain. To address this issue, we expressed a chloride channel-yellow fluorescent protein fusion in cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) of transgenic mice to decrease their excitability. We then assessed elimination of supernumerary climbing fiber inputs to PCs. Individual PCs are innervated by multiple climbing fibers at birth; all but one are eliminated during the first three postnatal weeks in wild-type mice, but multiple innervation persists for at least three months in the transgenic mice. The normal redistribution of climbing fiber synapses from PC somata to proximal dendrites was also blunted in transgenics. These results show that normal electrical activity of the postsynaptic cell is required for it to attain a mature innervation pattern.
Neurotransmitter release is triggered by cooperative Ca2+-binding to the Ca2+-sensor protein synaptotagmin-1. Synaptotagmin-1 contains two C2 domains, referred to as the C2A and C2B domains, that bind Ca2+ with similar properties and affinities. However, Ca2+ binding to the C2A domain is not required for release, whereas Ca2+ binding to the C2B domain is essential for release. We now demonstrate that despite its expendability, Ca2+-binding to the C2A domain significantly contributes to the overall triggering of neurotransmitter release, and determines its Ca2+ cooperativity. Biochemically, Ca2+ induces more tight binding of the isolated C2A domain than of the isolated C2B domain to standard liposomes composed of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylserine. However, here we show that surprisingly, the opposite holds true when the double C2A/B-domain fragment of synaptotagmin-1 is used instead of isolated C2 domains, and when liposomes containing a physiological lipid composition are used. Under these conditions, Ca2+ binding to the C2B domain but not the C2A domain becomes the primary determinant of phospholipid binding. Thus, the unique requirement for Ca2+ binding to the C2B domain for synaptotagmin-1 in Ca2+-triggered neurotransmitter release may be accounted for, at least in part, by the unusual phospholipid-binding properties of its double C2A/B-domain fragment.
We recognize, understand, and interact with objects through both vision and touch. Conceivably, these two sensory systems encode object shape in similar ways, which could facilitate cross-modal communication. To test this idea, we studied single neurons in macaque monkey intermediate visual (area V4) and somatosensory (area SII) cortex, using matched shape stimuli. We found similar patterns of shape sensitivity characterized by tuning for curvature direction. These parallel tuning patterns imply analogous shape coding mechanisms in intermediate visual and somatosensory cortex.
Sensation involves active movement of sensory organs, but it remains unknown how position or movement of sensory organs is encoded in cortex. In the rat whisker system, each whisker is represented by an individual cortical (barrel) column. Here, we quantified in awake, head-fixed rats the impact of natural whisker movements on action potential frequencies of single (identified) neurons located in different layers of somatosensory (barrel) cortex. In all layers, we found only weak correlations between spiking and whisker position or velocity. Conversely, whisking significantly increased spiking rate in a subset of neurons located preferentially in layer 5A. This finding suggests that whisker movement could be encoded by population responses of neurons within all layers and by single slender-tufted pyramids in layer 5A.
Synaptic plasticity is mediated by changes in the surface expression of AMPA receptors (AMPARs). Stargazin and related transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins have emerged as the principal regulators of AMPAR surface expression. Here, we show in heterologous cells and primary neurons that stargazin is physiologically S-nitrosylated, resulting in increased surface expression. S-nitrosylation of stargazin increases binding to the AMPAR subunit GluR1, causing increased surface expression of the AMPAR. NMDAR stimulation, well known to activate neuronal nitric oxide synthase, increases both nitrosylation of stargazin and its binding to AMPAR. Thus, S-nitrosylation of stargazin is a physiologic regulator of AMPAR surface expression.
The 22q11 deletion (or DiGeorge) syndrome (22q11DS), the result of a 1.5- to 3-megabase hemizygous deletion on human chromosome 22, results in dramatically increased susceptibility for &quot;diseases of cortical connectivity&quot; thought to arise during development, including schizophrenia and autism. We show that diminished dosage of the genes deleted in the 1.5-megabase 22q11 minimal critical deleted region in a mouse model of 22q11DS specifically compromises neurogenesis and subsequent differentiation in the cerebral cortex. Proliferation of basal, but not apical, progenitors is disrupted, and subsequently, the frequency of layer 2/3, but not layer 5/6, projection neurons is altered. This change is paralleled by aberrant distribution of parvalbumin-labeled interneurons in upper and lower cortical layers. Deletion of Tbx1 or Prodh (22q11 genes independently associated with 22q11DS phenotypes) does not similarly disrupt basal progenitors. However, expression analysis implicates additional 22q11 genes that are selectively expressed in cortical precursors. Thus, diminished 22q11 gene dosage disrupts cortical neurogenesis and interneuron migration. Such developmental disruption may alter cortical circuitry and establish vulnerability for developmental disorders, including schizophrenia and autism.
Millions afflicted with Chagas disease and other disorders of aberrant glycosylation suffer symptoms consistent with altered electrical signaling such as arrhythmias, decreased neuronal conduction velocity, and hyporeflexia. Cardiac, neuronal, and muscle electrical signaling is controlled and modulated by changes in voltage-gated ion channel activity that occur through physiological and pathological processes such as development, epilepsy, and cardiomyopathy. Glycans attached to ion channels alter channel activity through isoform-specific mechanisms. Here we show that regulated and aberrant glycosylation modulate cardiac ion channel activity and electrical signaling through a cell-specific mechanism. Data show that nearly half of 239 glycosylation-associated genes (glycogenes) were significantly differentially expressed among neonatal and adult atrial and ventricular myocytes. The N-glycan structures produced among cardiomyocyte types were markedly variable. Thus, the cardiac glycome, defined as the complete set of glycan structures produced in the heart, is remodeled. One glycogene, ST8sia2, a polysialyltransferase, is expressed only in the neonatal atrium. Cardiomyocyte electrical signaling was compared in control and ST8sia2((-/-)) neonatal atrial and ventricular myocytes. Action potential waveforms and gating of less sialylated voltage-gated Na+ channels were altered consistently in ST8sia2((-/-)) atrial myocytes. ST8sia2 expression had no effect on ventricular myocyte excitability. Thus, the regulated (between atrium and ventricle) and aberrant (knockout in the neonatal atrium) expression of a single glycogene was sufficient to modulate cardiomyocyte excitability. A mechanism is described by which cardiac function is controlled and modulated through physiological and pathological processes that involve regulated and aberrant glycosylation.

Small guanosine triphosphatases of the Rab family regulate intracellular vesicular trafficking. Rab2 is highly expressed in the nervous system, yet its function in neurons is unknown. In Caenorhabditis elegans, unc-108/rab-2 mutants have been isolated based on their locomotory defects. We show that the locomotion defects of rab-2 mutants are not caused by defects in synaptic vesicle release but by defects in dense core vesicle (DCV) signaling. DCVs in rab-2 mutants are often enlarged and heterogeneous in size; however, their number and distribution are not affected. This implicates Rab2 in the biogenesis of DCVs at the Golgi complex. We demonstrate that Rab2 is required to prevent DCV cargo from inappropriately entering late endosomal compartments during DCV maturation. Finally, we show that RIC-19, the C. elegans orthologue of the human diabetes autoantigen ICA69, is also involved in DCV maturation and is recruited to Golgi membranes by activated RAB-2. Thus, we propose that RAB-2 and its effector RIC-19 are required for neuronal DCV maturation.
This paper presents a chip-based electrophysiological platform enabling the study of micro- and macro-circuitry in in-vitro neuronal preparations. The approach is based on a 64x64 microelectrode array device providing extracellular electrophysiological activity recordings with high spatial (21 microm of electrode separation) and temporal resolution (from 0.13 ms for 4096 microelectrodes down to 8 micros for 64 microelectrodes). Applied to in-vitro neuronal preparations, we show how this approach enables neuronal signals to be acquired for investigating neuronal activity from single cells and microcircuits to large scale neuronal networks. The main elements of the platform are the metallic microelectrode array (MEA) implemented in Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) technology similar to a light imager, the in-pixel integrated low-noise amplifiers (11 microVrms) and the high-speed random addressing logic. The chip is combined with a real-time acquisition system providing the capability to record at 7.8 kHz/electrode the whole array and to process the acquired signals.

The six-transmembrane protein GDE2 controls the onset and progression of spinal motor neuron differentiation through extracellular glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase metabolism. Although this process is likely to be tightly regulated, the relevant mechanisms that modulate its activity are unknown. Here we show that the antioxidant scavenger peroxiredoxin1 (Prdx1) interacts with GDE2, and that loss of Prdx1 causes motor neuron deficits analogous to GDE2 ablation. Prdx1 cooperates with GDE2 to drive motor neuron differentiation, and this synergy requires Prdx1 thiol-dependent catalysis. Prdx1 activates GDE2 through reduction of an intramolecular disulfide bond that bridges its intracellular N- and C-terminal domains. GDE2 variants incapable of disulfide bond formation acquire independence from Prdx1 and are potent inducers of motor neuron differentiation. These findings define Prdx1 as a pivotal regulator of GDE2 activity and suggest roles for coupled thiol-redox-dependent cascades in controlling neuronal differentiation in the spinal cord.
Progenitor cell nuclei in the rapidly expanding epithelium of the embryonic vertebrate central nervous system undergo a process called interkinetic nuclear migration (IKNM). Movements of IKNM are generally believed to involve smooth migration of nuclei from apical to basal and back during the G1 and G2 phases of the cell cycle, respectively. Yet, this has not been formally demonstrated, nor have the molecular mechanisms that drive IKNM been identified. Using time-lapse confocal microscopy to observe nuclear movements in zebrafish retinal neuroepithelial cells, we show that, except for brief apical nuclear translocations preceding mitosis, IKNM is stochastic rather than smooth and directed. We also show that IKNM is driven largely by actomyosin-dependent forces as it still occurs when the microtubule cytoskeleton is compromised but is blocked when MyosinII activity is inhibited.
Asymmetric cell division is intensely studied because it can generate cellular diversity as well as maintain stem cell populations. Asymmetric cell division requires mitotic spindle alignment with intrinsic or extrinsic polarity cues, but mechanistic detail of this process is lacking. Here, we develop a method to construct cortical polarity in a normally unpolarized cell line and use this method to characterize Partner of Inscuteable (Pins; LGN/AGS3 in mammals) -dependent spindle orientation. We identify a previously unrecognized evolutionarily conserved Pins domain (Pins(LINKER)) that requires Aurora-A phosphorylation to recruit Discs large (Dlg; PSD-95/hDlg in mammals) and promote partial spindle orientation. The well-characterized Pins(TPR) domain has no function alone, but placing the Pins(TPR) in cis to the Pins(LINKER) gives dynein-dependent precise spindle orientation. This &quot;induced cortical polarity&quot; assay is suitable for rapid identification of the proteins, domains, and amino acids regulating spindle orientation or cell polarity.
The dysfunction of proteasomes and mitochondria has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. However, the mechanism by which this dysfunction causes neuronal cell death is unknown. We studied the role of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)-p35 in the neuronal cell death induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyrinidinium ion (MPP+), which has been used as an in vitro model of Parkinson disease. When cultured neurons were treated with 100 microM MPP+, p35 was degraded by proteasomes at 3 h, much earlier than the neurons underwent cell death at 12-24 h. The degradation of p35 was accompanied by the down-regulation of Cdk5 activity. We looked for the primary target of MPP+ that triggered the proteasome-mediated degradation of p35. MPP+ treatment for 3 h induced the fragmentation of the mitochondria, reduced complex I activity of the respiratory chain without affecting ATP levels, and impaired the mitochondrial import system. The dysfunction of the mitochondrial import system is suggested to up-regulate proteasome activity, leading to the ubiquitin-independent degradation of p35. The overexpression of p35 attenuated MPP+-induced neuronal cell death. In contrast, depletion of p35 with short hairpin RNA not only induced cell death but also sensitized to MPP+ treatment. These results indicate that a brief MPP+ treatment triggers the delayed neuronal cell death by the down-regulation of Cdk5 activity via mitochondrial dysfunction-induced up-regulation of proteasome activity. We propose a role for Cdk5-p35 as a survival factor in countering MPP+-induced neuronal cell death.
Vlgr1 (very large G-protein coupled receptor 1) knockout mice against hybrid backgrounds of the 129/Ola and C57BL/6 mouse strains show hearing deficit and high susceptibility to audiogenic seizures. The present study examined how hearing impairment and susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in Vlgr1-deficient mice change according to the genetic background of 129 and C57BL/6 mouse strains, which are popular strains for genetic studies. C57BL/6 mice have normal hearing ability during adolescence and are resistant to audiogenic seizures, and the 129S1/SvImJ substrain does not have a severe hearing deficit or convulsions as a result of audiogenic seizures; therefore, these strains were chosen for the present backcross study. C57BL/6-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice and 129 (129S1/SvImJ)-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice were established and their phenotypes investigated. Vlgr1 knockout mice showed hearing loss and high susceptibility to audiogenic seizures regardless of their genetic backgrounds. 129-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice exhibited 10-20dB more severe hearing loss than C57BL/6-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice. In general, 129-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice showed a higher incidence of wild running than C57BL/6-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice, and this incidence became smaller as they matured. However, C57BL/6-backcrossed Vlgr1 knockout mice showed a significantly higher mortality rate as a result of auditory stimulation 3 weeks postnatally than 129-backcrossed mice.
In animal models endogenous cannabinoids have an inhibitory effect on trigeminovascular activation through the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1), although there is no evidence of the potential role of CB1 in human migraine. In this study we applied single marker association and haplotypic trend regression analysis to investigate the relationship between the CB1 gene (CNR1) and headache with migraine symptoms (nausea, photophobia and disability, measured by the ID-migraine questionnaire). We identified our controls (CO=684) as those who have not reported ID-migraine symptoms at all and defined migraine headache sufferers (M=195) as those who reported all three symptoms. The CNR1 was covered by 10 SNPs located throughout the gene based on haplotype tagging (htSNP) and previous literature. Our results demonstrated a significant haplotypic effect of CNR1 on migraine headaches (p=0.008, after permutation p=0.017). This effect was independent of reported depression or drug/alcohol abuse although using neuroticism in the analysis as covariant slightly decreased this association (p=0.027, permutated p=0.052). These results suggest a significant effect of CNR1 on migraine headaches that might be related to the alteration of peripheral trigeminovascular activation. In addition, this is the first study to demonstrate the effectiveness of using trait components combinations to define extreme phenotypes with haplotype analysis in genetic association studies for migraine. However, further studies are needed to elucidate the role of CNR1 and the cannabinoid system in migraine.
Variants in the dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) and HCLS1 binding protein 3 (HS1BP3) have been nominated as risk factors for essential tremor (ET). Although ET and Parkinson disease (PD) are considered different entities, they have many overlapping clinical and pathological features. We aim to evaluate the role of the Ser9Gly variant in DRD3 and Ala265Gly in HS1BP3 in PD development. To this end, we genotyped these two variants in a PD matched case-control series from the United States. Statistical analysis failed to identify significant differences in the frequency of these variants between the case and control groups; therefore our results do not support a role for these DRD3 and HS1BP3 variants in PD.

Locomotion relies on neural networks called central pattern generators (CPGs) that generate periodic motor commands for rhythmic movements. In vertebrates, the excitatory synaptic drive for inducing the spinal CPG can originate from either supraspinal glutamatergic inputs or from within the spinal cord. Here we identify a spinal input to the CPG that drives spontaneous locomotion using a combination of intersectional gene expression and optogenetics in zebrafish larvae. The photo-stimulation of one specific cell type was sufficient to induce a symmetrical tail beating sequence that mimics spontaneous slow forward swimming. This neuron is the Kolmer-Agduhr cell, which extends cilia into the central cerebrospinal-fluid-containing canal of the spinal cord and has an ipsilateral ascending axon that terminates in a series of consecutive segments. Genetically silencing Kolmer-Agduhr cells reduced the frequency of spontaneous free swimming, indicating that activity of Kolmer-Agduhr cells provides necessary tone for spontaneous forward swimming. Kolmer-Agduhr cells have been known for over 75 years, but their function has been mysterious. Our results reveal that during early development in zebrafish these cells provide a positive drive to the spinal CPG for spontaneous locomotion.
The transduction of light by retinal rods and cones is effected by homologous G-protein cascades whose rates of activation and deactivation determine the sensitivity and temporal resolution of photoreceptor signaling. In mouse rods, the rate-limiting step of deactivation is hydrolysis of GTP by the G-protein-effector complex, catalyzed by the RGS9 complex. Here, we incorporate a &quot;Michaelis module&quot; describing the RGS9 reaction into the conventional scheme for phototransduction and show that this augmented scheme can account precisely for the dominant recovery rate of intact rods in which RGS9 expression varies over a 20-fold range. Furthermore, by screening the parameter space of the scheme with maximum-likelihood methodology, we tested specific hypotheses about the rate constant for rhodopsin deactivation, and about the forward, reverse, and catalytic constants for RGS9-mediated G-protein deactivation. These tests reliably exclude lifetimes &gt; approximately 50 ms for rhodopsin, and reveal that the dominant time constant of rod photoresponse recovery is 1/(V(max)/K(m)) for the RGS9 reaction, with k(cat)/K(m) approximately = 0.04 microm(2) s(-1) and k(cat) &gt; 35 s(-1) (or K(m) &gt; 840 microm(-2)). All together, the new kinetic scheme and analysis explain how and why RGS9 concentration matters in rod phototransduction, and they provide a framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms that rate-limit deactivation in other G-protein systems.

In their natural environment, rodents use their whiskers to locate and distinguish between objects of different textures and shapes. They do so by moving their whiskers actively as well as passively, through body and head movements. To determine the mechanisms by which surface coarseness is translated into neuronal discharges through passive whisker movements, we monitored head movements of awake behaving rats while approaching objects. We then replayed these movements in anesthetized rats, monitored the whiskers' movements across various surfaces, and concurrently recorded the activity of first-order sensory neurons. We found that whiskers, being the first stage of sensory information translation, shape transduction by amplifying small-amplitude high-frequency signals. Thus, surface coarseness is transmitted through high-velocity micromotions. Consistent with this, we find that during surface contact, discrete high-velocity movements, or stick-slip events, evoke first-order neuronal discharge. Transient ringing in whiskers, which primarily represents resonance vibrations, follows these events, but seldom causes neurons to discharge. These sensory transformations are influenced by the whiskers' biomechanical properties. To determine the resemblance of these tactile transformations during passive whisker movements and active whisking, we induced artificial whisking across various surface textures. We found that the processes by which tactile information becomes available to the animal are similar for these different modes of behavior. Together, these findings indicate that the temporal bandpass properties for spike generation in first-order neurons are matched by the biomechanical characteristics of whiskers, which translate surface coarseness into high-frequency whisker micromotions. These properties enable rodents to acquire tactile information through passive and active movements of their whiskers.
Here, we map a quantitative trait locus (QTL) with a large effect on predisposition to barbiturate (pentobarbital) withdrawal to a 0.44 Mb interval of mouse chromosome 1 syntenic with human 1q23.2. We report a detailed analysis of the genes within this interval and show that it contains 15 known and predicted genes, 12 of which demonstrate validated genotype-dependent transcript expression and/or nonsynonymous coding sequence variation that may underlie the influence of the QTL on withdrawal. These candidates are involved in diverse cellular functions including intracellular trafficking, potassium conductance and spatial buffering, and multimolecular complex dynamics, and indicate both established and novel aspects of neurobiological response to sedative-hypnotics. This work represents a substantial advancement toward identification of the gene(s) that underlie the phenotypic effects of the QTL. We identify Kcnj9 as a particularly promising candidate and report the development of a Kcnj9-null mutant model that exhibits significantly less severe withdrawal from pentobarbital as well as other sedative-hypnotics (zolpidem and ethanol) versus wild-type littermates. Reduced expression of Kcnj9, which encodes GIRK3 (Kir3.3), is associated with less severe sedative-hypnotic withdrawal. A multitude of QTLs for a variety of complex traits, including diverse responses to sedative-hypnotics, have been detected on distal chromosome 1 in mice, and as many as four QTLs on human chromosome 1q have been implicated in human studies of alcohol dependence. Thus, our results will be primary to additional efforts to identify genes involved in a wide variety of behavioral responses to sedative-hypnotics and may directly facilitate progress in human genetics.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder, caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the huntingtin protein (htt). Increasing evidence suggests that transglutaminase (TGase) plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of HD possibly by stabilizing monomeric, polymeric and aggregated htt. We previously reported that in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells expression of a calmodulin (CaM)-fragment, consisting of amino acids 76-121 of CaM, decreased binding of CaM to mutant htt, TGase-modified htt and cytotoxicity associated with mutant htt and normalized intracellular calcium release. In this study, an adeno-associated virus (AAV) that expresses the CaM-fragment was injected into the striatum of HD transgenic R6/2 mice. The CaM-fragment significantly reduced body weight loss and improved motor function as indicated by improved rotarod performance, longer stride length, lower stride frequency, fewer low mobility bouts and longer travel distance than HD controls. A small but insignificant increase in survival was observed in R6/2 mice with CaM-fragment expression. Immunoprecipitation studies show that expression of the CaM-fragment reduced TGase-modified htt in the striatum of R6/2 mice. The percentage of htt-positive nuclei and the size of intranuclear htt aggregates were reduced by the CaM-fragment without striatal volume changes. The effects of CaM-fragment appear to be selective, as activity of another CaM-dependent enzyme, CaM-dependent kinase II, was not altered. Moreover, inhibition of TGase-modified htt was substrate-specific since overall TGase activity in the striatum was not altered by treatment with the CaM-fragment. Together, these results suggest that disrupting CaM-htt interaction may provide a new therapeutic strategy for HD.
Cartwheel cells are glycinergic auditory interneurons which fire Na(+)- and Ca(2+)-dependent spike bursts, termed complex spikes, and which synapse on both principal cells and one another. The reversal potential for glycine (E(gly)) can be hyperpolarizing or depolarizing in cartwheel cells, and many cells are even excited by glycine. We explored the role of spike activity in determining E(gly) in mouse cartwheel cells using gramicidin perforated-patch recording. E(gly) was found to shift toward more negative potentials after a period of complex spiking or Ca(2+) spiking induced by depolarization, thus enhancing glycine's inhibitory effect for approximately 30 s following cessation of spiking. Combined perforated patch electrophysiology and imaging studies showed that the negative E(gly) shift was triggered by a Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular acidification. The effect on E(gly) was likely caused by bicarbonate-Cl(-) exchanger-mediated reduction in intracellular Cl(-), as H(2)DIDS and removal of HCO(3)(-)/CO(2) inhibited the negative E(gly) shift. The outward Cl(-) flux underlying the negative shift in E(gly) opposed a positive shift triggered by passive Cl(-) redistribution during the depolarization. Thus, a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism serves to maintain or enhance the strength of inhibition in the face of increased excitatory activity.
Neuroscientists, psychologists, clinicians, and economists have long been interested in how individuals weigh information about potential rewarding and aversive stimuli to make decisions and to regulate their emotions. However, we know relatively little about how appetitive and aversive systems interact in the brain, as most prior studies have investigated only one valence of reinforcement. Previous work has suggested that primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) represents information about the reward value of stimuli. We therefore investigated whether OFC also represents information about aversive stimuli, and, if so, whether individual neurons process information about both rewarding and aversive stimuli. Monkeys performed a trace conditioning task in which different novel abstract visual stimuli (conditioned stimuli, CSs) predicted the occurrence of one of three unconditioned stimuli (USs): a large liquid reward, a small liquid reward, or an aversive air-puff. Three lines of evidence suggest that information about rewarding and aversive stimuli converges in individual neurons in OFC. First, OFC neurons often responded to both rewarding and aversive USs, despite their different sensory features. Second, OFC neural responses to CSs often encoded information about both potential rewarding and aversive stimuli, even though these stimuli differed in both valence and sensory modality. Finally, OFC neural responses were correlated with monkeys' behavioral use of information about both rewarding and aversive CS-US associations. These data indicate that processing of appetitive and aversive stimuli converges at the single cell level in OFC, providing a possible substrate for executive and emotional processes that require using information from both appetitive and aversive systems.
Persistent symptoms of depression suggest the involvement of stable molecular adaptations in brain, which may be reflected at the level of chromatin remodeling. We find that chronic social defeat stress in mice causes a transient decrease, followed by a persistent increase, in levels of acetylated histone H3 in the nucleus accumbens, an important limbic brain region. This persistent increase in H3 acetylation is associated with decreased levels of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in the nucleus accumbens. Similar effects were observed in the nucleus accumbens of depressed humans studied postmortem. These changes in H3 acetylation and HDAC2 expression mediate long-lasting positive neuronal adaptations, since infusion of HDAC inhibitors into the nucleus accumbens, which increases histone acetylation, exerts robust antidepressant-like effects in the social defeat paradigm and other behavioral assays. HDAC inhibitor [N-(2-aminophenyl)-4-[N-(pyridine-3-ylmethoxy-carbonyl)aminomethyl]benzamide (MS-275)] infusion also reverses the effects of chronic defeat stress on global patterns of gene expression in the nucleus accumbens, as determined by microarray analysis, with striking similarities to the effects of the standard antidepressant fluoxetine. Stress-regulated genes whose expression is normalized selectively by MS-275 may provide promising targets for the future development of novel antidepressant treatments. Together, these findings provide new insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms of depression and antidepressant action, and support the antidepressant potential of HDAC inhibitors and perhaps other agents that act at the level of chromatin structure.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder that affects about 1% of the population worldwide. Despite significant advances in the identification of genetic mutations and signaling pathways that are associated with the disease, the precise mechanisms implicated in the pathophysiology of the disease are not well understood. More importantly, treatments that are effective in reversing the progression of the disease is essentially lacking. Further investigation into the pathogenic mechanisms of PD thus presents a pressing concern for neuroscientists. Recently, deregulation of the autophagic pathway is observed in the brains of PD patients and in models of PD. In this review we summarize current literature on the emerging involvement of autophagy in PD, and the implication for future development of treatment against the disorder.
Experience-driven activity plays an essential role in the development of brain circuitry during critical periods of early postnatal life, a process that depends upon a dynamic balance between excitatory and inhibitory signals. Since general anesthetics are powerful pharmacological modulators of neuronal activity, an important question is whether and how these drugs can affect the development of synaptic networks. To address this issue, we examined here the impact of anesthetics on synapse growth and dynamics. We show that exposure of young rodents to anesthetics that either enhance GABAergic inhibition or block NMDA receptors rapidly induce a significant increase in dendritic spine density in the somatosensory cortex and hippocampus. This effect is developmentally regulated; it is transient but lasts for several days and is also reproduced by selective antagonists of excitatory receptors. Analyses of spine dynamics in hippocampal slice cultures reveals that this effect is mediated through an increased rate of protrusions formation, a better stabilization of newly formed spines, and leads to the formation of functional synapses. Altogether, these findings point to anesthesia as an important modulator of spine dynamics in the developing brain and suggest the existence of a homeostatic process regulating spine formation as a function of neural activity. Importantly, they also raise concern about the potential impact of these drugs on human practice, when applied during critical periods of development in infants.


Dopaminergic receptors are expressed on neural precursor cells (NPCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and are known to regulate NPC proliferation and differentiation fate in this region. We now report that this optimally requires the simultaneous activation of both D1-like and D2-like dopaminergic receptors with the agonists Bromocriptine, SKF-38393 and 7-OH-pipat maleate (BSP) in vitro. This is consistent with our previous findings that dopamine stimulates NPC proliferation through an EGF paracrine mechanism within the SVZ. Furthermore this combined dopamine agonist therapy rescues NPC proliferation in the SVZ in the 6-OHDA animal model of PD and importantly significantly increases neuronal differentiation in the olfactory bulb to a greater extent than we showed previously with levodopa. This result has implications for the use of dopaminergic therapies in PD and in the development of such therapies focusing on upregulating SVZ neurogenesis.
Growth cones are the main motile structures located at the tip of neurites and are composed of a lamellipodium from which thin filopodia emerge. In this article, we analyzed the kinetics and dynamics of growth cones with the aim to understand two major issues: first, the strategy used by filopodia and lamellipodia during their exploration and navigation; second, what kind of mechanical problems neurons need to solve during their operation. In the developing nervous system and in the adult brain, neurons constantly need to solve mechanical problems. Growth cones must decide how to explore the environment and in which direction to grow; they also need to establish the appropriate contacts, to avoid obstacles and to determine how much force to exert. Here, we show that in sparse cultures, filopodia grow and retract following statistical patterns, nearly optimal for an efficient exploration of the environment. In a dense culture, filopodia exploration is still present although significantly reduced. Analysis on 1271, 6432, and 185 pairs of filopodia of DRG, PC12 and Hippocampal neurons respectively showed that the correlation coefficient |rho| of the growth of more than 50% of filopodia pairs was &gt;0.15. From a computational point of view, filopodia and lamellipodia motion can be described by a random process in which errors are corrected by efficient feedback loops. This article argues that neurons not only process sensory signals, but also solve mechanical problems throughout their entire lifespan, from the early stages of embryogenesis to adulthood.
Zinc plays a key pathophysiological role in major neurological disorders as well as diabetes, while being essential for the activity of numerous zinc binding proteins. A major challenge in chelation based therapy must take into consideration these apparently conflicting effects of zinc. One approach is to limit the activity of the chelator to regions and levels of zinc pathology, making normal zinc-dependent processes invisible to the chelator. Combining fluorescent zinc imaging with cytotoxicity assays we studied the zinc chelation efficacy and neuroprotective effect of the lipophilic divalent transition metal chelator DP-b99 (1,2-Bis(2-amino-phenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-N-N'-di[2-(octyloxy)ethyl ester],-N,N'-disodium salt). The affinity of DP-b99 to Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) ions is moderate in water and enhanced significantly in the lipid milieu. Application of DP-b99 to MIN6 beta-cells that were preloaded with zinc was followed by a decrease in fluorescence of the intracellular Zn(2+) sensitive dye, ZnAF-2DA, to resting levels. Preloading of MIN6 cells with DP-b99 was also effective in attenuating subsequent cellular zinc rise. Concentration-dependence analysis of zinc accumulation indicated that DP-b99 acts as a zinc chelator with moderate affinity. DP-b99 preapplication attenuated both Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) rise in neuronal cultures and also Zn(2+) rise in brain slices. Finally, DP-b99 attenuated Zn(2+)-induced neuronal death. Our results indicate that DP-b99 is effective in attenuating Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) surges and protecting neurons against a toxic Zn(2+)-rise. This may underlie the efficacy of DP-b99 in stroke treatment.
Biased segregation of mitochondrial DNA variants has been widely documented, but little was known about its molecular basis. We set out to test the hypothesis that altering the balance between mitochondrial fusion and fission could influence the segregation of mutant and wild-type mtDNA variants, because it would modify the number of organelles per cell. Therefore human cells heteroplasmic for the pathological A3243G mitochondrial DNA mutation were transfected with constructs designed to silence Drp1 or hFis1, whose gene products are required for mitochondrial fission. Drp1 and hFis1 gene silencing were both associated with increased levels of mutant mitochondrial DNA. Thus, the extent of the mitochondrial reticular network appears to be an important factor in determining mutant load. The fact that the level of mutant and wild-type mitochondrial DNA can be manipulated by altering the expression of nuclear encoded factors involved in mitochondrial fission suggests new interventions for mitochondrial DNA disorders.
Dimerization is recognized as a crucial step in the activation of many plasma membrane receptors. However, a growing number of receptors pre-exist as dimers in the absence of ligand, indicating that, although necessary, dimerization is not always sufficient for signaling. The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) forms disulfide-linked dimers at the cell surface independently of ligand binding through Cys257 in its transmembrane domain. Here, we show that crosslinking of p75(NTR) dimers by cysteine-scanning mutagenesis results in constitutive, ligand-independent activity in several pathways that are normally engaged upon neurotrophin stimulation of native receptors. The activity profiles of different disulfide-crosslinked p75(NTR) mutants were similar but not identical, suggesting that different configurations of p75(NTR) dimers might be endowed with different functions. Interestingly, crosslinked p75(NTR) mutants did not mimic the effects of the myelin inhibitors Nogo or MAG, suggesting the existence of ligand-specific activation mechanisms. Together, these results support a conformational model of p75(NTR) activation by neurotrophins, and reveal a genetic approach to generate gain-of-function receptor variants with distinct functional profiles.
Integrin activation is needed to link the extracellular matrix with the actin cytoskeleton during cell motility. Protrusion requires coordination of actin dynamics with focal-adhesion turnover. We report that the adaptor protein liprin-alpha1 is stably associated with the cell membrane. Lipin-alpha1 shows a localization that is distinct from that of activated beta1 integrins at the edge of spreading cells. Depletion of liprin-alpha1 inhibits the spreading of COS7 cells on fibronectin by affecting lamellipodia formation, whereas its overexpression enhances spreading, and lamellipodia and focal-adhesion formation at the cell edge. Cooperation between liprin-alpha1 and talin is needed, because either talin or liprin depletion prevents spreading in the presence of the other protein. The effects of liprin on spreading, but not its effects in the reorganization of the cell edge, are dependent on its interaction with leukocyte common antigen-related tyrosine phosphatase receptors. Therefore, liprin is an essential regulator of cell motility that contributes to the effectiveness of cell-edge protrusion.
Epilepsy is a syndrome of episodic brain dysfunction characterized by recurrent unpredictable, spontaneous seizures. Cerebellar dysfunction is a recognized complication of temporal lobe epilepsy and it is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. Serotonin is known to exert a modulatory action on cerebellar function through 5HT(2C) receptors. 5-HT(2C) receptors are novel targets for developing anti-convulsant drugs. In the present study, we investigated the changes in the 5-HT(2C) receptors binding and gene expression in the cerebellum of control, epileptic and Bacopa monnieri treated epileptic rats. There was a significant down regulation of the 5-HT content (p&lt;0.001), 5-HT(2C) gene expression (p&lt;0.001) and 5-HT(2C) receptor binding (p&lt;0.001) with an increased affinity (p&lt;0.001). Carbamazepine and B. monnieri treatments to epileptic rats reversed the down regulated 5-HT content (p&lt;0.01), 5-HT(2C) receptor binding (p&lt;0.001) and gene expression (p&lt;0.01) to near control level. Also, the Rotarod test confirms the motor dysfunction and recovery by B. monnieri treatment. These data suggest the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri through the upregulation of 5-HT(2C) receptor in epileptic rats. This has clinical significance in the management of epilepsy.
Magnetic round coil stimulation over the spinal enlargement activates the spinal nerves at the neuro-foramina level. However, activation of the cauda equina in the spinal canal has never been described in the literature. This study, for which 40 healthy subjects were recruited, activated the cauda equina using a round 20-cm-diameter coil designated as a Magnetic Augmented Translumbosacral Stimulation (MATS) coil. Magnetic stimulation placing the edge of the coil over the L1 and L3 spinous processes elicited compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) from the abductor hallucis muscle. The CMAPs were compared with those elicited through high-voltage electrical stimulation. The CMAP latencies to L1 level MATS coil stimulation were not significantly different from those evoked by electrical stimulation at the same level. The CMAP latencies to L3 level MATS coil stimulation were varied in each subject. In fact, the L1 level MATS coil stimulation is considered to activate the cauda equina at the root exit site from the conus medullaris; the L3 level MATS coil stimulation activates some mid-part of the cauda equina or the distal cauda equina by spreading current. The MATS coil facilitates evaluation of spinal nerve conduction in the cauda equina.

External cues, including familiar music, can release Parkinson's disease patients from catalepsy but the neural basis of the effect is not well understood. In the present study, posturography, the study of posture and its allied reflexes, was used to develop an animal model that could be used to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms of this sound-induced behavioral activation. In the rat, akinetic catalepsy induced by a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (haloperidol 5mg/kg) can model human catalepsy. Using this model, two experiments examined whether novel versus familiar sound stimuli could interrupt haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the rat. Rats were placed on a variably inclined grid and novel or familiar auditory cues (single key jingle or multiple key jingles) were presented. The dependent variable was movement by the rats to regain equilibrium as assessed with a movement notation score. The sound cues enhanced movements used to regain postural stability and familiar sound stimuli were more effective than unfamiliar sound stimuli. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that nonlemniscal and lemniscal auditory pathways differentially contribute to behavioral activation versus tonotopic processing of sound.
The partner preference test (PPT) is commonly used to examine sexual and social preferences in rodents. The test offers experimental subjects a choice between two stimulus animals, and time spent with each is used to calculate a preference score. In monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), the PPT has been paramount to the study of pair bonding. Although powerful, use of the PPT in voles has depended primarily on human manual scoring. Manual scoring is time-consuming and is susceptible to bias and fatigue, limiting the use of the PPT in high-throughput studies. Here we compared manual scoring (real-time and 16x) and two automated scoring metrics: &quot;social proximity&quot; and &quot;immobile social contact&quot;. We hypothesized that &quot;immobile social contact&quot; would provide data most comparable to manually scored &quot;huddling&quot;, and thus be the most sensitive measure of partner preference in prairie voles. Each automated metric produced data that highly correlated with manual scoring (R&gt;0.90); however, &quot;immobile social contact&quot; more closely reflected manually scored huddling (R=0.99; P&lt;0.001). &quot;Social proximity&quot; and &quot;immobile social contact&quot; were then used to detect group partner preferences in four data sets that varied by cohabitation length and sex. &quot;Immobile social contact&quot; revealed a significant partner preference in each data set; &quot;social proximity&quot; detected partner preferences in only three of the four. Our results demonstrate the utility of automated systems in high-throughput PPTs, and further confirm that automated systems capable of scoring &quot;immobile social contact&quot; yield results indistinguishable from manual scoring.
A new wireless transceiver is described for recording individual neuron firing from behaving rats utilizing Bluetooth transmission technology and a processor onboard for discrimination of neuronal waveforms and associated time stamps. This universal brain activity transmitter (UBAT) is attached to rodents via a backpack and amplifier headstage and can transmit 16 channels of captured neuronal firing data via a Bluetooth transceiver chip over very large and unconstrained distances. The onboard microprocessor of the UBAT allows flexible online control over waveform isolation criteria via transceiver instruction and the two-way communication capacity allows for closed-loop applications between neural events and behavioral or physiological processes which can be modified by transceiver instructions. A detailed description of the multiplexer processing of channel data as well as examples of neuronal recordings in different behavioral testing contexts is provided to demonstrate the capacity for robust transmission within almost any laboratory environment. A major advantage of the UBAT is the long transmission range and lack of object-based line of sight interference afforded by Bluetooth technology, allowing flexible recording capabilities within multiple experimental paradigms without interruption. Continuous recordings over very large distance separations from the monitor station are demonstrated providing experimenters with recording advantages not previously available with other telemetry devices.
The purine adenosine is an extracellular signalling molecule involved in a large number of physiological and pathological conditions throughout the mammalian brain. However little is known about how adenosine release and its subsequent clearance change during brain development. We have combined electrophysiology and microelectrode biosensor measurements to investigate the properties of adenosine signalling at early stages of cerebellar development, when parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses have recently been formed (postnatal days 9-12). At this stage of development, we could detect little or no inhibitory A(1) receptor tone in basal conditions and during trains of stimuli. Addition of pharmacological agents, to inhibit adenosine clearance, had only minor effects on synaptic transmission suggesting that under basal conditions, the concentration of adenosine moving in and out of the extracellular space is small. Active adenosine release was stimulated with hypoxia and trains of electrical stimuli. Although hypoxia released significant concentrations of adenosine, the release was delayed and slow. No adenosine release could be detected following electrical stimulation in the molecular layer. In conclusion, at this stage of development, although adenosine receptors and the mechanisms of adenosine clearance are present there is very little adenosine release.
One unique subtype of retinal ganglion cell is the direction selective (DS) cell, which responds vigorously to stimulus movement in a preferred direction, but weakly to movement in the opposite or null direction. Here we show that the application of the GABA receptor blocker picrotoxin unmasks a robust excitatory OFF response in ON DS ganglion cells. Similar to the characteristic ON response of ON DS cells, the masked OFF response is also direction selective, but its preferred direction is opposite to that of the ON component. Given that the OFF response is unmasked with picrotoxin, its direction selectivity cannot be generated by a GABAergic mechanism. Alternatively, we find that the direction selectivity of the OFF response is blocked by cholinergic drugs, suggesting that acetylcholine release from presynaptic starburst amacrine cells is crucial for its generation. Finally, we find that the OFF response is abolished by application of a gap junction blocker, suggesting that it arises from electrical synapses between ON DS and polyaxonal amacrine cells. Our results suggest a novel role for gap junctions in mixing excitatory ON and OFF signals at the ganglion cell level. We propose that OFF inputs to ON DS cells are normally masked by a GABAergic inhibition, but are unmasked under certain stimulus conditions to mediate optokinetic signals in the brain.
Pathological oscillations characterize the firing discharge of different basal ganglia (BG) stations in rat models of Parkinson's disease. Most recent literature focused on the prominence of the beta frequency band in awake rats. Yet, in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals, the firing discharge of the globus pallidus (GP) and the substantia nigra reticulata are in phase with urethane-induced slow wave cortical activity. The neuronal basis of this pathological synergy at low frequency is widely debated. In order to understand the role of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) signalling in the development of pathological synchronization, we performed a pharmacological inactivation of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) through tetrodotoxin (TTX), which led to a dramatic, but reversible, reduction of the dopamine content in the striatum. This procedure caused a significant contralateral akinesia, detectable as soon as anaesthesia vanished, and lasting about 3-4 h. We sought to determine the electrophysiological counterpart of this transient Parkinsonian-like hypokinetic syndrome. Hence, we obtained the electrocorticogram (ECoG) and single unit recordings from GP and subthalamic nucleus (STN) in normal rats before and after the TTX injection in MFB. Intriguingly, the TTX-mediated inactivation of MFB induced a fast developing coherence between cortex and GP and a significant increase of the cortex/STN synchronization. The intra-GP iontophoretic delivery of haloperidol or the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline induced a short term cortex/GP synchronization. Strikingly, STN inactivation by local muscimol reversed both haloperidol- and TTX-mediated coherence between cortex and GP. Our data show that an abnormal cortical/BG synchronization, at low frequency, can be reproduced also without SNc neuronal loss and striatal cytoarchitectonic alterations. In addition, our results, which represent an acute and reversible Parkinsonism based upon impaired cable properties, seem compatible with the interpretation of acute changes of the functional interplay between cortex and the STN-GP pathway as a key factor mechanism underlying the fast deep brain stimulation-induced acute Off-On transitions.
Multiple lines of evidence from molecular studies indicate that individual taste qualities are encoded by distinct taste receptor cells. In contrast, many physiological studies have found that a significant proportion of taste cells respond to multiple taste qualities. To reconcile this apparent discrepancy and to identify taste cells that underlie each taste quality, we investigated taste responses of individual mouse fungiform taste cells that express gustducin or GAD67, markers for specific types of taste cells. Type II taste cells respond to sweet, bitter or umami tastants, express taste receptors, gustducin and other transduction components. Type III cells possess putative sour taste receptors, and have well elaborated conventional synapses. Consistent with these findings we found that gustducin-expressing Type II taste cells responded best to sweet (25/49), bitter (20/49) or umami (4/49) stimuli, while all GAD67 (Type III) taste cells examined (44/44) responded to sour stimuli and a portion of them showed multiple taste sensitivities, suggesting discrimination of each taste quality among taste bud cells. These results were largely consistent with those previously reported with circumvallate papillae taste cells. Bitter-best taste cells responded to multiple bitter compounds such as quinine, denatonium and cyclohexamide. Three sour compounds, HCl, acetic acid and citric acid, elicited responses in sour-best taste cells. These results suggest that taste cells may be capable of recognizing multiple taste compounds that elicit similar taste sensation. We did not find any NaCl-best cells among the gustducin and GAD67 taste cells, raising the possibility that salt sensitive taste cells comprise a different population.
Pallidal stimulation is a convincing and valid alternative for primary generalized dystonia refractory to medical therapy or botulinum toxin. However, the clinical outcome reported in literature is variable most likely because of heterogeneity DBS techniques employed and /or to clinical dystonic pattern of the patients who undergo surgery. In this study, we report the long term follow up of a homogeneous group of eleven subjects affected by segmental dystonia who were treated with bilateral stimulation of the Globus Pallidus pars interna (GPi) from the years 2000 to 2008. All the patients were evaluated, before surgery and at 6-12-24-36 months after the treatment, in accordance with the Burke Fahn Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS). Our study indicates that DBS promotes an early and significant improvement at 6 months with an even and a better outcome later on. The analysis of specific sub items of the BFMDRS revealed an earlier and striking benefit not only as far as segmental motor function of the limbs but also for the complex cranial functions like face, (eyes and mouth), speech and swallowing, differently from results reported in primary generalized dystonia. Deep Brain Stimulation of GPi should be considered a valid indication for both generalized and segmental dystonia when other therapies appear ineffective.

Modulation of synaptic strength may underlie stress-induced changes in cognitive ability. Long-term memory formation underpinning fear and anxiety behaviors, such as those seen in post-traumatic stress and phobic disorders, is thought to be dependent on amygdalo-hippocampal interactions. In most models, however, painful stimuli are used to induced stress and anxiety. Here, the effects of a novel conflict model, developed to generate a more naturalistic model of anxiety, utilizing two non-noxious stressors (predator (cat) odor and light), on hippocampus plasticity were determined. Exposure to the external stimuli elicited typical, stimulus-specific, anxiety-related behaviors. Dual presentation of the stressors evoked an increase in the variability of behaviors, suggesting that the animals were experiencing conflicting drives. Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) within the CA1 region of the hippocampus was reduced following exposure to light stress, independent of presence, or absence, of odor. However, after a single presentation, LTP was reduced following either odor presentation or dual presentation of the stressors. Furthermore, LTP in ex vivo tissue obtained from conflict-exposed animals showed differential hemispheric responses, suggesting that long-term contextual-related components of anxiety behavior are dependent on modification of hippocampal circuitry.
The effects of anti-parkinsonian drugs on bladder function have been controversial; namely, some aggravated while others alleviated bladder dysfunction in patients with Parkinson disease. These studies, however, did not consider the dose- and time-dependent effects. Therefore, we investigated these effects of apomorphine, an anti-parkinsonian drug and a nonselective dopamine receptor agonist, on the bladder function using normal conscious rats. Consecutive cycles of micturition were analyzed for 30-min periods before and after (over a 4-h period) s.c. administration of a single dose of 0.01 (low), 0.05 (medium), 0.5 (high) mg/kg of apomorphine or saline to the rats. Apomorphine administration produced various effects in relevant urodynamic parameters, although the monitored parameters remained unchanged in saline-administered rats. During filling, low-dose apomorphine induced initial decreases in voiding frequency (VF; defined as the number of voidings during a 15-min period). However, medium- and high-dose apomorphine dose-dependently induced initial increases in VF, and was followed by decreases in VF. These doses also induced initial increase in threshold pressure. During voiding, low-dose apomorphine induced initial increases in micturition volume (MV), which reflected an increase in bladder capacity (BC). However, medium- and high-dose apomorphine dose-dependently induced initial decreases in MV, and was followed by increases in MV. These doses also dose-dependently induced an initial increase in maximum bladder contraction pressure during the early phase after administration. The present study demonstrated that apomorphine displayed a dose- and time-dependent biphasic effect on the normal bladder filling function. These pharmacodynamic characteristics of apomorphine could be applicable to other anti-parkinsonian drugs such as levodopa and nonselective dopamine receptor agonists, and may account for the previous reported conflicting effects of anti-parkinsonian drugs on bladder dysfunction in patients with Parkinson disease, although it needs to be evaluated in disease status.
There is converging evidence, from various independent areas of neuroscience, for a functional specialization of the left and right cerebral hemispheres for positive and negative emotions, respectively (&quot;valence theory&quot; of emotional processing). One subfield, however, has produced mixed results, i.e. work on the detection of parafoveally presented positively or negatively emotional words by healthy subjects. Right or left visual field advantages were described and interpreted as reflecting the superiority of either the left hemisphere (LH) for linguistic material, or of the right hemisphere (RH) for highly emotional stimuli. Here we show that 48 healthy, right-handed participants' performance on a lateralized lexical decision task depends on their individual inclination to bisect a line to the left or right of the objective center. Only those with a bisection bias to the right showed the LH advantage for word detection known from the neuropsychological literature. Negative emotional words were processed with comparable accuracy in the two visual fields. However, a recognition advantage for negative over positive emotional words was found exclusively for those participants with a leftward line bisection bias. These results suggest that in work on functional hemispheric differences state variables like stimulus lateralization and word emotionality may be less decisive than the trait variable of lateral hemispatial attention. We propose a cautious reconsideration of the concept of &quot;hemisphericity,&quot; which once emphasized individual differences in baseline hemispheric arousal, but was later dismissed in a reaction to oversimplifications in popular science accounts.
A critical aspect of nerve cell function is peptidergic secretion involving the packaging, transport, and processing of a large group of peptide hormones and other signaling molecules, e.g. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Dense-core vesicles (DCVs) are the organelles that transport these molecules to release sites in both the axon and dendrites of pyramidal neurons. DCVs exhibit complex transport behavior, where these organelles move bidirectionally, reverse direction, pause intermittently, and vary in velocities and run lengths. A key objective in the field of organelle transport is to define the molecules that mediate transport. This study investigated the role of dynactin, a putative opposite-polarity motor coordinator, in the microtubule-based transport of DCVs in primary cultured hippocampal neurons. First, by live cell imaging, we showed similar microtubule-based transport of BDNF, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), consistent with the co-packaging of these DCV cargoes. However, we found higher DCV velocities in both the axon and dendrites than those of previous neuronal studies likely due to faster image acquisition times. Then, using well-characterized dynactin disruptors we demonstrate the need for dynactin in bidirectional transport where overexpression of both p50/dynamitin and the first coiled-coil domain of p150(Glued) (CC1) reduces the flux of DCVs in both directions in the axon and dendrites. We also observed that only CC1 reduces axonal and dendritic run lengths. These results suggest different functions for p50 and p150 in the dynactin complex in DCV transport. These findings are significant because they demonstrate that dynactin functions as a motor coordinator for the transport of DCVs in primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons.
Stereotaxic atlases of the mouse brain are important in neuroscience research for targeting of specific internal brain structures during surgical operations. The effectiveness of stereotaxic surgery depends on accurate mapping of the brain structures relative to landmarks on the skull. During postnatal development in the mouse, rapid growth-related changes in the brain occur concurrently with growth of bony plates at the cranial sutures, therefore adult mouse brain atlases cannot be used to precisely guide stereotaxis in developing brains. In this study, three-dimensional stereotaxic atlases of C57BL/6J mouse brains at six postnatal developmental stages: postnatal day (P) 7, P14, P21, P28, P63 and in adults (P140-P160) were developed, using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and micro-computed tomography (CT). At present, most widely-used stereotaxic atlases of the mouse brain are based on histology, but the anatomical fidelity of ex vivo atlases to in vivo mouse brains has not been evaluated previously. To account for ex vivo tissue distortion due to fixation as well as individual variability in the brain, we developed a population-averaged in vivo magnetic resonance imaging adult mouse brain stereotaxic atlas, and a distortion-corrected DTI atlas was generated by nonlinearly warping ex vivo data to the population-averaged in vivo atlas. These atlas resources were developed and made available through a new software user-interface with the objective of improving the accuracy of targeting brain structures during stereotaxic surgery in developing and adult C57BL/6J mouse brains.
The mechanisms of epileptogenesis remain largely unknown and are probably diverse. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of focal cholinergic imbalance in epileptogenesis. To address this question, we monitored electroencephalogram (EEG) activity up to 12 weeks after the injection of a potent cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor (soman) at different doses (0.53, 0.75, 1, 2, 2.8, 4 and 11 nmol) into the right dorsal hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice. Different parameters were used to choose the dose for a focal model of epileptogenesis (mainly electrographic patterns and peripheral ChE inhibition). The pattern of neuronal activation was studied by Fos immunohistochemistry (IHC). Brain damage was evaluated by hemalun-phloxin, neuronal nuclei antigen IHC and silver staining. Glial fibrillary acidic protein IHC was used to evaluate astroglial reaction. Finally, long-term behavioral consequences were characterized. At the highest dose (11 nmol), soman quickly evoked severe signs, including initial seizures and promoted epileptogenesis in the absence of tissue damage. With lower doses, late-onset seizures were evidenced, after 1-4 weeks depending on the dose, despite the absence of initial overt seizures and of brain damage. Only a weak astroglial reaction was observed. Following injection of 1 nmol, Fos changes were first evidenced in the ipsilateral hippocampus and then spread to extrahippocampal areas. A selective deficit in contextual fear conditioning was also evidenced two months after injection. Our data show that focal hypercholinergy may be a sufficient initial event to promote epilepsy and that major brain tissue changes (cellular damage, edema, neuroinflammation) are not necessary conditions.
Although skeletal pain can have a marked impact on a patient's functional status and quality of life, relatively little is known about the specific populations of peripheral nerve fibers that drive non-malignant bone pain. In the present report, neonatal male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with capsaicin or vehicle and femoral fracture was produced when the animals were young adults (15-16 weeks old). Capsaicin treatment, but not vehicle, resulted in a significant (&gt;70%) depletion in the density of calcitonin-gene related peptide positive (CGRP(+)) sensory nerve fibers, but not 200 kDa neurofilament H positive (NF200(+)) sensory nerve fibers in the periosteum. The periosteum is a thin, cellular and fibrous tissue that tightly adheres to the outer surface of all but the articulated surface of bone and appears to play a pivotal role in driving fracture pain. In animals treated with capsaicin, but not vehicle, there was a 50% reduction in the severity, but no change in the time course, of fracture-induced skeletal pain-related behaviors as measured by spontaneous flinching, guarding and weight bearing. These results suggest that both capsaicin-sensitive (primarily CGRP(+) C-fibers) and capsaicin-insensitive (primarily NF200(+) A-delta fibers) sensory nerve fibers participate in driving skeletal fracture pain. Skeletal pain can be a significant impediment to functional recovery following trauma-induced fracture, osteoporosis-induced fracture and orthopedic surgery procedures such as knee and hip replacement. Understanding the specific populations of sensory nerve fibers that need to be targeted to inhibit the generation and maintenance of skeletal pain may allow the development of more specific mechanism-based therapies that can effectively attenuate acute and chronic skeletal pain.
It is acknowledged that neurotransmission in the mouse vas deferens is predominantly mediated by ATP and noradrenaline (NA) released from sympathetic nerves while cholinergic transmission in the rodent vas deferens is often overlooked despite early literature. Recently we have characterized a cholinergic component of neurogenic contraction of mouse isolated vas deferens. In the present paper, by confocal imaging of Ca(2+) dynamics we detected acetylcholine (ACh) action at muscarinic cholinergic neuroeffector junctions at high-resolution. Experiments were carried out in the presence of prazosin (100 nM) and alpha,beta methylene ATP (alpha,beta-MeATP) (1 microM) to inhibit responses to NA and ATP respectively. Exogenous ACh (10 microM) elicited Ca(2+) transients, an effect blocked by the muscarinic receptor antagonist, cyclopentolate (1 microM). Ca(2+) transients were evoked by electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves in the presence of the cholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine (10 microM). Stimulation produced a marked increase in the frequency and number of Ca(2+) transients. Cyclopentolate reduced the frequency of occurrence of spontaneous and evoked events to control levels. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (300 nM) did not affect the spontaneous Ca(2+) transients, but increased the frequency of occurrence of evoked transients, an effect inhibited by cyclopentolate. The postjunctional effects of neuronally-released ACh are limited by the action of cholinesterase. Release of ACh appears to be tonically inhibited by NA released from sympathetic nerve terminals through action at prejunctional alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 300 nM) abolished the nerve-evoked Ca(2+) events, with no effect on Ca(2+) transients elicited by exogenous ACh. In conclusion, the presence of spontaneous and evoked cholinergic Ca(2+) transients in smooth muscle cells of the mouse isolated vas deferens has been revealed. These events are mediated by ACh acting at M(3) muscarinic receptors. This action stands in marked contrast to the lack of effect of neuronally-released NA on smooth muscle Ca(2+) dynamics in this tissue.
The distribution of neurons that are immunoreactive to latexin, which is an endogenous inhibitor of the A/B subfamily of metallocarboxypeptidases, was investigated in the adult cat telencephalon. Latexin-immunoreactive neurons were distributed in the lower layers of the neocortex and adjacent ventral mesocortex, as well as in the claustrum/endopiriform formation. There were marked regional and laminar differences in density and distribution of latexin-immunoreactive neurons in the cerebral cortex. The density followed a roughly lateral-to-medial decreasing gradient: it was high in lateral cortical regions, which included the insular, second somatosensory, and anterior sylvian areas, and in the temporal auditory field; moderate in laterodorsal cortical regions, which included the primary and second auditory fields; and low in dorsal cortical regions, which included visual areas 18 and 19. Latexin-immunoreactive neurons were absent in medial cortical regions, which included the motor, premotor, prefrontal, prelimbic, cingulate, and retrosplenial areas. The lateral-to-medial gradient was apparent even within a single cytoarchitectonic area in certain cortical regions. The allocortex was devoid of latexin-immunoreactive neurons, with the exception of the anteroventral part of the dentate gyrus. The majority of cortical latexin-immunoreactive neurons were localized in layers V and VI and appeared to correspond to the &quot;modified pyramidal cells in the infragranular layers.&quot; The remaining latexin-immunoreactive neurons were localized in layer IV, as well as in lower layer III and in the white matter. There were no latexin-immunoreactive neurons from layer I through upper layer III. Latexin-immunoreactive neurons were present in telencephalic structures outside the cerebral cortex, with particularly high density in the claustrum/endopiriform formation. All these features, with the exception of that detected in the archicortex, are compatible with the features observed previously in the rat telencephalon. The similar pattern of distribution of latexin-immunoreactive neurons in several mammalian species from different orders suggests that latexin plays an important role in a specific cortical network.
Oxytocin regulates partner preference formation and alloparental behavior in the socially monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) by activating oxytocin receptors in the nucleus accumbens of females. Mating facilitates partner preference formation, and oxytocin-immunoreactive fibers in the nucleus accumbens have been described in prairie voles. However, there has been no direct evidence of oxytocin release in the nucleus accumbens during sociosexual interactions, and the origin of the oxytocin fibers is unknown. Here we show for the first time that extracellular concentrations of oxytocin are increased in the nucleus accumbens of female prairie vole during unrestricted interactions with a male. We further show that the distribution of oxytocin-immunoreactive fibers in the nucleus accumbens is conserved in voles, mice and rats, despite remarkable species differences in oxytocin receptor binding in the region. Using a combination of site-specific and peripheral infusions of the retrograde tracer Fluorogold, we demonstrate that the nucleus accumbens oxytocin-immunoreactive fibers likely originate from paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic neurons. This distribution of retrogradely labeled neurons is consistent with the hypothesis that striatal oxytocin fibers arise from collaterals of magnocellular neurons of the neurohypophysial system. If correct, this may serve to coordinate peripheral and central release of oxytocin with appropriate behavioral responses associated with reproduction, including pair bonding after mating, and maternal responsiveness following parturition and during lactation.
The phenolamines octopamine and tyramine control, regulate, and modulate many physiological and behavioral processes in invertebrates. Vertebrates possess only small amounts of both substances, and thus, octopamine and tyramine, together with other biogenic amines, are referred to as &quot;trace amines.&quot; Biogenic amines evoke cellular responses by activating G-protein-coupled receptors. We have isolated a complementary DNA (cDNA) that encodes a biogenic amine receptor from the American cockroach Periplaneta americana, viz., Peatyr1, which shares high sequence similarity to members of the invertebrate tyramine-receptor family. The PeaTYR1 receptor was stably expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells, and its ligand response has been examined. Receptor activation with tyramine reduces adenylyl cyclase activity in a dose-dependent manner (EC(50) approximately 350 nM). The inhibitory effect of tyramine is abolished by co-incubation with either yohimbine or chlorpromazine. Receptor expression has been investigated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemistry. The mRNA is present in various tissues including brain, salivary glands, midgut, Malpighian tubules, and leg muscles. The effect of tyramine on salivary gland acinar cells has been investigated by intracellular recordings, which have revealed excitatory presynaptic actions of tyramine. This study marks the first comprehensive molecular, pharmacological, and functional characterization of a tyramine receptor in the cockroach.
It is well recognized that proprioceptive afferent inputs can control the timing and pattern of locomotion. C and Adelta afferents can also affect locomotion but an unresolved issue is the identity of the subsets of these afferents that encode defined modalities. Over the last decade, the transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels have emerged as a family of non-selective cation conductances that can label specific subsets of afferents. We focus on a class of TRPs known as ThermoTRPs which are well known to be sensor receptors that transduce changes in heat and cold. ThermoTRPs are known to help encode somatosensation and painful stimuli, and receptors have been found on C and Adelta afferents with central projections onto dorsal horn laminae. Here we show, using in vitro neonatal mouse spinal cord preparations, that activation of both spinal and peripheral transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) and transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) afferent terminals modulates central pattern generators (CPGs). Capsaicin or menthol and cooling modulated both sacrocaudal afferent (SCA) evoked and monoaminergic drug-induced rhythmic locomotor-like activity in spinal cords from wild type but not TRPV1-null (trpv1(-/-)) or TRPM8-null (trpm8(-/-)) mice, respectively. Capsaicin induced an initial increase in excitability of the lumbar motor networks, while menthol or cooling caused a decrease in excitability. Capsaicin and menthol actions on CPGs involved excitatory and inhibitory glutamatergic mechanisms, respectively. These results for the first time show that dedicated pathways of somatosensation and pain identified by TRPV1 or TRPM8 can target spinal locomotor CPGs.
Previous research in our laboratory has shown that damage to the amygdala in neonatal rhesus monkeys profoundly alters behaviors associated with fear processing, while leaving many aspects of social development intact. Little is known, however, about the impact of neonatal lesions of the amygdala on later developing aspects of social behavior. A well-defined phenomenon in the development of young female rhesus monkeys is an intense interest in infants that is typically characterized by initiating proximity or attempting to hold them. The extent to which young females are interested in infants may have important consequences for the development of species-typical maternal behavior. Here we report the results of a study that was designed to assess interest in infants by female rhesus monkeys that received neonatal lesions to the amygdala, hippocampus or a sham surgical procedure. Subjects were first paired with pregnant &quot;stimulus&quot; females to assess social interactions with them prior to the birth of the infants. There were few behavioral differences between lesion groups when interacting with the pregnant females. However, following the birth of the infants, the amygdala-lesioned females showed significantly less interest in the infants than did control or hippocampus-lesioned females. They directed fewer affiliative vocalizations and facial expressions to the mother-infant pair compared to the hippocampus-lesioned and control females. These findings suggest that neonatal damage to the amygdala, but not the hippocampus, impairs important precursors of non-human primate maternal behavior.
The behavioral effects of cocaine are affected by gene knockout (KO) of the dopamine transporter (DAT), the serotonin transporter (SERT) and the norepinephrine transporter (NET). The relative involvement of each of these transporters varies depending on the particular behavioral response to cocaine considered, as well as on other factors such as genetic background of the subjects. Interestingly, the effects of these gene knockouts on cocaine-induced locomotion are quite different from those on reward assessed in the conditioned place preference paradigm. To further explore the role of these genes in the rewarding effects of cocaine, the ability of five daily injections of cocaine to induce conditioned locomotion was assessed in DAT, SERT and NET KO mice. Cocaine increased locomotor activity acutely during the initial conditioning session in SERT KO and NET KO, but not DAT KO, mice. Surprisingly, locomotor responses in the cocaine-paired subjects diminished over the five conditioning sessions in SERT KO mice, while locomotor responses increased in DAT KO mice, despite the fact that they did not demonstrate any initial locomotor responses to cocaine. Cocaine-induced locomotion was unchanged over the course of conditioning in NET KO mice. In the post-conditioning assessment, conditioned locomotion was not observed in DAT KO mice, and was reduced in SERT KO and NET KO mice. These data reaffirm the central role of dopamine and DAT in the behavioral effects of cocaine. Furthermore, they emphasize the polygenic basis of cocaine-mediated behavior and the non-unitary nature of drug reward mechanisms, particularly in the context of previous studies that have shown normal cocaine-conditioned place preference in DAT KO mice.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), vanilloid 2 (TRPV2) and melastatin 8 (TRPM8) are thermosensitive cation channels expressed on primary sensory neurons. In contrast to TRPV1, which is present on nociceptive primary afferents and keratinocytes in human skin, less is known about the distribution of TRPV2 and TRPM8 in this tissue. Immunohistochemistry of human forearm skin identified TRPV2 and TRPM8 immunoreactive nerve fibers in epidermis-papillary dermis and around blood vessels and hair follicles in dermis, although these nerve fibers were less abundant than TRPV1 immunoreactive nerve fibers throughout the skin. The TRPV2 and TRPM8 immunoreactive nerve fibers also showed immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and to a lesser extent substance P (SP). Neither of the TRP ion channels co-localized with neurofilament 200 kDa (NF200), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Nerve fibers immunoreactive for TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPM8, CGRP and SP were absent or substantially reduced in number in individuals with Norrbottnian congenital insensitivity to pain, an autosomal disease selectively affecting the development of C-fiber and Adelta-fiber primary afferents. Quantitative real time PCR detected mRNA transcripts encoding TRPV1 and TRPV2, but not TRPM8, in skin from healthy volunteers, suggesting that these ion channels are also expressed extraneuronally. In conclusion, nerve fibers in human skin express TRPV1, TRPV2 and TRPM8 that co-localize with the sensory neuropeptides CGRP and SP, but not with NF200, VIP or TH. A dramatic loss of such nerve fibers was seen in skin from individuals with Norrbottnian congenital insensitivity to pain, further suggesting that these ion channels are expressed primarily on nociceptive primary sensory neurons in human skin.
Stressful experiences, especially when prolonged and severe are associated with psychopathology and impaired neuronal plasticity. Among other effects on the brain, stress has been shown to negatively regulate hippocampal neurogenesis, and this effect is considered to be exerted via glucocorticoids. Here, we sought to determine the temporal dynamics of changes in hippocampal neurogenesis after acute and chronic exposure to foot-shock stress. Rats subjected to a foot-shock procedure showed strong activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, even after exposure to daily stress for 3 weeks. Despite a robust release of corticosterone, acute foot-shock stress did not affect the rate of hippocampal cell proliferation. In contrast, exposure to foot-shock stress daily for 3 weeks led to reduced cell proliferation 2 hours after the stress procedure. Interestingly, this stress-induced effect did not persist and was no longer detected 24 hours later. Also, while chronic foot-shock stress had no impact on survival of hippocampal cells that were born before the stress procedure, it led to a decreased number of doublecortin-positive granule neurons that were born during the chronic stress period. Thus, whereas a strong activation of the HPA axis during acute foot-shock stress is not sufficient to reduce hippocampal cell proliferation, repeated exposure to stressful stimuli for prolonged period of time ultimately results in dysregulated neurogenesis. In sum, this study supports the notion that chronic stress may lead to cumulative changes in the brain that are not seen after acute stress. Such changes may indicate compromised brain plasticity and increased vulnerability to neuropathology.
Neuronal discharge and local field potential (LFP) oscillations in the olfactory bulb (OB) are modulated by odorant stimulation. The LFP oscillations have been proposed as the mechanism that facilitates synchronization of OB output neurons and the representation of similar odorants. Gamma LFP oscillations depend on the OB inhibitory network and early sensory deprivation modifies this inhibitory network. However, little is known about the LFP oscillations and neuronal discharge in the deprived OB. We examined the mitral/tufted (MT) cells' oscillatory activity and LFP oscillations in both sensory-deprived and normal OBs in urethane anesthetized rats. We found that MT cells in deprived and normal OBs have similar basal mean firing rate; 44% of the recorded cells in deprived OB and only 8% of the cells in normal OB showed firing rate modulation by odorants, both exhibiting a similar ratio of excitatory to inhibitory responses. A fraction of MT cells exhibited oscillatory discharge centered on gamma (60-70 Hz) and beta (20 Hz) frequencies, although this feature was not consistently dependent on odorant stimulation. Odorants decreased the LFP oscillatory power in the gamma band (35-90 Hz) and increased the power in the beta band (12-30 Hz). The modulation of LFP oscillations by odorants was also predominant in the deprived (53%) compared to the normal OB (17%). In contrast, a higher fraction of MT cells' discharge was locked to the gamma LFP cycle in the normal OB. These results suggest that early unilateral olfactory deprivation increases the OB sensitivity to odorants and reduce the temporal synchrony between unitary activity and gamma LFP oscillations without altering the basal neuronal discharge.
One of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease is the accumulation of amyloid plaques in brains of affected patients. Several recent studies provided evidence that soluble oligomer forms of amyloid-beta (Abeta) rather than plaques determine cognitive decline. In vitro studies using artificial Abeta oligomer preparations suggest that such pathophysiology is caused by a specific impairment of synaptic function. We examined whether synaptic deficits occur before deposition of insoluble fibrillar Abeta by analyzing brain slices taken from young Tg2576 mice overexpressing mutant amyloid precursor protein. Excitatory synaptic transmission in the hippocampal CA1 region was strongly impaired before plaque development, suggesting a dissociation of an early synaptic impairment, probably caused by soluble oligomeric amyloid-beta, from subsequent plaque formation. At higher age neurotransmission was also decreased in wild type mice, paralleling a cognitive decline of normal aged animals. Memory formation in rats is accompanied by distinct hippocampal network oscillations. It has recently been shown that hippocampal gamma oscillations, a network correlate of exploratory behavior, are impaired in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-overexpressing mice. We determined whether sharp wave-ripple complexes, which contribute to memory consolidation during slow wave-sleep, are modified in Tg2576 mice. Interestingly, neither sharp waves nor superimposed ripples were changed at pre-plaque or plaque stages. During aging, however, there was a strong reduction of sharp wave frequency and ripple energy in wild type and APP-overexpressing animals. This indicates that the reported changes in network oscillations following APP-overexpression are specific for gamma oscillations, whereas aging has a more general effect on network properties. Taken together our data suggest that non-fibrillar forms of Abeta--possibly Abeta oligomers--specifically interfere with synaptic function in Tg2576, but do not globally alter memory-related network properties. We propose that mechanisms leading to Abeta-related cognitive decline are different from those related to aging.
Food odours are major determinants for food choice, and their detection depends on nutritional status. The effects of different odour stimuli on both behavioural responses (locomotor activity and sniffing) and Fos induction in olfactory bulbs (OB) were studied in satiated or 48-h fasted rats. We focused on two odour stimuli: isoamyl acetate (ISO), as a neutral stimulus either unknown or familiar, and food pellet odour, that were presented to quiet rats during the light phase of the day. We found significant effects of nutritional status and odour stimulus on both behavioural and OB responses. The locomotor activity induced by odour stimuli was always more marked in fasted than in satiated rats, and food odour induced increased sniffing activity only in fasted rats. Fos expression was quantified in periglomerular, mitral and granular OB cell layers. As a new odour, ISO induced a significant increase in Fos expression in all OB layers, similar in fasted and satiated rats. Significant OB responses to familiar odours were only observed in fasted rats. Among the numerous peptides shown to vary after 48 h of fasting, we focused on orexins (for which immunoreactive fibres are present in the OB) and leptin, as a peripheral hormone linked to adiposity, and tested their effects of food odour. The administration of orexin A in satiated animals partially mimicked fasting, since food odour increased OB Fos responses, but did not induce sniffing. The treatment of fasted animals with either an orexin receptors antagonist (ACT-078573) or leptin significantly decreased both locomotor activity, time spent sniffing food odour and OB Fos induction in all cell layers, thus mimicking a satiated status. We conclude that orexins and leptin are some of the factors that can modify behavioural and OB Fos responses to a familiar food odour.
Synaptic transmission has been shown to be modulated by purinergic receptors. In the cerebellum, spontaneous inhibitory input to Purkinje neurons is enhanced by ATP via P2 receptors, while evoked excitatory input via the granule cell parallel fibers is reduced by presynaptic P1 (A1) adenosine receptors. We have now studied the modulation of the complex GABAergic input to granule cells by the purinergic receptor agonists ATP and adenosine in acute rat cerebellar tissue slices using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Our experiments indicate that ATP and adenosine substantially reduce the bicuculline- and gabazine-sensitive GABAergic input to granule cells. Both phasic and tonic inhibitory components were reduced leading to an increased excitability of granule cells. The effect of ATP and adenosine could be blocked by 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), but not by other P1 and P2 receptor antagonists, indicating that it was mediated by activation of A1 adenosine receptors. Our results suggest that, in the cerebellar network, A1 receptor activation, known to decrease the excitatory output of granule cells, also increases their excitability by reducing their complex GABAergic input. These findings extend our knowledge on purinergic receptors, mediating multiple modulations at both inhibitory and excitatory input and output sites in the cerebellar network.
Cerebral glucose hypometabolism is common in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The temporospatial evolution of these metabolic changes during epileptogenesis remains to be determined. We measured the regional normalized cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (nCMRglc) with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-small animal positron emission tomography (microPET) in animals receiving systemic pilocarpine application. The microPET scan was performed on day 2 (early), day 7 (latent) and 42 days (chronic phase) after the initial status epilepticus. We found specific temporospatial changes in glucose utilization in rats during the course of epileptogenesis. In the early phase, the limbic structures underwent the largest decrease in glucose utilization. Most brain structures were still hypometabolic in the latent phase and recovered in the chronic phase. Conversely, the hippocampus and thalamus presented with persistent hypometabolism during epileptogenesis. The cerebellum and pons maintained normal glucose utilization during this process. We also found that severe glucose hypometabolism in the entorhinal cortex during the early phase was correlated with epileptogenesis, indicating the critical role of the entorhinal cortex in the early stages of TLE.
Accumulating evidence show that chemokines can modulate the activity of neurons through various mechanisms. Recently, we demonstrated that CCR2, the main receptor for the chemokine CCL2, is constitutively expressed in dopamine neurons in the rat substantia nigra. Here we show that unilateral intranigral injections of CCL2 (50 ng) in freely moving rats increase extracellular concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites and decrease dopamine content in the ipsilateral dorsal striatum. Furthermore, these CCL2 injections are responsible for an increase in locomotor activity resulting in contralateral circling behavior. Using patch-clamp recordings of dopaminergic neurons in slices of the rat substantia nigra, we observed that a prolonged exposure (&gt;8 min) to 10 nM CCL2 significantly increases the membrane resistance of dopaminergic neurons by closure of background channels mainly selective to potassium ions. This leads to an enhancement of dopaminergic neuron discharge in pacemaker or burst mode necessary for dopamine release. We provide here the first evidence that application of CCL2 on dopaminergic neurons increases their excitability, dopamine release and related locomotor activity.
The accumulation of reactive microglia in the degenerating areas of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) tissue is a key cellular event creating a chronic inflammatory environment that results in motoneuron death. We have developed a new culture system that consists in rat spinal cord embryonic explants in which motoneurons migrate outside the explant, growing as a monolayer in the presence of glial cells. The proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) have been proposed to be involved in ALS-linked microglial activation. In our explants, the combined exposure to these cytokines resulted in an increased expression of the pro-oxidative enzymes inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), the catalytic subunit of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, gp91(phox) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), as compared to each cytokine alone. This effect was related to their cooperation in the activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB). TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma also cooperated to promote protein oxidation and nitration, thus increasing the percentage of motoneurons immunoreactive for nitrotyrosine. Apoptotic motoneuron death, measured through annexin V-Cy3 and active caspase-3 immunoreactivities, was also found cooperatively induced by TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. Interestingly, these cytokines did not affect the viability of purified spinal cord motoneurons in the absence of glial cells. It is proposed that the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma have cooperative/complementary roles in inflammation-induced motoneuron death.

Mice show urinary scent marking behavior as a form of social communication. Marking to a conspecific stimulus mouse or odor varies with stimulus familiarity, indicating discrimination of novel and familiar animals. This study investigated Fos immunoreactivity in inbred C57BL/6J (C57) males following scent marking behavior in response to detection of a social stimulus, or discrimination between a familiar and an unfamiliar conspecific. In Experiment 1 C57 mice were exposed for four daily trials to an empty chamber; on a test day they were exposed to the same chamber or to a male CD-1 mouse in that chamber. Increased scent marking to the CD-1 mouse was associated with increased Fos-immunoreactive cells in the basolateral amygdala, medial amygdala, and dorsal and ventral premammillary nuclei. In Experiment 2 C57 mice were habituated to a CD-1 male for 4 consecutive days and, on the 5th day, exposed to the same CD-1 male, or to a novel CD-1 male. Mice exposed to a novel CD-1 displayed a significant increase in scent marking compared to their last exposure to the familiar stimulus, indicating discrimination of the novelty of this social stimulus. Marking to the novel stimulus was associated with enhanced activation of several telencephalic, as well as hypothalamic and midbrain, structures in which activation had not been seen in the detection paradigm (Experiment 1). These included medial prefrontal and piriform cortices, and lateral septum; the paraventricular nuclei, ventromedial nuclei, and lateral area of the hypothalamus, and the ventrolateral column of the periaqueductal gray. These data suggest that a circumscribed group of structures largely concerned with olfaction is involved in detection of a conspecific olfactory stimulus, whereas discrimination of a novel vs. a familiar conspecific stimulus engages a wider range of forebrain structures encompassing higher-order processes and potentially providing an interface between cognitions and emotions.
The morphology of intradental nerve fibers of permanent teeth and of continuously growing rodent incisors has been studied in detail but little information is available on the parent axons that give rise to these fibers. Here we examined the axons and somata of trigeminal neurons that innervate the rat upper molar and lower incisor pulp using tracing with horseradish peroxidase and light and electron microscopic analysis. The majority (approximately 80%) of the parent axons in the proximal root of the trigeminal ganglion that innervated either molar or incisor pulp were small myelinated fibers (&lt;20 microm(2) cross-sectional area). The remaining approximately 20% of the fibers were almost exclusively large myelinated for the molar pulp and unmyelinated for the incisor pulp. The majority of neuronal somata in the trigeminal ganglion that innervated either molar (48%) or incisor pulp (62%) were medium in size (300-600 microm(2) cross-sectional area). Large somata (&gt;600 microm(2)) constituted 34% and 20% of the trigeminal neurons innervating molar and incisor pulp, respectively, while small somata (&lt;300 microm(2)) constituted 17% of the molar and 18% of the incisor neurons. The present study revealed that the morphology of parent axons of dental primary sensory neurons may differ from that of their intradental branches, and also suggests that the nerve fiber function may be carried out differently in the molar and incisor pulp in the rat.
GABA-activated chloride currents were studied in cerebellar granule cells put in culture from neonatal rats. As previously described, 10 microM GABA perfusion of these cells recorded by whole cell patch-clamp elicits chloride currents displaying a peak and a steady-state component. The two components were studied in the presence of 1 mM furosemide, 1 microM Zn(2+) and a combination of the two in order to evaluate the contribution of the different types of GABA(A) receptors. Furosemide inhibits alpha(6) containing receptors whereas low levels of Zn(2+) specifically block incomplete GABA(A) receptors made up of alpha and beta subunits only. The results show that the peak component involves the following receptors: alpha(x) beta(y), 25%; alpha(1) beta(y) gamma(2), 45%; alpha(6) beta(y) gamma(2) plus alpha(1) alpha(6) beta(y) gamma(2), 30%. The steady state component is made up by alpha(x) beta(y), 38%; alpha(1) beta(y) delta, 62%. Ethanol at relatively high concentration, 100 mM, slows further down the desensitization of alpha(1) beta(y) delta receptors. The results indicate that the relative insensitivity to ethanol of GABA(A) receptors of neonatal cerebellar granule cells in culture is due to the absence of mature alpha(6) beta(y) delta receptors, a major receptor brand involved in tonic inhibition.
The hypocretin (orexin) neurons in the lateral hypothalamus play a crucial role in the promotion of arousal. Adenosine, an endogenous sleep-promoting factor, modulates both neuronal excitatory and synaptic transmission in the CNS. In this study, the involvement of endogenous adenosine in the regulation of excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission to hypocretin neurons was investigated in the hypothalamic slices from transgenic mice by using different frequencies of stimulation. A train of low-frequency stimulation (0.033, 1 Hz) had no effect on the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (evEPSCs) in hypocretin neurons. Blockade of adenosine A1 receptors with selective A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT), the amplitude of evEPSCs did not change during 0.033 and 1 Hz stimuli. When the frequency of stimulation was increased upto 2 Hz, a time-dependent depression of amplitude was recorded in hypocretin neurons. Administration of CPT caused no significant change in depressed synaptic response induced by 2 Hz stimulus. While depression induced by 10 and 100 Hz stimuli was partially inhibited by the CPT but not by the selective A2 receptor antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-(2-propynyl)xanthine. Further findings have demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation could induce long-term potentiation (LTP) of glutamatergic synaptic transmission to hypocretin neurons in acute hypothalamic slices. The experiments with CPT suggested that A1 receptor antagonist could facilitate the induction of LTP, indicating that endogenous adenosine, acting through A1 receptors, may suppress the induction of LTP of excitatory synaptic transmission to hypocretin neurons. These results suggest that in the hypothalamus, endogenous adenosine will be released into extracellular space in an activity-dependent manner inhibiting both basal excitatory synaptic transmission and LTP in hypocretin neurons via A1 receptors. Our data provide further support for the notion that hypocretin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus may be another important target involved in the endogenous adenosine modulating the sleep and wakefulness cycle in the mammalian CNS.
Overweight and obesity in the United States continues to grow at epidemic rates in large part due to the overconsumption of calorically-dense palatable foods. Identification of factors influencing long-term macronutrient preferences may elucidate points of prevention and behavioral modification. In our current study, we examined the adult macronutrient preferences of mice acutely exposed to a high fat diet during the third postnatal week. We hypothesized that the consumption of a high fat diet during early life would alter the programming of central pathways important in adult dietary preferences. As adults, the early-exposed mice displayed a significant preference for a diet high in fat compared to controls. This effect was not due to diet familiarity as mice exposed to a novel high carbohydrate diet during this same early period failed to show differences in macronutrient preferences as adults. The increased intake of high fat diet in early exposed mice was specific to dietary preferences as no changes were detected for total caloric intake or caloric efficiency. Mechanistically, mice exposed to a high fat diet during early life exhibited significant alterations in biochemical markers of dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens, including changes in levels of phospho-dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, molecular weight 32 kDa (DARPP-32) threonine-75, DeltaFosB, and cyclin-dependent kinase 5. These results support our hypothesis that even brief early life exposure to calorically-dense palatable diets alters long-term programming of central mechanisms important in dietary preferences and reward. These changes may underlie the passive overconsumption of high fat foods contributing to the increasing body mass in the western world.
The unilateral microinjection of noradrenaline (NA), but not vehicle solution, into the rostromedial preoptic area (POA) elicited simultaneous increases in cutaneous temperatures of the tail and sole of the foot and decreases in the whole-body O(2) consumption rate, heart rate, and colonic temperature in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized rats, suggesting a coordinate increase in heat loss and decrease in heat production. The magnitude of these responses increased dose-dependently over the range of 1-100 pmol, except for the metabolic and bradycardic responses. Similar hypothermic responses were elicited by the microinjection of 40 pmol methoxamine (an alpha(1)-adrenergic agonist), but not by that of clonidine (an alpha(2)-agonist) or isoproterenol (a beta-agonist). Sites at which microinjection of NA elicited hypothermic responses were in the vicinity of the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis including the median preoptic nucleus, whereas no thermal or metabolic response was elicited when NA was microinjected into the lateral POA or caudal part of the medial POA. The microinjection of 130 fmol prostaglandin (PG) E(2) into the NA-sensitive site always elicited thermogenic, tachycardic, and hyperthermic responses. Furthermore, the PGE(2)-induced febrile responses were greatly attenuated by prior administration of NA at the same site. These results demonstrate that NA in the rostromedial POA exerts alpha(1)-adrenoceptor-mediated hypothermic effects and opposes PGE(2)-induced fever.
Relapse to drug use is a major public health problem. In this sense, understanding the biological substrates that are affected during withdrawal may provide information to prevent relapse. Both smoking and alcoholic beverage consumption usually begin during adolescence, however, little is known about the basic neurobiology of the combined adolescent exposure, particularly during withdrawal. Since nicotine is a cholinergic agonist and it has been shown that ethanol interferes with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), the current study focused on the effects of drug withdrawal on the central cholinergic system. From the 30th to the 45th postnatal day (PN), C57BL/6 male and female mice were exposed to nicotine free base (NIC) and/or ethanol (ETOH). Four groups were analyzed: (1) concomitant NIC (50 microg/ml in 2% saccharin to drink) and ETOH (25%, 2 g/kg i.p. injected every other day) exposure; (2) NIC exposure; (3) ETOH exposure; (4) vehicle. We assessed nAChR binding, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and [(3)H]hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) binding in the cerebral cortex and midbrain of mice at short (PN50) and long term (PN75) withdrawal. NIC and NIC+ETOH promoted nAChR upregulation during a short-term withdrawal. NIC short-term withdrawal elicited an increase in ChAT activity that was reversed by ETOH withdrawal. In addition, NIC+ETOH elicited a decrease in ChAT activity at long term withdrawal. Regarding HC-3, ETOH and NIC+ETOH promoted a decrease that persisted at long-term withdrawal. The present study provides experimental evidence that nicotine and ethanol during adolescence interact resulting in cholinergic system alterations during withdrawal.
There are several subtypes of fibrocyte in the spiral ligament and spiral limbus of the cochlea that may contribute to fluid homeostasis. Immunocytochemical data suggest that these fibrocytes possess the glutamate-aspartate transporter, GLAST, as do supporting cells around the hair cells. However, functional glutamate uptake has not been demonstrated in fibrocytes. We used confocal and post-embedding immunogold electron microscopy to confirm that GLAST is expressed in adult fibrocytes of CD-1 mice with a relative expression: spiral limbus fibrocytes&gt;type II&gt;V&gt;IV&gt;I spiral ligament fibrocytes. Because they were sparsely present in most samples, type III fibrocytes were assessed only in one sample where their GLAST levels were similar to type I. Type II, type V and spiral limbus fibrocytes have many fine cellular processes that increase their surface area, those of the latter two coming into direct contact with perilymph, and type V fibrocytes contain the most glutamate. These data imply that glutamate uptake occurs in the fibrocytes. We assessed uptake of D-aspartate (a glutamate analogue) together with GLAST expression immunocytochemically and electrophysiologically. D-aspartate accumulated into GLAST expressing fibrocytes in vitro and evoked currents blockable by the GLAST inhibitor D,L-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA), similar to those of supporting cells around inner hair cells. Currents were strongest in spiral limbus fibrocytes, progressively lower in type V and type II fibrocytes, and were negligible in type I fibrocytes in accordance with the relative expression levels of GLAST. We conclude that in addition to their known homeostatic functions, fibrocytes, in particular spiral limbus, type II and type V fibrocytes play a role in glutamate homeostasis in the cochlea.
Mesolimbic beta-, but not alpha-adrenoceptors control the accumbal release of dopamine that is derived from alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine-sensitive pools of newly synthesized neurotransmitter. The aim of this study was to investigate which of these adrenoceptors control the accumbal release of dopamine that is derived from reserpine-sensitive pools of previously stored neurotransmitter. Rats, that were divided in low-responders and high-responders to novelty, were pretreated with 1 mg/kg of reserpine before the alpha-adrenergic-agent phentolamine or the beta-adrenergic-agent isoproterenol was locally applied into the nucleus accumbens. The original finding that phentolamine and isoproterenol increased accumbal dopamine levels in low-responders and high-responders was replicated. Reserpine reduced the phentolamine-induced increase of accumbal dopamine in both types of rat. However, phentolamine could still increase accumbal dopamine levels in reserpine-treated high-responders, but not anymore in reserpine-treated low-responders. Reserpine did not reduce the isoproterenol-induced increase of accumbal dopamine in any type of rat. This study demonstrates that mesolimbic alpha-, but not beta-adrenoceptors control the accumbal release of dopamine that is derived from reserpine-sensitive storage vesicles. In addition, these data confirm our previous finding that dopamine can still be released from storage vesicles of reserpinized high-responders, but not of reserpinized low-responders. The collected data underline our notion that alpha- and beta-adrenergic drugs may have therapeutic effects in patients suffering from diseases in which accumbal dopamine is involved.
Antidepressant action may involve stimulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF also regulates long-term potentiation (LTP). We hypothesized that the 5-HT and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, venlafaxine, would stimulate BDNF expression and alter LTP more effectively than the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, citalopram. To test this, we administered venlafaxine or citalopram to rats for 1 or 3 weeks; control rats received vehicle only. We measured BDNF protein in hippocampal and frontal cortex homogenates, and serum. We assessed LTP in area cornu ammonis region 1 (CA1) of in vitro hippocampal brain slices. We also examined input/output function to determine if basal synaptic transmission in area CA1 was altered. Compared to vehicle control, frontal cortex BDNF protein was significantly greater after three, but not one, weeks of venlafaxine treatment. In contrast, citalopram (1 or 3 weeks) did not stimulate BDNF. The stimulatory effect of venlafaxine treatment on BDNF was superimposed on a general time-dependent decrease in expression which was seen in both vehicle control and citalopram-treated animals. LTP was significantly impaired in slices from venlafaxine-treated rats after both 1 and 3 weeks of treatment, but LTP appeared normal in slices from citalopram-treated and vehicle control rats. The LTP impairment caused by venlafaxine treatment was independent of changes in BDNF: LTP was impaired after only 1 week of treatment, prior to any effect on BDNF, and LTP magnitude was not correlated with BDNF protein concentration. Input/output function was significantly but equally reduced after 3 weeks of citalopram, venlafaxine, or control treatment. Decreased BDNF protein in citalopram and vehicle control animals, and decreased input/output function may be consequences of individual housing of animals, which we used to ensure proper dosing. Venlafaxine stimulation of BDNF and inhibition of LTP may be related to the reported effectiveness of venlafaxine in treatment of depression.
Cell migration is essential for the development of numerous structures derived from embryonic neural crest cells (NCCs), however the underlying molecular mechanisms are incompletely understood. NCCs migrate long distances in the embryo and contribute to many different cell types, including peripheral neurons, glia and pigment cells. In the present work we report expression of Nedd9, a scaffolding protein within the integrin signaling pathway, in non-lineage-restricted neural crest progenitor cells. In particular, Nedd9 was found to be expressed in the dorsal neural tube at the time of neural crest delamination and in early migrating NCCs. To analyze the role of Nedd9 in neural crest development we performed loss- and gain-of-function experiments and examined the subsequent effects on delamination and migration in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrate that loss of Nedd9 activity in chick NCCs perturbs cell spreading and the density of focal complexes and actin filaments, properties known to depend on integrins. Moreover, a siRNA dose-dependent decrease in Nedd9 activity results in a graded reduction of NCC's migratory distance while forced overexpression increases it. Retinoic acid (RA) was found to regulate Nedd9 expression in NCCs. Our results demonstrate in vivo that Nedd9 promotes the migration of NCCs in a graded manner and suggest a role for RA in the control of Nedd9 expression levels.
There is evidence of prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent cognitive deficits, such as working memory impairment, during the normal aging process in humans and animals. Although working memory function and the PFC dopaminergic system are thought to be closely related, the relationship between them in aged subjects remains unclear. The present study was aimed to clarify the involvement of PFC dopaminergic activity in age-related working memory impairment. For this purpose, we examined working memory in young (3-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) rats, using the T-maze delayed alternation task. As a result, delayed alternation performance was impaired in aged rats compared to young rats, indicating age-related working memory impairment. In addition, aged rats showed reduced dopaminergic transmission in the prelimbic cortical region of the PFC, concomitant with attenuated tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the PFC, but not in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra, which was evaluated immunohistochemically and enzymatically. Moreover, age-related working memory impairment was improved by direct stimulation of the prelimbic cortical region of the PFC with 10 or 30 ng, but not 100 ng, of a D1 receptor agonist, SKF 81297, indicating that the SKF 81297 response was an inverted &quot;U&quot; pattern. The maximum SKF 81297 response (30 ng) was abolished by a D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390. Thus, age-related working memory impairment was through reduced PFC dopaminergic transmission caused by decreased dopamine synthesis in the prefrontal termination region, but not at the site where the projections originate. This finding provides direct evidence showing the involvement of dopaminergic dysfunction in the development of PFC cognitive deficits during the normal aging process and would help to understand the aging physiology and pathology of the brain.
Significant information on reproductive function has been generated based on the rat model, including many seminal discoveries. Yet little is known about the molecular and cellular events involved in control of reproductive function, mainly due to the pervasive lack of cell models from rat. We have therefore generated a wide array of cell lines using primary cell culture from the rat hypothalamus. Immortalization of the primary cells was achieved through retroviral transfer of T-antigen, followed by selection with geneticin. The mixed cell populations were subcloned and each clonal cell line was analyzed for expression of specific cellular markers. Each line has a distinct phenotypic profile, with expression of key neuroendocrine markers. We have functionally analyzed two clonal cell lines, rHypoE-7 and rHypoE-8, for hormones implicated in the control of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal function through melatonin, specifically kisspeptin (KISS) and RF-amide-related peptide-3 (RFRP-3, the mammalian ortholog of the avian gonadotropin-inhibiting hormone, GnIH). We detected functional melatonin receptor activity, as each cell line exhibited inhibition of forskolin-stimulated 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation. Upon treatment with 10 nM melatonin, we found that KISS gene expression was decreased in the rHypoE-8 cell line, while RFRP-3 was increased in the rHypoE-7 cell line. These results are in accordance with the differential regulatory functions of these two peptides, particularly on GnRH neuronal control. These cell lines will serve as novel tools for the analysis of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in hypothalamic control of a number of physiological processes described in the rat animal model.
Patients with long-standing diabetes commonly develop diabetic encephalopathy, which is characterized by cognitive impairment and dementia. Oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell apoptosis is a contributing factor. Glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 has recently become an attractive treatment modality for patients with diabetes. It also readily enters the brain, prevents neuronal cell apoptosis, and improves the cognitive impairment characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, we investigated whether GLP-1 could protect against oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell apoptosis in pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. PC12 cells were exposed to 1 mM methylglyoxal (MG) or MG plus 3.30 microg/ml GLP-1. Cell apoptosis, expression and phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin/gamma-glutamylcysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLc), and redox balance were then determined. The data showed that MG induced PC12 apoptosis in accordance with the redox (glutathione (GSH) and GSH/glutathione disulfide [GSSG]) imbalance. GLP-1 protected against this MG-induced apoptosis, which corresponded to the phosphorylation of PI3K, Akt, and mTOR, as well as the upregulation of GCLc and the restoration of the redox imbalance. Inhibitors of PI3K (LY294002), Akt (Akt-I), and mTOR (rapamycin) reduced the GLP-1-induced GCLc upregulation and its protection against MG-induced PC12 apoptosis. The GLP-1-induced redox restoration was also attenuated by rapamycin. In conclusion, the neuroprotective effect of GLP-1 is due to an enhancement of PI3K/Akt/mTOR/GCLc/redox signaling.
The majority of polymodal nociceptors express the non-selective cationic channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor, which plays a pivotal role in the development of inflammatory heat hyperalgesia and visceral hyper-reflexia. Thus, blocking transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor-mediated signalling in primary sensory neurons would provide significant pain relief and reduced visceral hyperactivity in inflammatory conditions. Here, we report that cannabinoids including the endogenous agent, anandamide (3-30 nM) and the synthetic compounds, arachidonyl-2-chloroethylamide (500 nM) and 1,1-dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxytetrahydrocannabinol (1 microM) significantly reduce cobalt influx that is mediated through the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor in rat cultured primary sensory neurons. The cannabinoid-evoked inhibitory effect can be reversed by rimonabant (200 nM), an antagonist of the cannabinoid 1 receptor. While anandamide- and arachidonyl-2-chloroethylamide fail to evoke inhibitory effects on the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor-mediated responses, the inhibitory effect of 1,1-dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxytetrahydrocannabinol is maintained, when the cannabinoids are applied together with the inflammatory mediators, prostaglandin E(2) (10 microM) and bradykinin (10 microM). These results indicate that activation of the cannabinoid 1 receptor can reduce the activity of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor in primary sensory neurons, though the inhibitory effect of agents, which activate both the cannabinoid 1 and the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor could be reduced in inflammatory conditions.
Two members of winged-helix/forkhead transcription factors, Foxp1 and Foxp2, are expressed in the developing and adult CNS, including the striatum, cerebral cortex, and thalamus. In a previous study, we have demonstrated that Foxp1 is expressed in a subpopulation of V1 interneurons in addition to motor neurons of the spinal cord during mouse embryogenesis. However, the detailed expression pattern of Foxp2 and its relationship with Foxp1 in the developing spinal cord remains to be elucidated. To shed light on the potential roles of Foxp1 and Foxp2 in the developing spinal cord, we characterized Foxp2-expressing cells during mouse embryogenesis. At embryonic day (E) 11.0, Foxp2-expressing cells were first observed in the ventral spinal cord, which were Pax6(-), p27(+), and neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin(+) postmitotic neurons. Between E13.5 and E15.5, high expression of Foxp2 was observed in both medial and lateral parts of the ventral spinal cord. Double-immunofluorescence staining for Foxp2 with some homeodomain transcription factors revealed that Foxp2-expressing neurons were Pax2(+), En1(+), Evx1(-), Chx10(-), Gata3(-), and Lhx3(-) V1 interneurons in the intermediate zone throughout the ventral spinal cord, indicating that Foxp2-expressing neurons were also V1 interneurons with the same phenotypes as Foxp1-expressing interneurons. In addition, neither Foxp1 nor Foxp2 was expressed in ventral calbindin(+) Renshaw cells. However, Foxp2 did not colocalize with Foxp1 in interneurons of the ventral spinal cord. These findings suggest that Foxp1 and Foxp2 are expressed in the distinct subsets of V1 interneurons that belong to non-Renshaw cells in the ventral spinal cord during embryogenesis. Thus, Foxp1 and Foxp2 may be involved in the determination of the cell type identities during late embryogenesis: the classes of neurotransmitters and the functional subtypes of non-Renshaw cells, such as Ia and Ib inhibitory interneurons.
The encoding of reward-predictive stimuli by neurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) depends on integrated synaptic activity from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) afferent inputs. In a previous study, we found that single electrical stimulation pulses applied to the BLA facilitate mPFC-evoked spiking in NAcc neurons in a timing-dependent manner, presumably by a fast glutamatergic mechanism. In the present study, the ability of repetitive BLA activation to modulate synaptic inputs to NAcc neurons through dopamine- or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent mechanisms is characterized. NAcc neurons receiving excitatory input from both mPFC and BLA were recorded in urethane-anesthetized rats. Train stimulation of the BLA depressed mPFC-evoked spiking in these neurons. This was not attributable to mechanisms involving NMDA or dopamine D1, D2, D3 or D5 receptors, since blockade of these receptors did not affect the BLA-mediated depression. BLA-mediated depression was only evident when the BLA stimulation evoked spikes in the recorded neuron; thus, depolarization of the recorded neuron may be critical for this effect. The ability of the BLA to suppress mPFC-to-NAcc signaling may be a mechanism by which normal or pathologically heightened emotional states disrupt goal-directed behavior in favor of emotionally-driven responses.
Chronic exposure to opioids leads to physical dependence, which manifests as the symptoms of drug withdrawal. Interindividual differences in withdrawal symptom severity are well known, and at least partially due to genetic variation. To identify genes contributing to variation in withdrawal severity, we chronically treated 30 strains of the AcB/BcA recombinant congenic mouse strain set, including their A/J and C57BL/6J (B6) progenitors, with morphine for seven days and compared jumping frequencies--a sensitive and widely used index of withdrawal magnitude--during naloxone-precipitated withdrawal (NPW). Jumping frequencies of B6 mice were more than threefold greater than values obtained in A/J mice. Visual inspection of the genomic distribution of parental haplotypes in the AcB/BcA strains identified a putative quantitative trait locus (QTL) localized to chromosome 8 (90-117 Mb), and this QTL was confirmed in a B6AF2 intercross. The most salient candidate gene within this QTL, Gnao1 (guanine nucleotide binding protein, alpha(o); G alpha(o); 96.3 Mb), was tested for functional relevance using quantitative PCR and an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide strategy. The expression of Gnao1 in the locus coeruleus was found to be upregulated in morphine-dependent B6 but not A/J mice. Antisense knockdown of Gnao1 reduced NPW jumping in B6, but not A/J, mice rendered dependent on either morphine or heroin, largely rescuing the original strain difference. These data strongly implicate the G alpha(o) protein in the locus coeruleus as contributing to interindividual variability in physical dependence on opioids in mice.
Diminished levels of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3), the major polyunsaturated fatty acid (FA) synthesized from alpha linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3n-3), have been implicated in changes in neurotransmitter production, ion channel disruption and impairments of a variety of cognitive, behavioral and motor functions in the perinatal and adult mammal. Neuronal migration in the cortex and hippocampus of newborn and postnatal rats after ALA-deficiency, beginning on the 2nd day after conception and continuing for three weeks, was investigated. A marked decrease in the migration of bromodeoxyuridine((+))/neuronal nuclei((+))/neurofilament((+)) and glia fibrillary acidic protein((-)) neuronal cells to the dense cortical plate was accompanied by a corresponding abundance of non-migrating cells in several regions such as cortical layers IV-VI, corpus callosum and the sub-ventricular zone of ALA-deficient newborns. Similarly, a delayed migration of cells to CA1 and dentate gyrus areas was noticed while most cells were retained in the subicular area adjacent to the hippocampus. The reversibility of delay in migration in the hippocampus and cortex, after one and two weeks respectively, may be attributed to a temporary reelin disorganization or partial deficiency. Transient obstruction of neuronal cell migration may have long-lasting consequences on the organization of neuronal assemblies, on the connection between neurons (lateral connections) and acquisition of function in the adult brain.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by memory loss and the upregulation of pro-neuroinflammatory factors such as cRaf-1, cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), and the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), as well as a downregulation of protein kinase A (PKA) activity and the activation by phosphorylation of its downstream factor CREB. We investigated the effect of the anti-cancer cRaf-1 inhibitor, sorafenib tosylate (Nexavar), on the expression of these factors and on the cognitive performance of aged APPswe mice. We found that chronic treatment with sorafenib stimulated PKA and CREB phosphorylation and inhibited cRaf-1 and NF-kappaB in the brains of APPswe mice. NF-kappaB controls the expression of several genes related to AD pathology, including iNOS and Cox-(2)Concurrent with NF-kappaB inhibition, sorafenib treatment decreased the cerebral expression of Cox-2 and iNOS in APPswe mice. It has recently been observed that Cox-2 inhibition prevents cognitive impairment in a mouse model of AD and amyloid beta peptide (Abeta)-induced inhibition of long-term potentiation (LTP). Consistent with the idea that Cox-2 inhibition can improve cognitive abilities, we found that sorafenib restored working memory abilities in aged APPswe mice without reducing Abeta levels in the brain. These findings suggest that sorafenib reduced AD pathology by reducing neuroinflammation.
We investigated the contribution of large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels to spontaneous activity of cerebellar Purkinje neurons in mice and rats. In Purkinje neurons which fire tonically, block of BK channels increased the firing rate and caused the neurons to fire irregularly. In Purkinje neurons which exhibited a trimodal pattern of activity, present primarily in mature animals, block of BK channels had little effect on firing rate or regularity but shortened the single cycle duration of the trimodal pattern. The contribution of BK channels to the action potential waveform was also examined. BK channels contributed a brief afterhyperpolarization (AHP) of approximately 3 mV which followed each action potential, but made little contribution to action potential repolarization. The amplitude of the BK-dependent AHP did not change with age although there was an increase in the total AHP. The difference in the contribution of BK channels to the firing rate among the two populations of Purkinje neurons was the consequence of the decrease in the fractional contribution of BK channels to the AHP. We also found that block of BK channels increases intracellular calcium concentration during spontaneous firing. Thus, although BK channels do not affect action potential repolarization, they nevertheless control calcium entry with each action potential by contributing to the AHP.
There are declines in the protein expression of the NR2B (mouse epsilon2) and NR1 (mouse zeta1) subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus during aging in C57BL/6 mice. This study was designed to determine if there is a greater effect of aging on subunit expression and a stronger relationship between long-term spatial memory and subunit expression within the synaptic membrane than in the cell as a whole. Male, C57BL/6JNIA mice (4, 11 and 26 months old) were tested for long-term spatial memory in the Morris water maze. Frontal cortex, including prefrontal regions, and hippocampus were homogenized and fractionated into light and synaptosomal membrane fractions. Western blots were used to analyze protein expression of NR2B and NR1 subunits of the NMDA receptor. Old mice performed significantly worse than other ages in the spatial task. In the frontal cortex, the protein levels of the NR2B subunit showed a greater decline with aging in the synaptic membrane fraction than in the whole homogenate, while in the hippocampus a similar age-related decline was observed in both fractions. There were no significant effects of aging on the expression of the NR1 subunit. Within the middle-aged mouse group, higher expression of both NR2B and NR1 subunits in the synaptic membrane of the hippocampus was associated with better memory. In the aged mice, however, higher expression of both subunits was associated with poorer memory. These results indicate that aging could be altering the localization of the NR2B subunit to the synaptic membrane within the frontal cortex. The correlational results suggest that NMDA receptor functions, receptor subunit composition, and/or the environment in which the receptor interacted in the hippocampus were not the same in the old animals as in younger mice and this may have contributed to memory declines during aging.
Luteolin (3',4',5,7-tetrahydroxyflavone) is an important member of the flavonoid family. It exhibits strongly anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and phytoestrogen-like activities. In the present study, we examined the anti-amnesic and protective effects of luteolin against Abeta(25-35)-induced toxicity in mice. Mice were given an i.c.v. injection of aggregated Abeta(25-35) peptide. The learning and memory impairments, ultrastructural changes of cerebral cortex, cerebrovascular dysfunction and neuronal changes were detected after oral administration of luteolin continuously for 8 days. Our results demonstrate that oral administration of luteolin for 8 days for those Abeta(25-35)-induced amnesic mice conferred robust neurovascular protection in Abeta(25-35)-induced amnesia, involving the improvement of the spatial learning and memory capabilities, the modulation of microvascular function, the increase of regional cerebral blood flow values, the clearance of reactive oxygen species, the improvement of cholinergic neuronal system, and the increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor level and its receptor tyrosine kinase B expression in cerebral cortex.
Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels is a fundamental signaling event in neurons; however, non-traditional routes, such as non-selective cation channels, also permit Ca(2+) entry. The present study examines the Ca(2+) permeability of a cation channel that drives an afterdischarge in Aplysia bag cell neurons. The firing of these neurons induces peptide release and reproduction. Single channel-containing inside-out patches excised from cultured bag cell neurons, with the cytoplasmic face bathed in K(+)-aspartate and the extracellular face bathed in artificial seawater (11 mM Ca(2+)), had a reversal potential near +50 mV. In keeping with Ca(2+) permeability, this was right-shifted to approximately +60 mV in high Ca(2+) (substituted for Mg(2+)) and left-shifted to around +40 mV in zero Ca(2+) (replaced with Mg(2+)). The current showed inward rectification between +30 and +90 mV, and a conductance of 29 pS in normal Ca(2+), 30 pS in high Ca(2+), 32 pS in Ba(2+) (substituted for Ca(2+)), but only 21 pS in zero Ca(2+). Despite a greater conductance in Ba(2+), the channel did not display anomalous mol fraction in an equimolar Ca(2+)-Ba(2+) mix. Eliminating internal Mg(2+) lowered activity, but did not alter inward rectification, suggesting intracellular Mg(2+) is a fast, voltage-independent blocker. Imaging bag cell neurons in Mn(2+) saline (substituted for Ca(2+)) revealed enhanced fura-quench following cation channel activation, consistent with Mn(2+) permeating as a Ca(2+) surrogate. Finally, triggering the cation channel while tracking capacitance revealed a Ca(2+)-dependent increase in membrane surface area, consistent with vesicle fusion. Thus, the cation channel not only drives the afterdischarge, but also passes Ca(2+) to potentially initiate secretion. In general, this may represent an alternate means by which neurons elicit neuropeptide release.
Leptin is critical for normal food intake and energy metabolism. While leptin receptor (ObR) function has been well studied in hypothalamic feeding circuitries, the functional relevance of ObR in extrahypothalamic areas is largely unknown. Central regulatory pathways involved in food intake utilize various neuropeptides, such as urocortin 1 (Ucn1), cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide (CART) and nesfatin-1. Ucn1 is most abundantly expressed in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW). In addition to Ucn1, other satiety signals, such as CART and nesfatin-1, are highly expressed in neurons of the npEW. Using immunocytochemistry and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we here show the presence of short and long forms of ObR in the rat npEW. Then, we tested our hypothesis that a change in plasma leptin will modulate the activity of npEW neurons containing Ucn1, CART and nesfatin-1. First, by double-labeling immunocytochemistry, we observed that almost all npEW neurons colocalizing Ucn1, CART and nesfatin-1 also contain ObR. Fasting rats for two days caused a marked body weight loss and reduced leptin plasma level in both genders. Ucn1 mRNA and CART mRNA were upregulated after fasting in males (3.3 and 2.4 times, respectively; P&lt;0.05) but not in females. However, their peptide levels were not significantly changed. The peptide level and mRNA of nesfatin-1 were unaffected by fasting. We conclude that npEW-neurons containing Ucn1, CART and nesfatin-1 co-express ObR, and may be involved in leptin-mediated feeding control in male rats only.
The changes in the firing rate and firing pattern of pyramidal neurons in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the effects of selective 5-hydroxytryptamine-(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor agonist (R)-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) and antagonist N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-2-pyridylcyclohexane carboxamide maleate salt (WAY-100635) on the firing activity of the neurons were studied in sham-lesioned rats and rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The lesion of the SNc increased the firing rate of pyramidal neurons significantly compared to sham-lesioned rats, and the firing pattern of these neurons also changed significantly towards a more burst-firing. The systemic administration of 8-OH-DPAT at doses in the range of 0.5-128 microg/kg showed an excitatory-inhibitory effect on the firing rate of pyramidal neurons in mPFC of sham-lesioned rats. At lower doses, 0.5-32 microg/kg, it evoked excitation of the neurons, and at a high dose, i.e. 128 microg/kg, inhibited the activity of the neurons. In contrast to sham-lesioned rats, 8-OH-DPAT, at the same doses, showed no excitatory effect in the lesioned rats although the inhibitory phase of the effect of 8-OH-DPAT on the firing rate of pyramidal neurons in mPFC was still present. Furthermore, the local application of 8-OH-DPAT, 5 microg, in mPFC inhibited the firing rate of pyramidal neurons in sham-lesioned rats, while having no effect on firing rate in the lesioned rats. The excitatory or inhibitory effects of 8-OH-DPAT were reversed by WAY-100635, indicating that these effects are mediated by 5-HT(1A) receptor. Altogether, these results indicate that the lesion of the SNc leads to hyperactivity of pyramidal neurons in mPFC and the abnormality of response of these neurons to 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation, suggesting that mPFC may be involved in the pathophysiology of the psychiatric disturbance of Parkinson's disease.
In the retina, chemical and electrical synapses couple neurons into functional networks. New candidates encoding for electrical synapse proteins have recently emerged. In the present study, we determined the localization of the candidate protein pannexin1 (zfPanx1) in the zebrafish retina and studied the functional properties of zfPanx1 exogenously expressed in Neuroblastoma 2a (N2a) cells. zfPanx1 was identified on the surface of horizontal cell dendrites invaginating deeply into the cone pedicle near the glutamate release sites of the cones, providing in vivo evidence for hemichannel formation at that location. This strategic position of zfPanx1 in the photoreceptor synapse could potentially allow modulation of cone output. Using whole cell voltage clamp and excised patch recordings of transfected N2a cells, we demonstrated that zfPanx1 forms voltage-activated hemichannels with a large unitary conductance in vitro. These channels can open at physiological membrane potentials. Functional channels were not formed following mutation of a single amino acid within a conserved protein motif recently shown to be N-glycosylated in rodent Panx1. Together, these findings indicate that zfPanx1 displays properties similar to its mammalian homologues and can potentially play an important role in functions of the outer retina.
The neurotransmitter glutamate is inactivated by cellular uptake; mostly catalyzed by the glutamate transporter GLT1 (slc1a2, excitatory amino acid transporter [EAAT2]) subtype which is expressed at high levels in brain astrocytes and at lower levels in neurons. Three coulombs-terminal variants of GLT1 exist (GLT1a, GLT1b and GLT1c). Their cellular distributions are currently being debated (that of GLT1b in particular). Here we have made antibodies to the variants and produced pure preparations of the individual variant proteins. The immunoreactivities of each variant per amount of protein were compared to that of total GLT1 immunoisolated from Wistar rat brains. At eight weeks of age GLT1a, GLT1b and GLT1c represented, respectively 90%+/-1%, 6+/-1% and 1%+/-0.5% (mean+/-SEM) of total hippocampal GLT1. The levels of all three variants were low at birth and increased towards adulthood, but GLT1a increased relatively more than the other two. At postnatal day 14 the levels of GLT1b and GLT1c relative to total GLT1 were, respectively, 1.7+/-0.1 and 2.5+/-0.1 times higher than at eight weeks. In tissue sections, antibodies to GLT1a gave stronger labeling than antibodies to GLT1b, but the distributions of GLT1a and GLT1b were similar in that both were predominantly expressed in astroglia, cell bodies as well as their finest ramifications. GLT1b was not detected in nerve terminals in normal brain tissue. The findings illustrate the need for quantitative measurements and support the notion that the importance of the variants may not be due to the transporter molecules themselves, but rather that their expression represents the activities of different regulatory pathways.
Treated sewage effluents often contain a mixture of estrogenic compounds in low concentrations. The total combined activity of these, however, may be sufficiently high to affect the reproduction of aquatic vertebrates. The introduction of advanced treatment technologies has been suggested as a way to remove micro-contaminants, including estrogenic substances. In this study, one municipal influent was treated with six different processes in parallel on a semi-large scale in order to assess their potential to reduce substances that could contribute to estrogenic effects in male fish. The effluent from a conventional, activated sludge treatment line was compared to a similarly treated effluent with a final sand-filtering step. The addition of ozonation (15 g O(3)/m(3)), a moving bed biofilm reactor (MBBR) or both in combination was also evaluated. There was also a separate treatment line that was based on a membrane bioreactor. A small battery of hepatic estrogen-responsive genes was measured in the exposed fish using quantitative PCR. Concentrations of steroid estrogens and estrogenic phenols in the effluents were measured by GC-ECNI-MS. The ozonated effluents were the only tested effluents for which all measured biological effects in exposed fish were removed. Chemical data suggested that the MBBR technology was equally effective in removing the analyzed estrogens; however, elevated expression of estrogen-responsive genes suggested that some estrogenic substances were still present in the effluent. The membrane bioreactor removed most of the measured estrogens and it reduced the induction of the estrogen-responsive genes. However, fish exposed to this effluent had significantly enlarged livers. Given that the same influent was treated in parallel with a broad set of technologies and that the chemical analyses were combined with an in vivo assessment of estrogenic responses, this study provides valuable input into the assessment of advanced treatment processes for removing estrogenic substances.
The parietal cortex consists of several prominent anatomical regions in the posterior part of the human brain. Although very heterogeneous stimuli and tasks activate parietal brain regions, a large body of empirical evidence points to a particular role of the posterior parietal cortex in spatial cognition. This article aims at providing a comprised overview regarding the existing evidence on the functional architecture of posterior parietal cortex and its relation to spatial cognition abilities. The article summarizes and systematically compares evidence from lesion, human functional brain imaging, and human functional brain interference studies, providing the whole range from early neuropsychological insights to latest state-of-the-art multimodal functional imaging and multivariate brain connectivity approaches. As for this latter type of evidence, the article outlines in more detail how our group has recently applied: (i) combined TMS &amp; fMRI, (ii) data-driven multivariate fMRI, and (iii) effective brain connectivity analyses in order to functionally segregate the specific contribution of various parietal sub-regions for particular spatial sub-functions. Based on these recent findings, it is proposed that we are now at the verge of applying these new analytical frameworks in human functional brain imaging in order to functionally fractionate brain regions which are conventionally modelled as functional units, e.g. areas within the posterior parietal cortex, into distinct subdivisions with different functional contributions.
For the past 200 years, various regions of the brainstem have been proposed as a 'noeud vital' for breathing-a critical region which, when destroyed, results in an irreversible cessation of breathing and death. Complicating this search for a noeud vital is the extensive network of neurons that comprises the brainstem respiratory control system of pons and medulla. Does a cessation of breathing following ablation of any region reflect the removal of a critical set of neurons whose activity generates the respiratory rhythm or does it reflect the interruption of one component of the neuronal circuit, such that this circuit cannot function, at least temporarily? An additional complication is that in contemporary neuroscience, a number of in vitro preparations have been introduced for the study of the generation of the respiratory rhythms. However, how are the rhythms that these preparations generate related to normal breathing? Are these rhythms similar to those of gasping, which is recruited when normal, eupnoeic breathing fails, or are these rhythms unique to the in vitro preparation and not related to any breathing pattern in vivo?
Cardiorespiratory activity is controlled by a network of neurons located within the lower brainstem. The basic rhythm of breathing is generated by neuronal circuits within the medullary pre-Btzinger complex, modulated by pontine and other inputs from cell groups within the medulla oblongata and then transmitted to bulbospinal pre-motor neurons that relay the respiratory pattern to cranial and spinal motor neurons controlling respiratory muscles. Cardiovascular sympathetic and vagal activities have characteristic discharges that are patterned by respiratory activity. This patterning ensures ventilation-perfusion matching for optimal respiratory gas exchange within the lungs. Peripheral arterial chemoreceptors and central respiratory chemoreceptors are crucial for the maintenance of cardiorespiratory homeostasis. Inputs from these receptors ensure adaptive changes in the respiratory and cardiovascular motor outputs in various environmental and physiological conditions. Many of the connections in the reflex pathway that mediates the peripheral arterial chemoreceptor input have been established. The nucleus tractus solitarii, the ventral respiratory network, pre-sympathetic circuitry and vagal pre-ganglionic neurons at the level of the medulla oblongata are integral components, although supramedullary structures also play a role in patterning autonomic outflows according to behavioural requirements. These medullary structures mediate cardiorespiratory reflexes that are initiated by the carotid and aortic bodies in response to acute changes in PO(2), PCO(2) and pH in the arterial blood. The level of arterial PCO(2) is the primary factor in determining respiratory drive and although there is a significant role of the arterial chemoreceptors, the principal sensor is located either at or in close proximity to the ventral surface of the medulla. The cellular and molecular mechanisms of central chemosensitivity as well as the neural basis for the integration of central and peripheral chemosensory inputs within the medulla remain challenging issues, but ones that have some emerging answers.
Neural circuits controlling breathing in mammals are organized within serially arrayed and functionally interacting brainstem compartments extending from the pons to the lower medulla. The core circuit components that constitute the neural machinery for generating respiratory rhythm and shaping inspiratory and expiratory motor patterns are distributed among three adjacent structural compartments in the ventrolateral medulla: the Btzinger complex (BtC), pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) and rostral ventral respiratory group (rVRG). The respiratory rhythm and inspiratory-expiratory patterns emerge from dynamic interactions between: (i) excitatory neuron populations in the pre-BtC and rVRG active during inspiration that form inspiratory motor output; (ii) inhibitory neuron populations in the pre-BtC that provide inspiratory inhibition within the network; and (iii) inhibitory populations in the BtC active during expiration that generate expiratory inhibition. Network interactions within these compartments along with intrinsic rhythmogenic properties of pre-BtC neurons form a hierarchy of multiple oscillatory mechanisms. The functional expression of these mechanisms is controlled by multiple drives from more rostral brainstem components, including the retrotrapezoid nucleus and pons, which regulate the dynamic behaviour of the core circuitry. The emerging view is that the brainstem respiratory network has rhythmogenic capabilities at multiple hierarchical levels, which allows flexible, state-dependent expression of different rhythmogenic mechanisms under different physiological and metabolic conditions and enables a wide repertoire of respiratory behaviours.
The brainstem network for generating and modulating the respiratory motor pattern includes neurons of the medullary ventrolateral respiratory column (VRC), dorsolateral pons (PRG) and raph nuclei. Midline raph neurons are proposed to be elements of a distributed brainstem system of central chemoreceptors, as well as modulators of central chemoreceptors at other sites, including the retrotrapezoid nucleus. Stimulation of the raph system or peripheral chemoreceptors can induce a long-term facilitation of phrenic nerve activity; central chemoreceptor stimulation does not. The network mechanisms through which each class of chemoreceptor differentially influences breathing are poorly understood. Microelectrode arrays were used to monitor sets of spike trains from 114 PRG, 198 VRC and 166 midline neurons in six decerebrate vagotomized cats; 356 were recorded during sequential stimulation of both receptor classes via brief CO(2)-saturated saline injections in vertebral (central) and carotid arteries (peripheral). Seventy neurons responded to both stimuli. More neurons were responsive only to peripheral challenges than those responsive only to central chemoreceptor stimulation (PRG, 20 : 4; VRC, 41 : 10; midline, 25 : 13). Of 16 474 pairs of neurons evaluated for short-time scale correlations, similar percentages of reference neurons in each brain region had correlation features indicative of a specific interaction with at least one target neuron: PRG (59.6%), VRC (51.0%) and raph nuclei (45.8%). The results suggest a brainstem network architecture with connectivity that shapes the respiratory motor pattern via overlapping circuits that modulate central and peripheral chemoreceptor-mediated influences on breathing.
Respiratory rhythms arise from neurons situated in the ventral medulla. We are investigating their spatial and functional relationships optically by measuring changes in intracellular calcium using the fluorescent, calcium-sensitive dye Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 AM while simultaneously recording the regular firing of motoneurons in the phrenic nerve in isolated brainstem/spinal cord preparations of E17 to E19 mice. Responses of identified cells are associated breath by breath with inspiratory and expiratory phases of respiration and depend on CO(2) and pH levels. Optical methods including two-photon microscopy are being developed together with computational analyses. Analysis of the spatial pattern of neuronal activity associated with respiratory rhythm, including cross-correlation analysis, reveals a network distributed in the ventral medulla with intermingling of neurons that are active during separate phases of the rhythm. Our experiments, aimed at testing whether initiation of the respiratory rhythm depends on pacemaker neurons, on networks or a combination of both, suggest an important role for networks.
Mutations in the Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene cause 20-25% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutant SOD1 causes motor neuron degeneration through toxic gain-of-function(s). However, the direct molecular targets of mutant SOD1, underlying its toxicity, are not fully understood. In this study, we found that alpha/beta-tubulin is one of the major mutant SOD1-interacting proteins, but that wild-type SOD1 does not interact with it. The interaction between tubulin and mutant SOD1 was detected in the spinal cords of mutant G93A SOD1 transgenic mice before the onset of symptoms. Tubulin interacted with amino acid residues 1-23 and 116-153 of SOD1. Overexpression of mutant SOD1 resulted in the accumulation of tubulin in detergent-insoluble fractions. In a cell-free system, mutant SOD1 modulated tubulin polymerization, while wild-type SOD1 did not. Since tightly regulated microtubule dynamics is essential for neurons to remain viable, alpha/beta-tubulin could be an important direct target of mutant SOD1.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists, such as epibatidine and its molecular derivatives, are potential therapeutic agents for a variety of neurological disorders. In order to identify determinants for subtype-selective agonist binding, it is important to determine whether an agonist binds in a common orientation in different nAChR subtypes. To compare the mode of binding of epibatidine in a muscle and a neuronal nAChR, we photolabeled Torpedo alpha(2)betagammadelta and expressed human alpha4beta2 nAChRs with [(3)H]epibatidine and identified by Edman degradation the photolabeled amino acids. Irradiation at 254 nm resulted in photolabeling of alphaTyr(198) in agonist binding site Segment C of the principal (+) face in both alpha subunits and of gammaLeu(109) and gammaTyr(117) in Segment E of the complementary (-) face, with no labeling detected in the delta subunit. For affinity-purified alpha4beta2 nAChRs, [(3)H]epibatidine photolabeled alpha4Tyr(195) (equivalent to Torpedo alphaTyr(190)) in Segment C as well as beta2Val(111) and beta2Ser(113) in Segment E (equivalent to Torpedo gammaLeu(109) and gammaTyr(111), respectively). Consideration of the location of the photolabeled amino acids in homology models of the nAChRs based upon the acetylcholine-binding protein structure and the results of ligand docking simulations suggests that epibatidine binds in a single preferred orientation within the alpha-gamma transmitter binding site, whereas it binds in two distinct orientations in the alpha4beta2 nAChR.
Dementia and visual hallucinations are common complications of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet their patho-anatomical bases are poorly defined. We studied alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn), tau and amyloid-beta (Abeta) pathology in the claustrum of 20 PD cases without dementia, 12 PD cases with dementia (PDD) and 7 cases with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). alphaSyn positivity was observed in 75% of PD cases without dementia and in 100% of PDD and DLB cases. Abeta was observed in the claustrum in 25% of PD, 58% of PDD and 100% of DLB cases. Tau was negligible in all cases restricting further analysis. Compared to PD cases without dementia, PDD cases demonstrated a significantly greater alphaSyn burden in the claustrum (p=0.0003). In addition, DLB cases showed a significantly increased alphaSyn deposition when compared to PDD (p=0.02) and PD without dementia (p=0.0002). A similar hierarchy, PD&lt;PDD&lt;DLB was seen in terms of Abeta burden in the claustrum. Comparison of alphaSyn and Abeta burden in those cases with and without visual hallucinations did not reveal any significant associations (p=0.13 and 0.1, respectively). We demonstrate that pathology in the claustrum, a region of largely obscure physiological function, strongly relates to the presence of dementia in Parkinson's disease and DLB.
&quot;Novelty-seeking&quot; behavior describes the variability of rats' locomotor response, namely high and low responders (HR and LR respectively), when exposed to a novel environment. Novelty-seeking in the rat is considered to model &quot;sensation-seeking&quot; in humans, a personality trait related to substance abuse. It is assumed that HR rats and LR rats differ in their emotional reactivity because of the disparate incentive value of contextual stimulus, thus differentially interacting with their environment. However, little is known about how HR and LR rats recognize novelty arising from the environment. The present study evaluates whether phenotype may affect spontaneous, non-spatial novelty discrimination. Selectively bred HR and LR rats were submitted to the novel-object recognition test. The task involved a delay of 3h after a first encounter with an object (&quot;old&quot;), which had to be discriminated from a second object (&quot;new&quot;). Object discrimination was assessed minute-by-minute during a 3-min choice session. Amnesic effects of scopolamine (0.5mg/kg, intraperitoneal) were also analyzed. HR-bred rats showed sustained novel-object recognition throughout the 3-min choice session, whereas LR-bred rats began to discriminate between objects only in the last minute. Surprisingly, level of discrimination in scopolamine-treated HR-bred rats was significant during the first minute of the choice test and diminished thereafter, presumably because both objects became equally familiar as they were explored. Additionally, scopolamine induced changes in muscarine M(2) receptor gene expression in a phenotype-dependent manner. Because consistent object discrimination mainly arises during the first minute, these findings may reflect differential novelty detection in HR-bred respect to LR-bred rats.



Adipose-tissue derived mesenchymal stem cells (AT-MSCs) are a promising tool for use in cell-based therapies. However, in vitro expansion is required to obtain clinically relevant cell numbers, and this might increase the chance of genomic instability. DNA repair is crucial for maintaining DNA integrity. Here we have compared the initial step of base excision repair in uncultured and cultured AT-MSCs by analysis of base removal activities and expression levels of relevant DNA glycosylases. Uracil, 5-hydroxyuracil and ethenoadenine removal activities were upregulated in cultured cells compared to uncultured cells. In contrast, both the 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-oxoG) removal activity and the concentration of 8-oxoG bases in the DNA were reduced in the cultured cells. Gene expression analysis showed no substantial changes in mRNA expression. The glycosylase activities remained stable through at least 12 passages, suggesting that DNA repair is proficient through the period required for in vitro expansion of AT-MSCs to clinically relevant numbers.
The forebrain of actinopterygian fishes differs from that of other vertebrates in that it consists of a pair of solid lobes. Lateral ventricles surrounded by nervous tissue are entirely lacking. This peculiar configuration of the actinopterygian forebrain results from an outward bending or eversion of its lateral walls during ontogenesis. Due to this eversion, the telencephalic roof plate is transformed into a wide, membranous structure that surrounds the dorsal and lateral parts of the solid lobes and is attached to their lateral or ventrolateral aspects. Another effect of the eversion is that the ventricular surface of the telencephalic lobes is very extensive, whereas their meningeal surface is small. In many recent publications on the forebrain of actinopterygian fishes, these structures are presented as solid lobes, without any reference to the fact that they are the product of an eversion process, and without any indication concerning the location and extent of their ventricular and meningeal surfaces. It is explained here that, in light of current concepts concerning the histogenesis of the brain, these omissions are intolerable. It is also strongly recommended that the location and extent of these surfaces should always be clearly indicated in brain sections in general, because the simple notion that in the brain of vertebrates the ventricular surface is on the inside and the meningeal surface on the outside has numerous and notable exceptions.

Despite existing guidelines on access to data and bioresources, good practice is not widespread. A meeting of mouse researchers in Rome proposes ways to promote a culture of sharing.
Addictive drugs induce a dopamine signal that contributes to the initiation of addiction, and the dopamine signal influences drug-associated memories that perpetuate drug use. The addiction process shares many commonalities with the synaptic plasticity mechanisms normally attributed to learning and memory. Environmental stimuli repeatedly linked to addictive drugs become learned associations, and those stimuli come to elicit memories or sensations that motivate continued drug use. Applying in vivo recording techniques to freely moving mice, we show that physiologically relevant concentrations of the addictive drug nicotine directly cause in vivo hippocampal synaptic potentiation of the kind that underlies learning and memory. The drug-induced long-term synaptic plasticity required a local hippocampal dopamine signal. Disrupting general dopamine signaling prevented the nicotine-induced synaptic plasticity and conditioned place preference. These results suggest that dopaminergic signaling serves as a functional label of salient events by enabling and scaling synaptic plasticity that underlies drug-induced associative memory.
Genome-wide screens were performed to identify transmembrane proteins that mediate axonal growth, guidance and target field innervation of somatosensory neurons. One gene, Linx (alias Islr2), encoding a leucine-rich repeat and immunoglobulin (LIG) family protein, is expressed in a subset of developing sensory and motor neurons. Domain and genomic structures of Linx and other LIG family members suggest that they are evolutionarily related to Trk receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Several LIGs, including Linx, are expressed in subsets of somatosensory and motor neurons, and select members interact with TrkA and Ret RTKs. Moreover, axonal projection defects in mice harboring a null mutation in Linx resemble those in mice lacking Ngf, TrkA, and Ret. In addition, Linx modulates NGF-TrkA- and GDNF-GFRalpha1/Ret-mediated axonal extension in cultured sensory and motor neurons, respectively. These findings show that LIGs physically interact with RTKs and modulate their activities to control axonal extension, guidance and branching.
Although there is widespread agreement that the hippocampus is critical for explicit episodic memory retrieval, it is controversial whether this region can also support indirect expressions of relational memory when explicit retrieval fails. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with concurrent indirect, eye-movement-based memory measures, we obtained evidence that hippocampal activity predicted expressions of relational memory in subsequent patterns of viewing, even when explicit, conscious retrieval failed. Additionally, activity in the lateral prefrontal cortex and functional connectivity between the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex were greater for correct than for incorrect trials. Together, these results suggest that hippocampal activity can support the expression of relational memory even when explicit retrieval fails and that recruitment of a broader cortical network may be required to support explicit associative recognition.
Interventional medical practitioners are specialists who do minimally invasive procedures instead of surgery or other treatment. Most often, these procedures utilize various imaging and catheterization techniques in order to diagnose and treat vascular issues in the body. Interventionalist techniques, including injecting arteries with dye, visualizing these via x-ray, and opening up blockages, developed from early pioneers' bold and sometimes controversial experiments which aimed to find safer and better ways to treat coronary artery and other atherosclerotic vascular disease. Currently, the major interventional specialties are interventional (or vascular) radiology, interventional cardiology, and endovascular surgical (interventional) neuroradiology. All three are perfecting the use of stents and other procedures to keep diseased arteries open, while also evaluating the application these procedures. The rapid new development of imaging technologies, mechanical devices, and types of treatment, while certainly beneficial to the patient, can also lead to ambiguity regarding specific specialty claims on certain techniques and devices. While these practitioners can be in competition with each other, cooperation and communication are the most advantageous methods to deal with these &quot;turf wars.&quot; All of the interventionalists are needed to deliver the best medical care to patients, now and in the future.
The efficient coding hypothesis suggests that the early visual system is optimized to represent stimuli in the natural environment. While it is believed that LGN processing removes the redundant information of natural scenes, it is not clear whether the early visual processing can selectively amplify important signals in natural stimuli to facilitate discrimination. In this study, we examined the functional role of LGN spatiotemporal frequency tuning in the processing of natural scenes. First, we characterized the relationship between spatial and temporal frequency tuning for LGN receptive fields. We found that LGN neurons exhibit inseparable spatiotemporal frequency tuning in a manner consistent with the feature of optimal filters that can maximize information transmission of natural scenes. Second, we analyzed the spatiotemporal power spectrum of natural scenes and found that some frequencies exhibit larger variation in power across different scenes. Interestingly, the preferred frequency of ensemble LGN neurons matches the range of frequencies in which natural power spectrum varies most. Comparison of neural discrimination for natural stimuli and for artificial stimuli with similar mean power spectra but different variation structure showed that the match between LGN tuning and natural spectra variation enhances neural discrimination for natural stimuli. Our results indicate that, in addition to removing redundancy, the spatiotemporal frequency characteristics of LGN neurons can facilitate neural discrimination of natural stimuli.
Amyloid beta (Abeta) immunotherapy is emerging as a promising disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer's disease, although the precise mechanisms whereby anti-Abeta antibodies act against amyloid deposition and cognitive deficits remain elusive. To test the &quot;peripheral sink&quot; theory, which postulates that the effects of anti-Abeta antibodies in the systemic circulation are to promote the Abeta efflux from brain to blood, we studied the clearance of (125)I-Abeta(1-40) microinjected into mouse brains after intraperitoneal administration of an anti-Abeta monoclonal antibody 266. (125)I-Abeta(1-40) was rapidly eliminated from brains with a half-life of approximately 30 min in control mice, whereas 266 significantly retarded the elimination of Abeta, presumably due to formation of Abeta-antibody complex in brains. Administration of 266 to APP transgenic mice increased the levels of monomer Abeta species in an antibody-bound form, without affecting that of total Abeta. We propose a novel mechanism of Abeta immunotherapy by the class of anti-Abeta antibodies that preferentially bind soluble Abeta, i.e., intracerebral, rather than peripheral, sequestration of soluble, monomer form of Abeta, thereby preventing the accumulation of multimeric toxic Abeta species in brains.
The formation of appropriate neuronal circuits is an essential part of nervous system development and relies heavily on the outgrowth of axons and dendrites and their guidance to their respective targets. This process is governed by a large array of molecules, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), the interaction of which induce neurite outgrowth. In the present study the requirements for NCAM-mediated GDNF-induced neurite outgrowth were investigated in cultures of hippocampal neurons, which do not express Ret. We demonstrate that NCAM-mediated GDNF-induced signaling leading to neurite outgrowth is more complex than previously reported. It not only involves NCAM-140 and the Src family kinase Fyn but also uses NCAM-180 and the fibroblast growth factor receptor. We find that induction of neurite outgrowth by GDNF via NCAM or by trans-homophilic NCAM interactions are not mutually exclusive. However, whereas NCAM-induced neurite outgrowth primarily is mediated by NCAM-180, we demonstrate that GDNF-induced neurite outgrowth involves both NCAM-140 and NCAM-180. We also find that GDNF-induced neurite outgrowth via NCAM differs from NCAM-induced neurite outgrowth by being independent of NCAM polysialylation. Additionally, we investigated the structural basis for GDNF-NCAM interactions and find that NCAM Ig3 is necessary for GDNF binding. Furthermore, we identify within the heel region of GDNF a binding site for NCAM and demonstrate that a peptide encompassing this sequence mimics the effects of GDNF with regard to NCAM binding, activation of intracellular signaling, and induction of neurite outgrowth.
Intercellular glial Ca(2+) waves constitute a signaling pathway between glial cells. Artificial stimuli have previously been used to evoke these waves, and their physiological significance has been questioned. We report here that Ca(2+) waves occur spontaneously in rat retinal glial cells, both in the isolated retina and in vivo. These spontaneous waves are propagated by ATP release. In the isolated retina, suramin (P2 receptor antagonist) reduces the frequency of spontaneous wave generation by 53%, and apyrase (ATP-hydrolyzing enzyme) reduces frequency by 95-100%. Luciferin-luciferase chemiluminescence reveals waves of ATP matching the spontaneous Ca(2+) waves, indicating that ATP release occurs as spontaneous Ca(2+) waves are generated. Wave generation also depends on age. Spontaneous wave frequency rises from 0.27 to 1.0 per minute per mm(2), as rats age from 20 to 120 d. The sensitivity of glia to ATP does not increase with age, but the ATP released by evoked waves is 31% greater in 120-d-old than in 20-d-old rats, suggesting that increased ATP release in older animals could account for the higher frequency of wave generation. Simultaneous imaging of glial Ca(2+) and arterioles in the isolated retina demonstrates that spontaneous waves alter vessel diameter, implying that spontaneous waves may have a significant impact on retinal physiology. Spontaneous intercellular glial Ca(2+) waves also occur in the retina in vivo, with frequency, speed, and diameter similar to the isolated retina. Increased spontaneous wave occurrence with age suggests that wave generation may be related to retinal pathology.
Immature hippocampal synapses express presynaptic kainate receptors (KARs), which tonically inhibit glutamate release. Presynaptic maturation involves activity-dependent downregulation of the tonic KAR activity and consequent increase in release probability; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying this developmental process are unknown. Here, we have investigated whether brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a secreted protein implicated in developmental plasticity in several areas of the brain, controls presynaptic maturation by regulating KARs. Application of BDNF in neonate hippocampal slices resulted in increase in synaptic transmission that fully occluded the immature-type KAR activity in area CA1. Conversely, genetic ablation of BDNF was associated with delayed synaptic maturation and persistent presynaptic KAR activity, suggesting a role for endogenous BDNF in the developmental regulation of KAR function. In addition, our data suggests a critical role for BDNF TrkB signaling in fast activity-dependent regulation of KARs. Selective acute inhibition of TrkB receptors using a chemical-genetic approach prevented rapid change in synapse dynamics and loss of tonic KAR activity that is typically seen in response to induction of LTP at immature synapses. Together, these data show that BDNF-TrkB-dependent maturation of glutamatergic synapses is tightly associated with a loss of endogenous KAR activity. The coordinated action of these two receptor mechanisms has immediate physiological relevance in controlling presynaptic efficacy and transmission dynamics at CA3-CA1 synapses at a stage of development when functional contact already exists but transmission is weak.
Much remains to be understood about the differential contributions from primary and secondary sensory cortices to sensory-guided decision making. To address this issue we simultaneously recorded activity from neuronal ensembles in primary [gustatory cortex GC)] and secondary gustatory [orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)] cortices while rats made a taste-guided decision between two response alternatives. We found that before animals commenced a response guided by a tastant cue, GC ensembles contained more information than OFC about the response alternative about to be selected. Thereafter, while the animal's response was underway, the response-selective information in ensembles from both regions increased, albeit to a greater degree in OFC. In GC, this increase depends on a representation of the taste cue guiding the animal's response. The increase in the OFC also depends on the taste cue guiding and other features of the response such as its spatiomotor properties and the behavioral context under which it is executed. Each of these latter features is encoded by different ensembles of OFC neurons that are recruited at specific times throughout the response selection process. These results indicate that during a taste-guided decision task both primary and secondary gustatory cortices dynamically encode different types of information.
Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene are currently recognized as the most common genetic cause of parkinsonism. Among the large number of LRRK2 mutations identified to date, the G2019S variant is the most common. In Asia, however, another LRRK2 variant, G2385R, appears to occur more frequently. To better understand the contribution of different LRRK2 variants toward disease pathogenesis, we generated transgenic Drosophila over-expressing various human LRRK2 alleles, including wild type, G2019S, Y1699C, and G2385R LRRK2. We found that transgenic flies harboring G2019S, Y1699C, or G2385R LRRK2 variant, but not the wild-type protein, exhibit late-onset loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in selected clusters that is accompanied by locomotion deficits. Furthermore, LRRK2 mutant flies also display reduced lifespan and increased sensitivity to rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor. Importantly, coexpression of human parkin in LRRK2 G2019S-expressing flies provides significant protection against DA neurodegeneration that occurs with age or in response to rotenone. Together, our results suggest a potential link between LRRK2, parkin, and mitochondria in the pathogenesis of LRRK2-related parkinsonism.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator that activates presynaptic receptors to regulate synaptic transmission and postsynaptic receptors to hyperpolarize neurons. Here, we report that adenosine-induced hyperpolarization of retinal ganglion cells is produced by the activation of A(1) receptors, which initiates a signaling cascade that activates G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K(+) (GIRK) channels and small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels. Rat retinal ganglion cells were stimulated by focal ejection of the adenosine receptor agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) while cell activity was monitored with whole-cell patch recordings and Ca(2+) imaging. Focal ejections of NECA evoked outward currents in all cells tested and reduced light- and depolarization-induced spiking. The NECA-evoked current was abolished by the A(1) antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) but was unaffected by A(2a), A(2b), and A(3) antagonists, indicating that the response was mediated entirely by A(1) receptors. The GIRK channel blocker rTertiapin-Q diminished the NECA-evoked inhibitory current by 56 +/- 12%, whereas the SK channel blocker apamin decreased the NECA-induced current by 42 +/- 7%. The SK component of the NECA-evoked current coincided with an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) and was blocked by IP(3) receptor antagonists and depletion of internal Ca(2+) stores, suggesting that A(1) receptor activation leads to an increase in IP(3), which then elevates intracellular Ca(2+) and activates SK channels. This A(1)-mediated, prolonged SK channel activation has not been described previously. The coactivation of GIRK and SK channels represents a novel mechanism of adenosine-mediated neuromodulation that could contribute to the regulation of retinal ganglion cell activity.
Although plasticity at excitatory synapses is widely studied as a mechanism for memory formation, less is known about the properties and mechanisms underlying activity-dependent changes in excitability. Using extracellular and intracellular recordings in hippocampal slices, we find that short trains (2-3 s) of Schaffer collateral fiber stimulation delivered at 5 Hz induce a robust and persistent increase in the excitability of CA1 pyramidal cells in the absence of synaptic potentiation. This change in excitability is input specific, NMDA receptor dependent, and is not accompanied by lasting changes in either inhibitory synaptic transmission or somatic excitability. Although many of these properties are similar to those seen in synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP), the increase in CA1 pyramidal cell excitability was not blocked by inhibitors of several protein kinases required for the induction of LTP by theta frequency stimulation. Instead, 5 Hz stimulation-induced changes in neuronal excitability were blocked by inhibitors of the protein phosphatase calcineurin. Together, our results suggest that very brief bouts of theta frequency synaptic activity induce a selective, persistent, and dendritically localized increase in CA1 pyramidal cell excitability that might have an important role in both information storage and metaplasticity.
In the auditory cortex of awake animals, a substantial number of neurons do not respond to pure tones. These neurons have historically been classified as &quot;unresponsive&quot; and even been speculated as being nonauditory. We discovered, however, that many of these neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake marmoset monkeys were in fact highly selective for complex sound features. We then investigated how such selectivity might arise from the tone-tuned inputs that these neurons likely receive. We found that these non-tone responsive neurons exhibited nonlinear combination-sensitive responses that require precise spectral and temporal combinations of two tone pips. The nonlinear spectrotemporal maps derived from these neurons were correlated with their selectivity for complex acoustic features. These non-tone responsive and nonlinear neurons were commonly encountered at superficial cortical depths in A1. Our findings demonstrate how temporally and spectrally specific nonlinear integration of putative tone-tuned inputs might underlie a diverse range of high selectivity of A1 neurons in awake animals. We propose that describing A1 neurons with complex response properties in terms of tone-tuned input channels can conceptually unify a wide variety of observed neural selectivity to complex sounds into a lower dimensional description.
While numerous studies have explored the mechanisms of reward-based decisions (the choice of action based on expected gain), few have asked how reward influences attention (the selection of information relevant for a decision). Here we show that a powerful determinant of attentional priority is the association between a stimulus and an appetitive reward. A peripheral cue heralded the delivery of reward or no reward (these cues are termed herein RC+ and RC-, respectively); to experience the predicted outcome, monkeys made a saccade to a target that appeared unpredictably at the same or opposite location relative to the cue. Although the RC had no operant associations (did not specify the required saccade), they automatically biased attention, such that an RC+ attracted attention and an RC- repelled attention from its location. Neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) encoded these attentional biases, maintaining sustained excitation at the location of an RC+ and inhibition at the location of an RC-. Contrary to the hypothesis that LIP encodes action value, neurons did not encode the expected reward of the saccade. Moreover, at odds with an adaptive decision process, the cue-evoked biases interfered with the required saccade, and these biases increased rather than abating with training. After prolonged training, valence selectivity appeared at shorter latencies and automatically transferred to a novel task context, suggesting that training produced visual plasticity. The results suggest that reward predictors gain automatic attentional priority regardless of their operant associations, and this valence-specific priority is encoded in LIP independently of the expected reward of an action.
Ptf1a, along with an E protein and Rbpj, forms the transcription factor complex PTF1-J that is essential for proper specification of inhibitory neurons in the spinal cord, retina, and cerebellum. Here we show that two highly conserved noncoding genomic regions, a distal 2.3 kb sequence located 13.4 kb 5' and a 12.4 kb sequence located immediately 3' of the Ptf1a coding region, have distinct activity in controlling Ptf1a expression in all of these domains. The 5' 2.3 kb sequence functions as an autoregulatory element and directs reporter gene expression to all Ptf1a domains in the developing nervous system. The autoregulatory activity of this element was demonstrated by binding of the PTF1-J complex in vitro, Ptf1a localization to this genomic region in vivo, and the in vivo requirement of Ptf1a for the activity of the regulatory element in transgenic mice. In contrast, the 12.4 kb 3' regulatory region does not contain any conserved PTF1 sites, and its expression in transgenic mice is independent of Ptf1a. Thus, regulatory information for initiation of Ptf1a expression in the developing nervous system is located within the 12.4 kb sequence 3' of the Ptf1a gene. Together, these results identify multiple transcriptional mechanisms that control Ptf1a levels, one modulating levels by autoregulation through the PTF1-J complex, and the other a Ptf1a-independent mechanism for initial activation.
Atoh1 is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor necessary for the specification of inner ear hair cells and central auditory system neurons derived from the rhombic lip. We used the Cre-loxP system and two Cre-driver lines (Egr2(Cre) and Hoxb1(Cre)) to delete Atoh1 from different regions of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and accessory auditory nuclei (AAN). Adult Atoh1-conditional knock-out mice (Atoh1(CKO)) are behaviorally deaf, have diminished auditory brainstem evoked responses, and have disrupted CN and AAN morphology and connectivity. In addition, Egr2; Atoh1(CKO) mice lose spiral ganglion neurons in the cochlea and AAN neurons during the first 3 d of life, revealing a novel critical period in the development of these neurons. These new mouse models of predominantly central deafness illuminate the importance of the CN for support of a subset of peripheral and central auditory neurons.
Neurotransmitter release at most central synapses is synchronized to the timing of presynaptic action potentials. Here, we show that three classes of depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition-expressing, cholecystokinin (CCK)-containing, hippocampal interneurons show highly asynchronous release in response to trains of action potentials. This asynchrony is correlated to the class of presynaptic interneuron but is unrelated to their postsynaptic cell target. Asynchronous and synchronous release from CCK-containing interneurons show a slightly different calcium dependence, such that the proportion of asynchronous release increases with external calcium concentration, possibly suggesting that the modes of release are mediated by different calcium sensors. Asynchronous IPSCs include very large (up to 500 pA/7nS) amplitude events, which persist in low extracellular calcium and strontium, showing that they result from quantal transmitter release at single release sites. Finally, we show that asynchronous release is prominent in response to trains of presynaptic spikes that mimic natural activity of CCK-containing interneurons. That asynchronous release from CCK-containing interneurons is a widespread phenomenon indicates a fundamental role for these cells within the hippocampal network that is distinct from the phasic inhibition provided by parvalbumin-containing interneurons.
The mechanisms underlying visual working memory have recently become controversial. One account proposes a small number of memory &quot;slots,&quot; each capable of storing a single visual object with fixed precision. A contrary view holds that working memory is a shared resource, with no upper limit on the number of items stored; instead, the more items that are held in memory, the less precisely each can be recalled. Recent findings from a color report task have been taken as crucial new evidence in favor of the slot model. However, while this task has previously been thought of as a simple test of memory for color, here we show that performance also critically depends on memory for location. When errors in memory are considered for both color and location, performance on this task is in fact well explained by the resource model. These results demonstrate that visual working memory consists of a common resource distributed dynamically across the visual scene, with no need to invoke an upper limit on the number of objects represented.

The study of coordinated activity in neuronal circuits has been challenging without a method to simultaneously report activity and connectivity. Here we present the first use of pseudorabies virus (PRV), which spreads through synaptically connected neurons, to express a fluorescent calcium indicator protein and monitor neuronal activity in a living animal. Fluorescence signals were proportional to action potential number and could reliably detect single action potentials in vitro. With two-photon imaging in vivo, we observed both spontaneous and stimulated activity in neurons of infected murine peripheral autonomic submandibular ganglia (SMG). We optically recorded the SMG response in the salivary circuit to direct electrical stimulation of the presynaptic axons and to physiologically relevant sensory stimulation of the oral cavity. During a time window of 48 hours after inoculation, few spontaneous transients occurred. By 72 hours, we identified more frequent and prolonged spontaneous calcium transients, suggestive of neuronal or tissue responses to infection that influence calcium signaling. Our work establishes in vivo investigation of physiological neuronal circuit activity and subsequent effects of infection with single cell resolution.
Feeling touch on a body part is paradigmatically considered to require stimulation of tactile afferents from the body part in question, at least in healthy non-synaesthetic individuals. In contrast to this view, we report a perceptual illusion where people experience &quot;phantom touches&quot; on a right rubber hand when they see it brushed simultaneously with brushes applied to their left hand. Such illusory duplication and transfer of touch from the left to the right hand was only elicited when a homologous (i.e., left and right) pair of hands was brushed in synchrony for an extended period of time. This stimulation caused the majority of our participants to perceive the right rubber hand as their own and to sense two distinct touches--one located on the right rubber hand and the other on their left (stimulated) hand. This effect was supported by quantitative subjective reports in the form of questionnaires, behavioral data from a task in which participants pointed to the felt location of their right hand, and physiological evidence obtained by skin conductance responses when threatening the model hand. Our findings suggest that visual information augments subthreshold somatosensory responses in the ipsilateral hemisphere, thus producing a tactile experience from the non-stimulated body part. This finding is important because it reveals a new bilateral multisensory mechanism for tactile perception and limb ownership.
Peripheral vision has been the topic of few studies compared with central vision. Nevertheless, given that visual information covers all the visual field and that relevant information can originate from highly eccentric positions, the understanding of peripheral vision abilities for object perception seems essential. The poorer resolution of peripheral vision would first suggest that objects requiring large-scale feature integration such as buildings would be better processed than objects requiring finer analysis such as faces. Nevertheless, task requirements also determine the information (coarse or fine) necessary for a given object to be processed. We therefore investigated how task and eccentricity modulate object processing in peripheral vision. Three experiments were carried out requiring finer or coarser information processing of faces and buildings presented in central and peripheral vision. Our results showed that buildings were better judged as identical or familiar in periphery whilst faces were better categorised. We conclude that this superiority for a given stimulus in peripheral vision results (a) from the available information, which depends on the decrease of resolution with eccentricity, and (b) from the useful information, which depends on both the task and the semantic category.
Investigations of the neural pathways associated with responses to predators have implicated the medial amygdala (MeA) as an important region involved in defensive behaviors. To our knowledge, however, the involvement of the MeA in neuroendocrine responses to predator odor exposure has not been investigated. Therefore, the present study examined the effects of MeA disruption in rats exposed to ferret or control odor on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activation. Bilateral lesions of the MeA were made in Sprague-Dawley rats with the neurotoxin ibotenic acid (10 microg/microl; 0.3 microl / side). As a control for regional specificity, additional groups of rats were given lesions in the central amygdala (CeA). One week after recovery, the rats were exposed to ferret or strawberry control towels in small cages to examine HPA axis responses as determined by plasma corticosterone and adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) levels. Rats with complete bilateral MeA but not CeA lesions displayed significantly less corticosterone and ACTH release compared to sham-operated control rats only in the ferret odor conditions. These results suggest that the MeA is an important structure involved in the HPA axis responses to predator odors, in support of previous studies investigating behavioral responses under similar conditions.
Part of the mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of subthalamic nucleus (STN) high frequency stimulation (HFS) involves the activity of the basal ganglia output structures. The general idea is that STN's burst activity leads to an increased activity of the basal ganglia output nuclei and that HFS reverses this. However, the published data sets conflict. Here, we addressed the question which effect STN HFS had on the overall substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr; one of the basal ganglia output nuclei) activity, in rats rendered Parkinsonian by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections in the striatum. We used a marker for metabolic activity, cytochrome C oxidase (COX). The expression of COX in the SNr of Parkinsonian rats was significantly higher as compared to sham-operated rats. However, in Parkinsonian rats with STN HFS, expression of COX was significantly lower as compared to non-stimulated Parkinsonian rats, and was comparable to the level of expression in sham-operated rats. These results show that STN HFS decreased the overall activity of the basal ganglia output nucleus in dopamine-depleted rats.
Brainstem monoaminergic nuclei express glucocorticoid receptors (GR), and glucocorticoids have been shown to inhibit expression of enzymes involved in monoamine synthesis. Monoamine deficits have been implicated in depression pathology. However, it is unknown if antidepressants regulate brainstem GR, and if glucocorticoids might influence antidepressant effects on monoamine-synthesizing enzymes. Our lab has found opposing effects of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor phenelzine and the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine on HPA activity and forebrain GR gene expression. We therefore hypothesized that phenelzine and imipramine would also affect brainstem GR gene expression differentially, and that antidepressant-induced changes in GR expression would correlate with effects on monoamine-synthesizing enzyme expression. Using in situ hybridization, we measured effects of chronic antidepressant treatment on brainstem GR, locus coeruleus and ventral tegmental area (VTA) tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and dorsal raph tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH2) gene expression in male C57BL/6 mice that were adrenalectomized and replaced with defined levels of corticosterone. GR expression was decreased by phenelzine in the locus coeruleus and decreased by imipramine in the dorsal raph. Phenelzine increased locus coeruleus TH and imipramine increased dorsal raph TPH2 gene expression in a glucocorticoid-dependent manner, suggesting that increases in these enzymes were due to relief of inhibitory glucocorticoid signaling. We did not find antidepressant effects on GR or TH expression in the VTA or on mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) expression in any of the nuclei examined. Our findings represent a potential mechanism through which antidepressants and glucocorticoids could alter both HPA activity and mood via effects on brainstem GR, norepinephrine, and serotonin.




A code of ethics is used by individuals to justify their actions within an environment. Medical professionals require a keen understanding of specific ethical codes due to the potential consequences of their actions. Over the past thirty years there has been an increase in the scope and depth of ethics instruction in the medical profession; however the teaching of these codes is still highly variable. This inconsistency in implementation is problematic both for the medical practitioner and for the patient; without standardized training, neither party can be assured of the practitioner's overall depth of knowledge. Within the field of ethics certain principles have reached a consensus of importance. Incorporation of these concepts in meaningful ways via a consistent curriculum would provide students with an appropriate skill set for navigating their ethical environment. Moreover, this curriculum should also be extended to residents and professionals who may have missed formal ethical training. This would provide a consistent framework of knowledge for practitioners, creating a basis for clear judgment of complex issues.
The regulation of metal ion transport within neurons is critical for normal brain function. Of particular importance is the regulation of redox metals such as iron (Fe), where excess levels can contribute to oxidative stress and protein aggregation, leading to neuronal death. The divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) plays a central role in the regulation of Fe as well as other metals; hence, failure of DMT1 regulation is linked to human brain pathology. However, it remains unclear how DMT1 is regulated in the brain. Here, we show that DMT1 is regulated by Ndfip1 (Nedd4 family-interacting protein 1), an adaptor protein that recruits E3 ligases to ubiquitinate target proteins. Using human neurons we show the Ndfip1 is upregulated and binds to DMT1 in response to Fe and cobalt (Co) exposure. This interaction results in the ubiquitination and degradation of DMT1, resulting in reduced metal entry. Induction of Ndfip1 expression protects neurons from metal toxicity, and removal of Ndfip1 by shRNAi results in hypersensitivity to metals. We identify Nedd4-2 as an E3 ligase recruited by Ndfip1 for the ubiquitination of DMT1 within human neurons. Comparison of brains from Ndfip1(-/-) with Ndfip1(+/+) mice exposed to Fe reveals that Ndfip1(-/-) brains accumulate Fe within neurons. Together, this evidence suggests a critical role for Ndfip1 in regulating metal transport in human neurons.

Preclinical data on extracts of and preparations derived from beans of Phaseolus vulgaris are reviewed as potential remedies for use in controlling food consumption, body weight, lipid accumulation, and glycemia. A growing body of evidence suggests that acute and chronic administration of P. vulgaris derivatives reduces food intake (including highly palatable foods), body weight, lipid deposit, and glycemia in rats exposed to multiple experimental procedures. Two possible lectin-mediated mechanisms of action have been proposed: (a) inhibition of -amylase, resulting in a reduced carbohydrate metabolism and absorption; (b) phytohemoagglutinin-induced modulation of the activity of cholecystokinin and glucagon-like peptides, resulting in a reduced appetite. Preliminary clinical data, as well as reports focusing on the use of several traditional medicines, apparently extend these findings to humans. Should these initial clinical data be confirmed by future surveys, P. vulgaris derivatives might constitute novel remedies for the treatment of obesity and metabolic syndrome. Future studies are also expected to identify active structures leading to the development of new pharmaceutical agents.



Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulates neural development and synaptic transmission. We have tested the hypothesis that functional variation in the BDNF gene (Val66Met polymorphism, rs6265) affects brain reward circuitry encoding human judgment and decision-making regarding relative preference. We quantified relative preference among faces with emotional expressions (angry, fearful, sad, neutral, and happy) by a keypress procedure performed offline to measure effort traded for viewing time. Keypress-based relative preferences across the ensemble of faces were mirrored significantly by fMRI signal in the orbitofrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus when passively viewing these faces. For these three brain regions, there was also a statistically significant group difference by BDNF genotype in the fMRI responses to the emotional expressions. In comparison with Val/Met heterozygotes, Val/Val individuals preferentially sought exposure to positive emotions (e.g., happy faces) and had stronger regional fMRI activation to aversive stimuli (e.g., angry, fearful, and sad faces). BDNF genotype accounted for approximately 30% of the variance in fMRI signal that mirrors keypress responses to these stimuli. This study demonstrates that functional allelic variation in BDNF modulates human brain circuits processing reward/aversion information and relative preference transactions.
Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is thought to be linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies suggest that Abeta has important physiological roles in addition to its pathological roles. We recently demonstrated that Abeta42 protects hippocampal neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, but the relationship between Abeta42 assemblies and their neuroprotective effects remains largely unknown. In this study, we prepared non-fibrillar and fibrillar Abeta42 based on the results of the thioflavin T assay, Western blot analysis, and atomic force microscopy, and examined the effects of non-fibrillar and fibrillar Abeta42 on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Non-fibrillar Abeta42, but not fibrillar Abeta42, protected hippocampal neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Furthermore, non-fibrillar Abeta42 decreased both neurotoxicity and increases in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), but not by alpha-amino-3-hydrozy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA). Our results suggest that non-fibrillar Abeta42 protects hippocampal neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity through regulation of the NMDA receptor.
Congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type 1 (CFEOM1) is associated with heterozygous mutations in the KIF21A gene, including a major (R954W) and a minor (M947T) mutation. Kank1, which regulates actin polymerization, cell migration and neurite outgrowth, interacted with the third and fourth coiled-coil domains of KIF21A protein at its ankyrin-repeat domain. While both KIF21A(R954W) and KIF21A(M947T) enhanced the formation of a heterodimer with the wild type, KIF21A(WT), these mutants also enhanced the interaction with Kank1. Knockdown of KIF21A resulted in Kank1 predominantly occurring in the cytosolic fraction, while KIF21A(WT) slightly enhanced the translocation of Kank1 to the membrane fraction. Moreover, KIF21A(R954W) significantly enhanced the translocation of Kank1 to the membrane fraction. These results suggest that KIF21A regulates the distribution of Kank1 and that KIF21A mutations associated with CFEOM1 enhanced the accumulation of Kank1 in the membrane fraction. This might cause an abrogation of neuronal development in cases of CFEOM1 through over-regulation of actin polymerization by Kank1.
Wnt signaling plays an essential role in the development of mammalian central nervous system. We investigated the impact of activation/inhibition of the Wnt signaling pathway on neuronal/glial differentiation in neurospheres derived from neonatal mouse forebrains. For short term alterations, neurospheres were stimulated with recombinant Wnt-3a, Wnt-5a and the Wnt inhibitor Dickkopf-1 (Dkk1). Furthermore, neurospheres were transduced with retroviral vectors encoding Wnt-3a, Wnt-7a and their inhibitors Dkk1 and soluble Frizzled related protein-5 (sFRP5). Long-term activation of Wnt pathway by Wnt-7a or by treatment with GSK3 inhibitors promoted a moderate increase of the neuronal differentiation and blocked gliogenesis. In contrast, Wnt pathway inhibition in neurospheres, induced by retroviral overexpression of either Dkk1 or sFRP5, robustly increased the gliogenesis at the expense of neurogenesis. In summary, our data demonstrate that activation or inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in neurospheres regulates neuronal and glial differentiation, respectively. Thus, our results suggest that Wnt signaling may also contribute to regulate these processes in the neonatal brain.
Docking, the initial association of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane, precedes formation of the SNARE complex, which drives membrane fusion. For many years, the molecular identity of the docked state, and especially the vesicular docking protein, has been unknown, as has the link to SNARE complex assembly. Here, using adrenal chromaffin cells, we identify the vesicular docking partner as synaptotagmin-1, the calcium sensor for exocytosis, and SNAP-25 as an essential plasma membrane docking factor, which, together with the previously known docking factors Munc18-1 and syntaxin, form the minimal docking machinery. Moreover, we show that the requirement for Munc18-1 in docking, but not fusion, can be overcome by stabilizing syntaxin/SNAP-25 acceptor complexes. These findings, together with cross-rescue, double-knockout, and electrophysiological data, lead us to propose that vesicles dock when synaptotagmin-1 binds to syntaxin/SNAP-25 acceptor complexes, whereas Munc18-1 is required for the downstream association of synaptobrevin to form fusogenic SNARE complexes.

Neonatal maternal separation impairs adult eyeblink conditioning. This impairment is correlated with increases in adult glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the posterior interpositus nucleus [A.A. Wilber, C. Southwood, G. Sokoloff, J.E. Steinmetz, C.L. Wellman, Neonatal maternal separation alters adult eyeblink conditioning and glucocorticoid receptor expression in the interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum, Developmental Neurobiology 67 (2007) 1751-1764], a key structure in the neural circuitry controlling eyeblink conditioning. To further localize this effect, we assessed adult eyeblink conditioning and GR expression in projection versus interneurons in the interpositus of rats that had undergone standard rearing or maternal separation (1h/day) on postnatal days 2-14. At 3 months of age, interpositus neurons were labeled with the retrograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). After delay eyeblink conditioning, brains were processed immunohistochemically for GR and BDA labeling of interpositus neurons. GR expression was quantified in BDA-labeled and unlabeled neurons. Neonatal maternal separation impaired adult eyeblink conditioning. Control rats had significantly less GR expression in posterior interpositus BDA-unlabeled versus BDA-labeled neurons, but this difference was absent in maternally separated rats. While neonatal separation significantly increased GR expression in BDA-labeled and unlabeled posterior interpositus neurons, only GR expression in non-BDA-labeled neurons was associated with eyeblink conditioning. Thus, neonatal maternal separation may alter interneuronal modulation of interpositus output neurons, producing deficits in adult eyeblink conditioning.
The stability of visual perception is partly maintained by saccadic suppression: the selective reduction of visual sensitivity that accompanies rapid eye movements. The neural mechanisms responsible for this reduced perisaccadic visibility remain unknown, but the Lateral Geniculate Nucleus (LGN) has been proposed as a likely site. Our data show, however, that the saccadic suppression of a target flashed in the right visual hemifield increased with an increase in background luminance in the left visual hemifield. Because each LGN only receives retinal input from a single hemifield, this hemifield interaction cannot be explained solely on the basis of neural mechanisms operating in the LGN. Instead, this suggests that saccadic suppression must involve processing in higher level cortical areas that have access to a considerable part of the ipsilateral hemifield.


When we look around and register the location of visual objects, our oculomotor system continuously prepares targets for saccadic eye movements. The preparation of saccade targets may be directly involved in the perception of object location because modification of saccade amplitude by saccade adaptation leads to a distortion of the visual localization of briefly flashed spatial probes. Here, we investigated effects of adaptation on the localization of continuously visible objects. We compared adaptation-induced mislocalization of probes that were present for 20 ms during the saccade preparation period and of probes that were present for &gt;1 s before saccade initiation. We studied the mislocalization of these probes for two different saccade types, reactive saccades to a suddenly appearing target and scanning saccades in the self-paced viewing of a stationary scene. Adaptation of reactive saccades induced mislocalization of flashed probes. Adaptation of scanning saccades induced in addition also mislocalization of stationary objects. The mislocalization occurred in the absence of visual landmarks and must therefore originate from the change in saccade motor parameters. After adaptation of one type of saccade, the saccade amplitude change and the mislocalization transferred only weakly to the other saccade type. Mislocalization of flashed and stationary probes thus followed the selectivity of saccade adaptation. Since the generation and adaptation of reactive and scanning saccades are known to involve partially different brain mechanisms, our results suggest that visual localization of objects in space is linked to saccade targeting at multiple sites in the brain.
The segregation between cortical pathways for the identification and localization of objects is thought of as a general organizational principle in the brain. Yet, little is known about the unimodal versus multimodal nature of these processing streams. The main purpose of the present study was to test whether the auditory and tactile dual pathways converged into specialized multisensory brain areas. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare directly in the same subjects the brain activation related to localization and identification of comparable auditory and vibrotactile stimuli. Results indicate that the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and both left and right insula were more activated during identification conditions than during localization in both touch and audition. The reverse dissociation was found for the left and right inferior parietal lobules (IPL), the left superior parietal lobule (SPL) and the right precuneus-SPL, which were all more activated during localization conditions in the two modalities. We propose that specialized areas in the right IFG and the left and right insula are multisensory operators for the processing of stimulus identity whereas parts of the left and right IPL and SPL are specialized for the processing of spatial attributes independently of sensory modality.
The hypocretins (Hcrts) (also called orexins) are two neuropeptides expressed in the lateral hypothalamus that play a crucial role in the stability of wakefulness. Previously, our laboratory demonstrated that in vivo photostimulation of Hcrt neurons genetically targeted with ChR2, a light-activated cation channel, was sufficient to increase the probability of an awakening event during both slow-wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep. In the current study, we ask whether Hcrt-mediated sleep-to-wake transitions are affected by light/dark period and sleep pressure. We found that stimulation of Hcrt neurons increased the probability of an awakening event throughout the entire light/dark period but that this effect was diminished with sleep pressure induced by 2 or 4 h of sleep deprivation. Interestingly, photostimulation of Hcrt neurons was still sufficient to increase activity assessed by c-Fos expression in Hcrt neurons after sleep deprivation, although this stimulation did not cause an increase in transitions to wakefulness. In addition, we found that photostimulation of Hcrt neurons increases neural activity assessed by c-Fos expression in the downstream arousal-promoting locus ceruleus and tuberomammilary nucleus but not after 2 h of sleep deprivation. Finally, stimulation of Hcrt neurons was still sufficient to increase the probability of an awakening event in histidine decarboxylase-deficient knock-out animals. Collectively, these results suggest that the Hcrt system promotes wakefulness throughout the light/dark period by activating multiple downstream targets, which themselves are inhibited with increased sleep pressure.
Evidence suggests that NMDA-type glutamate receptors contribute to degeneration of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) in Huntington's disease (HD). Previously, we demonstrated that NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated current and/or toxicity is increased in MSNs from the yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) transgenic mouse model expressing polyglutamine (polyQ)-expanded (mutant) full-length human huntingtin (htt). Others have shown that membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs), such as PSD-95 and SAP102, modulate NMDAR surface expression and excitotoxicity in hippocampal and cortical neurons and that htt interacts with PSD-95. Here, we tested the hypothesis that an altered association between MAGUKs and NMDARs in mutant huntingtin-expressing cells contributes to increased susceptibility to excitotoxicity. We show that htt coimmunoprecipitated with SAP102 in HEK293T cells and striatal tissue from wild-type and YAC transgenic mice; however, the association of SAP102 with htt or the NMDAR NR2B subunit was unaffected by htt polyQ length, whereas association of PSD-95 with NR2B in striatal tissue was enhanced by increased htt polyQ length. Treatment of cultured MSNs with Tat-NR2B9c peptide blocked binding of NR2B with SAP102 and PSD-95 and reduced NMDAR surface expression by 20% in both YAC transgenic and wild-type MSNs, and also restored susceptibility to NMDAR excitoxicity in YAC HD MSNs to levels observed in wild-type MSNs; a similar effect on excitotoxicity was observed after knockdown of PSD-95 by small interfering RNA. Unlike previous findings in cortical and hippocampal neurons, rescue of NMDA toxicity by Tat-NR2B9c occurred independently of any effect on neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity. Our results elucidate further the mechanisms underlying enhanced excitotoxicity in HD.
The Drosophila PAR domain protein 1 (Pdp1) gene encodes a transcription factor with multiple functions. One isoform, PDP1epsilon, was proposed to be an essential activator of the core clock gene, Clock (Clk). However, a central clock function for PDP1epsilon was recently disputed, and genetic analysis has been difficult due to developmental lethality of Pdp1-null mutants. Here we report the discovery of a mutation that specifically disrupts the Pdp1epsilon isoform. Homozygous Pdp1epsilon mutants are viable and exhibit arrhythmic circadian behavior in constant darkness and also in the presence of light:dark cycles. Importantly, the mutants show diminished expression of CLK and PERIOD (PER) in the central clock cells. In addition, expression of PDF (pigment-dispersing factor) is reduced in a subset of the central clock cells. Loss of Pdp1epsilon also alters the phosphorylation status of the CLK protein and disrupts cyclic expression of a per-luciferase reporter in peripheral clocks under free-running conditions. Transgenic expression of PDP1epsilon in clock neurons of Pdp1epsilon mutants can restore rhythmic circadian behavior. However, transgenic expression of CLK in these mutants rescues the expression of PER in the central clock, but fails to restore behavioral rhythms, suggesting that PDP1epsilon has effects outside the core molecular clock. Together, these data support a model in which PDP1epsilon functions in the central circadian oscillator as well as in the output pathway.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is produced in the hippocampus throughout life and is retrogradely trafficked to septal cholinergic neurons, providing a potential mechanism for modulating cholinergic inputs and, thereby, hippocampal plasticity. To explore NGF modulation of hippocampal plasticity and function, NGF levels were augmented or blocked in intact adult rats, and subsequent in vivo effects on cholinergic neurons, hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), and learning were examined. NGF augmentation significantly enhanced cholinergic neuronal markers and facilitated induction of hippocampal LTP. Blockade of endogenous NGF significantly reduced hippocampal LTP and impaired retention of spatial memory. These findings reveal an essential role for NGF in regulating biological mechanisms related to plasticity and memory in the intact adult brain.






Ubiquitin immunoreactive (UBQ-ir) inclusions were present to variable extents in the inferior olivary nucleus (ION) in 37/48 (77%) patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), in 10/11 (91%) patients with motor neurone disease (MND), in 5/5 (100%) patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 5/7 (71%) patients with dementia with Lewy bodies, 13/19 (68%) patients with Parkinson's disease, 11/11(100%) patients with Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, 2/6 (33%) patients with Multisystem Atrophy, 1/3 (33%) patients with Huntington's disease and in 14/14 (100%) normal elderly control subjects. In FTLD, UBQ-ir inclusions were present in 26/32 (81%) patients with FTLD-U, in 10/15 (67%) patients with tauopathy, and in the single patient with Dementia Lacking Distinctive Histology. In 13 FTLD-U patients, and in a single AD and in 2 MND patients, the UBQ-ir inclusions had a rounded, spicular or skein-type appearance, and these were also TDP-43 immunoreactive (TDP-43-ir). In all other affected patients in all diagnostic groups, and in control subjects, the UBQ-ir neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions (NCI) were of a conglomerated type, resembling a cluster of large granules or globules, but were never TDP-43-ir. In 3 of the 13 FTLD-U patients with spicular NCI, conglomerated NCI were also present but in separate cells. Double-labelling immunohistochemistry, and confocal microscopy, for UBQ and TDP-43 confirmed that only the spicular UBQ-ir inclusions in patients with FTLD-U, AD and MND contained TDP-43, though in these patients there were occasional TDP-43 immunoreactive inclusions that were not UBQ-ir. Nuclear TDP-43 immunoreactivity was absent in ION in FTLD-U, AD or MND when TDP-43 cytoplasmic inclusions were present, but remained in neurones with UBQ-ir, TDP-43 negative inclusions. The target protein within the UBQ-ir, TDP-43-negative inclusions remains unknown, but present studies indicate that this is not tau, neurofilament or internexin proteins. These TDP-43 negative, UBQ-ir inclusions appear to be more related to ageing than neurodegeneration, and are without apparent diagnostic significance. The pathophysiological mechanism leading to their formation, and any consequences their presence may have on nerve cell function, remain unknown.





Chronic morphine administration decreases the size of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). These transient morphological changes are accompanied by a reduced sensitivity of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) after chronic exposure to the drug. In this study we examined alterations in the firing rate of DAergic neurons by means of extracellular recording following chronic morphine exposure and applied 100 Hz electroacupuncture (EA) treatment to reverse the reduced firing rate of these neurons. In the first set of experiments we show that in rats, which received chronic morphine treatment for 14 days, a small dose of morphine was not able to induce a CPP response anymore. However, the sensitivity to morphine was reinstated by consecutive EA treatment for 10 days. The electrophysiological response of VTA DA neurons to morphine was markedly reduced in chronic morphine-treated rats compared to saline-treated controls. A substantial recovery of the reactivity of VTA DA neurons to morphine was observed in rats that received 100 Hz EA for 10 days. Our findings suggest that 100 Hz EA is a potential therapy for the treatment of opiate addiction by normalizing the activity of VTA DA neurons.




Studies in both humans and animals suggest a positive relationship between the intake of ethanol and intake of fat, which may contribute to alcohol abuse. This relationship may be mediated, in part, by hypothalamic orexigenic peptides such as orexin (OX), which stimulate both consumption of ethanol and fat, and circulating triglycerides (TGs), which stimulate these peptides and promote consummatory behavior. The present study investigated this vicious cycle between ethanol and fat, to further characterize its relation to TGs and to test the effects of lowering TG levels. In Experiment 1, the behavioral relationship between fat intake and ethanol was confirmed. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, chronically injected intraperitoneally with ethanol (1g/kg) and tested in terms of their preference for a high-fat diet (HFD) compared with low-fat diet (LFD), showed a significant increase in their fat preference, compared with rats injected with saline, in measures of 2h and 24h intake. Experiment 2 tested the relationship of circulating TGs in this positive association between ethanol and fat, in rats chronically consuming 9% ethanol versus water and given acute meal tests (25kcal) of a HFD versus LFD. Levels of TGs were elevated in response to both chronic drinking of ethanol versus water and acute eating of a high-fat versus low-fat meal. Most importantly, ethanol and a HFD showed an interaction effect, whereby their combination produced a considerably larger increase in TG levels (+172%) compared to ethanol with a LFD (+111%). In Experiment 3, a direct manipulation of TG levels was found to affect ethanol intake. After intragastric administration of gemfibrozil (50mg/kg) compared with vehicle, TG levels were lowered by 37%, and ethanol intake was significantly reduced. In Experiment 4, the TG-lowering drug gemfibrozil also caused a significant reduction in the expression of the orexigenic peptide, OX, in the perifornical lateral hypothalamus. These results support the existence of a vicious cycle between ethanol and fat, whereby each nutrient stimulates intake of the other. Within this vicious cycle, ethanol and fat act synergistically to increase TG levels, which in turn stimulate peptides that promote further consumption, and these phenomena are reversed by gemfibrozil, which lowers TG levels.
Characterization of neurochemical and behavioral responses to ethanol in phenotypically distinct mouse strains can provide insight into the mechanisms of ethanol stimulant actions. Increases in striatal dopamine (DA) levels have often been linked to ethanol-induced hyperactivity. We examined the functional status of the DA system and behavioral responsiveness to ethanol, cocaine, and a DA-receptor agonist in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-mutagenized mouse strain, 22-TNJ, generated by the Integrative Neuroscience Initiative on Alcoholism Consortium. The 22-TNJ mouse strain exhibited greater locomotor responses to 2.25g/kg ethanol and 10mg/kg cocaine, compared with control mice. In vivo microdialysis showed low-baseline DA levels and a larger DA increase with both 2.25g/kg ethanol and 10mg/kg cocaine. In in vitro voltammetry studies, the 22-TNJ mice displayed increased V(max) rates for DA uptake, possibly contributing to the low-baseline DA levels found with microdialysis. Finally, 22-TNJ mice showed enhanced in vitro autoreceptor sensitivity to the D2/D3 agonist, quinpirole, and greater locomotor responses to both autoreceptor-selective and postsynaptic receptor-selective doses of apomorphine compared with controls. Taken together, these results indicate that the dopaminergic system of the 22-TNJ mouse is low functioning compared with control, with consequent receptor supersensitivity, such that mutant animals exhibit enhanced behavioral responses to DA-activating drugs, such as ethanol. Thus, the 22-TNJ mouse represents a model for a relatively hypodopaminergic system, and could provide important insights into the mechanisms of hyper-responsiveness to ethanol's stimulant actions.
Although no animal model exactly duplicates clinically defined alcoholism, models for specific factors, such as the withdrawal syndrome, are useful for identifying potential neural determinants of liability in humans. The well-documented difference in withdrawal severity following chronic ethanol exposure, between the DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mouse strains, provides an excellent starting point for dissecting the neural circuitry affecting predisposition to physical dependence on ethanol. To induce physical dependence, we used a paradigm in which mice were continuously exposed to ethanol vapor for 72h. Ethanol-exposed and air-exposed (control) mice received daily injections of pyrazole hydrochloride, an alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor, to stabilize blood ethanol levels. Ethanol-dependent and air-exposed mice were killed 7h after removal from the inhalation chambers. This time point corresponds to the time of peak ethanol withdrawal severity. The brains were processed to assess neural activation associated with ethanol withdrawal indexed by c-Fos immunostaining. Ethanol-withdrawn DBA/2J mice showed significantly (P&lt;.05) greater neural activation than ethanol-withdrawn C57BL/6J mice in the dentate gyrus, hippocampus CA3, lateral septum, basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala, and prelimbic cortex. Taken together with results using an acute model, our data suggest that progression from acute ethanol withdrawal to the more severe withdrawal associated with physical dependence following chronic ethanol exposure involves recruitment of neurons in the hippocampal formation, amygdala, and prelimbic cortex. To our knowledge, these are the first studies to use c-Fos to identify the brain regions and neurocircuitry that distinguish between chronic and acute ethanol withdrawal severity using informative animal models.

During the last 40 years, studies incorporating in vitro methodologies have greatly advanced our understanding of human nerve cell biology. Attempts have been made to apply these to investigations of neurotoxicity. Due to the complexity of the nervous system, underpinned by an array of integrated interactions between a host of cell types, it is concluded that, at present, alternative neural models are most successful in determining the underlying mechanisms which can cause perturbation of normal functioning of the nervous system, both in adults and during the embryonic period. The use of tiered batteries of test models has been proposed in screening programmes for neurotoxicity, with the generation of much encouraging data in laboratories across the globe. This review aims to discuss the development of neural alternatives, considers the various model systems available, and highlights specific neuronal endpoints which can be tested, in addition to the cytotoxic evaluation of neuronal viability. Developments in molecular and stem cell biology, which are appropriate to neural tissue, and which offer the prospect of exciting advances for the next decade, are cited.
Mitochondrial toxicity has resulted in the withdrawal of several drugs from the market. One particular example is nefazodone, an anti-depressant withdrawn in the USA due to hepatoxicity caused by drug-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Drug development and safety testing can involve the use of large numbers of laboratory animals, which, without a decisive pre-screening for mitochondrial toxicity, are often unable to pre-empt higher mortality rates in some patient groups. The use of isolated mitochondria as a screening tool for drug safety can decrease the number of laboratory animals used in pre-clinical studies, thus improving animal welfare and healthcare outcomes and costs. Novel techniques involving high-throughput methods can be used to investigate whether a molecule is a mitochondrial toxicant. Moreover, these screens are mechanistically-based, since the effects of the drug on oxidative phosphorylation, calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial genetics can be assessed. This review is intended to demonstrate that isolated mitochondrial fractions are suitable for predicting drug and general chemical safety in toxicological screenings, thus contributing to the refinement and reduction of animal use in laboratory research.
The perspective by Dr. William Pardridge entitled &quot;Alzheimer's Disease Drug Discovery and the Problem of the Blood-Brain Barrier&quot; makes a strong case for the imbalance in resource distribution to the drug-discovery and brain drug delivery processes, where the latter received less than 1% of the investment of the former. My own calculations are consistent with this striking imbalance. Dr. Pardridge predicts that current trials of passive immunity against beta-amyloid peptide will likely fail, whereas past trials of active immunization exhibited trial-ending side effects, in part because of disruption of the integrity of the blood-brain barrier. To bring an assessment of the physiology of the blood-brain barrier and the brain delivery of drugs to the fore, several changes are needed in the way we perceive the problem, train our young scientists, organize research efforts, and incentivize reaching our common goals of effective drug therapy for Alzheimer's disease.






The human brain is subjective and reflects the life of a being-in-the-world-with-others whose identity reflects that complex engaged reality. Human subjectivity is shaped and in-formed (formed by inner processes) that are adapted to the human life-world and embody meaning and the relatedness of a human being. Questions of identity relate to this complex and dynamic reality to reflect the fact that biology, human ecology, culture, and one's historic-political situation are inscribed in one's neural network and have configured its architecture so that it is a unique and irreplaceable phenomenon. So much is a human individual a relational being whose own understanding and ownership of his or her life is both situated and distinctive that neurophilosophical conceptions of identity and human activity that neglect these features of our being are quite inadequate to ground a robust neuroethics.



Many of the receptors and downstream signaling elements involved in taste detection and transduction are also expressed in enteroendocrine cells where they underlie the chemosensory functions of the gut. In one well-known example of gastrointestinal chemosensation (the &quot;incretin effect&quot;), it is known that glucose that is given orally, but not systemically, induces secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (the incretin hormones), which in turn regulate appetite, insulin secretion, and gut motility. Duodenal L cells express sweet taste receptors, the taste G protein gustducin, and several other taste transduction elements. Knockout mice that lack gustducin or the sweet taste receptor subunit T1r3 have deficiencies in secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide and in the regulation of plasma concentrations of insulin and glucose in response to orally ingested carbohydrate-ie, their incretin effect is dysfunctional. Isolated small intestine and intestinal villi from gustducin null mice displayed markedly defective glucagon-like peptide 1 secretion in response to glucose, indicating that this is a local circuit of sugar detection by intestinal cells followed by hormone secretion from these same cells. Modulating hormone secretion from gut &quot;taste cells&quot; may provide novel treatments for obesity, diabetes, and malabsorption syndromes.
The cortical processing of umami shows what makes it pleasant and appetitive. The pleasantness of umami reflects and is correlated with processing in the secondary taste cortex in the orbitofrontal cortex and tertiary taste cortex in the anterior cingulate cortex, whereas processing in the primary (insular) taste cortex reflects physical properties such as intensity. However, glutamate presented alone as a taste stimulus is not highly pleasant and does not act synergistically with other tastes (sweet, salt, bitter, and sour). When glutamate is given in combination with a consonant, savory odor (vegetable), the resulting flavor, formed by a convergence of the taste and olfactory pathways in the orbitofrontal cortex, can be much more pleasant. This pleasantness is shown by much greater activation of the medial orbitofrontal cortex and pregenual cingulate cortex than the sum of the activations by the taste and olfactory components presented separately. Furthermore, activations in these brain regions were correlated with the pleasantness and fullness of the flavor and with the consonance of the taste and olfactory components. The concept is proposed that umami can be thought of as a rich and delicious flavor that is produced by a combination of glutamate taste and a consonant savory odor. Glutamate is thus a flavor enhancer because of the way that it can combine supralinearly with consonant odors in cortical areas in which the taste and olfactory pathways converge far beyond the receptors. Cognitive and attentional modulation of the orbitofrontal cortex also contributes to the pleasantness and appetitive value of umami.

Researchers have found, in studies carried out over several years, that many passengers and crew, following their recent flights in commercial jet aeroplanes, have become unwell, with a range of symptoms in common. This condition, which has not yet been officially recognised, is called Aerotoxic Syndrome (AS). It seems to be caused, primarily, by neurotoxic organophosphates contaminating the air circulating in jet cabins. Patients with such symptoms may visit their GPs, who then arrange diagnostic tests. Some of their symptoms fall within the jurisdiction of diagnostic neurophysiological investigations, but neurophysiology practitioners may be unaware of this syndrome. Until AS is officially recognised as an illness, and guidelines for diagnostic procedures established, patients requiring specific investigations may not be appropriately referred, or tests may be performed unnecessarily. This report seeks to stimulate debate within the field, and facilitate studies, if needed, to help define the diagnostic criteria.

Stroke is one of the most life-altering syndromes affecting the world population. Rehabilitation for people experiencing stroke is focused almost exclusively on self-care activities and being able to return home and has little to no focus on work rehabilitation or community reintegration. The Cognitive Rehabilitation Research Group (CRRG) at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis was formed with the vision of improving everyday life for people after stroke by translating knowledge from neuroscience into treatment programs for productive living. Descriptive analysis of the intake assessment from the CRRG Clinical Core (N = 7,740) revealed three important findings: The age at stroke is decreasing, most strokes are neurologically mild to moderate in nature, and discharge placement decisions are being made largely on the basis of measures of impairment. The changes in the stroke population require occupational therapy to expand rehabilitation beyond the acute management of stroke to address full participation in work, family, and community life.
Carcinoembryonic antigen-related cellular adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1) is a CEA family member that has been reported to have an important role in the regulation of Th1-mediated colitis. In this study, we examined the role of CEACAM1 in an animal model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Treatment of C57BL/6J mice with CEACAM1-Fc fusion protein, a homophilic ligand of CEACAM1, inhibited the severity of EAE and reduced myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-derived peptide (MOG(35-55))-reactive interferon-gamma and interleukin-17 production. In contrast, treatment of these animals with AgB10, an anti-mouse CEACAM1 blocking monoclonal antibody, generated increased severity of EAE in association with increased MOG(35-55)-specific induction of both interferon-gamma and interleukin-17. These results indicated that the signal elicited through CEACAM1 ameliorated EAE disease severity. Furthermore, we found that there was both a rapid and enhanced expression of CEACAM1 on invariant natural killer T cells after activation. The effect of CEACAM1-Fc fusion protein and anti-CEACAM1 mAb on both EAE and MOG(35-55)-reactive cytokine responses were abolished in invariant natural killer T cell-deficient Jalpha18(-/-) mice. Taken together, the ligation of CEACAM1 negatively regulates the severity of EAE by reducing MOG(35-55)-specific induction of both interferon-gamma and interleukin-17 via invariant natural killer T cell-dependent mechanisms.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) acts via seven transmembrane receptors to stimulate gonadotropin secretion. Sustained stimulation desensitizes GnRH receptor (GnRHR)-mediated gonadotropin secretion, and this underlies agonist use in hormone-dependent cancers. Since type I mammalian GnRHR do not desensitize, agonist-induced internalization and downregulation may underlie desensitization of GnRH-stimulated gonadotropin secretion; however, research focus has recently shifted to anterograde trafficking, with the finding that human (h)GnRHR are mostly intracellular. Moreover, there is little direct evidence for agonist-induced trafficking of hGnRHR, and whether or not type I mammalian GnRHR show agonist-induced internalization is controversial. Here we use automated imaging to monitor expression and internalization of hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged hGnRHRs, mouse (m) GnRHR, Xenopus (X) GnRHRs, and chimeric receptors (hGnRHR with added XGnRHR COOH tails, h.XGnRHR) expressed by adenoviral transduction in HeLa cells. We find that agonists stimulate downregulation and/or internalization of mGnRHR and XGnRHR, that GnRH stimulates trafficking of hGnRHR and can stimulate internalization or downregulation of hGnRHR when steps are taken to increase cell surface expression (addition of the XGnRHR COOH tail or pretreatment with pharmacological chaperone). Agonist effects on internalization (of h.XGnRHR) and downregulation (of hGnRHR and h.XGnRHR) were not mimicked by a peptide antagonist and were prevented by a mutation that prevents GnRHR signaling, demonstrating dependence on receptor signaling as well as agonist occupancy. Thus agonist-induced internalization and downregulation of type I mammalian GnRHR occurs in HeLa cells, and we suggest that the high throughput imaging systems described here will facilitate study of the molecular mechanisms involved.
Inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in cultured human primary trophoblast cells reduces the activity of key placental amino acid transporters. However, the upstream regulators of placental mTOR are unknown. We hypothesized that glucose, insulin, and IGF-I regulate placental amino acid transporters by inducing changes in mTOR signaling. Primary human trophoblast cells were cultured for 24 h with media containing various glucose concentrations, insulin, or IGF-I, with or without the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, and, subsequently, the activity of system A, system L, and taurine (TAUT) transporters was measured. Glucose deprivation (0.5 mM glucose) did not significantly affect Thr172-AMP-activated protein kinase phosphorylation or REDD1 expression but decreased S6 kinase 1 phosphorylation at Thr389. The activity of system L decreased in a dose-dependent manner in response to decreasing glucose concentrations. This effect was abolished in the presence of rapamycin. Glucose deprivation had two opposing effects on system A activity: 1) an &quot;adaptive&quot; upregulation mediated by an mTOR-independent mechanism and 2) downregulation by an mTOR-dependent mechanism. TAUT activity was increased after incubating cells with glucose-deprived media, and this effect was largely independent of mTOR signaling. Insulin and IGF-I increased system A activity and insulin stimulated system L activity, effects that were abolished by rapamycin. We conclude that the mTOR pathway represents an important intracellular regulatory link between nutrient and growth factor concentrations and amino acid transport in the human placenta.
Epithelia can adjust the permeability of the paracellular permeation route by regulating the degree of sealing of the tight junction. This is reflected by a transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) ranging from a few tenths to several thousand ohms times square centimeters, depending on the difference in composition between the fluid in the lumen and the interstitial fluid. Although teleologically sound, such correlation requires a physiological explanation. We have previously shown that urine extracts from different animal species increase the TER of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) monolayers and that these effects are mediated by epidermal growth factor (EGF) contained in the flowing intratubular fluid that eventually reaches the urine. This increase in TER is accompanied by an enhanced expression of claudin-4 (cln-4) and a decrement of cln-2. These changes are transient, peaking at approximately 16 h and returning to control values in approximately 24 h. In the present work we investigated how EGF provokes this transient response, and we found that the activation of extracellular-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) by EGF is essential to increase TER and cln-4 content, but it does not appear to participate in cln-2 downregulation. On the other hand, prostaglandin synthesis, stimulated by EGF, functions as a negative feedback, turning off the signal initiated by EGF. Thus, PGE(2) blocks ERK1/2 by a mechanism that involves the G alpha(s) protein, adenylyl cyclase as well as protein kinase A in MDCK cells. In summary, the permeability of a given segment of the nephron depends on the expression of different claudin types, which may be modulated by EGF and prostaglandins.
Peripheral neuropathy is a common complication of diabetes that leads to severe morbidity. In this study, we investigated the sensitivity of motor unit number estimate (MUNE) to detect early motor axon dysfunction in streptozotocin (STZ)-treated mice. We compared the findings with in vitro changes in the morphology and electrophysiology of the neuromuscular junction. Adult Thy1-YFP and Swiss Webster mice were made diabetic following three interdaily intraperitoneal STZ injections. Splay testing and rotarod performance assessed motor activity for 6 wk. Electromyography was carried out in the same time course, and compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude, latency, and MUNE were estimated. Two-electrode voltage clamp was used to calculate quantal content (QC) of evoked transmitter release. We found that an early reduction in MUNE was evident before a detectable decline of motor activity. CMAP amplitude was not altered. MUNE decrease accompanied a drop of end-plate current amplitude and QC. We also observed small axonal loss, sprouting of nerve endings, and fragmentation of acetylcholine receptor clusters at the motor end plate. Our results suggest an early remodeling of motor units through the course of diabetic neuropathy, which can be readily detected by the MUNE technique. The early detection of MUNE anomalies is significant because it suggests that molecular changes associated with pathology and leading to neurodegeneration might already be occurring at this stage. Therefore, trials of interventions to prevent motor axon dysfunction in diabetic neuropathy should be administered at early stages of the disorder.
To investigate the role of the central neuromedin U (NMU) signaling system in body weight and energy balance regulation, we examined the effects of long-term intracerebroventricular (icv) infusion of NMU in C57Bl/6 mice and in mice lacking the gene encoding NMU receptor 2. In diet-induced obese male and female C57BL/6 mice, icv infusion of NMU (8 microg x day(-1) x mouse(-1)) for 7 days decreased body weight and total energy intake compared with vehicle treatment. However, these parameters were unaffected by NMU treatment in lean male and female C57BL/6 mice fed a standard diet. In addition, female (but not male) NMUR2-null mice had increased body weight and body fat mass when fed a high-fat diet but lacked a clear body weight phenotype when fed a standard diet compared with wild-type littermates. Furthermore, female (but not male) NMUR2-null mice fed a high-fat diet were protected from central NMU-induced body weight loss compared with littermate wild-type mice. Thus, we provide the first evidence that long-term central NMU treatment reduces body weight, food intake, and adiposity and that central NMUR2 signaling is required for these effects in female but not male mice.
The hypothalamus has historically been subdivided into nuclei, agglomerations of cell bodies that are visually distinct in histological sections. Regulatory functions of metabolism have been assigned to the various hypothalamic nuclei principally by analysis of animals with lesions of individual nuclei but also via various means of stimulation, such as cooling or heating probes. Biochemical and molecular specificity of these studies became possible with the identification and synthesis of neurotransmitters as well as the means to manipulate the expression of endogenous neurotransmitters and their receptors by genetic means . The arcuate nucleus (ARC) is likely to be the primary site for neurons that sense circulating fuels and energy reserves (POMC/CART neurons, NPY/AGRP neurons), whereas the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) receives input from the ARC and harbors many of the releasing factors (CRF, TRH, vasopressin, and oxytocin) that control pituitary hormone release. The ventromedial nucleus (VMN) receives input from the ARC and plays a critical role in energy balance in parallel with the ARC. The VMN and PVN also send descending projections to the autonomic nervous system and other pathways that control ingestive behavior and metabolism. Developmental analyses have revealed that the neurons that comprise the hypothalamic nuclei arise by differentiation and migration from stem cells within the ventricular zone. Based on recent work, it is becoming clear that coordination between numerous transcription factors that determine specification, survival, and migration is necessary for the formation of the hypothalamus, with each nucleus being determined by its own unique set of factors. In this minireview, we will provide a selective view of the roles that transcription factors play in the developing hypothalamus.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) is densely innervated by efferent projections from the subfornical organ (SFO) and, therefore, is an important relay for the peripheral chemosensory and humoral information (osmolality and serum levels ANG II). In this context, controlling the excitability of MnPO neuronal populations is a major determinant of body fluid homeostasis and cardiovascular regulation. Using a brain slice preparation and patch-clamp recordings, our study sought to determine whether endogenous ANG II modulates the strength of the SFO-derived GABAergic inputs to the MnPO. Our results showed that the amplitude of the inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were progressively reduced by 44 +/- 2.3% by (Sar(1), Ile(8))-ANG II, a competitive ANG type 1 receptor (AT(1)R) antagonist. Similarly, losartan, a nonpeptidergic AT(1)R antagonist decreased the IPSC amplitude by 40.4 +/- 5.6%. The facilitating effect of endogenous ANG II on the GABAergic input to the MnPO was not attributed to a change in GABA release probability and was mimicked by exogenous ANG II, which potentiated the amplitude of the muscimol-activated GABA(A)/Cl(-) current by 53.1 +/- 11.4%. These results demonstrate a postsynaptic locus of action of ANG II. Further analysis reveals that ANG II did not affect the reversal potential of the synaptic inhibitory response, thus privileging a cross talk between postsynaptic AT(1) and GABA(A) receptors. Interestingly, facilitation of GABAergic neurotransmission by endogenous ANG II was specific to neurons responding to changes in the ambient Na(+) level. This finding, combined with the ANG II-mediated depolarization of non-Na(+)-responsive neurons reveals the dual actions of ANG II to modulate the excitability of MnPO neurons.
There has been considerable research into the ability of nonhuman primates to process sequential information, a topic that is of interest in part because of the extensive involvement of sequence processing in human language use. Surprisingly, no previous study has unambiguously tested the ability of nonhuman primates to encode and immediately reproduce a novel temporal sequence of perceptual events, the ability tapped in the immediate serial recall (ISR) task extensively studied in humans. We report here the performance of a rhesus macaque on a spatial ISR task, closely resembling tasks widely used in human memory research. Detailed analysis of the monkey's recall performance indicates a number of important parallels with human ISR, consistent with the idea that a single mechanism for short-term serial order memory may be shared across species.


Many imaging techniques are available for the detection of hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury in young infants.This paper presents an overview of the imaging fi ndings in hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury with an emphasis on MR imaging.



We have previously formulated and validated a mathematical model specifically designed to describe human respiratory behavior at altitude. In that model, we assumed equality of alveolar and end-pulmonary-capillary oxygen tensions. However, this equality may not hold true during rapid and prolonged changes to high altitudes producing severe hypoxia as can occur in aircraft cabin decompressions and in some respiratory diseases. We currently investigate this possibility by modifying our previous model to include the dynamics of oxygen exchange across the pulmonary capillary. The updated model was validated against limited experimental data on ventilation and gas tensions in various altitude-decompression scenarios. The updated model predicts that during rapid and sustained decompressions to high altitudes the disequilibrium of gas tensions between alveolar gas and capillary blood could be 10 Torr, or larger. Neglecting this effect underestimates the severity of a decompression and its potential to produce unconsciousness and subsequent brain damage. In light of these results, we also examined the effect of this disequilibrium on the diminished oxygen diffusion capacity that can occur in some respiratory diseases. We found that decreases in diffusion capacity which would have minimal effects at sea level produced significant disequilibrium of gas tensions and a large fall in hemoglobin oxygen saturation at a cabin altitude of 4000-8000 ft. As demonstrated, this new model could serve as an important tool to examine the important physiological consequences of decompression scenarios in aircraft and the pathophysiological situations in which the equilibrium of gas tensions along the pulmonary capillary are particularly critical.

Certain pathogen molecules trigger innate immune responses and drive subsequent adaptive immune responses toward an antigen presented simultaneously. Such bacterial or viral molecules constitute pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that bind to pattern-recognition receptors such as toll-like receptors (TLRs). Recently, endogenous molecules were identified that ligate the same receptors. The role of these receptors' response to complete Freund's adjuvant during initiation of CD4 T cell responses in EAE, the animal model for multiple sclerosis, is here discussed. Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) is necessary for the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and it is required for the activation of myeloid dendritic cells and differentiation of T helper 17 cells. The role of individual TLR, in particular TLR3, TLR4, and TLR9, signaling in modulation of EAE inflammation varies with the experimental model employed and the immune cells that drive pathology. The TLR-dependent production of proinflammatory cytokines is regulated by mechanisms that dampen the pathway and prevent excess damage. Development of TLR antagonists to treat autoimmune diseases must acknowledge the possibility of interference with regulatory mechanisms.

Oxidative stress is the common downstream effect of a variety of environmental neurotoxins that are strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. We demonstrate here that the activation of NADPH oxidase 1 (Nox1), a specialized superoxide-generating enzyme complex, plays a key role in the oxidative stress and subsequent dopaminergic cell death elicited by paraquat. Paraquat increased the expression of Nox1 in a concentration-dependent manner in rat dopaminergic N27 cells. Rac1, a key component necessary for Nox1-mediated superoxide generation, also was activated by paraquat. Paraquat-induced reactive oxygen species generation and dopaminergic cell death were significantly reduced after pretreatment with apocynin, a putative NADPH oxidase inhibitor, and Nox1 knockdown with siRNA. Male C57BL/6 mice received intraperitoneal (IP) injections of paraquat (10 mg/kg) once every 3 days and showed increased Nox1 levels in the substantia nigra as well as a 35% reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic neurons 5 days after the last injection. Preadministration of apocynin (200 mg/kg, IP) led to a significant decrease in dopaminergic neuronal loss. Our results suggest that Nox1-generated superoxide is implicated in the oxidative stress elicited by paraquat in DA cells, and it can serve as a novel target for pharmacologic intervention.
Innate and adaptive immunity affect the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). In particular, activation of microglia influences degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Cell-to-cell interactions and immune regulation critical for neuronal homeostasis also influence immune responses. The links between T cell immunity and nigrostriatal degeneration are supported by laboratory, animal model, and human pathologic investigations. Immune-associated biomarkers in spinal fluids and brain tissue of patients with idiopathic or familial forms of PD provide means to improve diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring. Relationships between oxidative stress, inflammation, and immune-mediated cell death pathways are examined in this review as they are linked to PD pathogenesis. Harnessing the immune system by drugs or by vaccination remain promising future therapeutic options.
Protein aggregation as a result of misfolding is a common theme underlying neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's disease (PD), research on protein misfolding and aggregation has taken center stage following the association of alpha-synuclein gene mutations with familial forms of the disease, and importantly, the identification of the protein as a major component of Lewy bodies, a pathological hallmark of PD. Fueling this excitement is the subsequent identification of another PD-linked gene, parkin, as a ubiquitin ligase associated with the proteasome, a major intracellular protein degradation machinery that destroys unwanted, albeit mainly soluble, proteins. Notably, a role for parkin in the clearance of insoluble protein aggregates via macroautophagy has also been implicated by more recent studies. Paradoxically, like alpha-synuclein, parkin is also prone to misfolding, especially in the presence of age-related stress. Similarly, protein misfolding can also affect the function of other key PD-linked genes such as DJ-1, PINK1, and perhaps also LRRK2. Here, we discuss the role of protein misfolding and aggregation in PD, and how impairments of the various cellular protein quality systems could precipitate these events and lead to neuronal demise. Towards the end of our discussion, we also revisited the role of Lewy body formation in PD.
A large body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). A number of antioxidants have been effective in animal models of PD. We have developed a family of mitochondria-targeted peptides that can protect against mitochondrial swelling and apoptosis (SS peptides). In this study, we examined the ability of two peptides, SS-31 and SS-20, to protect against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity in mice. SS-31 produced dose-dependent complete protection against loss of dopamine and its metabolites in striatum, as well as loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta. SS-20, which does not possess intrinsic ability in scavenging reactive oxygen species, also demonstrated significant neuroprotective effects on dopaminergic neurons of MPTP-treated mice. Both SS-31 and SS-20 were very potent (nM) in preventing MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium)-induced cell death in cultured dopamine cells (SN4741). Studies with isolated mitochondria showed that both SS-31 and SS-20 prevented MPP+-induced inhibition of oxygen consumption and ATP production, and mitochondrial swelling. These findings provide strong evidence that these neuroprotective peptides, which target both mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage, are a promising approach for the treatment of PD.
In two experiments, we investigated the role of mere recognition in a P300 based CIT. Mere recognition was isolated by having participants respond based on an irrelevant dimension of the stimuli. In Experiment 1 stimuli consisted of familiar and unfamiliar faces, with a dot placed on the left or the right cheek. Participants responded according to dot location. In the second experiment, participants were presented with autobiographical information, alternated with irrelevant stimuli, while instructed to respond based on the case of the stimuli. Results showed that with both familiar faces, and autobiographical information, mere recognition was sufficient to elicit a P300.

Temporal processing deficit could be associated with a specific difficulty in learning to read. In 1951, Stambak provided preliminary evidence that children with dyslexia performed less well than good readers in reproduction of 21 rhythmic patterns. Stambak's task was administered to 1,028 French children aged 5-6 years. The score distribution (from 0 to 21) was quasi-normal, with some children failing completely and other performing perfectly. In second grade, reading was assessed in 695 of these children. Kindergarten variables explained 26% of the variance of the reading score at second grade. The Stambak score was strongly and linearly related to reading performance in second grade, after partialling out performance on other tasks (oral repetition, attention, and visuo-spatial tasks) and socio-cultural level. Findings are discussed in relation to perceptual, cerebellar, intermodal, and attention-related theories of developmental dyslexia. It is concluded that simple rhythm reproduction tasks in kindergarten are predictive of later reading performance.


The understanding that recovery of brain function after stroke is imperfect has prompted decades of effort to engender speedier and better recovery through environmental manipulation. Clinical evidence has shown that the performance plateau exhibited by patients with chronic stroke, usually signaling an end of standard rehabilitation, might represent a period of consolidation rather than a performance optimum. These results highlight the difficulty of translating pertinent neurological data into pragmatic changes in clinical programs. This opinion piece focuses on upper limb impairment reduction after robotic training. We propose that robotic devices be considered as novel tools that might be used alone or in combination with novel pharmacology and other bioengineered devices. Additionally, robotic devices can measure motor performance objectively and will contribute to a detailed phenotype of stroke recovery.
During the past four decades the participation of women in medicine has increased dramatically. This study is focused on the women's participation in authorship of articles published in the Arquivos de Neuro-Psiquiatria, the official Journal of the Brazilian Academy of Neurology. The articles were analyzed according to the number of articles and sex of both first and the senior (last) authors. The data were collected from 1945 to 2005. A total of 950 articles were published in this period. The proportion of women serving as first authors increased from 2.8% to 36.6% and the proportion serving as senior authors increased from 2.8% to 23.8% (1945-2005).

Research examining set-shifting has revealed significant difficulties for adults with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). However, research with high-functioning children with ASDs has yielded mixed results. The current study tested 6- to 13-year-old high-functioning children with ASD and typically developing controls matched on age, gender, and IQ using the Intradimensional/Extradimensional (ID/ED) Shift Test from the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery. Children with ASDs completed as many ED shifts and reversal ED shifts as controls; however, they made significantly more errors than controls while completing the ED reversal shifts. Analyses on a subset of cases revealed a significant positive correlation between ED reversal errors and the number of repetitive behavior symptoms in the ASD group. These findings suggest that high-functioning children with ASDs require additional feedback to shift successfully. In addition, the relationship between set-shifting and non-social symptoms suggests its utility as a potentially informative intermediate phenotype in ASDs.

Over the last decade, evidence has emerged linking disorders in the impulsive-compulsive spectrum in Parkinson's disease to dopamine receptor agonist treatment. These disorders include hypersexuality, gambling and, to a minor extent, compulsive shopping and eating, as well as dopamine dysregulation syndrome, characterized by an addictive pattern toward dopamine replacement therapy and stereotyped behaviors, such as punding. These syndromes, which have only recently been recognized and are still underdiagnosed, have deleterious social consequences that warrant interventions at the clinical level and promotion of research at the preclinical level. In this review, we first provide a summary of features of Parkinson's disease and current pharmacological therapies associated with the development of dopamine dysregulation syndrome and impulsive-compulsive disorders. We also examine the dopamine receptors and brain areas important in reward and compulsive behaviors. We then critically examine the neuroadaptations in dopaminergic circuitries and the literature concerning gambling, hypersexuality, and other addictive behaviors in parkinsonian patients. Finally, we focus on suggestions pointing to a role for dopamine D(3) receptors and sensitization phenomena as the main factors which may be the origin of these disorders.
Behavioral disinhibition is a manifestation of impulsive behavior that is prominent in the psychopathology of various psychiatric disorders such as addiction, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, mania, and personality disorders. Impulsivity may be studied by measuring anticipatory responses made before the presentation of a food-predictive, brief light stimulus in a two-choice serial reaction time task. In such serial reaction time tasks, amphetamine has been shown to produce dose-dependent increases in premature responding in a manner dependent on dopamine D(2)-like receptor stimulation. So far, it is unknown whether it is the D(2) or D(3) receptor that is involved in this form of impulsivity. In this study, rats were trained in a two-choice serial reaction time task until baseline performance was stable. Next, effects of the dopamine D(2) preferring antagonist L-741,626 and selective D(3) antagonist SB-277011 were assessed alone and in the presence of amphetamine. Neither L-741,626 nor SB-277011 affected behavioral inhibition, although the latter significantly increased reaction time at 10 mg/kg. Amphetamine dose-dependently increased impulsivity. The effect of amphetamine was attenuated by L-741,626 (3 mg/kg), whereas SB-277011 (3 mg/kg) had no effect. Therefore, amphetamine-induced behavioral disinhibition depends on D(2), but not D(3), receptor stimulation.
Drug-addicted individuals show high levels of impulsive choice, characterized by preference for small immediate over larger but delayed rewards. Although the causal relationship between chronic drug use and elevated impulsive choice in humans has been unclear, a small but growing body of literature over the past decade has shown that chronic drug administration in animal models can cause increases in impulsive choice, suggesting that a similar causal relationship may exist in human drug users. This article reviews this literature, with a particular focus on the effects of chronic cocaine administration, which have been most thoroughly characterized. The potential mechanisms of these effects are described in terms of drug-induced neural alterations in ventral striatal and prefrontal cortical brain systems. Some implications of this research for pharmacological treatment of drug-induced increases in impulsive choice are discussed, along with suggestions for future research in this area.
The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between gambling severity and depressive symptoms in pathological gamblers addicted to slot machines, with the hypothesis that comorbid depressive symptoms are associated with exacerbated gambling symptoms and behavior. Twenty controls and 20 pathological gamblers with different levels of depressive symptoms were studied during slot machine gambling. We found exacerbated gambling behavior in gamblers with high compared to low levels of depressive symptoms in terms of self-reported gambling urge (P &lt; 0.01) and excitement from gambling (P &lt; 0.05), number of games played (P &lt; 0.01), and duration of gambling (P &lt; 0.05). A correlation between depressive and gambling symptoms was found (r = 0.602, P &lt; 0.01), thereby questioning which symptoms contribute to the exacerbated gambling behavior. Regression analyses showed that the symptoms influenced gambling behavior albeit in different ways. Although gambling symptoms predicted the rate of games played (P &lt; 0.001), depressive symptoms predicted gambling urge (P &lt; 0.01) and duration of gambling (P &lt; 0.05). We discuss whether gambling symptoms only co-occur with other disorders; the need to look beyond the classification of pathological gambling as an impulse control disorder; and the potential role of anhedonia in depressed gamblers.

The development of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists, particularly those that discriminate between neuronal nAChR subtypes, holds promise as potential therapeutic agents for many neurological diseases and disorders. To this end, we photoaffinity labeled human alpha4beta2 and rat alpha4beta4 nAChRs affinity-purified from stably transfected HEK-293 cells, with the agonists [(125)I]epibatidine and 5[(125)I]A-85380. Our results show that both agonists photoincorporated into the beta4 subunit with little or no labeling of the beta2 and alpha4 subunits respectively. [(125)I]epibatidine labeling in the beta4 subunit was mapped to two overlapping proteolytic fragments that begin at beta4V102 and contain Loop E (beta4I109-P120) of the agonist binding site. We were unable to identify labeled amino acid(s) in Loop E by protein sequencing, but we were able to demonstrate that beta4Q117 in Loop E is the principal site of [(125)I]epibatidine labeling. This was accomplished by substituting residues in the beta2 subunit with the beta4 homologs and finding [(125)I]epibatidine labeling in beta4 and beta2F119Q subunits with little, if any, labeling in alpha4, beta2, or beta2S113R subunits. Finally, functional studies established that the beta2F119/beta4Q117 position is an important determinant of the receptor subtype-selectivity of the agonist 5I-A-85380, affecting both binding affinity and channel activation.
Autophagy is a tightly regulated cell self-eating process. It has been shown to be associated with various neuropathological conditions and therefore, traditionally known as a stress-induced process. Recent studies, however, reveal that autophagy is constitutively active in healthy neurons. Neurons are highly specialized, post-mitotic cells that are typically composed of a soma (cell body), a dendritic tree, and an axon. Despite the vast growth of our current knowledge of autophagy, the detailed process in such a highly differentiated cell type remains elusive. Current evidence strongly suggests that autophagy is uniquely regulated in neurons and is also highly adapted to local physiology in the axons. In addition, the molecular mechanism for basal autophagy in neurons may be significantly divergent from &quot;classical&quot; induced autophagy. A considerable number of studies have increasingly shown an important role for autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases and have explored autophagy as a potential drug target. Thus, understanding the neuronal autophagy process will ultimately aid in drug target identification and rational design of drug screening to combat neurodegenerative diseases.
Phosphatidic acid (PA) production by receptor-stimulated phospholipase D is believed to play an important role in the regulation of cell function. The second messenger function of PA remains to be elucidated. PA can bind and affect the activities of different enzymes and here we summarise the current status of activation of Type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase by PA. Type 1 phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase is also regulated by ARF proteins as is phospholipase D and we discuss the contributions of ARF and PA towards phosphatidylinositol(4,5)bisphosphate synthesis at the plasma membrane.
Membrane fusion remains one of the less well-understood processes in cell biology. A variety of mechanisms have been proposed to explain how the generation of fusogenic lipids at sites of exocytosis facilitates secretion in mammalian cells. Over the last decade, chromaffin cells have served as an important cellular model to demonstrate a key role for phospholipase D1 (PLD1) generated phosphatidic acid in regulated exocytosis. The current model proposes that phosphatidic acid plays a biophysical role, generating a negative curvature and thus promoting fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. Moreover, multiple signaling pathways converging on PLD1 regulation have been unraveled in chromaffin cells, suggesting a complex level of regulation dependant on the physiological context.
How should robotic or prosthetic arms be programmed to move? Copying human smooth movements is popular in synthetic systems, but what does this really achieve? We cannot address these biomimetic issues without a deep understanding of why natural movements are so stereotyped. In this article, we distinguish between 'functional' and 'aesthetic' biomimetics. Functional biomimetics requires insight into the problem that nature has solved and recognition that a similar problem exists in the synthetic system. In aesthetic biomimetics, nature is copied for its own sake and no insight is needed. We examine the popular minimum jerk (MJ) model that has often been used to generate smooth human-like point-to-point movements in synthetic arms. The MJ model was originally justified as maximizing 'smoothness'; however, it is also the limiting optimal trajectory for a wide range of cost functions for brief movements, including the minimum variance (MV) model, where smoothness is a by-product of optimizing the speed-accuracy trade-off imposed by proportional noise (PN: signal-dependent noise with the standard deviation proportional to mean). PN is unlikely to be dominant in synthetic systems, and the control objectives of natural movements (speed and accuracy) would not be optimized in synthetic systems by human-like movements. Thus, employing MJ or MV controllers in robotic arms is just aesthetic biomimetics. For prosthetic arms, the goal is aesthetic by definition, but it is still crucial to recognize that MV trajectories and PN are deeply embedded in the human motor system. Thus, PN arises at the neural level, as a recruitment strategy of motor units and probably optimizes motor neuron noise. Human reaching is under continuous adaptive control. For prosthetic devices that do not have this natural architecture, natural plasticity would drive the system towards unnatural movements. We propose that a truly neuromorphic system with parallel force generators (muscle fibres) and noisy drivers (motor neurons) would permit plasticity to adapt the control of a prosthetic limb towards human-like movement.
The secretory pathway is of vital importance for eukaryotic cells and has a pivotal role in the synthesis, sorting, processing and secretion of a large variety of bioactive molecules involved in intercellular communication. One of the key processes in the secretory pathway concerns the transport of cargo proteins from the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) to the Golgi. Type-I transmembrane proteins of approximately 24 kDa are abundantly present in the membranes of the early secretory pathway, and bind the COPI and COPII coat complexes that cover vesicles travelling between the membranes. These p24 proteins are thought to play an important role in the selective transport processes at the ER-Golgi interface, although their exact functioning is still obscure. One model proposes that p24 proteins couple cargo selection in the lumen with vesicle coat recruitment in the cytosol. Alternatively, p24 proteins may furnish subcompartments of the secretory pathway with the correct subsets of machinery proteins. Here we review the current knowledge of the p24 proteins and the various roles proposed for the p24 family members.
Early gamma band responses of the human electroencephalogram have been identified as an early interface linking top-down and bottom-up processing. This was based on findings that observed strong sensitivity of this signal to stimulus size and at the same time, to processes of attention and memory. Here, we simulate these findings in a simple random network of biologically plausible spiking neurons. During a learning phase, different stimuli were presented to the network and the synaptic connections were modified according to a spike-timing-dependent plasticity learning rule. In a subsequent test phase, we stimulated the network with (i) patterns of different sizes to simulate bottom-up effects and (ii) with patterns that were or were not presented during the learning phase. The network displayed qualitatively similar behavior as early gamma band responses measured from the scalp of human subjects: there was a general increase in response strength with increasing stimulus size and stronger responses for learned stimuli. We demonstrated that within one neural architecture early gamma band responses can be modulated both by bottom-up factors and by basal learning mechanisms mediated via spike-timing-dependent plasticity.
We propose an approach for desynchronization in an ensemble of globally coupled neural oscillators. The impact of washout filter aided mean field feedback on population synchronization process is investigated. By blocking the Hopf bifurcation of the mean field, the controller desynchronizes the ensemble. The technique is generally demand-controlled. It is robust and can be easily implemented practically. We suggest it for effective deep brain stimulation in neurological diseases characterized by pathological synchronization.
In this paper, we provide an analysis of orientation flights in bumblebees, employing a novel technique based on simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) a probabilistic approach from autonomous robotics. We use SLAM to determine what bumblebees might learn about the locations of objects in the world through the arcing behaviours that are typical of these flights. Our results indicate that while the bees are clearly influenced by the presence of a conspicuous landmark, there is little evidence that they structure their flights to specifically learn about the position of the landmark.




This paper reviews the evidence for changes of Meditation on body and brain physiology and for clinical effectiveness in disorders of psychiatry. The aim of Meditation is to reduce or eliminate irrelevant thought processes through training of internalised attention, thought to lead to physical and mental relaxation, stress reduction, psycho-emotional stability and enhanced concentration. Physiological evidence shows a reduction with Meditation of stress-related autonomic and endocrine measures, while neuroimaging studies demonstrate the functional up-regulation of brain regions of affect regulation and attention control. Clinical studies show some evidence for the effectiveness of Meditation in disorders of affect, anxiety and attention. The combined evidence from neurobiological and clinical studies seems promising. However, a more thorough understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms of action and clinical effectiveness of the different Meditative practices is needed before Meditative practices can be leveraged in the prevention and intervention of mental illness.

Microenvironmental mechanical properties of stem cell niches vary across tissues and developmental stages. Accumulating evidence suggests that matching substrate elasticity with in vivo tissue elasticity facilitates stem cell differentiation. However, it has not been established whether substrate elasticity can control the maturation stage of cells generated by stem cell differentiation. Here we show that soft substrates with elasticities commensurable to the elasticity of the brain promote the maturation of neural stem cell-derived neurons. In the absence of added growth factors, neurons differentiated on soft substrates displayed long neurites and presynaptic terminals, contrasting with the bipolar immature morphology of neurons differentiated on stiff substrates. Further, soft substrates supported an increase in astrocytic differentiation. However, stiffness cues could not override the dependency of astrocytic differentiation on Notch signaling. These results demonstrate that substrate elasticity per se can drive neuronal maturation thus defining a crucial parameter in neuronal differentiation of stem cells.
This article investigates the problem of model diagnostics for systems described by nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODEs). I propose modeling lack of fit as a time-varying correction to the right-hand side of a proposed differential equation. This correction can be described as being a set of additive forcing functions, estimated from data. Representing lack of fit in this manner allows us to graphically investigate model inadequacies and to suggest model improvements. I derive lack-of-fit tests based on estimated forcing functions. Model building in partially observed systems of ODEs is particularly difficult and I consider the problem of identification of forcing functions in these systems. The methods are illustrated with examples from computational neuroscience.
The preparation of a series of monoquaternary pyridinium oximes bearing either a heterocyclic side chain or a functionalized aliphatic side chain and the corresponding in vitro evaluation for reactivation of paraoxon-inhibited electric eel acetylcholinesterase (EeAChE) and recombinant human acetylcholinesterase (rHuAChE) are reported. Several newly synthesized compounds efficiently reactivated inhibited EeAChE, but were poor reactivators of inhibited rHuAChE. Compounds bearing a thiophene ring in the side chain (20, 23, 26 and 29) showed better reactivation (24-37% for EeAChE and 5-9% for rHuAChE) compared to compounds with furan and isoxazole heterocycles (0-8% for EeAChE and 2-3% for rHuAChE) at 10(-5)M. The N-pyridyl-CH(2)COOH analog 8 reactivated EeAChE (36%) and rHuAChE (15%) at 10(-4)M with a k(r) value better than 2-pyridine aldoxime methiodide (2-PAM) for rHuAChE.
Mammalian auditory sensation is mediated by the organ of Corti, a specialized sensory epithelium found in the cochlea of the inner ear. Proper auditory function requires that the many different cell types found in the sensory epithelium be precisely ordered within an exquisitely patterned cellular mosaic. The development of this mosaic depends on a series of cell fate decisions that transform the initially nearly uniform cochlear epithelium into the complex structure of the mature organ of Corti. The prosensory domain, which contains the progenitors of both the mechanosensory hair cells and their associated supporting cells, first becomes distinct from both the neural and the nonsensory domains. Further cell fate decisions subdivide prosensory cells into populations of inner and outer hair cells, and several different types of supporting cells. A number of different signaling pathways and transcription factors are known to be necessary for these developmental processes; in this review, we will summarize these results with an emphasis on recent findings.

The past two decades have seen an immense increase in our appreciation of the vast range of signalling processes and supporting machinery that occur in cells. Pivotal to this is the notion of signal compartmentalization (compartmentation). Targeting by protein domains is critical in allowing signalling complexes to be assembled at defined intracellular locales so as to confer correct function. This issue of the BJP contains two intriguing articles that address functional protein-protein interactions involving PDZ domains [Post-synaptic density protein-95 (PSD95), Drosophila disc large tumour suppressor (DlgA) and Zonula occludens-1 protein (zo-1)] and their implications for signalling. One involves targeting of neuronal nitric oxide synthase to the N-methyl D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor via the PDZ-containing signal scaffold, PSD95. The other involves controlling multiple receptor inputs into regulation of epithelial Na(+)K(+)-ATPase through the PDZ-containing signal scaffold Pals-associated tight junction. Highlighted is not only the use of dominant-negative strategies to identify the importance of targeting at specific types of PDZ domains but also the exciting notion that small molecule disruptors of interaction at specific PDZ domains can be generated for potential therapeutic application.
The free fatty acid receptors FFA2 and FFA3 are recently de-orphanized G protein-coupled receptors that share a group of short-chain free fatty acids as endogenous ligands. The expression of FFA2 and FFA3 by immune cells, in parts of the gastro-intestinal tract and by white adipocytes has suggested their potential as therapeutic targets in conditions including inflammation and obesity. However, although FFA2 and FFA3 display distinct structure-activity relationships for stimulation by short-chain free fatty acids, the overlap between these endogenous agonists and the lack of synthetic small molecule ligands that display selectivity between these two receptors has, until recently, hindered efforts to resolve their individual functions. Recently, chloro-alpha-(1-methylethyl)-N-2-thiazolylbenzeneacetamide has been described as an FFA2 selective ago-allosteric ligand, not only being a direct agonist but also acting as a positive allosteric modulator of the function of short-chain free fatty acids at FFA2. Mutation of a pair of key arginine residues near the top of transmembrane domains V and VII of both FFA2 and FFA3 eliminates the function of short-chain free fatty acids but is without effect on the direct agonist action of chloro-alpha-(1-methylethyl)-N-2-thiazolylbenzeneacetamide at FFA2, confirming the distinct nature of the binding site of the ago-allosteric regulator from the orthosteric binding site for free fatty acids. An understanding of structure-activity relationships for ligands related to chloro-alpha-(1-methylethyl)-N-2-thiazolylbenzeneacetamide is likely to provide greater insight into the mode of action and site of binding of this ligand, but further FFA2 and FFA3 selective ligands, preferably with higher potency/affinity, will be required to fully explore the physiological function of these receptors.
G protein coupled receptors and tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) receptors have distinct structure and transducing mechanisms; therefore, cross-talk among them was unexpected. Evidence has, however, accumulated showing that tonic adenosine A2A receptor activity is a required step to allow synaptic actions of neurotrophic factors, namely upon synaptic transmission at both pre- and post-synaptic level as well as upon synaptic plasticity. An enhancement of A2A receptor tonus upon ageing may partially compensate the loss of TrkB receptors, rescuing to certain degree the facilitatory action of brain derived neurotrophic factor in aged animals, which might prove particularly relevant in the prevention of neurodegeneration upon ageing. A2A receptors also trigger synaptic actions of other neurotrophic factors, such as glial derived neurotrophic factor at dopaminergic striatal nerve endings. The growing evidence that tonic adenosine A2A receptor activity is a crucial step to allow actions of neurotrophic factors in neurones will be reviewed and discussed in the light of therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.
3'-5'-Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is a pleiotropic intracellular second messenger generated in response to activation of G(s) protein-coupled receptors. In the heart, cAMP mediates the catecholaminergic control on heart rate and contractility but, at the same time, it is responsible for the functional response to a wide variety of other hormones and neurotransmitters, raising the question of how the myocyte can decode the cAMP signal and generate the appropriate functional output to each individual extracellular stimulus. A growing body of evidence points to the spatial organization of the components of the cAMP signalling pathway in distinct, spatially segregated signalling domains as the key feature underpinning specificity of response and data is emerging, indicating that alteration of spatial control of the cAMP signal cascade associates with heart pathology. Most of the details of the molecular organization and regulation of individual cAMP signalling compartments are still to be elucidated but future research should provide the knowledge necessary to develop and test new therapeutic strategies that, by acting on a limited subset of downstream targets, would improve efficacy and minimize off-target effects.
The concept that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can form hetero-dimers or hetero-oligomers continues to gain experimental support. However, with the exception of the GABA(B) receptor and the sweet and umami taste receptors few reported examples meet all of the criteria suggested in a recent International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology sponsored review (Pin et al., 2007) that should be required to define distinct and physiologically relevant receptor species. Despite this, there are many examples in which pairs of co-expressed GPCRs reciprocally modulate their function, trafficking and/or ligand pharmacology. Such data are at least consistent with physical interactions between the receptor pairs. In recent times, it has been suggested that specific GPCR hetero-dimer or hetero-oligomer pairs may represent key molecular targets of certain clinically effective, small molecule drugs and there is growing interest in efforts to identify ligands that may modulate hetero-dimer function selectively. The current review summarizes key recent developments in these topics.





DYT1 dystonia is a severe form of inherited dystonia, characterized by involuntary twisting movements and abnormal postures. It is linked to a deletion in the dyt1 gene, resulting in a mutated form of the protein torsinA. The penetrance for dystonia is incomplete, but both clinically affected and non-manifesting carriers of the DYT1 mutation exhibit impaired motor learning and evidence of altered motor plasticity. Here, we characterized striatal glutamatergic synaptic plasticity in transgenic mice expressing either the normal human torsinA or its mutant form, in comparison to non-transgenic (NT) control mice. Medium spiny neurons recorded from both NT and normal human torsinA mice exhibited normal long-term depression (LTD), whereas in mutant human torsinA littermates LTD could not be elicited. In addition, although long-term potentiation (LTP) could be induced in all the mice, it was greater in magnitude in mutant human torsinA mice. Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) can revert potentiated synapses to resting levels, a phenomenon termed synaptic depotentiation. LFS induced synaptic depotentiation (SD) both in NT and normal human torsinA mice, but not in mutant human torsinA mice. Since anti-cholinergic drugs are an effective medical therapeutic option for the treatment of human dystonia, we reasoned that an excess in endogenous acetylcholine could underlie the synaptic plasticity impairment. Indeed, both LTD and SD were rescued in mutant human torsinA mice either by lowering endogenous acetylcholine levels or by antagonizing muscarinic M1 receptors. The presence of an enhanced acetylcholine tone was confirmed by the observation that acetylcholinesterase activity was significantly increased in the striatum of mutant human torsinA mice, as compared with both normal human torsinA and NT littermates. Moreover, we found similar alterations of synaptic plasticity in muscarinic M2/M4 receptor knockout mice, in which an increased striatal acetylcholine level has been documented. The loss of LTD and SD on one hand, and the increase in LTP on the other, demonstrate that a 'loss of inhibition' characterizes the impairment of synaptic plasticity in this model of DYT1 dystonia. More importantly, our results indicate that an unbalanced cholinergic transmission plays a pivotal role in these alterations, providing a clue to understand the ability of anticholinergic agents to restore motor deficits in dystonia.
Brain glial cells, five times more prevalent than neurons, have recently received attention for their potential involvement in epileptic seizures. Microglia and astrocytes, associated with inflammatory innate immune responses, are responsible for surveillance of brain damage that frequently results in seizures. Thus, an intriguing suggestion has been put forward that seizures may be facilitated and perhaps triggered by brain immune responses. Indeed, recent evidence strongly implicates innate immune responses in lowering seizure threshold in experimental models of epilepsy, yet, there is no proof that they can play an independent role in initiating seizures in vivo. Here, we show that cortical innate immune responses alone produce profound increases of brain excitability resulting in focal seizures. We found that cortical application of lipopolysaccharide, binding to toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), triples evoked field potential amplitudes and produces focal epileptiform discharges. These effects are prevented by pre-application of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. Our results demonstrate how the innate immune response may participate in acute seizures, increasing neuronal excitability through interleukin-1 release in response to TLR4 detection of the danger signals associated with infections of the central nervous system and with brain injury. These results suggest an important role of innate immunity in epileptogenesis and focus on glial inhibition, through pharmacological blockade of TLR4 and the pro-inflammatory mediators released by activated glia, in the study and treatment of seizure disorders in humans.
Disorders of semantic cognition in different neuropsychological conditions result from diverse areas of brain damage and may have different underlying causes. This study used a comparative case-series design to examine the hypothesis that relatively circumscribed bilateral atrophy of the anterior temporal lobe in semantic dementia (SD) produces a gradual degradation of core semantic representations, whilst a deficit of cognitive control produces multi-modal semantic impairment in a subset of patients with stroke aphasia following damage involving the left prefrontal cortex or regions in and around the temporoparietal area; this condition, which transcends traditional aphasia classifications, is referred to as 'semantic aphasia' (SA). There have been very few direct comparisons of these patient groups to date and these previous studies have focussed on verbal comprehension. This study used a battery of object-use tasks to extend this line of enquiry into the non-verbal domain for the first time. A group of seven SA patients were identified who failed both word and picture versions of a semantic association task. These patients were compared with eight SD cases. Both groups showed significant deficits in object use but these impairments were qualitatively different. Item familiarity correlated with performance on object-use tasks for the SD group, consistent with the view that core semantic representations are degrading in this condition. In contrast, the SA participants were insensitive to the familiarity of the objects. Further, while the SD patients performed consistently across tasks that tapped different aspects of knowledge and object use for the same items, the performance of the SA participants reflected the control requirements of the tasks. Single object use was relatively preserved in SA but performance on complex mechanical puzzles was substantially impaired. Similarly, the SA patients were able to complete straightforward item matching tasks, such as word-picture matching, but performed more poorly on associative picture-matching tasks, even when the tests involved the same items. The two groups of patients also showed a different pattern of errors in object use. SA patients made substantial numbers of erroneous intrusions in their demonstrations, such as inappropriate object movements. In contrast, response omissions were more common in SD. This study provides converging evidence for qualitatively different impairments of semantic cognition in SD and SA, and uniquely demonstrates this pattern in a non-verbal expressive domain-object use.
As part of a preliminary investigation on the effects of methylphenidate on brain activation during a working memory (WM) task in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), patients with TBI received 15mg of methylphenidate (N=4) or placebo (N=5) twice a day for one month in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Brain activation was assessed at pre-treatment and on the final treatment day using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with an N-back task using faces as stimuli. In a whole brain voxel-wise analysis, methylphenidate, compared to placebo, produced a decrease in brain activation for the 2-load minus 0-load contrast in the anterior cingulate, thalamus, cuneus and cerebellum, regions associated with WM performance. Further, an a priori region of interest analysis with small volume correction found reduced activation in the anterior cingulate. Although based on a small sample size, these preliminary findings suggest methylphenidate may increase processing efficiency associated with cognitive control during WM tasks in patients with TBI.
The N170 face repetition effect has been proposed to reflect early identity processing that underlies the acquisition of familiarity for novel faces. It was reported that the N170 face repetition effect was lateralized to the right hemisphere. Since it has been postulated that reduced or reversed brain asymmetry may be importantly related to schizophrenia pathology, the present study examined whether or not male patients with chronic schizophrenia show reduced or reversed asymmetry in the N170 face repetition effect. Seventeen male schizophrenia patients and 13 male healthy controls participated. Event-related potentials were recorded to unrepeated and repeated faces. Patients with schizophrenia showed a bilateral N170 reduction to repeated and unrepeated faces compared to healthy subjects (F[1,28]=8.01, p=0.009). Schizophrenia patients showed a significant decrease in N170 amplitude to repeated faces at the left occipitotemporal electrode (t[16]=2.91, p=0.01), whereas healthy subjects showed a significant decrease at the right occipitotemporal electrode (t[12]=2.36, p=0.04). These results suggest abnormal asymmetry of the N170 face repetition effect in schizophrenia.


Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women today and is the most common cancer among women. Although a number of risk factors such as genetics, family history, parity, age at first birth, and age at menarche and menopause have been established, most are difficult to modify. Diet, however, is a potentially modifiable approach for prevention and a variety of dietary patterns have been examined with respect to their role in breast cancer. One such dietary factor is red meat consumption. Red meat intake has been hypothesized to increase breast cancer risk but while both case-control and ecologic studies have supported a positive association, prospective cohort studies have been inconsistent. One explanation for this inconsistency may be related to menopausal status. We performed a meta-analysis on the association between breast cancer risk and red meat consumption in premenopausal women. A total of ten studies were identified. The summary relative risk was 1.24 (95% CI 1.08-1.42). Case-control studies (N = 7) had a risk of 1.57 (95% CI 1.23-1.99), while cohort studies (N = 3) had a summary relative risk of 1.11 (95% CI 0.94-1.31).


Sarcoplasmic reticulum contains the internal Ca(2+) store in smooth muscle cells and its lumen appears to be a continuum that lacks diffusion barriers. Accordingly, the free luminal Ca(2+) level is the same all throughout the SR; however, whether the Ca(2+) buffer capacity is the same in all the SR is unknown. We have estimated indirectly the luminal Ca(2+) buffer capacity of the SR by comparing the reduction in SR Ca(2+) levels with the corresponding increase in [Ca(2+)](i) during activation of either IP(3)Rs with carbachol or RyRs with caffeine, in smooth muscle cells from guinea pig urinary bladder. We have determined that carbachol-sensitive SR has a 2.4 times larger Ca(2+) buffer capacity than caffeine-sensitive SR. Rapid inhibition of SERCA pumps with thapsigargin revealed that this pump activity accounts for 80% and 60% of the Ca(2+) buffer capacities of carbachol- and caffeine-sensitive SR, respectively. Moreover, the Ca(2+) buffer capacity of carbachol-sensitive SR was similar to caffeine-sensitive SR when SERCA pumps were inhibited. Similar rates of Ca(2+) replenishments suggest similar levels of SERCA pump activities for either carbachol- or caffeine-sensitive SR. Paired pulses of caffeine, in conditions of low Ca(2+) influx, indicate the relevance of luminal SR Ca(2+) buffer capacity in the [Ca(2+)](i) response. To further study the importance of luminal SR Ca(2+) buffer capacity in the release process we used low levels of heparin to partially inhibit IP(3)Rs. This condition revealed carbachol-induced transient increase of luminal SR Ca(2+) levels provided that SERCA pumps were active. It thus appears that SERCA pump activity keeps the luminal SR Ca(2+)-binding proteins in the high-capacity, low-affinity conformation, particularly for IP(3)R-mediated Ca(2+) release.
Cells can adapt to hypoxia through the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), which in turn regulates the expression of hypoxia-responsive genes. Defects in hypoxic signaling have been suggested to underlie the degeneration of motoneurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We have recently identified mutations in the hypoxia-responsive gene, angiogenin (ANG), in ALS patients, and have shown that ANG is constitutively expressed in motoneurons. Here, we show that HIF-1alpha is sufficient and required to activate ANG in cultured motoneurons exposed to hypoxia, although ANG expression does not change in a transgenic ALS mouse model or in sporadic ALS patients. Administration of recombinant ANG or expression of wild-type ANG protected motoneurons against hypoxic injury, whereas gene silencing of ang1 significantly increased hypoxia-induced cell death. The previously reported ALS-associated ANG mutations (Q12L, K17I, R31K, C39W, K40I, I46V) all showed a reduced neuroprotective activity against hypoxic injury. Our data show that ANG plays an important role in endogenous protective pathways of motoneurons exposed to hypoxia, and suggest that loss of function rather than loss of expression of ANG is associated with ALS.
Clinical depression is viewed as a physical and psychic disease process having a neuropathological basis, although a clear understanding of its ethiopathology is still missing. The observation that depressive symptoms are influenced by pharmacological manipulation of monoamines led to the hypothesis that depression results from reduced availability or functional deficiency of monoaminergic transmitters in some cerebral regions. However, there are limitations to current monoamine theories related to mood disorders. Recently, a growing body of experimental data has showed that other classes of endogenous compounds, such as neuropeptides and amino acids, may play a significant role in the pathophysiology of affective disorders. With the development of neuroscience, neuronal networks and intracellular pathways have been identified and characterized, describing the existence of the interaction between monoamines and receptors in turn able to modulate the expression of intracellular proteins and neurotrophic factors, suggesting that depression/antidepressants may be intermingled with neurogenesis/neurodegenerative processes.
Nicotinamide/nicotinic acid mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) has long been known as the master enzyme in NAD biosynthesis in living organisms. A burst of investigations on NMNAT, going beyond enzymology, have paralleled increasing discoveries of key roles played by NAD homeostasis in a number or patho-physiological conditions. The availability of in-depth kinetics and structural enzymology analyses carried out on NMNATs from different organisms offer a powerful tool for uncovering fascinating evolutionary relationships. On the other hand, additional functions featuring NMNAT have emerged from investigations aimed at unraveling the molecular mechanisms responsible for complex biological phenomena such as neurodegeneration. NMNAT appears to be a multifunctional protein that sits both at the core of central metabolism and at a crossroads of multiple cellular processes. The resultant wealth of biochemical data has built a robust framework upon which design of NMNAT activators, inhibitors or enzyme variants of potential medical interest can be based.
Although the avian brain dopamine system and its functions have been studied much less than the mammalian one, there is an increasing interest in the role of dopamine and its receptors in a wide variety of motor, cognitive and emotional functions in birds with implications for basic research, medicine or agriculture. Pharmacological characterisation of the avian dopamine receptors has had little attention. In this paper we characterise the two classes of dopamine receptors in Japanese quail brain by radioligand binding techniques using [(3)H]SCH 23390 (D(1)) and [(3)H]spiperone (D(2)). Association, dissociation and saturation analyses showed that the binding of both radioligands is time- and concentration-dependent, saturable and reversible. Apparent dissociation constants determined for [(3)H]SCH 23390 and [(3)H]spiperone from concentration isotherms were 1.07 and 0.302 nM and the maximum binding capacities were 89.3 and 389.3 fmol per mg of protein, respectively. Using competitive binding studies with a spectrum of dopamine and other neurotransmitter receptor agonists/antagonists, the [(3)H]SCH 23390 and [(3)H]spiperone binding sites were characterised pharmacologically. Pharmacological profiles of quail dopamine receptors showed a high degree of pharmacological homology with other vertebrate dopamine receptors. The data presented extend the knowledge of kinetics and pharmacology of D(1)- and D(2)-like dopamine receptors in birds, provide data for avian psychopharmacological and comparative studies and represent an important complement to studies using cell expression systems.
A traumatic brain injury or a focal brain lesion is followed by acute excitotoxicity caused by the presence of abnormally high glutamate (Glu) levels in the cerebrospinal and interstitial fluids. It has recently been demonstrated that this excess Glu in the brain can be eliminated into the blood following the intravenous administration of oxaloacetate (OxAc), which, by scavenging the blood Glu, induces an enhanced and neuroprotective brain-to-blood Glu efflux. In this study, we subjected rats to a photothrombotic lesion and treated them after the illumination with a single 30-min-long administration of OxAc (1.2 mg/100 g, i.v.). Following induction of the lesion, we measured the infarct size and the amplitudes of the somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) as recorded from the skull surface. The photothrombotic lesion resulted in appreciably decreased amplitudes of the evoked potentials, but OxAc administration significantly attenuated this reduction, and also the infarct size assessed histologically. We suggest that the neuroprotective effects of OxAc are due to its blood Glu-scavenging activity, which, by increasing the brain-to-blood Glu efflux, reduces the excess Glu responsible for the anatomical and functional correlates of the ischemia, as evaluated by electrophysiological evoked potential (EP) measurements.

Endoplasmic protein sigma-1 receptors represent unique binding sites in the brain, and they exert a potent influence on a number of neurotransmitter systems. Several lines of evidence suggest that sigma-1 receptors play roles in the pathophysiology of psychiatric diseases, as well as in the active mechanisms of some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Interestingly, we reported that some SSRIs possess moderate to high affinities at sigma-1 receptors in the brain. Among them, the order of affinity for sigma-1 receptors was as follows: fluvoxamine &gt; sertraline &gt; fluoxetine &gt; citalopram &quot; paroxetine. In a cell culture system, we demonstrated that fluvoxamine, but not sertraline or paroxetine, significantly potentiated nerve-growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, and that the effect of fluvoxamine on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth was significantly antagonized by treatment with the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100. Furthermore, we reported that phencyclidine (PCP)-induced cognitive deficits in mice were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic administration of fluvoxamine, but not sertraline and paroxetine, and that the effect of fluvoxamine on PCP-induced cognitive deficits was antagonized by co-administration of NE-100. Moreover, a recent study using the specific sigma-1 receptor ligand [(11)C] SA4503 and positron emission tomography (PET) have demonstrated that an oral administration of fluvoxamine, but not paroxetine, could bind to sigma-1 receptors in the healthy human brain, in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that sigma-1 receptors might be implicated in the active mechanisms of fluvoxamine. In this article, the author would like to discuss the novel role of sigma-1 receptors in the active mechanisms of some SSRIs including fluvoxamine.
A series of 22 patients was consecutively diagnosed with hypnic headache (HH) from June 2007 to June 2008 in two headache specialty centres participating in the French Observatory of Migraine and Headaches. Patients and headache characteristics were compared with the 2004 International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd edn (ICHD-II) criteria for HH and published series of HH patients. One-third of HH patients reported migraine-like headaches (pulsating/unilateral/stabbing) and &gt; 20% were aged &lt; 50 years at symptom onset. Of note, HH patients displayed typical motor activities during the headache (getting up, eating/drinking especially a cup of coffee, reading/watching television) that differentiate HH from migraine and suggest relationships between HH and trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias. The functional and emotional impact of HH appears low and similar to that of migraine in patients consulting in primary care practice. Improvements in ICHD-II criteria are suggested, especially to introduce the typical motor behaviour acted out by HH patients.
The neocortex of primates, including humans, is thought to contain significantly higher numbers and more diverse forms of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) interneurons than that of rodents. The mouse cortex displays a number of other features that distinguish it from the cortex of primates and suggest a somewhat less complex pattern of organization. Nevertheless, dramatic findings on the origins and migratory patterns of newly specified GABAergic cortical interneurons in the embryonic mouse have led to a prevailing view that GABAergic cortical interneurons of all species are born in the ganglionic eminence and undergo the same long tangential migration toward the cortex that is seen in the mouse. Recent observations in fetal human and monkey brains, although clearly identifying GABAergic neurons that reach the neocortex via the tangential route, also demonstrate that substantial numbers of GABA neurons are generated in the lateral ventricular neuroepithelium and migrate into the cortex via the same radial route followed by glutamatergic neurons. In the course of evolution of the higher primate cortex, it is likely that new forms of cortical interneuron with origins in the ventricular neuroepithelium have been added to an older population derived from the ganglionic eminence.
Cortical excitatory glutamatergic projection neurons and inhibitory GABAergic interneurons follow substantially different developmental programs. In rodents, projection neurons originate from progenitors within the dorsal forebrain, whereas interneurons arise from progenitors in the ventral forebrain. In contrast, it has been proposed that in humans, the majority of cortical interneurons arise from progenitors within the dorsal forebrain, suggesting that their origin and migration is complex and evolutionarily divergent. However, whether molecularly defined human cortical interneuron subtypes originate from distinct progenitors, including those in the ventral forebrain, remains unknown. Furthermore, abnormalities in cortical interneurons have been linked to human disorders, yet no distinct cell population selective loss has been reported. Here we show that cortical interneurons expressing nitric oxide synthase 1, neuropeptide Y, and somatostatin, are either absent or substantially reduced in fetal and infant cases of human holoprosencephaly (HPE) with severe ventral forebrain hypoplasia. Notably, another interneuron subtype normally abundant from the early fetal period, marked by calretinin expression, and different subtypes of projection neuron were present in the cortex of control and HPE brains. These findings have important implications for the understanding of neuronal pathogenesis underlying the clinical manifestations associated with HPE and the developmental origins of human cortical interneuron diversity.
We examined the organization and cortical projections of the somatosensory thalamus using multiunit microelectrode recording techniques in anesthetized monkeys combined with neuroanatomical tracings techniques and architectonic analysis. Different portions of the hand representation in area 3b were injected with different anatomical tracers in the same animal, or matched body part representations in parietal areas 3a, 3b, 1, 2, and areas 2 and 5 were injected with different anatomical tracers in the same animal to directly compare their thalamocortical connections. We found that the somatosensory thalamus is composed of several representations of cutaneous and deep receptors of the contralateral body. These nuclei include the ventral posterior nucleus, the ventral posterior superior nucleus, the ventral posterior inferior nucleus, and the ventral lateral nucleus. Each nucleus projects to several different cortical fields, and each cortical field receives projections from multiple thalamic nuclei. In contrast to other sensory systems, each of these somatosensory cortical fields is uniquely innervated by multiple thalamic nuclei. These data indicate that multiple inputs are processed simultaneously within and across several, &quot;hierarchically connected&quot; cortical fields.
In V1, local circuitry depends on the position in the orientation map: close to pinwheel centers, recurrent inputs show variable orientation preferences; within iso-orientation domains, inputs are relatively uniformly tuned. Physiological properties such as cell's membrane potentials, spike outputs, and temporal characteristics change systematically with map location. We investigate in a firing rate and a Hodgkin-Huxley network model what constraints these tuning characteristics of V1 neurons impose on the cortical operating regime. Systematically varying the strength of both recurrent excitation and inhibition, we test a wide range of model classes and find the likely models to account for the experimental observations. We show that recent intracellular and extracellular recordings from cat V1 provide the strongest evidence for a regime where excitatory and inhibitory recurrent inputs are balanced and dominate the feed-forward input. Our results are robust against changes in model assumptions such as spatial extent and strength of lateral inhibition. Intriguingly, the most likely recurrent regime is in a region of parameter space where small changes have large effects on the network dynamics, and it is close to a regime of &quot;runaway excitation,&quot; where the network shows strong self-sustained activity. This could make the cortical response particularly sensitive to modulation.
Multisensory and sensorimotor integrations are usually considered to occur in superior colliculus and cerebral cortex, but few studies proposed the thalamus as being involved in these integrative processes. We investigated whether the organization of the thalamocortical (TC) systems for different modalities partly overlap, representing an anatomical support for multisensory and sensorimotor interplay in thalamus. In 2 macaque monkeys, 6 neuroanatomical tracers were injected in the rostral and caudal auditory cortex, posterior parietal cortex (PE/PEa in area 5), and dorsal and ventral premotor cortical areas (PMd, PMv), demonstrating the existence of overlapping territories of thalamic projections to areas of different modalities (sensory and motor). TC projections, distinct from the ones arising from specific unimodal sensory nuclei, were observed from motor thalamus to PE/PEa or auditory cortex and from sensory thalamus to PMd/PMv. The central lateral nucleus and the mediodorsal nucleus project to all injected areas, but the most significant overlap across modalities was found in the medial pulvinar nucleus. The present results demonstrate the presence of thalamic territories integrating different sensory modalities with motor attributes. Based on the divergent/convergent pattern of TC and corticothalamic projections, 4 distinct mechanisms of multisensory and sensorimotor interplay are proposed.
Studies show that sex plays a role in stress-related depression, with women experiencing a higher vulnerability to its effect. Two major targets of antidepressants are brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB). The aim of this study was to investigate the levels of CREB, phosphorylation of CREB (pCREB), and BDNF in stress-related brain regions of male and female rats after stress and recovery. CREB and pCREB levels were examined in CA1, CA2, CA3, paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT), amygdala, anterior cingulate area, dorsal part (ACAd), and infralimbic area of prefrontal cortex (PFC), whereas dentate gyrus (DG) and prelimbic area (PL) of PFC were examined for BDNF levels. Our results demonstrate that levels of CREB and pCREB in male CA1, CA2 and CA3, PVT, amygdala, and ACAd were reduced by stress, whereas the same brain regions of female rats exhibited no change. BDNF levels were decreased by chronic stress in female PL but were increased by acute stress in female DG. BDNF levels in male DG and PL were found not to undergo change in response to stress. Abnormalities in morphology occurred after chronic stress in males but not in females. In all cases, the levels of CREB, pCREB, and BDNF in recovery animals were comparable to the levels of these proteins in control animals. These findings demonstrate a sexual dimorphism in the molecular response to stress and suggest that these differences may have important implications for potential therapeutic treatment of depression.
Saccades are fast eye movements that direct the point of regard to a target in the visual field. Repeated post-saccadic visual errors can induce modifications of the amplitude of these saccades, a process known as saccadic adaptation. Two experiments using the same paradigm were performed to study the involvement of the cerebrum and the cerebellum in the processing of saccadic errors using functional magnetic resonance imaging and in-scanner eye movement recordings. In the first active condition, saccadic adaptation was prevented using a condition in which the saccadic target was shifted to a variable position during the saccade towards it. This condition induced random saccadic errors as opposed to the second active condition in which the saccadic target was not shifted. In the baseline condition, subjects looked at a stationary dot. Both active conditions compared with baseline evoked activation in the expected saccade-related regions using a stringent statistical threshold [the frontal and parietal eye fields, primary visual area, MT/V5, and the precuneus (V6) in the cerebrum; vermis VI-VII; and lobule VI in the cerebellum, known as the oculomotor vermis). In the direct comparison between the two active conditions, significantly more cerebellar activation (vermis VIII, lobules VIII-X, left lobule VIIb) was observed with random saccadic errors (using a more relaxed statistical threshold). These results suggest a possible role for areas outside the oculomotor vermis of the cerebellum in the processing of saccadic errors. Future studies of these areas with, e.g., electrophysiological recordings, may reveal the nature of the error signals that drive the amplitude modification of saccadic eye movements.
Animal experiments have demonstrated that the vast majority of vertical gaze-velocity Purkinje cells in the cerebellar floccular lobe, whose firing rate is modulated during vertical smooth pursuit eye movements, show a preference for downward pursuit. Here we validate the functional vertical asymmetry of the cerebellar flocculus in humans using functional magnetic resonance imaging by demonstrating a significantly higher activation of the floccular lobe for downward than for upward pursuit. The findings corroborate our recent hypothesis on the pathogenesis of cerebellar downbeat nystagmus.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) is characterized by bilateral basal ganglia hyperintensities on T2W and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, consistent with its extrapyramidal neurological manifestations. MRI is diagnostically uninformative about the cerebellar symptoms, equally prominent in CJD. This study was undertaken to explain this apparent paradox. Eleven CJD patients with definite cerebellar or brain stem symptoms were selected from a large prospective study, as well as 11 healthy controls matched for age and gender. All subjects participated in a standardized MRI protocol, including SPGR, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), DWI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). All subjects underwent detailed examination by a neurologist blinded to the radiological findings, who predicted the expected site of cerebral abnormalities. MRI showed good sensitivity for the abnormalities predicted in the cortex (80-90%) and basal ganglia (100%). None of the standard MRI sequences, including DWI, DTI, and FLAIR, revealed any tissue abnormalities in cerebellum or brain stem. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values, however, were substantially and significantly elevated in several cerebellar structures, where also the volumetric (VBM) analysis revealed elevated cerebrospinal fluid volume, suggesting focal cerebellar atrophy in these CJD patients. In patients with CJD, DWI appears sensitive to the reduced diffusivity in cortex and basal ganglia but insensitive to cerebellar involvement. We propose that the radiological hallmark of cerebellar pathology in CJD is atrophy, revealed quantitatively by both VBM and elevated diffusivity, which is identifiable on ADC maps but poorly visualized in nonquantitative DWI images.
Different subunits of the Kv3 subfamily of voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels (Kv3.1-Kv3.4) are expressed in distinct neuronal subpopulations in the cerebellum. Behavioral phenotypes in Kv3-null mutant mice such as ataxia with prominent hypermetria and heightened alcohol sensitivity are characteristic of cerebellar dysfunction. Here, we review how the unique biophysical properties of Kv3-type potassium channels, fast activation and fast deactivation that enable cerebellar neurons to generate brief action potentials at high frequencies, affect firing patterns and influence cerebellum-mediated behavior.
Execution of rapid ballistic movement is characterized by triphasic, alternating electromyographic bursts in agonist (AG) and antagonist (ANT) muscles. The ability to rapidly initiate movement and cancel ongoing action is a basic requirement for efficient control of motor function. Normal functioning of the cerebellum is necessary for the generation of AG and ANT muscle activity that should be both of appropriate magnitude and timing to control the dynamic phase of arm movements. We studied AG, ANT reaction time (RT), and RT differences in both motor activation (MA) and motor cancellation (MC) tasks, in response to an auditory stimulus. The results showed that right cerebellar transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with a horizontally applied focal coil resulted in decreased AG RT and increased latency difference between AG RT and ANT RT (DIFF) in the ipsilateral upper limb during MC. No effect was apparent during sham stimulation, MA tasks, left upper limb recording, and other coil orientations. While the high correlation between AG and ANT RT suggests a close relationship in both MA and MC, significant DIFF changes point to an alteration of this relationship by TMS during MC. Although TMS resulted in significantly increased DIFF during MC tasks, this was not due to delayed ANT RT. This suggests that the short ANT burst observed invariably during MC may not be a cerebellum-generated response, but is derived from the cortical or subcortical level. The focal nature of our TMS coil and the horizontally effective orientation supports the hypothesis of interference with the parallel fiber system. Our findings contribute to the understanding of cerebellar neural networks involvement in movements, in particular, those pertaining to cessation of an ongoing action not previously addressed.
The perceived quality of a binary mixture will, as a rule of thumb, be dominated by the quality of the stronger unmixed component. On the other hand, there are mechanisms that, in theory, suggest that this will not always be true; one example being receptor antagonism. Undecanal has been indicated as an antagonist for bourgeonal-sensitive receptors in the human olfactory epithelium. Therefore, we investigated mixtures of isointense concentrations of bourgeonal and undecanal and, as a control, mixtures of isointense concentrations of bourgeonal and n-butanol. Both mixture types were investigated at 2 levels of concentration. The particular aim was to see if the bourgeonal-undecanal mixtures would exhibit asymmetric odor quality favoring the perception of the antagonist and the control mixture would not. For the control mixture, indeed odor quality tended to be dominated by the strongest component before mixing as would be suggested from previous studies. In line with the hypothesis, the bourgeonal-undecanal mixture was dominated by the antagonist's quality, but only when mixed at higher concentrations, altogether suggesting the effects of a low-affinity receptor antagonism. This is, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of how antagonistic interaction at the level of the receptor can affect the perception of odor mixtures in humans.
A comparison of clinical features and adult outcome in adolescents with three types of psychotic disorders: schizophrenic (SPh), schizoaffective (SA) and bipolar with psychotic features (BPP). Subjects (n = 41) were finally diagnosed (DSM-IV criteria) with SPh (n = 17), SA (n = 11) or BPP (n = 13). Clinical evaluation took place at onset and at a 3-year follow-up in all 41, and at least after 5 years in 36 patients. Symptoms were rated on the basis of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), integrating items from the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children-Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL). The Children Global Assessment Scale (C-GAS) and the Global Assessment Scale (GAF) were used to evaluate global functioning. Significant differences in clinical features were found in the three diagnostic groups as regards several parameters, some present on one and not on other rating scales, underscoring the insufficiency of a single scale for accurate analysis of the features of a psychotic disorder. At onset, a comparison using the simple presence/absence of symptoms showed scant differences among groups, while differences emerged if symptom severity was included in the comparison. Functioning at 3- and 5-year follow-ups showed a significantly better outcome in the BPP group and more substantial deterioration, with similar evolution, in the SPh and SA groups. The integration of several rating scales differentiated between diagnostic groups more effectively. The similar adult functioning outcome in the SPh and SA groups showed how difficult it is to clearly separate these two disorders.
A 72-year-old right-handed woman presented with a 6-month history of right thoracic wall discomfort. An MRI of the thoracic spine showed a small dumbbell-shaped mass centered within the right T7-8 foramen. The patient was asked to return to clinic for reevaluation to include a new MRI of the thoracic spine in 6 months. She did not comply with this recommendation and 1 year later, she presented with increasing difficulty ambulating and spastic paraparesis. A follow-up MRI of the thoracic spine now demonstrated significant interval growth of the mass with an extra-foraminal component extending into the thoracic cavity. She was taken to the operating room for resection of the epidural tumor. The pathology was consistent with diffuse follicle center lymphoma as cells were immunohistologically positive for CD20, CD 10, BCL-2 and BCL-6. Primary spinal follicle center lymphomas of the spine are rare with the current case being the first diffuse follicle center type reported in the literature.
Gliosarcoma is an uncommon variant of glioblastoma characterized by a biphasic pattern of glial and mesenchymal differentiation in the tumor. These tumors occur mostly in the cerebral hemispheres. Intraventricular location is extremely rare. Extensive review of literature revealed only two cases of intraventricular gliosarcoma. The first case arose by malignant transformation of a preexisting ependymoma. The second case was a gliosarcoma involving the frontal lobe with extension into the lateral ventricle. We report a case of an exclusively lateral ventricular tumor probably arising from the interventricular septum and blocking the CSF pathway. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an exclusively intraventricular gliosarcoma.

We report the case of a 24-year-old female patient who initially developed a neuroleptic malignant syndrome after haloperidol exposure and experienced 6 years later a serotonin syndrome after repeated fluoxetine exposure. The patient did not respond to symptomatic treatment and died in this latter episode. At necropsy, no gross or microscopic changes were seen with conventional histological stains, and immunohistochemical stains were negative. This is the first clinicopathologic case of a patient who experienced both neuroleptic malignant and serotonin syndromes. We speculate that this case argue in favor that both syndromes share some fundamental pathogenetic mechanisms.
Atypical antipsychotics are known to be associated with electroencephalogram abnormalities. Olanzapine can lower seizure threshold and induce epileptiform discharges. However in patients on olanzapine for the treatment of a primary psychiatric disorder, clinical seizure is a rare occurrence. We report the case of a 25-year-old man with a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia with obsessive-compulsive disorder of 8 years' duration who developed new-onset generalized tonic-clonic seizure with exposure to olanzapine. Electroencephalogram showed epileptiform discharges; results of computed tomographic scan and metabolic investigations were normal. His antipsychotic was changed to haloperidol, and the patient showed a significant improvement in psychotic symptoms with no recurrence of seizures and did not require anticonvulsant therapy. Olanzapine has a profile similar to that of clozapine and shares its seizure-inducing potential. Typical antipsychotics such as haloperidol might be a safer option for such patients.

We performed an electronic search by using MEDLINE, PreMEDLINE, Current Contents, Biological Abstracts, and PsycINFO from June 2002 to December 2008 using the following terms: &quot;antidepressant drugs&quot;, &quot;antidepressive agents&quot;, &quot;human milk&quot;, &quot;lactation&quot;, and &quot;breastfeeding&quot; and the generic name of each antidepressant. Articles in the English language with reports of antidepressants in maternal serum or breast milk, infant serum, and short-term and long-term clinical outcomes in the infants were obtained. The search yielded a total of 31 empirical papers. Breastfeeding and antidepressant treatments are not mutually exclusive. Sertraline, paroxetine, nortriptyline, and imipramine are the most evidence-based medications for use during breastfeeding.
There exists a link between the in utero metabolic environment and the development of the fetal nervous system. Prenatal neurosonography offers a unique, noninvasive tool in the detection of developmental brain malformations and the ability to monitor changes over time. This article explores the association of malformations of cerebral development reported in association with inborn errors of metabolism, and speculates on potential mechanisms by which such malformations arise. The detection of cerebral malformations prenatally should lead to a search for both genetic etiologies and inborn errors of metabolism in the fetus. Improving the changes of an early diagnosis provides for timely therapeutic interventions and it is hoped a brighter future for affected children and their families.
This article reviews key recent findings in the field of human cortical development. This development is divided into three major time-dependent phases: neural proliferation of inhibitory and excitatory neurons in spatially distinct regions, migration through multiple cellular boundaries, and maturation through morphologic changes that result in the elaboration of dendrites and axons and that establish the multitude of cellular contacts that underlie neuronal processing. Many of the neurocognitive disorders treated in the clinic can trace their origin to a disorder in one or more of these key steps. Along with this update, work is highlighted that offers a glimpse at the future of therapy for developmental brain disorders that can result from disorders of these cellular events.
The basic science literature is replete with descriptions of naturally occurring or experimentally induced pathological grooming behaviors in animals, which are widely considered animal models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). These animal models rely largely on observed similarities between animal behaviors and human OCD behaviors, and on studies of animal pathological grooming disorders that respond to serotonin enhancing drugs. However, current limitations in assessment of complex cognition and affect in animals precludes the field's ability to match the driving primary processes behind observable phenomenology in animal &quot;OCD&quot; with human behavioral disorders. We propose that excessive grooming behaviors in animals may eventually prove to be equally, or possibly more relevant to, other conditions in humans that involve pathological grooming or grooming-like behaviors, such as trichotillomania, body dysmorphic disorder, olfactory reference syndrome, compulsive skin-picking, and onychophagia. Research is needed to better understand pathological grooming behaviors in both humans and animals, as animal models have the potential to elucidate pathogenic mechanisms and inform the treatment of these psychiatric conditions in humans.
Depersonalization disorder (DPD) is characterized by a subjective sense of detachment from one's own being and a sense of unreality. An examination of the psychobiology of depersonalization symptoms may be useful in understanding the cognitive-affective neuroscience of embodiment. DPD may be mediated by neurocircuitry and neurotransmitters involved in the integration of sensory processing and of the body schema, and in the mediation of emotional experience and the identification of feelings. For example, DPD has been found to involve autonomic blunting, deactivation of sub-cortical structures, and disturbances in molecular systems in such circuitry. An evolutionary perspective suggests that attenuation of emotional responses, mediated by deactivation of limbic structures, may sometimes be advantageous in response to inescapable stress.

Moderate physiological or emotional arousal induced after learning modulates memory consolidation, helping to distinguish important memories from trivial ones. Yet, the contribution of subjective awareness or interpretation of arousal to this effect is uncertain. Alexithymia, which is an inability to describe or identify one's emotional and arousal states even though physiological responses to arousal are intact, provides a tool to evaluate the role of arousal interpretation. Participants scoring high and low on alexithymia (N=30 each) learned a list of 30 words, followed by immediate recall. Participants then saw either an arousing (oral surgery) or neutral video (tooth brushing). Memory was tested 24-h later. Physiological response to arousal was comparable between groups, but subjective response to arousal was impaired in high alexithymia. Yet, delayed word recognition was enhanced by arousal regardless of alexithymia status. Thus, subjective response to arousal, i.e., cognitive appraisal, was not necessary for memory modulation to occur.
A crucial aspect of the human mind is the ability to project the self along the time line to past and future. It has been argued that such self-projection is essential to re-experience past experiences and predict future events. In-depth analysis of a novel paradigm investigating mental time shows that the speed of this &quot;self-projection&quot; in time depends logarithmically on the temporal-distance between an imagined &quot;location&quot; on the time line that participants were asked to imagine and the location of another imagined event from the time line. This logarithmic pattern suggests that events in human cognition are spatially mapped along an imagery mental time line. We argue that the present time-line data are comparable to the spatial mapping of numbers along the mental number line and that such spatial maps are a fundamental basis for cognition.
One of the fundamental issues in visual awareness is how we are able to perceive the scene in front of our eyes on time despite the delay in processing visual information. The prediction theory postulates that our visual system predicts the future to compensate for such delays. On the other hand, the postdiction theory postulates that our visual awareness is inevitably a delayed product. In the present study we used flash-lag paradigms in motion and color domains and examined how the perception of visual information at the time of flash is influenced by prior and subsequent visual events. We found that both types of event additively influence the perception of the present visual image, suggesting that our visual awareness results from joint contribution of predictive and postdictive mechanisms.
A key question in studying consciousness is how neural operations in the brain can identify streams of sensory input as belonging to distinct modalities, which contributes to the representation of qualitatively different experiences. The basis for identification of modalities is proposed to be constituted by self-organized comparative operations across a network of unimodal and multimodal sensory areas. However, such network interactions alone cannot answer the question how sensory feature detectors collectively account for an integrated, yet phenomenally differentiated experiential content. This problem turns out to be different from, although related to, the binding problem. It is proposed that the neural correlate of an enriched, multimodal experience is constituted by the attractor state of a dynamic associative network. Within this network, unimodal and multimodal sensory maps continuously interact to influence each other's attractor state, so that a feature change in one modality results in a fast re-coding of feature information in another modality. In this scheme, feature detection is coded by firing-rate, whereas firing phase codes relational aspects.
Impairments of semantic processing and inhibition have been observed in Parkinson's disease (PD), however, the consequences of faulty meaning selection and suppression have not been considered in terms of subsequent lexical processing. The present study employed a lexical ambiguity repetition paradigm where the first presentation of an ambiguity paired with a target biasing its dominant or subordinate meaning (e.g., bank - money or bank - river) was followed after several intervening trials by a presentation of the same ambiguity paired with a different target that biases the same (congruent) or a different (incongruent) meaning to that biased on the first presentation. Meaning dominance (dominant or subordinate weaker meanings) and interstimulus interval (ISI) were manipulated. Analyses conducted on the second presentation indicated priming of congruent meanings and no priming for the incongruent meanings at both short and long ISIs in the healthy controls, consistent with suppression of meanings competing with the representation biased in the first presentation. In contrast, the PD group failed to dampen activation for the incongruent meaning at the long ISI when the first presentation was subordinate. This pattern is consistent with an impairment of meaning suppression which is observed under controlled processing conditions and varies as a function of meaning dominance of the first presentation. These findings further refine our understanding of lexical-semantic impairments in PD and suggest a mechanism that may contribute to discourse comprehension impairments in this population.
The evidence with regard to impaired automatic and controlled information processing in non-demented patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is critically discussed. We use a comprehensive mental schema framework of executive functioning, that is the planning and regulation of behavior in complex everyday tasks (International Classification of Functioning - ICF - activity level). In this framework monitoring, inhibition, mental effort, planning, working memory and flexibility are important elements of controlled processing (supervisory attentional control) and controlled processing can only influence performance by modulating automatic processes. The striatum plays an important role in the interface between controlled and automatic processes. It is wel documented that PD patients show impairments applying and achieving automaticities. With sustained cortical control of task performance during both automatic and controlled processing, not showing the transition to striatal control, which is normal in the case of skill learning. In addition, PD patients have been shown to be limited in executive functioning. Many authors have interpreted this as evidence for impaired executive functions (ICF body level). But the question must be asked to what extent these limitations are an indirect effect of impaired automatic processing. To answer this question, studies on executive functioning are critically assessed with regard to the control they have provided for impaired automaticity. It is concluded that only for cognitive flexibility and working memory, the evidence for impairments is convincing because significant limitations have also been shown in tasks with very low automatic processing demands. Impairments in other executive functions, such as monitoring, inhibition and planning have not been convincingly shown in non-demented PD patients and are likely to be due to treatment strategies and factors such as fatigue.
A growing number of studies suggest that language problems in Parkinson's disease (PD) are a result of executive dysfunction. To test this hypothesis we compared Dutch verb production in sentence context in a group of 28 PD patients with a control group consisting of 28 healthy participants matched for age, gender and education. All subjects were assessed on both verb production in sentence context as well as on cognitive functions relevant for sentence processing. PD patients scored lower than healthy controls on the verb production ability-scale and showed a response pattern in which performance was worse (1) in base than in derived position; (2) in present than in past tense; (3) for intransitive than in transitive verbs. For the PD group the score on the verb production ability-scale correlated significantly with set-switching and working memory. These results provide support for previous research suggesting that executive dysfunctions underlie the performance of the PD patients on verb production. It is furthermore suggested that because of failing automaticity, PD patients rely more on the cortically represented executive functions. Unfortunately, due to the disturbed intimate relation between the basal ganglia and the frontal cortex, these executive functions are also dysfunctional.
The 'omnipresence' of adenosine in all nervous system cells (neurons and glia) together with the intensive release of adenosine following insults, makes adenosine as a sort of 'maestro' of synapses leading to the homeostatic coordination of brain function. Besides direct actions of adenosine on the neurosecretory mechanisms, where adenosine operates to tune neurotransmitter release, receptor-receptor interactions as well as interplays between adenosine receptors and transporters occur as part of the adenosine's attempt to fine tuning synaptic transmission. This review will focus on the different ways adenosine can use to trigger or brake the action of several neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Adenosine receptors cross talk with other G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), with ionotropic receptors and with receptor kinases. Most of these interactions occur through A2A receptors, which in spite their low density in some brain areas, such as the hippocampus, may function as metamodulators. Tonic adenosine A2A receptor activity is a required step to allow synaptic actions of neurotrophic factors, namely upon synaptic transmission at both pre- and post-synaptic level as well as upon synaptic plasticity and neuronal survival. The implications of these interactions in normal brain functioning and in neurologic and psychiatric dysfunction will be discussed.
Chondroitin sulfate (CS), a polysaccharide moiety of proteoglycans, is one of the major components of the extracellular matrix in the central nervous system and is involved in various cellular events in the formation and maintenance of the neural network. In the developing brain, CS in the milieu of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) is believed to participate in the regulation of their functions such as proliferation and differentiation. NSPCs are expected to act as a potent cell type in cell replacement therapy for neurodegeneration in various neurological diseases. Recently, it has been shown that transplantation of NSPCs combined with removal of extracellular CS from the host nervous tissues gives a satisfactory outcome in some animal models of nervous tissue injuries including neonatal hypoxic-ischemic injury and adult spinal cord injury. The combination of cell transplantation with modification of the extracellular matrix of the host tissue could be a novel strategy for the treatment of incurable neurodegenerative diseases.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the selective loss of both spinal and upper motor neurons. One strategy in treating ALS is to use stem cells to replace lost spinal motor neurons. However, transplanted stem cell-derived motor neurons may not survive when exposed to the harsh microenvironment in the spinal cord of ALS. In particular, dysfunctional astrocytes and overactivated microglia in ALS may limit the survival of motor neurons generated from cell replacement therapy. On the other hand, stem cells may provide large quantities of motor neurons that can be used for studying glia-mediated toxic mechanisms and potential therapies in ALS. Here we will review methods and molecular factors for directed differentiation of stem cells into spinal motor neurons, the potential uses of these models for dissecting the mechanisms underlying glia-induced motor neuron degeneration and screening for new therapeutics aimed at protecting motor neurons in ALS, as well as discuss challenges facing the development of motor neuron replacement-based cell therapies for recovery in ALS.
Aggressive behavior is a major concern in mental health and criminal justice settings. Although pharmacotherapy is often used in the treatment of the violent individual, no medication is presently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration specifically for such use. In recent years, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have become increasingly popular for the management of impulsive (reactive) aggressive behavior. The research literature has implicated several neurobiologic deficits associated with impulsive aggression, including reduced central serotonergic functioning, executive dysfunction, and prefrontal deficits. It has been suggested that the neurobiologic deficits specific to impulsive aggressive behavior may serve as indicators of an ineffective behavioral control system. A review of the literature finds that AEDs, particularly those that block sodium channels and/or have GABA-related mechanisms of action, are effective in reducing the frequency and intensity of impulsive aggressive outbursts both when used as the primary agent of treatment and as an adjunct to ongoing pharmacotherapy. Strong evidence for efficacy in impulsive aggression exists from randomized controlled trials for most of the common AEDs (phenytoin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine, valproate/divalproex sodium, topiramate). Additional controlled studies are needed for tiagabine and gabapentin. Of the common AEDs, only levetiracetam has been shown to be ineffective in the treatment of impulsive aggression. It is important to note that the anti-aggressive effects seen with the AEDs appear to be specific to the impulsive form of aggression. Individuals who display premeditated aggression do not seem to benefit from this type of treatment. Clinically, we recommend phenytoin (initial dose 100 mg three times daily) as the AED of first choice for the treatment of impulsive aggressive outbursts. This recommendation is based on this drug's limited side effect profile (compared with the other AEDs) and the large amount of empiric data supporting its clinical efficacy in impulsive aggression. In the event that the impulsive aggressive individual does not respond to pharmacotherapy with phenytoin, carbamazepine (initial dose 150 mg three times daily) and valproate/divalproex sodium (initial dose 250 mg three times daily) have both proved to be effective secondary options.
Concerns have arisen during recent years over a possible link between suicide and medications used to treat several medical conditions, including depression, asthma, epilepsy, and smoking. The concern over the safety of these medications was sparked by data from postmarketing and retrospective analyses of clinical trials. However, clinical trials were not initially designed to measure suicidality, and this methodologic limitation weakens the ability to make causal conclusions. Postmarketing results also have methodologic limitations (such as the absence of control groups) that limit the ability to make causal conclusions. Postmarketing results are also misleading because each of the medical conditions involved is highly comorbid with depression. The risk of not treating these conditions with an active and effective medication may clearly outweigh the possible slight elevation of the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors. The decision to take a medication should be made in consultation with a physician and based upon considerations of the risks and benefits of the medication. Physicians and the public need accurate information on the suicide risks associated with medications to make informed treatment decisions. The most effective way to ascertain the true risk (or lack of risk) associated with a medication is to systematically and prospectively assess suicidal thoughts and behaviors in randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. If a medication is scientifically determined to increase the risk for suicidal thoughts and behaviors, then the risk needs to be accurately translated and communicated to physicians and patients. Physicians prescribing these medications will need to closely monitor and assess their patients for changes in mood and suicide risk throughout treatment and must be able to recognize when a patient needs specialized mental health care. Mental status changes can be appropriately monitored and managed. Some medical conditions, such as asthma and epilepsy, and some treatment goals, such as smoking cessation, have inherent increased risks for depression-and by extension, suicide-that necessitate accurate, ongoing assessment.
Sulfatase 1 is a secreted enzyme that modulates the sulfation state of heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), which are potential key regulators of diverse developmental signals during embryonic patterning. In the present work, we have analyzed the Sulf1 gene expression pattern during chicken forebrain development. Our results indicate that, at early developmental stages, chicken Sulf1 is expressed in the alar and basal plate of the secondary prosencephalon (telencephalon and hypothalamus, respectively) as well as in the diencephalic basal and floor plates. Later in development, Sulf1 is expressed by a subset of nuclei derived from these regions.
Recent studies have indicated that non-protein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) may play prominent and diverse roles in the development of the nervous system. These ncRNAs are now known to perform a broad range of cellular functions, and in particular appear to be prominent players in the regulation of transcription and translation. In this review, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of the role of ncRNAs in vertebrate retinal development. Noncoding RNAs that are known or suspected to play a functional role in the specification and maturation of retinal cell subtypes include miRNAs, long noncoding opposite-strand transcripts (OSTs), and other long ncRNAs such as Tug1 and RNCR2. Though the mechanism of action of most of these ncRNAs is still largely unclear, it is likely that these molecules represent a major, and thus far largely unappreciated, component of the molecular machinery involved in retinal cell fate specification.
The experience of child maltreatment is a known risk factor for the development of psychopathology. Structural and functional modifications of neural systems implicated in stress and emotion regulation may provide one mechanism linking early adversity with later outcome. The authors examined two well-documented biological markers of stress vulnerability [resting frontal electroencephalogram (EEG) asymmetry and cardiac vagal tone] in a group of adolescent females exposed to child maltreatment (n = 38; M age = 14.47) and their age-matched non-maltreated (n = 25; M age = 14.00) peers. Maltreated females exhibited greater relative right frontal EEG activity and lower cardiac vagal tone than controls over a 6-month period. In addition, frontal EEG asymmetry and cardiac vagal tone remained stable in the maltreated group across the 6 months, suggesting that the neurobiological correlates of maltreatment may not simply reflect dynamic, short-term changes but more long lasting alterations. The present findings appear to be the first to demonstrate stability of two biologically based stress-vulnerability measures in a maltreated population. Findings are discussed in terms of plasticity within the neural circuits of emotion regulation during the early childhood period and alternative causal models of developmental psychopathology.
An infant rat's chance of survival is increased when it remains close to the nest. Early olfactory learning supports such adaptive behavior. Previous experiments indicated that non-associative odor exposure immediately after birth promoted later attachment to a similarly scented artificial nipple. The goal of the current experiments was to extend these findings on olfactory learning in the hours after birth by: exposing pups to more than one odor exposure (Experiment 1), dissecting the role of timing versus order of odor exposure (Experiment 2), testing the odor specificity of these effects (Experiments 3 and 4), and evaluating associative odor conditioning soon after birth (Experiment 5). Without explicit prior odor experience, pups only hours old do not respond much to a novel odor. Prior non-associative odor experience increases later motor activity to that same odor and to novel odors. Furthermore, these findings may be specific to certain amodal dimensions of the (in our case) lemon odor exposure. Single odor non-associative and associative conditioning was equally effective immediately after birth and during the third postnatal hour. Nevertheless, pups given two mere odor exposures responded to the first one more than the second at test, regardless of whether the exposures began immediately or 2 hr after birth. Possible mechanisms for these findings concerning early olfactory learning are discussed.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) develops from neural crest cells (NCCs) that enter the foregut and hindgut to become enteric neural-crest-derived cells (ENCCs). When these cells of neural crest origin fail to colonize the terminal hindgut, this aganglionic region becomes non-functional and results in a condition in humans known as Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR). One of the genes associated with HSCR is endothelin receptor type B (Ednrb). To study the development of colonic aganglionosis we have utilized a novel knockout mouse (Ednrb(flex3/flex3)), in which the expression of a null Ednrb allele and YFP is confined to NCCs. We have identified two primary cellular defects related to defective EDNRB signaling. First, ENCC advance in Ednrb(flex3/flex3) embryos is delayed shortly after NCCs enter the gut. Apart from this early delay, Ednrb(flex3/flex3) ENCCs advance normally until reaching the proximal colon. Second, as Ednrb(flex3/flex3) ENCCs reach the colon at E14.5, they display migratory defects, including altered trajectories and reduced speed, that are not dependent on proliferation or differentiation. We constructed grafts to test the ability of donor ENCCs to invade a recipient piece of aganglionic colon. Our results indicate that the age of the recipient, and not the age or genotype of donor ENCCs, determines whether the colon is invaded. We identify changes in laminin expression that are associated with the failure of ENCCs to invade recipient tissue. Together, our data suggest that a defect in pre-enteric Ednrb(flex3/flex3) NCCs results in delayed colonic arrival, which, due to environment changes in the colon, is sufficient to cause aganglionosis.
The radial glial cells serve as neural progenitors and as a migratory guide for newborn neurons in the developing cerebral cortex. These functions require appropriate organization and proliferation of the polarized radial glial scaffold. Here, we demonstrate in mice that the myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate protein (MARCKS), a prominent cellular substrate for PKC, modulates radial glial placement and expansion. Loss of MARCKS results in ectopic collection of mitotically active radial progenitors away from the ventricular zone (VZ) in the upper cerebral wall. Apical restriction of key polarity complexes [CDC42, beta-catenin (CTNNB1), N-cadherin (CDH2), myosin IIB (MYOIIB), aPKCzeta, LGL, PAR3, pericentrin, PROM1] is lost. Furthermore, the radial glial scaffold in Marcks null cortex is compromised, with discontinuous, non-radial processes apparent throughout the cerebral wall and deformed, bulbous, unbranched end-feet at the basal ends. Further, the density of radial processes within the cerebral cortex is reduced. These deficits in radial glial development culminate in aberrant positioning of neurons and disrupted cortical lamination. Genetic rescue experiments demonstrate, surprisingly, that phosphorylation of MARCKS by PKC is not essential for the role of MARCKS in radial glial cell development. By contrast, the myristoylation domain of MARCKS needed for membrane association is essential for MARCKS function in radial glia. The membrane-associated targeting of MARCKS and the resultant polarized distribution of signaling complexes essential for apicobasal polarity may constitute a critical event in the appropriate placement, proliferation and organization of polarized radial glial scaffold in the developing cerebral cortex.
PTF1-J is a trimeric transcription factor complex essential for generating the correct balance of GABAergic and glutamatergic interneurons in multiple regions of the nervous system, including the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and the cerebellum. Although the components of PTF1-J have been identified as the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factor Ptf1a, its heterodimeric E-protein partner, and Rbpj, no neural targets are known for this transcription factor complex. Here we identify the neuronal differentiation gene Neurog2 (Ngn2, Math4A, neurogenin 2) as a direct target of PTF1-J. A Neurog2 dorsal neural tube enhancer localized 3' of the Neurog2 coding sequence was identified that requires a PTF1-J binding site for dorsal activity in mouse and chick neural tube. Gain and loss of Ptf1a function in vivo demonstrate its role in Neurog2 enhancer activity. Furthermore, chromatin immunoprecipitation from neural tube tissue demonstrates that Ptf1a is bound to the Neurog2 enhancer. Thus, Neurog2 expression is directly regulated by the PTF1-J complex, identifying Neurog2 as the first neural target of Ptf1a and revealing a bHLH transcription factor cascade functioning in the specification of GABAergic neurons in the dorsal spinal cord and cerebellum.


This study investigated the extent to which hydromorphone (HYD) choice and behavioral economic demand were influenced by HYD unit price (UP), alternative money reinforcement magnitude and post-session HYD supply. Heroin-dependent research volunteers (n=13) stabilized on buprenorphine 8 mg/day first sampled two HYD doses (12 and 24 mg IM, labeled Drug A [session 1] and Drug B [session 2]). In each of the final six sessions, volunteers were given access to a 12-trial choice progressive ratio (PR) task and could earn a HYD unit dose (2 mg, fixed) or money ($2 or $4, varied across sessions), administered immediately after the work session. Before the PR task, volunteers were told which HYD supplemental dose (none, Drug A or B) would be available 3h after receiving the PR-contingent dose. PR-contingent HYD choice significantly decreased when $4 relative to $2 was concurrently available. Information about the post-session HYD supplement moderated this effect: when subjects were told a supplemental dose was available, HYD-seeking behavior decreased when the money alternative was smaller ($2), but this information did not further attenuate HYD choice, which was already low, when the money alternative was higher ($4). HYD demand elasticity was only increased by the $4 relative to $2 alternative without the HYD supplement. In summary, opioid-seeking behavior is influenced by the availability of concurrent non-drug and drug alternatives. These findings show that drug availability and non-drug alternatives interact to modulate drug-seeking behavior.

CRH directs the physiological and behavioral responses to stress. Its activity is mediated by CRH receptors (CRH-R) 1 and 2 and modulated by the CRH-binding protein. Aberrant regulation of this system has been associated with anxiety disorders and major depression, demonstrating the importance of understanding the regulation of CRH activity. An mRNA splice variant of CRH-R2alpha (sCRH-R2alpha) was recently identified that encodes the receptor's ligand-binding extracellular domain but terminates before the transmembrane domains. It was therefore predicted to serve as a secreted decoy receptor, mimicking the ability of CRH-binding protein to sequester free CRH. Although the splice variant contains a premature termination codon, predicting its degradation by nonsense-mediated RNA decay, cycloheximide experiments and polysome profiles demonstrated that sCRH-R2alpha mRNA escaped this regulation and was efficiently translated. However, the resulting protein was unable to serve as a decoy receptor because it failed to traffic for secretion because of an ineffective signal peptide and was ultimately subjected to proteosomal degradation. Several other truncated splice variants of G protein-coupled transmembrane receptors regulate the amount of full-length receptor expression through dimerization and misrouting; however, receptor binding assays and immunofluorescence of cells cotransfected with sCRH-R2alpha and CRH-R2alpha or CRH-R1 indicated that sCRH-R2alpha protein does not alter trafficking or binding of full-length CRH-R. Although sCRH-R2alpha protein does not appear to function as an intracellular or extracellular decoy receptor, the regulated unproductive splicing of CRH-R2alpha pre-mRNA to sCRH-R2alpha may selectively alter the cellular levels of full-length CRH-R2alpha mRNA and hence functional CRH-R2alpha receptor levels.
Increasing evidence suggests that the renin-angiotensin-system contributes to the etiology of obesity. To evaluate the role of the renin-angiotensin-system in energy and glucose homeostasis, we examined body weight and composition, food intake, and glucose tolerance in rats given the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril ( approximately 40 mg/kg . d). Rats given captopril weighed less than controls when fed a high-fat diet (369.3 +/- 8.0 vs. 441.7 +/- 8.5 g after 35 d; P &lt; 0.001) or low-fat chow (320.1 +/- 4.9 vs. 339.8 +/- 5.1 g after 21 d; P &lt; 0.0001). This difference was attributable to reductions in adipose mass gained on high-fat (23.8 +/- 2.0 vs. 65.12 +/- 8.4 g after 35 d; P &lt; 0.0001) and low-fat diets (12.2 +/- 0.7 vs. 17.3 +/- 1.3 g after 21 d; P &lt; 0.001). Rats given captopril ate significantly less [3110.3 +/- 57.8 vs. 3592.4 +/- 88.8 kcal (cumulative 35 d high fat diet intake); P &lt; 0.001] despite increased in neuropeptide-Y mRNA expression in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and had improved glucose tolerance compared with free-fed controls. Comparisons with pair-fed controls indicated that decreases in diet-induced weight gain and adiposity and improved glucose tolerance were due, primarily, to decreased food intake. To determine whether captopril caused animals to defend a lower body weight, animals in both groups were fasted for 24 h and subsequently restricted to 20% of their intake for 2 d. When free food was returned, captopril and control rats returned to their respective body weights and elicited comparable hyperphagic responses. These results suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition protects against the development of diet-induced obesity and glucose intolerance.
Previous work has shown that allowing rats to voluntarily exercise in a running wheel for 4 wk modifies the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and behavioral coping responses to stress. To investigate whether long-term voluntary exercise would also affect the free, biologically active fraction of corticosterone in the brain, we conducted an in vivo microdialysis study in the hippocampus of rats. We monitored both the baseline circadian and ultradian patterns of corticosterone in hippocampus dialysates over the diurnal cycle and the responses to forced swim and novelty stress at different stages of exercise. Exercise for 1 d, 2 d, or 1 wk did not affect baseline circadian and ultradian pulse parameters or stress-induced hippocampal free corticosterone concentrations suggesting that acute or short-term periods of exercise do not affect baseline and stress-induced hormone levels. Baseline hormone parameters in 4 wk exercised rats, however, showed significantly increased pulse amplitudes (+108%) and mean free corticosterone levels (+42%) between 1500 and 2100 h but not between 0900 and 1500 h. Surprisingly, although our previous work showed substantial changes in stress-evoked plasma (total) corticosterone responses in long-term exercised animals, no differences in stress-induced hippocampal free hormone responses could be observed between exercised and sedentary animals. This lack of differences was not caused by compensatory changes in plasma corticosteroid-binding-globulin binding levels in exercising rats. Thus, long-term exercising rats show anticipatory increases in glucocorticoid output before the start of the active phase. These rats also reveal the putative existence of a containment mechanism preventing overexposure of the brain to glucocorticoid hormones.
Negative energy balance during lactation is reflected by low levels of insulin and leptin and is associated with chronic hyperphagia and suppressed GnRH/LH activity. We studied whether restoration of insulin and/or leptin to physiological levels would reverse the lactation-associated hyperphagia, changes in hypothalamic neuropeptide expression [increased neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AGRP) and decreased proopiomelanocortin (POMC), kisspeptin (Kiss1), and neurokinin B (NKB)] and suppression of LH. Ovariectomized lactating rats (eight pups) were treated for 48 h with sc minipumps containing saline, human insulin, or rat leptin. The arcuate nucleus (ARH) was analyzed for NPY, AGRP, POMC, Kiss1, and NKB mRNA expression; the dorsal medial hypothalamus (DMH) was analyzed for NPY mRNA. Insulin replacement reversed the increase in ARH NPY/AGRP mRNAs, partially recovered POMC, but had no effect on recovering Kiss1/NKB. Leptin replacement only affected POMC, which was fully recovered. Insulin/leptin dual replacement had similar effects as insulin replacement alone but with a slight increase in Kiss1/NKB. The lactation-induced increase in DMH NPY was unchanged after treatments. Restoration of insulin and/or leptin had no effect on food intake, body weight, serum glucose or serum LH. These results suggest that the negative energy balance of lactation is not required for the hyperphagic drive, although it is involved in the orexigenic changes in the ARH. The chronic hyperphagia of lactation is most likely sustained by the induction of NPY in the DMH. The negative energy balance also does not appear to be a necessary prerequisite for the suppression of GnRH/LH activity.


The International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) Subcommittee for Pediatric Neuroimaging examined the usefulness of, and indications for, neuroimaging in the evaluation of children with newly diagnosed epilepsy. The retrospective and prospective published series with n &gt; or = 30 utilizing computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (1.5 T) that evaluated children with new-onset seizure(s) were reviewed. Nearly 50% of individual imaging studies in children with localization-related new-onset seizure(s) were reported to be abnormal; 15-20% of imaging studies provided useful information on etiology or and seizure focus, and 2-4% provided information that potentially altered immediate medical management. A significant imaging abnormality in the absence of a history of a localization-related seizure, abnormal neurologic examination, or focal electroencephalography (EEG) is rare. Imaging studies in childhood absence epilepsy, juvenile absence epilepsy, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, and benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) do not identify significant structural abnormalities. Imaging provides important contributions to establishing etiology, providing prognostic information, and directing treatment in children with recently diagnosed epilepsy. Imaging is recommended when localization-related epilepsy is known or suspected, when the epilepsy classification is in doubt, or when an epilepsy syndrome with remote symptomatic cause is suspected. When available, MRI is preferred to CT because of its superior resolution, versatility, and lack of radiation.
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may affect serum thyroid hormone concentrations. This prospective, randomized study evaluated thyroid function in men and women with epilepsy both before and after double-blinded withdrawal of AED monotherapy, and assessed whether any changes were reversible. One hundred sixty patients were randomized to withdrawal and nonwithdrawal groups; 150 patients completed the intervention and were included in the 12-month study. Serum samples were obtained from 130 patients, from before and 4 months after intervention. Following AED withdrawal, significant increases in free thyroxine (FT(4)) serum concentrations were measured in men and women treated with carbamazepine. In women treated with valproate, serum concentrations of free triiodothyronine (FT(3)) decreased significantly in the withdrawal group. Thus, for both men and women with epilepsy, carbamazepine treatment reduces serum FT(4) concentrations, but valproate treatment of women with epilepsy increases serum FT(3.) Our study demonstrated that these changes can be reversed by treatment withdrawal, even after years of treatment.
That emotional memory enhancement is compromised in adult patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), particularly in the case of early cerebral damage, has been suspected. We conducted a study in which we compared 20 children and adolescents aged 11-15 years with early TLE with 40 healthy control subjects. We studied the effect of emotional information on verbal memory performance using story recall and word list learning tasks. Our results highlighted the existence of emotional memory facilitation in healthy subjects, whereas there was no beneficial impact of emotional material on memory in young patients with TLE. Our study suggests that early TLE can impair the development of emotional memory processes.
Mutations in the myelin protein zero (MPZ) gene have been associated with different Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) phenotypes, including classical demyelinating CMT1B and the axonal form of the disease (CMT2). The MPZ role in the pathogenesis of both demyelinating and axonal inherited neuropathies was evaluated in the Italian population by screening a cohort of 214 patients with CMT1 or CMT2. A MPZ mutation frequency of 7.9% in demyelinating cases and of 4.8% in axonal cases was observed. In the total cohort (264 patients), including those with mutations in other genes, a mutation frequency of 5.8% (7/121) in demyelinating cases and 4.2% (6/143) in axonal cases was found. Three novel MPZ mutations, two missense (p.Ser111Cys, p.Thr124Ala) and one frameshift (p.Tyr145fs) were found, and a molecular modelling approach was used to test the effects of these mutations on the protein structure. Electrostatic distribution changes within the protein, caused by the amino acid substitution, fit in with phenotypes presented by patients herein described. Our findings suggest that the clinical features associated with MPZ mutations depend partly on the nature of amino acid change and that molecular modelling may provide useful support, based on effects on secondary and tertiary protein structure, to predict the phenotype associated with MPZ mutations.
Obesity is associated with numerous inflammatory conditions including atherosclerosis, autoimmune disease and cancer. Although the precise mechanisms are unknown, obesity-associated rises in TNF-alpha, IL-6 and TGF-beta are believed to contribute. Here we demonstrate that obesity selectively promotes an expansion of the Th17 T-cell sublineage, a subset with prominent pro-inflammatory roles. T-cells from diet-induced obese mice expand Th17 cell pools and produce progressively more IL-17 than lean littermates in an IL-6-dependent process. The increased Th17 bias was associated with more pronounced autoimmune disease as confirmed in two disease models, EAE and trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid colitis. In both, diet-induced obese mice developed more severe early disease and histopathology with increased IL-17(+) T-cell pools in target tissues. The well-described association of obesity with inflammatory and autoimmune disease is mechanistically linked to a Th17 bias.
von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL) is a dominantly inherited familial cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of malignant and benign tumours, most frequently retinal, cerebellar, and spinal hemangioblastoma, renal cell carcinoma, pheochromocytoma, and pancreatic tumours. The current study investigated the occurrence of VHL mutations in Italian patients with classic VHL disease or with atypical VHL-like clinical features referred to the Service of Medical Genetics for VHL molecular diagnosis. In addition, an RQ-PCR protocol was validated in order to introduce it in the routine VHL laboratory diagnosis.
The predominant motor features of Parkinson's disease (PD) are caused by degeneration of dopaminergic neurones and can be reversed in part or whole by dopamine replacement or augmentation strategies. Physicians have most experience with the use of levodopa, which remains the most potent oral dopaminergic treatment for PD. There are reservations about the long-term use of levodopa, most particularly in the context of its propensity to induce motor fluctuations and dyskinesias. Strategies exist to delay or diminish these complications, but the physician must lay the basis for these in the selection of drugs for early treatment and the sequence of drugs introduced subsequently. Levodopa efficacy and duration of effect may be enhanced by combination with a catechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitor. Maintaining good motor function and quality of life remain the primary goals of therapy and the principle that treatment must be tailored to the individual patient's needs is paramount.
A major challenge in neuroscience is to identify genes that influence specific behaviors and to understand the intermediary neuronal mechanisms. One approach is to identify so-called endophenotypes at different levels of neuronal organization from synapse to brain activity. An endophenotype is a quantitative trait that is closer to the gene action than behavior, and potentially a marker of neuronal mechanisms underlying behavior. Hippocampal activity and, in particular, hippocampal oscillations have been suggested to underlie various cognitive and motor functions. To identify quantitative traits that are potentially useful for identifying genes influencing hippocampal activity, we measured gamma oscillations and spontaneous activity in acute hippocampal slices from eight inbred mouse strains under three experimental conditions. We estimated the heritability of more than 200 quantitative traits derived from this activity. We observed significant differences between the different mouse strains, particularly in the amplitude of the activity and the correlation between activities in different hippocampal subregions. Interestingly, these traits had a low genetic correlation between the three experimental conditions, which suggests that different genetic components influence the activity in different conditions. Our findings show that several traits of hippocampal gamma oscillations and spontaneous activity are heritable and could thus be potentially useful in gene-finding strategies based on endophenotypes.
Human subjects are able to prepare cognitively to resist an involuntary movement evoked by a suprathreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) applied over the primary motor cortex (M1) by anticipatory selective modulation of corticospinal excitability. Uncovering how the sensorimotor cortical network is involved in this process could reveal directly how a prior intention can tune the intrinsic dynamics of M1 before any peripheral intervention. Here, we used combined TMS-EEG to study the cortical integrative processes that are engaged both in the preparation to react to TMS (Resist vs. Assist) and in the subsequent response to it. During the preparatory period, the contingent negative variation (CNV) amplitude was found to be smaller over central electrodes (FC1, C1, Cz) when preparing to resist compared with preparing to assist the evoked movement whereas alpha-oscillation power was similar in the two conditions. Following TMS, the amplitude of the TMS evoked-N100 component was higher in the Resist than in the Assist condition for some central electrodes (FCz, C1, Cz, CP1, CP3). Moreover, for six out of eight subjects, a single-trial-based analysis revealed a negative correlation between CNV amplitude and N100 amplitude. In conclusion, prior intention can tune the excitability of M1. When subjects prepare to resist a TMS-evoked movement, the anticipatory processes cause a decreased cortical excitability by locally increasing the inhibitory processes.
Oscillations may organize communication between components of large-scale brain networks. Although gamma-band oscillations have been repeatedly observed in cortical-basal ganglia circuits, their functional roles are not yet clear. Here I show that, in behaving rats, distinct frequencies of ventral striatal local field potential oscillations show coherence with different cortical inputs. The approximately 50 Hz gamma oscillations that normally predominate in awake ventral striatum are coherent with piriform cortex, whereas approximately 80-100 Hz high-gamma oscillations are coherent with frontal cortex. Within striatum, entrainment to gamma rhythms is selective to fast-spiking interneurons, with distinct fast-spiking interneuron populations entrained to different gamma frequencies. Administration of the psychomotor stimulant amphetamine or the dopamine agonist apomorphine causes a prolonged decrease in approximately 50 Hz power and increase in approximately 80-100 Hz power. The same frequency switch is observed for shorter epochs spontaneously in awake, undrugged animals and is consistently provoked for &lt; 1 s following reward receipt. Individual striatal neurons can participate in these brief high-gamma bursts with, or without, substantial changes in firing rate. Switching between discrete oscillatory states may allow different modes of information processing during decision-making and reinforcement-based learning, and may also be an important systems-level process by which stimulant drugs affect cognition and behavior.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is associated with chronic debilitating joint pain. Pain is the result of an emotional and sensory experience and preclinical models of OA can thus be useful to better understand the underlying mechanisms of the disease and test new therapeutic options. We induced unilateral knee OA in Sprague-Dawley rats using monosodium iodoacetate (MIA), a glycolysis inhibitor and assessed the effects of acute and chronic morphine and gabapentin using a battery of quantitative behavioural outcome measures of pain and disability. Animals received a single intra-articular injection of 2mg MIA in 25 microl saline, causing inflammation and progressive cartilage degradation. Mechanical and thermal sensitivity as well as ambulatory-evoked pain were then monitored using von Frey hairs, acetone and a rotarod. Once maximum nociceptive responses were reached, chronic bi-daily morphine (3mg/kg s.c.) or gabapentin (30 mg/kg s.c.) were administered for 5 days. We observed a marked biphasic mechanical hypersensitivity that increased and reached a plateau from day 14 (317.6% of control response, p&lt;0.01, with von Frey 6g). Moreover we found a marked cooling hypersensitivity, and validated a novel ambulatory-evoked pain score. These measures were significantly reduced after both acute (13.3% of sham response, p&lt;0.01, von Frey 6g) and chronic (38.3%, p&lt;0.05) morphine whilst only chronic gabapentin (37.0%, p&lt;0.05) had an effect. We show the reliability of the model in terms of mechanical hypersensitivity and demonstrate cooling hypersensitivity and ambulatory-evoked pain. In terms of translational research, the effects of morphine and gabapentin validate the model and suggest trials of these therapeutic approaches in OA patients.
The hippocampus governs memory formation and emotional regulation, and there is widespread evidence of hippocampal dysfunction in psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and autism. There is abundant evidence that prenatal viral infection may play a role in the development of these two disorders. In the current study, we have examined gene expression and structural changes of the hippocampi of exposed neonates following maternal infection at embryonic day (E) 16 (middle second trimester). We observed significant changes in gene expression in the offspring at postnatal day (P) 0 (birth), P14 (childhood), and P56 (adulthood), including a number of candidate genes for autism and schizophrenia. qRT-PCR verified the direction and magnitude of change for 5 of the genes from the microarray data set and revealed mRNA changes for additional genes associated with schizophrenia and autism. MRI revealed a decrease in hippocampal volume at P35 (adolescence). Our results demonstrate altered gene expression and reduced hippocampal volume in the offspring following prenatal viral infection at E16.
In this study, we investigated behavioral factors underlying conditioned place preference (CPP) induced by social interaction in adolescent rats. We found that the magnitude of socially-induced CPP depended on the social motivation of the animals and on the amount of training. After extinction, socially-induced CPP could be reinstated by a single reconditioning session. Treatment with methylphenidate, which disrupts social play behavior in adolescent rats, but not social exploratory behavior, prevented the development of socially-induced CPP. Interestingly, methylphenidate by itself induced CPP. These data demonstrate that: 1. social interaction is rewarding in adolescent rats; 2. appetitive and mnemonic factors influence the development of socially-induced CPP; 3. comparable to drug-induced CPP, socially-induced CPP can be extinguished and reinstated; 4. social play is likely to be the most rewarding aspect of social interaction in adolescent rats; 5. social context influences the subjective effects of methylphenidate.
Advances in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technology and analytic tools provide a powerful approach to unravel how the human brain combines the different sensory systems. In this perspective, we outline promising future directions of fMRI to make optimal use of its strengths in multisensory research, and to meet its weaker sides by combining it with other imaging modalities and computational modeling.
In so-called 'mirror-touch synaesthesia', observing touch to another person induces a subjective tactile sensation on the synaesthete's own body. It has been suggested that this type of synaesthesia depends on increased activity in neural systems activated when observing touch to others. Here we report the first study on the prevalence of this variant of synaesthesia. Our findings indicate that this type of synaesthesia is just as common, if not more common than some of the more frequently studied varieties of synaesthesia such as grapheme-colour synaesthesia. Additionally, we examine behavioural correlates associated with the condition. In a second experiment, we show that synaesthetic experiences are not related to somatotopic cueing--a flash of light on an observed body part does not elicit the behavioural or subjective characteristics of synaesthesia. Finally, we propose a neurocognitive model to account for these characteristics and discuss the implications of our findings for general theories of synaesthesia.
The movement of an organism typically provides an observer with information in more than one sensory modality. The integration of information modalities reduces the likelihood that the observer will be confronted with a scene that is perceptually ambiguous. With that in mind, observers were presented with a series of point-light walkers each of which varied in the strength of the gender information they carried. Presenting those stimuli with auditory walking sequences containing ambiguous gender information had no effect on observers' ratings of visually perceived gender. When the visual stimuli were paired with auditory cues that were unambiguously female, observers' judgments of walker gender shifted such that ambiguous walkers were judged to look more female. To show that this is a perceptual rather than a cognitive effect, we induced visual gender after-effects with and without accompanying female auditory cues. The pairing of gender-neutral visual stimuli with unambiguous female auditory cues during adaptation elicited male after-effects. These data suggest that biological motion processing mechanisms can integrate auditory and visual cues to facilitate the extraction of higher-order features like gender. Possible neural substrates are discussed.
Calcium-independent phospholipase A2, group VIA (iPLA2-VIA) is involved in cell proliferation. This study aimed to evaluate the role of iPLA2-VIA in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cell proliferation and in retinal diseases involving RPE proliferation. A human RPE cell line (ARPE-19) was used to explore this role in vitro. Proliferating ARPE-19 cells had increased expression and activity of iPLA2-VIA. iPLA2-VIA was found in the nuclei of proliferating ARPE-19 cells, whereas in confluent ARPE-19 cells, with limited proliferation, iPLA2-VIA was primarily found in the cytosol. Inhibition of iPLA2-VIA decreased the rate of proliferation, whereas over expression of iPLA2-VIA increased the rate of proliferation. Using an experimental porcine model of RPE proliferation we demonstrated significant nuclear upregulation of iPLA2-VIA in proliferating RPE cells in vivo. We furthermore evaluated the expression of iPLA2-VIA in proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR). PVR membranes revealed nuclear expression of iPLA2-VIA in the RPE cells which had migrated and participated in the formation of the membranes. Overall, the present results point to an important role of iPLA2-VIA in the regulation of RPE proliferation suggesting that iPLA2-VIA may be considered as a possible pharmaceutical target in retinal diseases involving RPE proliferation and migration.
Protocols used for generation of mesencephalic dopamine (mesDA) neurons from stem cells, or fetal brain tissue, invariably result in cell preparations that are highly mixed in composition, containing mesDA neuron precursors in various states of fate commitment and differentiation. For further optimisation and refinement of these procedures it is essential to determine the optimal stage of development and phenotypic characteristics of cells used for grafting. We have used fluorescence-activated cell sorting procedures to isolate mesDA precursors in defined stages of differentiation from mouse ventral mesencephalon (VM), at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5), when the mesDA neuron domain consists of proliferative radial glia-like cells expressing the mesDA neuron determinant Lmx1a and the floorplate marker Corin, and at E12.5, when the VM has expanded to comprise a mixture of proliferative progenitors, neuroblasts and young neurons. The sorted cells were transplanted to the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Results show that the Lmx1a/Corin-expressing ventricular zone progenitors, which are the source of mesDA neurons in grafts from E10.5 VM, had lost this capacity at E12.5. At this later stage all transplantable mesDA precursors resided in the intermediate zone as postmitotic Nurr1-expressing neuroblasts. The more differentiated, TH-expressing cells survived sorting and transplantation poorly. We also provide evidence that, during early mesDA neurogenesis, the progenitors for nigral mesDA neurons segregate to lateral parts of the Lmx1a-expressing domain and can be selectively isolated based on their level of Corin expression. These results have implications for current efforts to develop well-characterized stem cell-derived mesDA progenitor cell preparations for cell therapy.
The endogenous hippocampal opioid systems are implicated in learning associated with drug use. Recently, we showed that ovarian hormones regulate enkephalin levels in the mossy fiber pathway. This pathway overlaps with parvalbumin (PARV)-basket interneurons that contain the enkephalin-activated mu opioid receptors (MORs) and are important for controlling the &quot;temporal timing&quot; of granule cells. Here, we evaluated the influence of ovarian steroids on the trafficking of MORs in PARV interneurons. Two groups of female rats were analyzed: cycling rats in proestrus (relatively high estrogens) or diestrus; and ovariectomized rats euthanized 6, 24 or 72 h after estradiol benzoate (10 microg, s.c.) administration. Dorsal hippocampal sections were dually immunolabeled for MOR and PARV and examined by light and electron microscopy. As in males, in females MOR-immunoreactivity (-ir) was in numerous PARV-labeled perikarya, dendrites and terminals in the dentate hilar region. Variation in ovarian steroid levels altered the subcellular distribution of MORs in PARV-labeled dendrites but not terminals. In normal cycling rats, MOR-gold particles on the plasma membrane of small PARV-labeled dendrites (area &lt;1 microm2) had higher density in proestrus rats than in diestrus rats. Likewise, in ovariectomized rats MORs showed higher density on the plasma membrane of small PARV-labeled dendrites 72 h after estradiol exposure. The number of PARV-labeled cells was not affected by estrous cycle phase or estrogen levels. These results demonstrate that estrogen levels positively regulate the availability of MORs on GABAergic interneurons in the dentate gyrus, suggesting cooperative interaction between opioids and estrogens in modulating principal cell excitability.
Although injured peripheral axons are able to regenerate, functional recovery is usually poor after nerve transection. In this study we aim to elucidate the role of neuronal activity, induced by nerve electrical stimulation and by exercise, in promoting axonal regeneration and modulating plasticity in the spinal cord after nerve injury. Four groups of adult rats were subjected to sciatic nerve transection and suture repair. Two groups received electrical stimulation (3 V, 0.1 ms at 20 Hz) for 1 h, immediately after injury (ESa) or during 4 weeks (1 h daily; ESc). A third group (ES+TR) received 1 h electrical stimulation and was submitted to treadmill running during 4 weeks (5 m/min, 2 h daily). A fourth group performed only exercise (TR), whereas an untreated group served as control (C). Nerve conduction, H reflex and algesimetry tests were performed at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 weeks after surgery, to assess muscle reinnervation and changes in excitability of spinal cord circuitry. Histological analysis was made at the end of the follow-up. Groups that received acute ES and/or were forced to exercise in the treadmill showed higher levels of muscle reinnervation and increased numbers of regenerated myelinated axons when compared to control animals or animals that received chronic ES. Combining ESa with treadmill training significantly improved muscle reinnervation during the initial phase. The facilitation of the monosynaptic H reflex in the injured limb was reduced in all treated groups, suggesting that the maintenance of activity helps to prevent the development of hyperreflexia.
5-HT1 receptor agonists have been shown to reduce abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the rat and monkey models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Different mechanisms have been proposed to underlie this effect. Activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors has been suggested to inhibit dysregulated release of dopamine from the serotonin terminals, and thus, abnormal activation of striatal dopamine receptors. Activation of post-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors expressed in non-serotonergic neurons in different brain areas, by contrast, has been shown to result in decreased glutamate and GABA release, which may also contribute to the antidyskinetic effect. To unveil the relative contribution of these mechanisms, we have investigated the effect of increasing doses of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptor agonists on AIMs induced by either L-DOPA or apomorphine. In contrast to L-DOPA-induced AIMs, which were dampened already at low doses of 5-HT1 agonists, reduction of apomorphine-induced AIMs required higher doses. Removal of the serotonin innervation suppressed L-DOPA-induced AIMs, but neither affected apomorphine-induced AIMs nor the inhibiting effect of 5-HT1 agonists on AIMs induced by the direct dopamine agonist, suggesting that such effect is independent on activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors.
Dopamine (DA) affects GABA neuronal function in the striatum and together these neurotransmitters play a large role in locomotor function. We recently reported that unilateral striatal administration of GDNF, a growth factor that has neurotrophic effects on DA neurons and enhances DA release, bilaterally increased striatal neuron activity related to locomotion in aged rats. We hypothesized that the GDNF enhancement of DA function and resulting bilateral enhancement of striatal neuronal activity was due to prolonged bilateral changes in DA- and GABA-regulating proteins. Therefore in these studies we assessed dopamine- and GABA-regulating proteins in the striatum and substantia nigra (SN) of 24 month old Fischer 344 rats, 30 days after a single unilateral striatal delivery of GDNF. The nigrostriatal proteins investigated were the DA transporter (DAT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and TH phosphorylation and were examined by blot-immunolabeling. The striatal GABA neuron-related proteins were examined by assay of the DA D1 receptor, DARPP-32, DARPP-32 Thr34 phosphorylation, and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Bilateral effects of GDNF on TH and DAT occurred only in the SN, as 30 microg GDNF increased ser19 phosphorylation, and 100 microg GDNF decreased DAT and TH protein levels. GDNF also produced bilateral changes in GAD protein in the striatum. A decrease in DARPP-32 occurred in the ipsilateral striatum, while increased D1 receptor and DARPP-32 phosphorylation occurred in the contralateral striatum. The 30 microg GDNF infusion into the lateral striatum was confined to the ipsilateral striatum and substantia nigra. Thus, long-lasting bilateral effects of GDNF on proteins regulating DA and GABA neuronal function likely alter physiological properties in neurons, some with bilateral projections, associated with locomotion. Enhanced nigrostriatal excitability and DA release by GDNF may trigger these bilateral effects.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating stroke with no proven treatment to reduce brain injury. In this study we modeled ICH by injecting 100 microL of autologous blood into the striatum of rats. We then tested whether hypothermia would reduce brain injury and improve recovery as has been repeatedly observed for ischemic and traumatic brain damage. Aside from reducing blood-brain barrier disruption, inflammation and edema, hypothermia has not consistently improved behavioral or histological outcome after ICH in animal studies. As this might relate to the choice of cooling method and the duration of hypothermia, we used a system that selectively cooled the injured hemisphere to approximately 32 degrees C (striatum) while the body remained normothermic. Cooling (vs. normothermia) started 1 h after ICH and lasted for 12 h, 3 days or 6 days followed by slow re-warming (approximately 1 degrees C/h). Functional impairment was evaluated from 2 to 3 weeks post-ICH at which time brain injury was determined. The ICH caused significant impairment on a neurological deficit scale and in tests of walking (horizontal ladder), skilled reaching (tray task) and spontaneous limb usage (cylinder test). Only the limb use asymmetry deficit was significantly mitigated by hypothermia, and then only by the longest treatment. Lesion volume, which averaged 16.9 mm3, was not affected. These results, in conjunction with earlier studies, suggest that prolonged mild hypothermia will not be a profound neuroprotectant for patients with striatal ICH, but it may nonetheless improve functional recovery in addition to its use for treating cerebral edema.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), a methyl-CpG-binding domain protein family member which is expressed predominantly in neurons in the nervous system, acts as a transcriptional repressor by binding to methylated genes, and mutations in mecp2 cause the neurological disorder known as Rett syndrome (RTT). Although MeCP2 has been reported to regulate neuronal maturation rather than fate specification of neural precursor cells (NPCs), we have previously shown that it inhibits astrocyte differentiation of NPCs when ectopically expressed. Here, we show that expression of MeCP2 in NPCs not only suppresses astrocytic differentiation but actually promotes neuronal differentiation, even in the presence of well-known astrocyte-inducing cytokines. This dual function of MeCP2 was abolished by the MEK inhibitor U0126. Moreover, we observed that a truncated form of MeCP2 found in RTT patients fails to promote neuronal differentiation. We further demonstrate that transplanted MeCP2-expressing NPCs differentiate in vivo into neurons in two non-neurogenic regions, striatum and spinal cord. These results suggest a possible therapeutic application for MeCP2 in neurodegenerative diseases and injuries to the central nervous system.
Experimental stroke and excitotoxic brain lesion to the striatum increase the proliferation of cells residing within the ventricular wall and cause subsequent migration of newborn neuroblasts into the lesioned brain parenchyma. In this study, we clarify the different events of neurogenesis following striatal or cortical excitotoxic brain lesions in adult rats. Newborn cells were labeled by intraperitoneal injection of bromo-deoxy-uridine (BrdU), or by green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing lentiviral vectors injected into the subventricular zone (SVZ). We show that only neural progenitors born the first 5 days in the SVZ reside and expand within this neurogenic niche over time, and that these early labeled cells are more prone to migrate towards the striatum as neuroblasts. However, these neuroblasts could not mature into NeuN+ neurons in the striatum. Furthermore, we found that cortical lesions, close or distant from the SVZ, could not upregulate SVZ cell proliferation nor promote neurogenesis. Our study demonstrates that both the time window for labeling proliferating cells and the site of lesion are crucial when assessing neurogenesis following brain injury.

Background: Mitochondrial disorders (MD) are diseases caused by impairment of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Phenotypes are polymorphous and may range from pure myopathy to multisystemic disorders. The genetic defect can be located on mitochondrial or nuclear DNA. At present, diagnosis of MD requires a complex approach: measurement of serum lactate, electromyography, muscle histology and enzymology, and genetic analysis. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy allows the assessment of tissue metabolic alterations, thus providing useful information for the diagnosis and monitoring of MD. Molecular soluble markers of mitochondrial dysfunction, at rest and during exercise, can identify the impairment of the aerobic system in MD, but a reliable biomarker for the screening or diagnosis of MD is still needed. Objective: Molecular and genetic characterization of MD, together with other experimental approaches, contribute to add new insights to these diseases. Here, the role and advances of diagnostic techniques for MD are reviewed. Conclusion: Possible applications of the results obtained by new molecular investigative approaches could in future guide therapeutic strategies.

This review explores the epidemiological evidence for the relationship between depression and cardiovascular disease from a mechanistic standpoint. It is important to examine the biological, behavioral and social mechanisms to improve outcomes for depressed cardiac patients. A number of plausible biobehavioral mechanisms linking depression and cardiovascular disease have been identified. Tricyclic antidepressants have various effects on the cardiovascular system, while selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are not associated with adverse cardiac effects and should, therefore, be the preferred choice for the treatment of most patients with comorbid depression and cardiovascular disease.
Stroke and transient ischemic attacks result from a range of mechanisms. Secondary prevention includes both conventional approaches to vascular risk-factor management (blood pressure lowering, cholesterol reduction with statins, smoking cessation and antiplatelet therapy) and more specific interventions, such as carotid endarterectomy or anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation. The relative importance of even conventional risk factors in stroke differs from coronary artery disease. Large clinical trials produce information on most aspects of stroke prevention. Stroke and transient ischemic attacks are now recognized as medical emergencies, with a high early risk of recurrence, and evidence is accumulating to support the importance of immediate institution of secondary preventative treatments. We review current literature on the secondary prevention of stroke.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is not an uncommon disorder and affects both children and adults, being more frequent in the younger group. It is said to constitute one third of all encephalidities and usually follows in the wake of a banal viral infection, but may occur after immunizations and as a complication of diseases affecting the cerebral endothelial cells. There is no specific diagnostic test but a good clinical history, attention to clinical findings along with MRI scan often help to make the diagnosis. Treatment with high dose steroids clearly helps as do immunosuppressives and plasma exchange. Whilst the prognosis is generally good, some series have shown 20% mortality, often with high morbidity.
A population of glial cells in the central nervous system of the gastropod mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis produces a soluble protein that specifically binds acetylcholine. This protein is named the acetylcholine binding protein (AChBP). Experiments performed in vitro indicated that AChBP inactivates released acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses. On the basis of these observations, a similar in vivo role for AChBP was hypothesized. To fulfill this function, AChBP-expressing glia ought to be located in close proximity to cholinergic synapses in vivo. To examine this, we have analyzed the cellular and subcellular expression of AChBP in the intact CNS. Using a variety of molecular techniques, we demonstrate here that AChBP expression is confined to a subpopulation of glial cells located within the peripheral zone of each of the ganglia constituting the CNS. This zone contains the cell bodies of neurons, but few synapses. Conversely, glial cells that do not express the AChBP are predominantly located in the synapse-rich central neuropile zone but are rare in the cell body zone. Thus, our findings are not compatible with the previous conclusions drawn from in vitro studies and suggest that AChBP functions in vivo as a regulator of nonsynaptic cholinergic transmission.
The reconstruction of large-scale nervous systems represents a major scientific and engineering challenge in current neuroscience research that needs to be resolved in order to understand the emergent properties of such systems. We focus on insect nervous systems because they represent a good compromise between architectural simplicity and the ability to generate a rich behavioral repertoire. In insects, several sensory maps have been reconstructed so far. We provide an overview over this work including our reconstruction of population activity in the primary olfactory network, the antennal lobe. Our reconstruction approach, that also provides functional connectivity data, will be refined and extended to allow the building of larger scale neural circuits up to entire insect brains, from sensory input to motor output.
The study of memory in most behavioral paradigms, including emotional memory paradigms, has focused on the feed forward components that underlie Hebb's first postulate, associative synaptic plasticity. Hebb's second postulate argues that activated ensembles of neurons reverberate in order to provide temporal coordination of different neural signals, and thereby facilitate coincidence detection. Recent evidence from our groups has suggested that the lateral amygdala (LA) contains recurrent microcircuits and that these may reverberate. Additionally this reverberant activity is precisely timed with latencies that would facilitate coincidence detection between cortical and sub cortical afferents to the LA. Thus, recent data at the microcircuit level in the amygdala provide some physiological evidence in support of the second Hebbian postulate.
&quot;Brian&quot; is a simulator for spiking neural networks (http://www.briansimulator.org). The focus is on making the writing of simulation code as quick and easy as possible for the user, and on flexibility: new and non-standard models are no more difficult to define than standard ones. This allows scientists to spend more time on the details of their models, and less on their implementation. Neuron models are defined by writing differential equations in standard mathematical notation, facilitating scientific communication. Brian is written in the Python programming language, and uses vector-based computation to allow for efficient simulations. It is particularly useful for neuroscientific modelling at the systems level, and for teaching computational neuroscience.
In our complex acoustic environment, we are confronted with a mixture of sounds produced by several simultaneous sources. However, we rarely perceive these sounds as incomprehensible noise. Our brain uses perceptual organization processes to independently follow the emission of each sound source over time. If the acoustic properties exploited in these processes are well-established, the neurophysiological mechanisms involved in auditory scene analysis remain unclear and have recently raised more interest. Here, we review the studies investigating these mechanisms using electrophysiological recordings from the cochlear nucleus to the auditory cortex, in animals and humans. Their findings reveal that basic mechanisms such as frequency selectivity, forward suppression and multi-second habituation shape the automatic brain responses to sounds in a way that can account for several important characteristics of perceptual organization of both simultaneous and successive sounds. One challenging question remains unresolved: how are the resulting activity patterns integrated to yield the corresponding conscious percepts?
Nitric oxide (NO) is a versatile messenger molecule first associated with endothelial relaxing effects. In the central nervous system (CNS), NO synthesis is primarily triggered by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and has a Janus face, with both beneficial and harmful properties. There are three isoforms of the NO synthesizing enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS): neuronal (nNOS), endothelial (eNOS), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), each one involved with specific events in the brain. In the CNS, nNOS is involved with modulation of synaptic transmission through long-term potentiation in several regions, including nociceptive circuits in the spinal cord. Here, we review the role played by NO on central pain sensitization.
Fezf2 (also known as Fezl, ZNF312, or Zfp312) is an evolutionarily conserved forebrain-specific zinc finger transcription factor that is expressed during development and is implicated in patterning as well as neurogenesis in both zebrafish and mice. Despite these findings, the expression of fezf2 in the adult brain has not been well characterized, and fezf2 function in the adult brain remains unknown. The zebrafish has recently emerged as a new model system to study adult neurogenesis, given its similarity to mammalian systems and enhanced capability of undergoing adult neurogenesis. Through RNA in situ hybridization and using a fezf2 promoter-driven GFP transgenic line, we present data showing that fezf2 is expressed in radial glial progenitor cells of the telencephalic ventricular zone in the adult zebrafish brain, which co-express markers of neural stem cells and proliferation. Additionally, we identify the preoptic region and the hypothalamus as fezf2-expressing neurogenic regions in the adult zebrafish brain, where fezf2 labels progenitor cells as well as postmitotic neurons. Our findings establish Fezf2 as a novel marker for adult telencephalic ventricular progenitor cells that express markers of neural stem cells in zebrafish and lay a critical foundation for future investigation of Fezf2 function in the maintenance and differentiation of neural stem cells in the adult vertebrate brain.

We studied the genomic positions of 38,129 putative ncRNAs from the RIKEN dataset in relation to protein-coding genes. We found that the dataset has 41% sense, 6% antisense, 24% intronic and 29% intergenic transcripts. Interestingly, 17,678 (47%) of the FANTOM3 transcripts were found to potentially be internally primed from longer transcripts. The highest fraction of these transcripts was found among the intronic transcripts and as many as 77% or 6929 intronic transcripts were both internally primed and unspliced. We defined a filtered subset of 8535 transcripts that did not overlap with protein-coding genes, did not contain ORFs longer than 100 residues and were not internally primed. This dataset contains 53% of the FANTOM3 transcripts associated to known ncRNA in RNAdb and expands previous similar efforts with 6523 novel transcripts. This bioinformatic filtering of the FANTOM3 non-coding dataset has generated a lead dataset of transcripts without signs of being artefacts, providing a suitable dataset for investigation with hybridization-based techniques.
Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a dose-sensitive, disease-associated protein primarily expressed in myelinating Schwann cells. Either reduction or overproduction of PMP22 can result in hereditary neuropathy, suggesting a requirement for correct protein expression for peripheral nerve biology. PMP22 is post-transcriptionally regulated and the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) of the gene exerts a negative effect on translation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory molecules that function at a post-transcriptional level by targeting the 3'UTR in a reverse complementary manner. We used cultured Schwann cells to demonstrate that alterations in the miRNA biogenesis pathway affect PMP22 levels, and endogenous PMP22 is subjected to miRNA regulation. GW-body formation, the proposed cytoplasmic site for miRNA-mediated repression, and Dicer expression, an RNase III family ribonuclease involved in miRNA biogenesis, are co-regulated with the differentiation state of Schwann cells. Furthermore, the levels of Dicer inversely correlate with PMP22, while the inhibition of Dicer leads to elevated PMP22. Microarray analysis of actively proliferating and differentiated Schwann cells, in conjunction with bioinformatics programs, identified several candidate PMP22-targeting miRNAs. Here we demonstrate that miR-29a binds and inhibits PMP22 reporter expression through a specific miRNA seed binding region. Over-expression of miR-29a enhances the association of PMP22 RNA with Argonaute 2, a protein involved in miRNA function, and reduces the steady-state levels of PMP22. In contrast, inhibition of endogenous miR-29a relieves the miRNA-mediated repression of PMP22. Correlation analyses of miR-29 and PMP22 in sciatic nerves reveal an inverse relationship, both developmentally and in post-crush injury. These results identify PMP22 as a target of miRNAs and suggest that myelin gene expression by Schwann cells is regulated by miRNAs.

Although prolonged stress and corticosteroid exposure induce morphological changes in the hippocampal CA3 area, the adult CA1 area is quite resistant to such changes. Here we addressed the question whether elevated corticosteroid hormone levels change dendritic complexity in young, developing CA1 cells. In organotypic cultures (prepared from P5 rats) that were 14-21 days cultured in vitro, two doses of corticosterone (30 and 100 nM) were tested. Dendritic morphology of CA1 neurons was established by imaging neurons filled with the fluorescent dye Alexa. Application of 100 nM corticosterone for 20 minutes induced atrophy of the apical dendritic tree 1-4 hours later. Fractal analysis showed that total neuronal complexity was reduced twofold when compared with vehicle-treated neurons. Exposing organotypic slices to 30 nM corticosterone reduced apical length in a more delayed manner: only neurons examined more than 2 hours after exposure to corticosterone showed atrophy of the apical dendritic tree. Neither dose of corticosterone affected the length of basal dendrites or spine density. Corticosterone was ineffective in changing morphology of the apical dendrites when tested in the presence of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU38486. These results suggest that high physiological levels of corticosterone, via activation of the glucocorticoid receptor, can, during the course of only a few hours, reduce the dendritic complexity of CA1 pyramidal neurons in young, developing hippocampal tissue. These findings suggest that it is relevant to maintain plasma corticosterone levels low during hippocampal development.
The stigmoid body (STB) is a neurocytoplasmic inclusion containing huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1), an interactor of huntingtin, and its formation is induced by transfection of HAP1-cDNA into cultured cells. Although STB is believed to play a protective role in polyglutamine diseases, including Huntington's disease and spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, by sequestering the causative proteins, huntingtin and androgen receptor, respectively, its physiological function and formation remain poorly understood. Therefore, STB is occasionally confused with another cytoplasmic inclusion observed in polyglutamine diseases, the aggresome. Here we examined the subcellular dynamics of STB and compared it immunohistochemically and cytochemically with the aggresome in the rat brain and COS-7 or HeLa cells transfected with HAP1 and/or polyglutamine disease-associated genes. In time-lapse image analysis of HAP1-transfected cells, the HAP1-induced STB is formed from multiple fusions of small HAP1 inclusions characterized by vigorous cytoplasmic movement. In HAP1-transfected cells treated with a microtubule-depolymerizing drug, although the formation of small HAP1 inclusions was not affected, their fusion was critically inhibited. Immunohistochemistry and cytochemistry revealed the absence of association between STB and aggresomal markers, such as ubiquitin/proteasome, intermediate filaments, and the centrosome. Taken together, we concluded that STB is formed by a two-step process comprising microtubule-independent formation of small HAP1 inclusions and microtubule-dependent fusion of these inclusions, and that STB is distinct from pathological aggresomes.
Because humans seem to lack neuronal elements in the vomeronasal organ (VNO), many scientists believe that humans are unable to detect pheromones. This view is challenged by the observations that pheromone-like compounds, 4,16-androstadien-3-one (AND) and oestra-1,3,5(10),16-tetraen-3-ol (EST), activate the human hypothalamus. Whether these activations are mediated via VNO, venous blood or olfactory mucosa is presently unknown. To disentangle between the three alternatives, we conducted activation studies in 12 heterosexual males with chronic anosmia because of nasal polyps. Polyposis hampers signal transduction via the olfactory mucosa without interfering with the VNO or the pheromone transport via venous blood. Twelve healthy men served as controls. Subjects were investigated with (15)O-H(2)O PET during smelling of odorless air (base line), AND, EST, vanillin, and acetone. Smelling of EST activated the anterior hypothalamus in controls, but not anosmics. Neither did the anosmics display cerebral activations with AND or vanillin. Clusters were detected only with the trigeminal odorant acetone, and only in the thalamus, brainstem, the anterior cingulate, and parts of the sensorimotor cortex. Direct comparisons with controls (controls-anosmics) showed clusters in the olfactory cortex (amygdala and piriform cortex) with AND, vanillin, and acetone, and in the anterior hypothalamus with EST. The observed absence of olfactory and presence of trigeminal activations in anosmics indicates that polyposis primarily affected signal processing via the olfactory mucosa. The anosmics inability to activate the hypothalamus with EST, therefore, suggests that in healthy men EST signals were primarily transmitted via the olfactory system.
The default-mode network (DMN) consists of areas showing more activation during rest than during a task. Several authors propose some form of cognitive processing to underlie BOLD signal changes in the DMN as activity within the network is modulated by the level of effort required by the task and is positively correlated with self-referential processing. Alternatively, BOLD signal changes within the DMN may be caused by cardiorespiratory processes (CR) affecting BOLD signal measurements independent of neuronal activity. The goal of this study is to investigate whether BOLD signal changes within the DMN can be explained by CR effects. To this aim, brain activity, heartbeat, and respiration are measured during resting-state and while subjects perform a cognitive task with a high- and low-demand condition. To correct for CR effects we used RETROICOR (Glover et al., [2000]: Magn Reson Med 44:162-167) in combination with additive linear modeling of changes due to respiration volume, heart rate and heart rate variability. CR effects were present within the frequency-range of the DMN and were located in areas of the DMN, but equally so in other areas. After removal of CR effects, deactivation and resting-state connectivity between the areas of the DMN remained significant. In addition, DMN deactivation was still modulated by task demand. The same CR correction method did remove activation in task-related areas. We take these results to indicate that the BOLD signal within the DMN cannot be explained by CR effects alone and is possibly related to some form of cognitive neuronal processing.
A widely used technique for coordinate-based meta-analyses of neuroimaging data is activation likelihood estimation (ALE). ALE assesses the overlap between foci based on modeling them as probability distributions centered at the respective coordinates. In this Human Brain Project/Neuroinformatics research, the authors present a revised ALE algorithm addressing drawbacks associated with former implementations. The first change pertains to the size of the probability distributions, which had to be specified by the used. To provide a more principled solution, the authors analyzed fMRI data of 21 subjects, each normalized into MNI space using nine different approaches. This analysis provided quantitative estimates of between-subject and between-template variability for 16 functionally defined regions, which were then used to explicitly model the spatial uncertainty associated with each reported coordinate. Secondly, instead of testing for an above-chance clustering between foci, the revised algorithm assesses above-chance clustering between experiments. The spatial relationship between foci in a given experiment is now assumed to be fixed and ALE results are assessed against a null-distribution of random spatial association between experiments. Critically, this modification entails a change from fixed- to random-effects inference in ALE analysis allowing generalization of the results to the entire population of studies analyzed. By comparative analysis of real and simulated data, the authors showed that the revised ALE-algorithm overcomes conceptual problems of former meta-analyses and increases the specificity of the ensuing results without loosing the sensitivity of the original approach. It may thus provide a methodologically improved tool for coordinate-based meta-analyses on functional imaging data.
In this study, we introduce a new approach to process simultaneous Electroencephalography and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (EEG-fMRI) data in epilepsy. The method is based on the decomposition of the EEG signal using independent component analysis (ICA) and the usage of the relevant components' time courses to define the event related model necessary to find the regions exhibiting fMRI signal changes related to interictal activity. This approach achieves a natural data-driven differentiation of the role of distinct types of interictal activity with different amplitudes and durations in the epileptogenic process. Agreement between the conventional method and this new approach was obtained in 6 out of 9 patients that had interictal activity inside the scanner. In all cases, the maximum Z-score was greater in the fMRI studies based on ICA component method and the extent of activation was increased in 5 out of the 6 cases in which overlap was found. Furthermore, the three cases where an agreement was not found were those in which no significant activation was found at all using the conventional approach.
The thalamus and visual cortex are two key components associated with the alpha power of electroencephalography. However, their functional relationship remains to be elucidated. Here, we employ resting-state functional MRI to investigate the temporal correlations of spontaneous fluctuations between the thalamus [the whole thalamus and its three largest nuclei (bilateral mediodorsal, ventrolateral and pulvinar nuclei)] and visual cortex under both eyes open and eyes closed conditions. The whole thalamus show negative correlations with the visual cortex and positive correlations with its contralateral counterpart in eyes closed condition, but which are significantly decreased in eyes open condition, consistent with previous findings of electroencephalography desynchronization during eyes open resting state. Furthermore, we find that bilateral thalamic mediodorsal nuclei and bilateral ventrolateral nuclei have remarkably similar connectivity maps, and resemble to those of the whole thalamus, suggesting their crucial contributions to the thalamus-visual correlations. The bilateral pulvinar nuclei are found to show distinct functional connectivity patterns, compatible with previous findings of the asymmetry of anatomical and functional organization in the nuclei. Our data provides evidence for the associations of intrinsic spontaneous neuronal activity between the thalamus and visual cortex under different resting conditions, which might have implications on the understanding of the generation and modulation of the alpha rhythm.
This article reviews progress and challenges in model driven EEG/fMRI fusion with a focus on brain oscillations. Fusion is the combination of both imaging modalities based on a cascade of forward models from ensemble of post-synaptic potentials (ePSP) to net primary current densities (nPCD) to EEG; and from ePSP to vasomotor feed forward signal (VFFSS) to BOLD. In absence of a model, data driven fusion creates maps of correlations between EEG and BOLD or between estimates of nPCD and VFFS. A consistent finding has been that of positive correlations between EEG alpha power and BOLD in both frontal cortices and thalamus and of negative ones for the occipital region. For model driven fusion we formulate a neural mass EEG/fMRI model coupled to a metabolic hemodynamic model. For exploratory simulations we show that the Local Linearization (LL) method for integrating stochastic differential equations is appropriate for highly nonlinear dynamics. It has been successfully applied to small and medium sized networks, reproducing the described EEG/BOLD correlations. A new LL-algebraic method allows simulations with hundreds of thousands of neural populations, with connectivities and conduction delays estimated from diffusion weighted MRI. For parameter and state estimation, Kalman filtering combined with the LL method estimates the innovations or prediction errors. From these the likelihood of models given data are obtained. The LL-innovation estimation method has been already applied to small and medium scale models. With improved Bayesian computations the practical estimation of very large scale EEG/fMRI models shall soon be possible.
The insula and cingulate cortices are implicated in emotional, homeostatic/allostatic, sensorimotor, and cognitive functions. Non-human primates have specific anatomical connections between sub-divisions of the insula and cingulate. Specifically, the anterior insula projects to the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pACC) and the anterior and posterior mid-cingulate cortex (aMCC and pMCC); the mid-posterior insula only projects to the posterior MCC (pMCC). In humans, functional neuroimaging studies implicate the anterior insula and pre/subgenual ACC in emotional processes, the mid-posterior insula with awareness and interoception, and the MCC with environmental monitoring, response selection, and skeletomotor body orientation. Here, we tested the hypothesis that distinct resting state functional connectivity could be identified between (1) the anterior insula and pACC/aMCC; and (2) the entire insula (anterior, middle, and posterior insula) and the pMCC. Functional connectivity was assessed from resting state fMRI scans in 19 healthy volunteers using seed regions of interest in the anterior, middle, and posterior insula. Highly correlated, low-frequency oscillations (&lt; 0.05 Hz) were identified between specific insula and cingulate subdivisions. The anterior insula was shown to be functionally connected with the pACC/aMCC and the pMCC, while the mid/posterior insula was only connected with the pMCC. These data provide evidence for a resting state anterior insula-pACC/aMCC cingulate system that may integrate interoceptive information with emotional salience to form a subjective representation of the body; and another system that includes the entire insula and MCC, likely involved in environmental monitoring, response selection, and skeletomotor body orientation.
In vivo gene transduction with adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based vectors depends on laborious procedures for the production of high-titer vector stocks. Purification steps for efficient clearance of impurities such as host cell proteins and empty vector particles are required to meet end-product specifications. Therefore, the development of alternative, realistic methods to facilitate a scalable virus recovery procedure is critical to promote in vivo investigations. However, the conventional purification procedure with resin-based packed-bed chromatography suffers from a number of limitations, including variations in pressure, slow pore diffusion, and large bed volumes. Here we have employed disposable high-performance anion- and cation-exchange membrane adsorbers to effectively purify recombinant viruses. As a result of isoelectric focusing analysis, the isoelectric point of empty particles was found to be significantly higher than that of packaged virions. Therefore, AAV vector purification with the membrane adsorbers was successful and allowed higher levels of gene transfer in vivo without remarkable signs of toxicity or inflammation. Electron microscopy of the AAV vector stocks obtained revealed highly purified virions with as few as 0.8% empty particles. Furthermore, the membrane adsorbers enabled recovery of AAV vectors in the transduced culture supernatant. Also, the ion-exchange enrichment of retroviral vectors bearing the amphotropic envelope was successful. This rapid and scalable viral purification protocol using disposable membrane adsorbers is particularly promising for in vivo experimentation and clinical investigations.
Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) is caused by mutations in the MAPT gene, encoding the tau protein that accumulates in intraneuronal lesions in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Several FTDP-17 mutations affect alternative splicing and result in excess exon 10 (E10) inclusion in tau mRNA. RNA reprogramming using spliceosome-mediated RNA trans-splicing (SMaRT) could be a method of choice to correct aberrant E10 splicing resulting from FTDP-17 mutations. SMaRT creates a hybrid mRNA through a trans-splicing reaction between an endogenous target pre-mRNA and a pre-trans-splicing RNA molecule (PTM). However, FTDP-17 mutations affect the strength of cis-splicing elements and could favor cis-splicing over trans-splicing. Excess E10 inclusion in FTDP-17 can be caused by intronic mutations destabilizing a stem-loop protecting the 5' splice site at the E10/intron 10 junction. COS cells transfected with a minigene containing the intronic +14 mutation produce exclusively E10(+) RNA. Generation of E10(-) RNA was restored after co-transfection with a PTM designed to exclude E10. Similar results were obtained with a target containing the exonic N279K mutation which strengthens a splicing enhancer within E10. Conversely, increase or decrease in E10 content was achieved by trans-splicing from a target carrying the Delta280K mutation, which weakens the same splicing enhancer. Thus E10 inclusion can be modulated by trans-splicing irrespective of the strength of the cis-splicing elements affected by FTDP-17 mutations. In conclusion, RNA trans-splicing could provide the basis of therapeutic strategies for impaired alternative splicing caused by pathogenic mutations in cis-acting splicing elements.
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are common neurodegenerative diseases that may share some underlying mechanisms of pathogenesis. Abeta(1-42) fragments are found intracellularly, and extracellularly as amyloid plaques, in Alzheimer's disease and in dementia with Lewy Bodies. Parkin is an E3-ubiquitin ligase involved in proteasomal degradation of intracellular proteins. Mutations in parkin, which result in loss of parkin function, lead to early onset Parkinsonism. Here we tested whether the ubiquitin ligase activity of parkin could lead to reduction in intracellular human Abeta(1-42). Lentiviral constructs encoding either human parkin or human Abeta(1-42) were used to infect M17 neuroblastoma cells. Parkin expression resulted in reduction of intracellular human Abeta(1-42) levels and protected against its toxicity in M17 cells. Co-injection of lentiviral constructs into control rat primary motor cortex demonstrated that parkin co-expression reduced human Abeta(1-42) levels and Abeta(1-42)-induced neuronal degeneration in vivo. Parkin increased proteasomal activity, and proteasomal inhibition blocked the effects of parkin on reducing Abeta(1-42) levels. Incubation of Abeta(1-42) cell lysates with ubiquitin, in the presence of parkin, demonstrated the generation of Abeta-ubiquitin complexes. These data indicate that parkin promotes ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of intracellular Abeta(1-42) and demonstrate a protective effect in neurodegenerative diseases with Abeta deposits.
To date, 146 different mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been identified in patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The mean age of disease onset in patients inheriting mutations in SOD1 is 45-47 years of age. However, although the length of disease duration is highly variable, there are examples of consistent disease durations associated with specific mutations (e. g. A4V, less than 2 years). In the present study, we have used a large set of data from SOD1-associated ALS pedigrees to identify correlations between disease features and biochemical/biophysical properties of more than 30 different variants of mutant SOD1. Using a reliable cell culture assay, we show that all ALS-associated mutations in SOD1 increase the inherent aggregation propensity of the protein. However, the relative propensity to do so varied considerably among mutants. We were not able to explain the variation in aggregation rates by differences in known protein properties such as enzyme activity, protein thermostability, mutation position or degree of change in protein charge. Similarly, we were not able to explain variability in the duration of disease in SOD1-associated ALS pedigrees by these properties. However, we find that the majority of pedigrees in which patients exhibit reproducibly short disease durations are associated with mutations that show a high inherent propensity to induce aggregation of SOD1.

Accumulating evidence suggests that T cells and autoantibodies reactive with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). In the present study, we have tried to elucidate the pathomechanisms of development and progression of the disease by analysing T cells and autoantibodies in MOG-induced rat experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), which exhibits various clinical subtypes mimicking MS. Analysis using overlapping peptides revealed that encephalitogenic epitopes resided in peptide 7 (P7, residue 91-108) and P8 (residue 103-125) of MOG. Immunization with MOGP7 and MOGP8 induced relapsing-remitting or secondary progressive EAE. T cells taken from MOG-immunized and MOGP7-immunized rats responded to MOG and MOGP7 and sera from MOG-immunized rats reacted to MOG and MOGP1. Significant epitope spreading was not observed at either T-cell or antibody levels. Interestingly, sera from MOGP7-immunized rats with clinical signs did not react to MOG and MOG peptides throughout the observation period, suggesting that disease development and relapse in MOGP7-induced EAE occur without autoantibodies. However, MOGP7 immunization with adoptive transfer of anti-MOG antibodies aggravated the clinical course of EAE only slightly. Analysis of antibodies against conformational epitope (cme) suggests that anti-MOG(cme) may play a role in the pathogenicity of anti-MOG antibodies. Collectively, these findings demonstrated that relapse of a certain type of MOG-induced EAE occurs without autoantibodies but that autoantibodies may play a role in disease progression. Relapses and the progression of MS-mimicking EAE are differently immunoregulated so immunotherapy should be designed appropriately on the basis of precise information.
Temperament among children (N = 111 20-month-olds) from three cultural backgrounds in the United States (Latin American, Japanese American, and European American) was investigated. In accord with a biobehavioral universalist perspective on the expression of early temperament, few significant group differences in child temperament were found, regardless of cultural background. However, factors associated with maternal reports of child temperament differed by cultural group. The findings provide insight into the nature of child temperament generally and temperament of children in immigrant families specifically as well as parenting in immigrant families.
One of the most studied and well-documented strategies for treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is the addition of antipsychotic drugs to the ongoing serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) treatment. To date, there has been a paucity of data regarding the use of aripiprazole in OCD patients who failed to respond to SRIs. The aim of the present pilot study was to investigate the efficacy of flexible doses of aripiprazole as augmenting agent in the treatment of resistant OCD patients. Patients meeting the inclusion criteria of treatment-resistant OCD entered a 12-week, open-label, flexible-dose trial of aripiprazole addition to SRIs. Aripiprazole was started at 5 mg/day and increased up to a maximum of 20 mg/day. Twelve patients fulfilled entry criteria; nine patients took at least one dose of study medication and eight of them completed the study. The mean daily dosage of aripiprazole in completers was 11.2+/-5.2 mg/day. Patients showed a significant improvement over the 12-week study period (paired t-test for mean Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale total score at week 12 as compared with baseline - all patients: t = 4.860, d.f. = 8, P = 0.001). The most common adverse event reported was inner unrest reported by four (44.4%) patients. Our study supports the notion that adding aripiprazole to SRIs could be a valid strategy for treatment-resistant OCD patients, and points towards the need of randomized, double-blind studies.
In an earlier cross-sectional study, we reported antipsychotic-naive schizophrenia patients to have significantly elevated beta2-microglobulin (beta2M) level suggestive of its potential association with the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In this study, we present the follow-up analyses of beta2M in 31 patients from the previous study who were re-assessed after 92.1+/-7.2 days of antipsychotic treatment. Compared to baseline, there was a further significant elevation of beta2M in schizophrenia patients following treatment, especially in those who were treated with risperidone. Also, there was a significant negative correlation between beta2M level and total psychopathology score during follow-up in risperidone group. The study findings extend further support the role for beta2M in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia strengthening the case for immune dysregulation. Moreover, the observations suggest the possibility that the mechanism of action of antipsychotics might involve alteration of immune parameters.


The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor donepezil is also a sigma1 receptor agonist. We examined whether donepezil binds to sigma1 receptors in the living human brain after a single oral administration. Dynamic positron emission tomography (PET) data acquisition using the selective sigma1 receptor ligand [11C]SA4503 was performed to evaluate quantitatively the binding of [11C]SA4503 to sigma1 receptors in eight healthy male volunteers. Each subject had a PET scan before and after receiving a single dose of donepezil (5 or 10 mg). The binding potential of [11C]SA4503 was calculated. Doses of 5 mg and 10 mg donepezil bound to sigma1 receptors in the human brain with occupancies of approximately 60% and approximately 75%, respectively, in a dose-dependent manner. This study demonstrated that donepezil binds to sigma1 receptors in the living human brain at therapeutic doses. Therefore, sigma1 receptors may be implicated in the pharmacological mechanism of donepezil in the human brain.
Sexual dysfunction associated with antidepressant treatment continues to be a major compliance issue for antidepressant therapies. 5-HT(1A) antagonists have been suggested as beneficial adjunctive treatment in respect of antidepressant efficacy; however, the effects of 5-HT(1A) antagonism on antidepressant-induced side-effects has not been fully examined. The present study was conducted to evaluate the ability of acute or chronic treatment with 5-HT(1A) antagonists to alter chronic fluoxetine-induced impairments in sexual function. Chronic 14-d treatment with fluoxetine resulted in a marked reduction in the number of non-contact penile erections in sexually experienced male rats, relative to vehicle-treated controls. Acute administration of the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY-101405 resulted in a complete reversal of chronic fluoxetine-induced deficits on non-contact penile erections at doses that did not significantly alter baselines. Chronic co-administration of the 5-HT(1A) antagonists WAY-100635 or WAY-101405 with fluoxetine prevented fluoxetine-induced deficits in non-contact penile erections in sexually experienced male rats. Moreover, withdrawal of WAY-100635 from co-treatment with chonic fluoxetine, resulted in a time-dependent reinstatement of chronic fluoxetine-induced deficits in non-contact penile erections. Additionally, chronic administration of SSA-426, a molecule with dual activity as both a SSRI and 5-HT(1A) antagonist, did not produce deficits in non-contact penile erections at doses demonstrated to have antidepressant-like activity in the olfactory bulbectomy model. Taken together, these data suggest that 5-HT(1A) antagonist treatment may have utility for the management of SSRI-induced sexual dysfunction.
Although complete remission of symptoms is the goal of any depression treatment, many patients fail to attain or maintain a long-term, symptom-free status. The opioid system has been implicated in the aetiology of depression, and some preclinical and clinical data suggest that opioids possess a genuine antidepressant-like effect. This study aimed to investigate a potential antidepressant strategy combining different classes of monoaminergic compounds with the weak mu-opioid agonist codeine in the tail suspension test in mice, a paradigm aimed at screening potential antidepressants. The results showed that codeine produced an antidepressant-like effect when administered alone, that was effectively antagonized by the opioid antagonist naloxone. The combination of subeffective doses of codeine with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (fluoxetine or citalopram) lead to an accentuated reduction in immobility time. In contrast, immobility time remained unchanged when codeine was combined with a noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (desipramine) or with a noradrenaline/serotonin reuptake inhibitor (duloxetine). The immobility time also remained unchanged with the combination of subeffective doses of codeine plus (+/-)-tramadol (weak mu-opioid agonist with serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor properties) or (-)-tramadol (noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor). Conversely, the combination with (+)-tramadol (mu-opioid agonist with serotonin reuptake inhibitor properties) produced a large decrease in the immobility time. All these combinations were without effects on motor behaviour in mice. These data support the hypothesis that a combination of classical serotonergic antidepressants and weak opioid receptor agonists may be a helpful new strategy in the treatment of refractory depression.
In a study on monkeys, [Buschman, T.J., Miller, E.K., 2007. Top-down versus bottom-up control of attention in the prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices. Science 315 (5820), 1860-1862.] reported more frontal-parietal neuronal synchrony in a low gamma-band (22-34 Hz) for inefficient than efficient visual search, but a reverse effect in a higher gamma-band (36-56 Hz). We examine whether this difference in top-down versus bottom-up influence on visual search also occurs in humans using scalp EEG. Ten participants identified the location of a target item (coloured, oriented rectangular bar) in search displays also containing similar distractors. For the efficient search condition, in which response time was less dependent on set size (two or four items), distractors had no feature in common with the target. For the inefficient search condition, in which response time increased with set size, distractors shared one feature with the target. Analysis of phase-locking values revealed significantly greater synchronization between frontal-parietal electrode pairs in the lower frequency band around 160-480 ms post-stimulus for inefficient search. No significant difference was observed in the higher frequency band. These results partly correspond to [Buschman, T.J., Miller, E.K., 2007. Top-down versus bottom-up control of attention in the prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices. Science 315 (5820), 1860-1862.], suggesting that top-down control is mediated by neuronal synchrony at lower frequencies. The failure to observe a bottom-up effect may be due to stimulus familiarity - monkeys require weeks of training in contrast to the few minutes given to humans.
Current theories of brain function propose that the coordinated integration of transient activity patterns in distinct brain regions is the essence of brain information processing. The behavioural manifestations of individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) suggest that their brains have a different style of information processing. Specifically, a current trend is to invoke functional disconnection in the brains of individuals with ASD as a possible explanation for some atypicalities in the behaviour of these individuals. Our observations indicate that the coordinated activity in brains of children with autism is lower than that found in control participants. Disruption of long-range phase synchronization among frontal, parietal and occipital areas was found, derived from magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings, in high-functioning children with ASD during the performance of executive function tasks and was associated with impaired execution, while enhanced long-range brain synchronization was observed in control children. Specifically, a more significant prefrontal synchronization was found in control participants during task performance. In addition, a robust enhancement in synchrony was observed in the parietal cortex of children with ASD relative to controls, which may be related to parietal lobe abnormalities detected in these individuals. These results, using synchronization analysis of brain electrical signals, provide support for the contention that brains of individuals with autism may not be as functionally connected as that of the controls, and may suggest some therapeutic interventions to improve information processing in specific brain areas, particularly prefrontal cortices.

Alemtuzumab, formally known as Campath-1H, is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against CD52, a protein on the surface of lymphocytes and monocytes with unknown function. A single dose of alemtuzumab leads to a rapid, profound and prolonged lymphopenia. A Phase II trial has shown that alemtuzumab reduces the risk of relapse and accumulation of disability by over 70% compared with interferon beta in patients with early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). Alemtuzumab has been used in Cambridge as an experimental treatment for MS since 1991. In this review we summarize our experience; describing how this prototypical, &quot;bench-to-bedside&quot; therapy continues to inform basic science, revealing aspects of the pathogenesis of MS and lymphopeniaassociated autoimmunity.

There is a great deal of evidence for the existence of metabolic oscillations in pancreatic -cells. Mechanisms that have been proposed for these oscillations include glycolytic oscillations; oscillations due to the feedback of Ca2+ onto the mitochondrial inner membrane and on dehydrogenases; and oscillations intrinsic to the tricarboxylic (TCA) cycle or the downstream reactions of oxidative phosphorylation. MacDonald and co-workers (J. Biol. Chem., 278:51894-51900, 2003) showed examples of oscillations in TCA intermediates in isolated mitochondria from liver cells and pancreatic -cells. These oscillations were clearly not due to oscillations in glycolysis or Ca2+ feedback. In this article we consider several potential mechanisms for these TCA oscillations, using mathematical modeling to determine the phase relations that would result between the citrate and NAD+ concentrations in each case. We demonstrate that negative feedback at only one feedback point, isocitrate dehydrogenase, produces the correct phase relation if oscillations are intrinsic to the TCA cycle. Alternatively, the correct phase relation results if oscillations are due to oscillations in oxidative phosphorylation feeding back onto the TCA cycle. This analysis shows that the observed phase relation between citrate and NAD(P) places strict limits on the potential mechanism for the metabolic oscillations in isolated mitochondria that were observed by MacDonald and co-workers.
Humans rely on interaural level differences (ILDs) to determine the location of sound sources, particularly for high-frequency sounds. Previously, ILD-discrimination performance with a 4-kHz pure tone was reported to improve with multi-hour training. Here the effect of the same training regimen on ILD discrimination with a 4-kHz tone sinusoidally amplitude modulated (SAM) at 0.3 kHz was examined. Ten of the 16 trained listeners improved more than untrained controls, demonstrating training-induced learning. However, compared to the learning previously obtained with the 4-kHz pure tone, learning with the SAM tone was less predictable based on starting performance, took longer to complete, and was characterized by specificity to stimulus type (SAM vs pure tones) rather than stimulus frequency. These differences demonstrate an influence of amplitude modulation on learning of ILD discrimination. This influence suggests that the auditory system makes use of amplitude envelope information in determining ILD-discrimination performance, a form of interaction between time and level processing in the binaural system.
Natural sounds possess characteristic statistical regularities. Recent research suggests that mammalian auditory processing maximizes information about these regularities in its internal representation while minimizing encoding cost [Smith, E. C. and Lewicki, M. S. (2006). Nature (London) 439, 978-982]. Evidence for this &quot;efficient coding hypothesis&quot; comes largely from neurophysiology and theoretical modeling [Olshausen, B. A., and Field, D. (2004). Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 14, 481-487; DeWeese, M., et al. (2003). J. Neurosci. 23, 7940-7949; Klein, D. J., et al. (2003). EURASIP J. Appl. Signal Process. 7, 659-667]. The present research provides behavioral evidence for efficient coding in human auditory perception using six-channel noise-vocoded speech, which drastically limits spectral information and degrades recognition accuracy. Two experiments compared recognition accuracy of vocoder speech created using theoretically-motivated, efficient coding filterbanks derived from the statistical regularities of speech against recognition using standard cochleotopic (logarithmic) or linear filterbanks. Recognition of the speech created using efficient encoding filterbanks was significantly more accurate than either of the other classes. These findings suggest potential applications to cochlear implant design.
Because of their avid use of new media and their increased spending power, adolescents have become primary targets of a new &quot;Media and Marketing Ecosystem.&quot; Digital media resonate particularly well with many of the fundamental developmental tasks of adolescence by enabling instantaneous and constant contact with peers, providing opportunities for self-expression, identity exploration, and social interaction, and facilitating mobility and independence. Six key features of interactive media--ubiquitous connectivity, personalization, peer-to-peer networking, engagement, immersion, and content creation--are emblematic of the ways in which young people are both shaping and being shaped by this new digital culture. The advertising industry, in many instances led by food and beverage marketers, is purposefully exploiting the special relationship that teenagers have with new media, with online marketing campaigns that create unprecedented intimacies between adolescents and the brands and products that now literally surround them. Major food and beverage companies, including Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Burger King, and Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC), have incorporated these elements into their interactive marketing strategies, posing particular risks to adolescents, who are not being addressed in the current U.S. policy and self-regulatory regimens. However, recent and emerging neuroscience and psychological research on adolescents suggests a need to revisit the traditional approach to regulation of advertising. Despite the growth of interactive marketing, academic research on the impact of digital advertising on children and youth remains underdeveloped. Additional research and policy initiatives are needed to address the growing health threat facing youth in the digital marketplace.
Longitudinal neuroimaging studies demonstrate that the adolescent brain continues to mature well into the 20s. This has prompted intense interest in linking neuromaturation to maturity of judgment. Public policy is struggling to keep up with burgeoning interest in cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging. However, empirical evidence linking neurodevelopmental processes and adolescent real-world behavior remains sparse. Nonetheless, adolescent brain development research is already shaping public policy debates about when individuals should be considered mature for policy purposes. With this in mind, in this article we summarize what is known about adolescent brain development and what remains unknown, as well as what neuroscience can and cannot tell us about the adolescent brain and behavior. We suggest that a conceptual framework that situates brain science in the broader context of adolescent developmental research would help to facilitate research-to-policy translation. Furthermore, although contemporary discussions of adolescent maturity and the brain often use a deficit-based approach, there is enormous opportunity for brain science to illuminate the great strengths and potentialities of the adolescent brain. So, too, can this information inform policies that promote adolescent health and well-being.

Few papers have been published concerning the efficacy of community-based memory and dementia screening programs. This article examines the descriptive, clinical, and outcome characteristics of participants attending the Memory Screening Outreach Program (MSOP). The program provided free screenings of participants' short-term memory processes, neurocognitive complaints, and depressive and psychiatric symptomatology. Screening results were subsequently forwarded to participants and their designated healthcare providers (HCPs), and approximately 8 weeks later, participants who received follow-up recommendations were mailed a survey assessing screening-related outcomes. One thousand community-based persons aged 44 to 91 participated in the program at 16 screening sites. Results indicated that 44.3% of the MSOP participants received follow-up recommendations secondary to age-inappropriate memory impairments, depressive or psychiatric symptomatology, significant neurocognitive complaints, need for respite, or a combination thereof. Memory impairments and depressive or psychiatric symptomatology contributed, at least in part, to the recommendations of 24.0% and 30.9% of the sample, respectively. The prevalence of impaired Wechsler Memory Scale-III subtest performances ranged from 20.5% to 5.4%, and 28.7% of the participants exhibited elevated depression inventory scores. Of the participants who returned follow-up surveys, 49.5% visited their primary HCPs regarding their screening results; of the participants who had not followed up, 36.8% indicated plans to do so. Of the participants who followed up, contributing conditions and diagnoses were identified in 50.9%, medication or supplement recommendations or regimen changes were provided to 47.1%, and 17.0% were referred to healthcare specialists. Overall, the MSOP proved efficacious in identifying age-inappropriate memory impairments, notable depressive and psychiatric symptomatology, and significant neurocognitive complaints in an appreciable portion of a large, community-based, sample of middle-aged and older adults, which, in turn, contributed to the identification and treatment of a diversity of conditions at follow-up.

This article presents a meta-analysis of team-level antecedents of creativity and innovation in the workplace. Using a general input-process-output model, the authors examined 15 team-level variables researched in primary studies published over the last 30 years and their relation to creativity and innovation. An exhaustive search of the international innovation literature resulted in a final sample (k) of 104 independent studies. Results revealed that team process variables of support for innovation, vision, task orientation, and external communication displayed the strongest relationships with creativity and innovation (rhos between 0.4 and 0.5). Input variables (i.e., team composition and structure) showed weaker effect sizes. Moderator analyses confirmed that relationships differ substantially depending on measurement method (self-ratings vs. independent ratings of innovation) and measurement level (individual vs. team innovation). Team variables displayed considerably stronger relationships with self-report measures of innovation compared with independent ratings and objective criteria. Team process variables were more strongly related to creativity and innovation measured at the team than the individual level. Implications for future research and pragmatic ramifications for organizational practice are discussed in conclusion.
Exogenous delivery of neurotrophic factors into the cochlea of deafened animals rescues spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) from degeneration. To be clinically relevant for human cochlear implant candidates, the protective effect of neurotrophins should persist after cessation of treatment and the treated SGCs should remain functional. In this study, the survival and functionality of SGCs were investigated after temporary treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Guinea pigs in the experimental group were deafened, and 2 weeks later, the right cochleae were implanted with an electrode array and drug delivery cannula. BDNF was administered to the implanted cochleae during a 4-week period via a mini-osmotic pump. After completion of the treatment, the osmotic pumps were removed. Two weeks later, the animals were killed and the survival of SGCs was analyzed. To monitor the functionality of the auditory nerve, electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses (eABRs) were recorded in awake animals throughout the experiment. BDNF treatment resulted in enhanced survival of SGCs 2 weeks after cessation of the treatment and prevented the decreases in size and circularity that are seen in the untreated contralateral cochleae. The amplitude of the suprathreshold eABR response in BDNF-treated animals was significantly larger than in deafened control animals and comparable to that in normal-hearing control animals. The amplitude in the BDNF-treated group did not decrease significantly after cessation of treatment. The eABR latency in BDNF-treated animals was longer than normal and comparable to that in deafened control animals. These morphological and functional findings demonstrate that neurotrophic intervention had a lasting effect, which is promising for future clinical application of neurotrophic factors in implanted human cochleae.

In Bacillus species, the master regulator of sporulation is Spo0A. Spo0A functions by both activating and repressing transcription initiation from target promoters that contain 0A boxes, the binding sites for Spo0A. Several classes of spo0A mutants have been isolated, and the molecular basis for their phenotypes has been determined. However, the molecular basis of the Spo0A(A257V) substitution, representative of an unusual phenotypic class, is not understood. Spo0A(A257V) is unusual in that it abolishes sporulation; in vivo, it fails to activate transcription from key stage II promoters yet retains the ability to repress the abrB promoter. To determine how Spo0A(A257V) retains the ability to repress but not stimulate transcription, we performed a series of in vitro and in vivo assays. We found unexpectedly that the mutant protein both stimulated transcription from the spoIIG promoter and repressed transcription from the abrB promoter, albeit twofold less than the wild type. A DNA binding analysis of Spo0A(A257V) showed that the mutant protein was less able to tolerate alterations in the sequence and arrangement of its DNA binding sites than the wild-type protein. In addition, we found that Spo0A(A257V) could stimulate transcription of a mutant spoIIG promoter in vivo in which low-consensus binding sites were replaced by high-consensus binding sites. We conclude that Spo0A(A257V) is able to bind to and regulate the expression of only genes whose promoters contain high-consensus binding sites and that this effect is sufficient to explain the observed sporulation defect.
In near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), concentration changes in oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin are calculated using an attenuation change of the measurement light and by solving a linear equation based on the modified Lambert-Beer law. While solving this equation, we need to know the wavelength-dependent mean optical path lengths of the measurement lights. However, it is very difficult to know these values by a continuous-wave-type (CW-type) system. We propose a new method of estimating wavelength-dependent optical path length ratios of the measurement lights based on the data obtained by a triple wavelength CW-type NIRS instrument. The proposed method does not give a path length itself, but it gives a path length ratio. Thus, it is possible to obtain the accurate hemoglobin concentration changes without cross talk, although the method cannot contribute to the quantification of the absolute magnitude of hemoglobin changes. The method is based on the principle that two possible estimations of hemoglobin concentration changes calculated using a triple-wavelength measurement system should be identical. The method was applied to the experimental data of human subjects' foreheads. The estimated path length ratios were very similar to literature values obtained by using picosecond laser pulses and a streak camera detector [M. Essenpreis et al., Appl. Opt. 32(4), 418-425 (1993)].

The mdx mouse, a model of the human Duchenne muscular dystrophy, displays impaired contractile function in skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. We explored the possibility that ryanodine receptor (RYR) expression could be altered in vascular muscle. The three RYR sub-types were expressed in portal vein myocytes. As observed through mRNA and protein levels, RYR2 expression was strongly decreased in mdx myocytes, whereas RYR3 and RYR1 expression were unaltered. The use of antisense oligonucleotide directed against RYR sub-types indicated that caffeine-induced Ca(2+) response and Ca(2+) spark frequency depended on RYR2 and RYR1. In mdx mice, caffeine-induced Ca(2+) responses were decreased in both amplitude and maximal rate of rise, and the frequency of Ca(2+) sparks was also strongly decreased. The gentamycin treatment was able to increase both the expression of RYR2 and the caffeine-induced Ca(2+) response to the same level as that observed in wild-type mice. Taken together, these results confirm that both RYR1 and RYR2 are required for vascular Ca(2+) signalling and indicate that inhibition of RYR2 expression may account for the decreased Ca(2+) release from the SR in mdx vascular myocytes. Finally, we suggest that gentamycin can restore the Ca(2+) signalling in smooth muscle from mdx mice by increasing RYR2 and dystrophin expression. These results may help explain the reduced efficacy of contraction in vascular myocytes of mdx mice and Duchenne muscular dystrophy-afflicted patients. Gentamycin treatment could be a good therapeutic tool to restore the vascular function.
Oxygen (O2) is a substrate for energy production in the cell and is a rapid regulator of cellular metabolism. Recent studies have also implicated O2 and its signal transduction pathways in controlling cell proliferation, fate, and morphogenesis during the development of many tissues, including the nervous system. O2 tensions in the intact brain are much lower than in room air, and there is evidence that dynamic control of O2 availability may be a component of the in vivo neural stem cell (NSC) niche. At lower O2 tensions, hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF1alpha) facilitates signal transduction pathways that promote self-renewal (e.g., Notch) and inhibits pathways that promote NSC differentiation or apoptosis (e.g., bone morphogenetic proteins). Increasing O2 tension degrades HIF1alpha, thus promoting differentiation or apoptosis of NSCs and progenitors. These dynamic changes in O2 tension can be mimicked to optimize ex vivo production methods for cell replacement therapies. Conversely, disrupted O2 availability may play a critical role in disease states such as stroke or brain tumor progression. Hypoxia during stroke activates precursor proliferation in vivo, while glioblastoma stem cells proliferate maximally in a more hypoxic environment than normal stem cells, which may make them resistant to certain anti-neoplastic therapies. These findings suggest that O2 response is central to the normal architecture and dynamics of NSC regulation and in the etiology and treatment of brain diseases.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is associated with a dramatic failure of brain ion homeostasis and increased energy metabolism. There is strong clinical and experimental evidence to suggest that CSD is the mechanism of migraine, and involved in progressive neuronal injury in stroke and head trauma. Here we tested the hypothesis that single episodes of CSD induced acute hypoxia, and prolonged impairment of neurovascular and neurometabolic coupling. Cortical spreading depression was induced in rat frontal cortex, whereas cortical electrical activity and local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded by glass microelectrodes, cerebral blood flow (CBF) by laser-Doppler flowmetry, and tissue oxygen tension (tpO(2)) with polarographic microelectrodes. Cortical spreading depression increased cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) by 71%+/-6.7% and CBF by 238%+/-48.1% for 1 to 2 mins. For the following 2 h, basal tpO(2) and CBF were reduced whereas basal CMRO(2) was persistently elevated by 8.1%+/-2.9%. In addition, within first hour after CSD we found impaired neurovascular coupling (LFP versus CBF), whereas neurometabolic coupling (LFP versus CMRO(2)) remained unaffected. Impaired neurovascular coupling was explained by both reduced vascular reactivity and suppressed function of cortical inhibitory interneurons. The protracted effects of CSD on basal CMRO(2) and neurovascular coupling may contribute to cellular dysfunction in patients with migraine and acutely injured cerebral cortex.
Using highly specific antisera directed against vitamins, the distribution of pyridoxal-, pyridoxine-, vitamin C- and nicotinamide-immunoreactive structures in the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) brain was studied. Neither immunoreactive structures containing pyridoxine or nicotinamide, nor immunoreactive fibers containing vitamin C were found in the monkey brain. However, this work reports the first visualization and the morphological characteristics of pyridoxal- and vitamin C-immunoreactive cell bodies in the mammalian central nervous system using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. A high density of pyridoxal-immunoreactive cell bodies was found in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and in the supraoptic nucleus and a low density of the same was observed in the periventricular hypothalamic region, whereas a moderate density of vitamin C-immunoreactive cell bodies was observed in the somatosensorial cortex (precentral gyrus). Immunoreactive fibers containing pyridoxal were only visualized in the anterior commissure. The restricted distribution of pyridoxal and vitamin C in the monkey brain suggests that both vitamins could be involved in very specific physiological mechanisms.
Little is understood of how damaged white matter interacts with developmental plasticity. The authors propose that computational neuroscience methods are underused in this problem. In this article, they present a nondeterministic, in silico model of activity-dependent plasticity. Using this model, they compared the impact of neuronal cell loss or axonal dysfunction on the ability of the system to generate, maintain, and recover synapses. The results suggest the axonal dysfunction seen in white matter injury is a greater burden to adaptive plasticity and recovery than is the neuronal loss of cortical injury. Better understanding of the interaction between features of preterm brain injury and developmental plasticity is an essential component for improving recovery.
Preterm infants exposed to inflammation are at increased risk of white matter injury and/or cerebral palsy. To investigate the effect of chronic inflammation on the developing white matter, we administered low-dose lipopolysaccharide once a day from postnatal days 3 to 11, examined white matter changes at postnatal day 12, and monitored serum levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 and insulin-like factor binding protein-3. A single injection of lipopolysaccharide decreased the serum insulin-like growth factor 1 level but not the insulin-like factor binding protein-3 level. At postnatal day 12, quantification of immunohistochemical staining for axonal, myelin, and oligodendrocyte markers revealed impaired myelination in subcortical white matter. In addition, brain gray matter volume decreased and spleen and liver weight increased at postnatal day 12. These data suggest chronic subclinical inflammation hampers development of white and gray matter in early life, which may be associated with insulin-like growth factor 1 deficiency.
Brain injury after hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy often develops with delayed appearance, opening a therapeutic window. Clinical studies in newborns show that post-hypoxic-ischemic hypothermia improves outcome. This has generated renewed interest in the molecular mechanisms of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. In this brief review, we propose that mitochondrial permeabilization is crucial for injury to advance beyond the point of no return. We suggest that excitatory amino acids, nitric oxide, inflammation, trophic factor withdrawal, and an increased pro- versus antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein ratio will trigger Bax-dependent mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization. Mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization, in turn, elicits mitochondrial release of cytochrome C, apoptosis-inducing factor, second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase/Diablo, and HtrA2/Omi. Cytochrome C efflux activates caspase-9/-3, leading to DNA fragmentation. Apoptosis-inducing factor interacts with cyclophilin A and induces chromatinolysis. Blockage of mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization holds promise as a strategy for perinatal brain protection.
Caveolae are invaginations of the plasma membrane involved in many cellular processes, including clathrin-independent endocytosis, cholesterol transport, and signal transduction. They are characterized by the presence of caveolin proteins. Mutations that cause deficiency in caveolin-3, which is expressed exclusively in skeletal and cardiac muscle, have been linked to muscular dystrophy. Polymerase I and transcript release factor (PTRF; also known as cavin) is a caveolar-associated protein suggested to play an essential role in the formation of caveolae and the stabilization of caveolins. Here, we identified PTRF mutations in 5 nonconsanguineous patients who presented with both generalized lipodystrophy and muscular dystrophy. Muscle hypertrophy, muscle mounding, mild metabolic complications, and elevated serum creatine kinase levels were observed in these patients. Skeletal muscle biopsies revealed chronic dystrophic changes, deficiency and mislocalization of all 3 caveolin family members, and reduction of caveolae structure. We generated expression constructs recapitulating the human mutations; upon overexpression in myoblasts, these mutations resulted in PTRF mislocalization and disrupted physical interaction with caveolins. Our data confirm that PTRF is essential for formation of caveolae and proper localization of caveolins in human cells and suggest that clinical features observed in the patients with PTRF mutations are associated with a secondary deficiency of caveolins.
The sirtuins (SIRTs) are protein-modifying enzymes that are distributed ubiquitously in all organisms. SIRT1 is a mammalian homologue of yeast nicotinamide-adenine-dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase silent information regulator 2 (known as Sir2), which is the best-characterized SIRT family member. It regulates longevity in several model organisms and is involved in several processes in mammalian cells including cell survival, differentiation, and metabolism. SIRT1 induction, either by SIRT-activating compounds such as resveratrol, or metabolic conditioning associated with caloric restriction, could have neuroprotective qualities and thus delay the neurodegenerative process, thereby promoting longevity. However, the precise mechanistic liaison between the activation of SIRT and extended healthy aging or delaying age-related diseases in humans has yet to be established.
A patient with a known family history of mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) due to the MT-TL1 m.3243A&gt;G mutation presented with mild myalgia and very minor upper limb proximal muscle weakness. Muscle histology revealed low levels of cytochrome oxidase-negative fibres and non-specific myositis. Using the last &quot;hot cycle&quot; polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), the MELAS MT-TL1 m.3243A&gt;G mutation was only detected in urine, and not in hair, blood or skeletal muscle. This report highlights the need to screen various tissues to achieve an accurate mitochondrial genetic diagnosis and suggests the likelihood of myositis arising secondary to the MELAS MT-TL1 m.3243A&gt;G mutation.
A recurrent right temporal glioblastoma that vanished on MRI after a short course of intense corticosteroid therapy is reported. This was associated with development of new multicentric lesions in the right frontal lobe and right splenium of the corpus callosum. Rapid disappearance of tumor with steroid therapy is frequently associated with lymphoma and is rarely described in high-grade gliomas. Literature review showed that multicentricity and involvement of the corpus callosum are common features of glioblastoma that vanish after corticosteroid therapy.

In this fMRI study, we investigated the development between adolescence and adulthood of the neural processing of social emotions. Unlike basic emotions (such as disgust and fear), social emotions (such as guilt and embarrassment) require the representation of another's mental states. Nineteen adolescents (10-18 years) and 10 adults (22-32 years) were scanned while thinking about scenarios featuring either social or basic emotions. In both age groups, the anterior rostral medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) was activated during social versus basic emotion. However, adolescents activated a lateral part of the MPFC for social versus basic emotions, whereas adults did not. Relative to adolescents, adults showed higher activity in the left temporal pole for social versus basic emotions. These results show that, although the MPFC is activated during social emotion in both adults and adolescents, adolescents recruit anterior (MPFC) regions more than do adults, and adults recruit posterior (temporal) regions more than do adolescents.
We used the P300 component to investigate how changes in local context influenced the ability to detect target stimuli. Local context was defined as the occurrence of a short predictive series of stimuli before delivery of a target event. EEG was recorded in 12 subjects during auditory and visual sessions. Stimuli were presented in the center of the auditory and visual field and consisted of 15% targets (1000 Hz tone or downward facing triangle) and 85% of equal amounts of three types of standards (1500, 2000, and 2500 Hz tones or triangles facing left, upward, and right). Recording blocks consisted of targets preceded by either randomized sequences of standards or by sequences including a three-standard predictive sequence signaling the occurrence of a subsequent target event. Subjects pressed a button in response to targets. Peak target P300 (P3b) amplitude and latency were evaluated for targets after predictive and nonpredictive sequences using conventional averaging and a novel single-trial analysis procedure. Reaction times were shorter for predictable targets than for nonpredicted targets. P3b latency was shorter for predicted targets than for nonpredictive targets, and there were no significant P3b amplitude differences between predicted and random targets, as determined by both conventional averaging and single-trial analysis. Comparable effects on amplitude and latency were observed in both the auditory and visual modalities. The results indicate that local context has differential effects on P3b amplitude and latency, and exerts modality-independent effects on cognitive processing.
Psychogenic dysphonia refers to the loss of voice, in the absence of apparent structural or neurological pathology. It is a disorder seen more often in women and is usually associated with significant life events and emotional difficulties that may lead to conflict over speaking. Therapeutic interventions in voice disorders recommend the adoption of a multidisciplinary approach to treatment. The following is a case illustration of a 50-year-old married lady with dysphonia and significant marital difficulties. Learning outcomes: The case demonstrates the psychological issues in the onset and maintenance of psychogenic voice disorders. It also emphasizes the use of a multidisciplinary approach consisting of cognitive behavioural strategies, pharmacological inputs and voice therapy. The case illustration will also help the reader to focus on cultural issues relevant in the development of problems and the need to address these in psychotherapeutic interventions, as well as difficulties that are likely to be encountered in therapeutic interventions.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) can negatively modulate trkA and associated phenotype in intact sensory neurons, while positively regulating trkC and associated phenotype. How NT-3 effects this response is not clear. Whether NT-3 exerts a differential influence on levels of activated ERK1/2 signaling in trkA- versus trkC-mRNA-positive subpopulations of neurons and the role that the common neurotrophin receptor, p75NTR, plays in this response was assessed by examining alterations in the levels of phospho-ERK1/2 immunofluorescence signal over nuclei of sensory neurons expressing trkA alone, trkC alone, or both trkA and trkC mRNA. NT-3 intrathecal infusion differentially modulated nuclear phospho-ERK1/2 levels detected over neurons expressing trkA alone or trkC alone. Levels were significantly decreased over nuclei of neurons expressing trkA alone and significantly increased over the nuclei of neurons expressing trkC alone. Neurons expressing both trkA and trkC or neurons expressing neither trkA nor trkC had no significant alteration in phospho-ERK1/2. Antisense oligonucleotides directed against p75NTR were infused intrathecally with or without NT-3 infusion to examine the impact of suppressing p75NTR expression on the ability of NT-3 to diminish phospho-ERK1/2 signaling in neurons expressing only trkA. NT-3 did not significantly attenuate levels of phospho-ERK1/2 when p75NTR expression was suppressed by antisense infusion, despite being able to do so when NT-3 was infused alone. In conclusion, NT-3's ability to negatively modulate ERK1/2 signaling in a p75-dependent manner in sensory neurons that express trkA to the exclusion of trkC provides a feasible mechanism by which it negatively modulates other aspects of nociceptive phenotype in these neurons.

It is important for surgeons to have insight into themselves, their life stories, and the rationales they use to convince themselves that their actions are unselfish and well motivated. The battle between Philanthropia and Philotechnica was recognized by Hippocrates and is still a source of internal strife for many surgeons: the need to perform an operation that they are poorly equipped to do offset against the knowledge that it could be better done by someone else. In the treatment or referral for treatment of children with craniosynostosis and craniofacial syndromes, appropriate referrals are often not made or are made only after some problem has occurred as a result of surgical intervention. Several instances of children receiving extensive surgery for wrongly diagnosed craniosynostosis are explored. The thesis is that only by knowing our own internal motivations can we avoid falling into a posture that is good for our own egos and pocketbooks but bad for our patients.
This study investigated whether teaching undergraduate dental students the diagnosis and management of acute dental pain alongside the underpinning oral physiology helped them to understand the topic better than teaching them acute dental pain as a separate entity. Each of three clinical years of dental students at the same dental school was taught in two groups. Each group was taught the signs/symptoms of five acute dental pain conditions by the same member of the staff. However, the teaching for one group of students in each year reminded the students about the physiology that underpinned the clinical symptoms. One week later, the students completed an open-ended questionnaire that required them to list signs/symptoms of the five dental pain conditions. For each year of dental students that was examined, the mean student marks were significantly higher (p&lt;0.05) for those who were taught dental pain and the underlying physiology compared with students who were only taught dental pain as a stand-alone subject. This suggests that integrating biomedical science and clinical teaching is beneficial.
We report successful treatment with electroconvulsive therapy of a comorbid condition including severe obsessive-compulsive symptoms and hypochondriacal delusions in a 38-year-old man with Asperger syndrome. His condition deteriorated into a severely disabled chronic state that was refractory to different pharmacological and psychological treatments but was completely reversed after electroconvulsive therapy. Although typical obsessive-compulsive symptoms were predominant, the case also exhibits differences compared with regular obsessive-compulsive disorder regarding onset and course that are discussed in the report.
Cognitive deficits are commonly associated with maintenance electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Treatment of these cognitive deficits is important but difficult. Cholinergic pathways are involved in these side effects, and donepezil, a cholinesterase inhibitor, may be useful for improvement of cognition. In this case report, we describe for the first time successful use of donepezil in treating cognitive deficits associated with maintenance ECT. The role of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of cognitive deficits caused by ECT needs further studies.
The apelinergic system, comprised of apelin and its G protein-coupled receptor (APJ; APLNR as given in MGI Database), is expressed within key regions of the central nervous system associated with arginine vasopressin (AVP) synthesis and release as well as in structures involved in the control of drinking behaviour, including the magnocellular neurones of the hypothalamus, circumventricular organs, and the pituitary gland. This localisation is indicative of a possible functional role in fluid homeostasis. We investigated a role for APJ in the regulation of fluid balance using mice deficient for the receptor. Male APJ wild-type and knockout (APJ(-/-)) mice were housed in metabolic cages to allow determination of water intake and urine volume and osmolality. When provided with free access to water, APJ(-/-) mice drank significantly less than wild-types, while their urine volume and osmolality did not differ. Water deprivation for 24 h significantly reduced urine volume and increased osmolality in wild-type but not in APJ(-/-) mice. Baseline plasma AVP concentration increased comparably in both wild-type and APJ(-/-) mice following dehydration; however, APJ(-/-) mice were unable to concentrate their urine to the same extent as wild-type mice in response to the V2 agonist desmopressin. Analysis of c-fos (Fos as given in MGI Database) mRNA expression in response to dehydration showed attenuation of expression within the subfornical organ, accentuated expression in the paraventricular nucleus, but no differences in expression in the supraoptic nucleus nor median pre-optic nucleus in APJ(-/-) mice compared with wild-type. These findings demonstrate a physiological role for APJ in mechanisms of water intake and fluid retention and suggest an anti-diuretic effect of apelin in vivo.
Research reported here concerns neural processes relating to stimulus equivalence class formation. In Experiment 1, two types of word pairs were presented successively to normally capable adults. In one type, the words had related usage in English (e.g., uncle, aunt). In the other, the two words were not typically related in their usage (e.g., wrist, corn). For pairs of both types, event-related cortical potentials were recorded during and immediately after the presentation of the second word. The obtained waveforms differentiated these two types of pairs. For the unrelated pairs, the waveforms were significantly more negative about 400 ms after the second word was presented, thus replicating the &quot;N400&quot; phenomenon of the cognitive neuroscience literature. In addition, there was a strong positive-tending wave form difference post-stimulus presentation (peaked at about 500 ms) that also differentiated the unrelated from related stimulus pairs. In Experiment 2, the procedures were extended to study arbitrary stimulus-stimulus relations established via matching-to-sample training. Participants were experimentally nave adults. Sample stimuli (Set A) were trigrams, and comparison stimuli (Sets B, C, D, E, and F) were nonrepresentative forms. Behavioral tests evaluated potentially emergent equivalence relations (i.e., BD, DF, CE, etc.). All participants exhibited classes consistent with the arbitrary matching training. They were also exposed also to an event-related potential procedure like that used in Experiment 1. Some received the ERP procedure before equivalence tests and some after. Only those participants who received ERP procedures after equivalence tests exhibited robust N400 differentiation initially. The positivity observed in Experiment 1 was absent for all participants. These results support speculations that equivalence tests may provide contextual support for the formation of equivalence classes including those that emerge gradually during testing.
Cognitive Science research is hard to conduct, because researchers must take phenomena from the world and turn them into laboratory tasks for which a reasonable level of experimental control can be achieved. Consequently, research necessarily makes tradeoffs between internal validity (experimental control) and external validity (the degree to which a task represents behavior outside of the lab). Researchers are thus seeking the best possible tradeoff between these constraints, which we refer to as the optimal level of fuzz. We present two principles for finding the optimal level of fuzz, in research, and then illustrate these principles using research from motivation, individual differences, and cognitive neuroscience.
Substrate vibratory information receptors are extensively studied in insects and spiders, however for water surface dwelling species little data is available. We studied the vibration receptive organs in tarsi of the water strider Aquarius paludum, using light, transmission and scanning electron microscopes, and recorded the neural activity of the organs in response to vibrational stimuli, which were afterwards analysed with a custom made spike sorting program. We found that the tarsal chordotonal organ has one set of three scoloparia: one in the tarsomere I and two in the tarsomere II, all of which consisted of a few scolopidia. The chordotonal organ clearly responded to vibratory stimulation. Furthermore, we found that a pair of large subapical emergent dorsal setae, which had been deemed mechanosensory by previous authors, are not so. In turn, four ventral subapical trichobothria that are in direct contact with the water surface during locomotion, proved to be mechanosensory. The anatomical and ultrastructural observations support these electro-physiological results.
Impairments in executive functioning frequently occur after acquired brain damage, in psychiatric disorders, and in relation to aging. The Brixton Spatial Anticipation Test is a relatively new measure for assessing the ability to detect and follow a rule, an important aspect of executive functioning. To date, normative data on this task are limited, particularly concerning the elderly. This study presents age- and education-adjusted regression-based norms obtained in a group of healthy older participants (n = 283; mean age 67.4 +/- 8.5 years). The applicability and validity of these norms were further examined in different groups of patients with stroke (n = 106), diabetes mellitus (n = 376), MCI/early dementia (n = 70), psychiatric disorders (n = 63), and Korsakoff's syndrome (n = 41). The results showed that patients with Korsakoff's syndrome, stroke, and psychiatric disorders performed significantly worse than healthy controls. Test-retest correlation (n = 83), learning effects, and correlations with other neuropsychological tests were also explored. Based on the present study, the Brixton test appears a useful addition to existing measures of executive functioning. Moreover, the test can be reliably applied in different groups of clinical patients.
The frequency and characteristics of closing-in behavior (CIB) were examined in 797 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 132 of whom were followed up longitudinally. The frequency of CIB increased with the complexity of the graphic copying task and with the severity of Alzheimer's disease. Regression analyses suggested that attentional deficits are critical factors for the appearance of CIB, but that visuospatial impairments also play an important role in the emergence of severe forms of CIB.
Functional MRI (fMRI) is a non-invasive brain imaging methodology that started in 1991 and allows human brain activation to be imaged at high resolution within only a few minutes. Because it has extremely high sensitivity, is relatively easy to implement, and can be performed on most standard clinical MRI scanners. It continues to grow at an explosive rate throughout the world. Over the years, at any given time, fMRI has been defined by only a handful of major topics that have been the focus of researchers using and developing the methodology. In this review, I attempt to take a snapshot of the field of fMRI as it is in mid-2009 by discussing the seven topics that I feel are most on the minds of fMRI researchers. The topics are, in no particular order or grouping: (1) Clinical impact, (2) Utilization of individual functional maps, (3) fMRI signal interpretation, (4) Pattern effect mapping and decoding, (5) Endogenous oscillations, (6) MRI technology, and (7) Alternative functional contrast mechanisms. Most of these topics are highly interdependent, each advancing as the others advance. While most fMRI involves applications towards clinical or neuroscience questions, all applications are fundamentally dependent on advances in basic methodology as well as advances in our understanding of the relationship between neuronal activity and fMRI signal changes. This review neglects almost completely an in-depth discussion of applications. Rather the discussions are on the methods and interpretation.

The olfactory organ of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus maintains lifelong proliferation and turnover of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). Towards examining the molecular basis of this adult neurogenesis, we search for expression of homologs of proneural, neurogenic, and pre-pattern genes in this olfactory organ. We report here a homolog of the proneural Achaete-Scute family, called splash (spiny lobster achaete-scute homolog), and a homolog of the pre-pattern and neurogenic hairy-enhancer of split family, called splhairy (spiny lobster hairy). Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) indicates a molt stage dependence of the levels of expression of splash and splhairy mRNA in the olfactory organ, with higher expression in premolt than in postmolt or intermolt animals, which is positively correlated with rates of neurogenesis. splash and splhairy mRNA are expressed not only in the olfactory organ but also in other tissues, albeit at lower levels, irrespective of molt stage. We conclude that the expression of achaete-scute and hairy-enhancer of split in the proliferation zone of the olfactory organ of spiny lobsters and their enhanced expression in premolt animals suggest that they play a role in the proliferation of ORNs and that their expression in regions of the olfactory organ populated by mature ORNs and in other tissues suggests that they have additional functions.
This review outlines the neuroprotective activities and structural specificities of two distinct proteins, activity-dependent neuroprotective protein, a protein assigned transcription factor/chromatin remodeling activity, and carboxypeptidase E, a classic exopeptidase. Future studies will elucidate how these two versatile proteins converge onto a similar endpoint: neuroprotection.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with its motor phenomena due mostly to loss of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra. Pharmacological treatments aimed to increase the deficient dopaminergic neurotransmission are effective in ameliorating the cardinal symptoms, but none of these therapies is curative. It has been suggested that treatment with neurotrophic factors (NTFs) might protect and prevent death of the surviving dopaminergic neurons and induce proliferation of their axonal nerve terminals with reinnervations of the deafferented striatum. However, long-term delivery of such proteins into the CNS is problematic. We therefore aimed to differentiate ex vivo human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells into astrocyte-like cells, capable of generating NTFs for future transplantation into basal ganglia of PD patients. Indeed, mesenchymal stromal cells treated with our novel astrocyte differentiation medium, present astrocyte-like morphology and express the astrocyte markers S100beta, glutamine synthetase and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Moreover, these astrocyte-like cells produce and secrete significant amounts of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor as indicated by messenger RNA, real-time polymerase chain reaction, ELISA, and Western blot analyses. Such NTF-producing cells transplanted into the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, a model of PD, produced a progressive reduction in the apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations as well as behavioral improvement in rotor-rod and the &quot;sunflower seeds&quot; eating motor tests. Histological assessments revealed that the engrafted cells survived and expressed astrocyte and human markers and acted to regenerate the damaged dopaminergic nerve terminal system. Findings indicate that our novel procedure to induce NTF-producing astrocyte-like cells derived from human bone marrow stromal cells might become a promising and feasible autologous transplantation strategy for PD.
Voltage-gated N-type Ca(2+) channels play a central role in regulation of neurotransmitter release. The II-III linker of N-type calcium channel alpha(1B) subunit (exons 17-21 in rats) contains synaptic protein interaction (synprint) site, which plays a pivotal role in efficient neurotransmission. Using RT-PCR analysis of rat hippocampus and lumbar spinal cord transcripts, the expressions of Ca(v)2.2 exon 18a and a novel Ca(v)2.2 splice variant, which were detected in this study, have been investigated, and they showed tissue-specific pattern. The new variant contains a large deletion in II-III linker that produces a stop codon, which is predicted to produce a two-domain-truncated channel. To study the effect of inflammatory pain on the expression pattern of these variants, animals were treated with intraplantar formalin, and the amount of splice variants in lumbar spinal cord was measured. The results showed that chronic inflammatory pain increases the Ca(v)2.2 mRNA levels lacking exon 18a and decreases the amount of full-length variants, which do not have any deletion. Determining different Ca(v)2.2 splice variants in rat nervous system and the impact of inflammatory pain on the splicing pattern suggest a possible regulatory role for calcium channel alternative splicing.
The purpose of the study was to determine the association between African American patients' perceptions of physician cultural competency and patient satisfaction with the visit, independent of other factors, including physician and patient race concordance. African American participants were surveyed at urban clinics. Cultural competency (Perceived Cultural Competency scale) was based on the 3-factor model that includes patients' perception of (1) physicians' cultural knowledge, (2) physicians' cultural awareness, and (3) physicians' cultural skill. The results confirmed that patients' perceptions of physician cultural competency are independently associated with satisfaction with the visit. These results further validate use of the Perceived Cultural Competency scale as a tool to measure patients' perceptions of physicians' cultural competency.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-based neurochemical dementia diagnostics (NDD) is a well-established diagnostic tool for neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the direct comparison of the concentrations of the biomarkers between laboratories is often very misleading, due to relatively high inter-laboratory discrepancies of normal/abnormal ranges (cutoff values). Therefore, an interpretation tool might be useful for centers performing NDD to facilitate a standardized, diagnostic-oriented reporting of the data on biomarkers. In this study, we present a simple, easy-to-implement algorithm allowing diagnostic-relevant categorization of patients according to the outcome of the CSF NDD results and, correspondingly, enabling reporting of the data to clinicians in a clear and easy-to-follow form. The algorithm is flexible and cutoff values independent, meaning each laboratory can easily supplement it with the cutoff values and normal/abnormal ranges according to the needs; the only prerequisite is to perform the standard CSF NDD assays (amyloid beta peptides and Tau/pTau).

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder caused mainly because of the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Protein inclusions called Lewy bodies are the most common pathological hallmark of PD and other synucleinopathies. Because the main component of these inclusions is alpha-synuclein, aggregation of this protein is thought to be a key pathogenic event in this disease. In the present investigation we report that E6 associated protein (E6-AP), a HECT (homologous to E6-AP C-terminus) domain ubiquitin ligase is a component of Lewy bodies in post-mortem PD brain. In the cell culture model, we demonstrate that endogenous E6-AP colocalizes with alpha-synuclein in juxtanuclear aggregates. E6-AP is also recruited to the centrosome upon inhibition of the proteasome function suggesting its involvement in the degradation of misfolded proteins. Over-expression of E6-AP enhances the degradation of wild type as well as the mutant forms of alpha-synuclein in a proteasome-dependent manner. E6-AP also promotes the degradation of the more toxic oligomeric forms of alpha-synuclein. Our data suggests that E6-AP is involved in the clearance of alpha-synuclein.
Mechanisms that regulate early events in the biogenesis of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7 AChR) are not well understood. Data presented here show that single amino acid mutations in the cytoplasmic loop of the alpha7 AChR, between position 335 and 343, abolish or attenuate expression of mature pentameric alpha7 AChRs in both human embryonic kidney tsA201 (HEK) and neuronal SH-SY5Y cells. Although the number of mature alpha7 AChRs is increased significantly in the presence of the chaperone protein resistant to inhibitors of cholineesterase-3 in HEK cells, sucrose gradient sedimentation reveals that the vast majority of alpha7 subunits are aggregated or improperly assembled. Transfection of alpha7 AChRs in SH-SY5Y cells, which endogenously express the alpha7 AChR, results in a much larger fraction of subunits assembled into mature AChRs. Thus, efficient assembly of alpha7 AChRs is influenced by several regions of the large cytoplasmic domain, as well perhaps by other parts of its structure, and requires as yet unknown factors not required by other AChR subtypes.
Astrocytes are a major component of the resident non-neuronal glial cell population of the CNS. They are ubiquitously distributed throughout the brain and spinal cord, where they were initially thought to function in both structural and homeostatic capacities, providing the framework and environment in which neurons performed their parenchymal duties. However, this stroma-like view of astrocytes is no longer satisfactory. Mounting evidence particularly within the last decade indicates that astrocytes do not simply support neuronal activity but directly contribute to it. Congruent with this evolving view of astrocyte function in information processing is the emergent notion that these glial cells are not a homogeneous population of cells. Thus, astrocytes in various anatomically distinct regions of the normal CNS possess unique phenotypic characteristics that may directly influence the particular neuronal activities that define these regions. Remarkably, regional populations of astrocytes appear to exhibit local heterogeneity as well. Many phenotypic traits of the astrocyte lineage are responsive to local environmental cues (i.e., are adaptable), suggesting that plasticity contributes to this diversity. However, compelling evidence suggests that astrocytes arise from multiple distinct progenitor pools in the developing CNS, raising the intriguing possibility that some astrocyte heterogeneity may result from intrinsic differences between these progenitors. The purpose of this review is to explore the evidence for and mechanistic determinants of regional and local astrocyte diversity.
Glutamate and GABA mediate most of the excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission; they are taken up and accumulated in synaptic vesicles by specific vesicular transporters named VGLUT1-3 and VGAT, respectively. Recent studies show that VGLUT2 and VGLUT3 are co-expressed with VGAT. Because of the relevance this information has for our understanding of synaptic physiology and plasticity, we investigated whether VGLUT1 and VGAT are co-expressed in rat cortical neurons. In cortical cultures and layer V cortical terminals we observed a population of terminals expressing VGLUT1 and VGAT. Post-embedding immunogold studies showed that VGLUT1+/VGAT+ terminals formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses. Triple-labeling studies revealed GABAergic synapses expressing VGLUT1 and glutamatergic synapses expressing VGAT. Immunoisolation studies showed that anti-VGAT immunoisolated vesicles contained VGLUT1 and anti-VGLUT1 immunoisolated vesicles contained VGAT. Finally, vesicles containing VGAT resident in glutamatergic terminals undergo active recycling. In conclusion, we demonstrate that in neocortex VGLUT1 and VGAT are co-expressed in a subset of axon terminals forming both symmetric and asymmetric synapses, that VGLUT1 and VGAT are sorted to the same vesicles and that vesicles at synapses expressing the vesicular heterotransporter participate in the exo-endocytotic cycle.
Several neurodegenerative disorders are associated with evidence of inflammation, one feature of which is increased activation of microglia, the most likely cellular source of inflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta. It is now recognized that interaction of microglia with other cells contributes to maintenance of microglia in a quiescent state and the complementary distribution of the chemokine, fractalkine (CX(3)CL1) on neurons and its receptor (CX(3)CR1) on microglia, suggests that this interaction may play a role in modulating microglial activation. Here we demonstrate that both soluble and membrane-bound fractalkine attenuate lipopolysaccharide-induced microglial activation in vitro. We also show that fractalkine expression is reduced in the brain of aged rats and this is accompanied by an age-related increase in microglial activation. Treatment of aged rats with fractalkine attenuates the age-related increase in microglial activation and the evidence indicates that fractalkine-induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase pathway is required to maintain microglia in a quiescent state both in vivo and in vitro.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) regulates the differentiation and survival of a wide spectrum of developing and adult neurons, including motor neuron loss after injury. We recently described a cell-penetrant recombinant human CNTF (rhCNTF) molecule, formed by fusion with the human immunodeficiency virus-1 transactivator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction domain (TAT-CNTF) that, upon subcutaneous administration, retains full neurotrophic activity without cytokine-like side-effects. Although the CNTF receptor is present in hypothalamic nuclei, which are involved in the control of energy, rhCNTF but not TAT-CNTF stimulates signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 phosphorylation in the rat hypothalamus after subcutaneous administration. This could be due limited TAT-CNTF distribution in the hypothalamus and/or altered intracellular signaling by the fusion protein. To explore these possibilities, we examined the effect of intracerebroventricular administration of TAT-CNTF in male adult rats. TAT-CNTF-induced weight loss, although the effect was smaller than that seen with either rhCNTF or leptin (which exerts CNTF-like effects via its receptor). In contrast to rhCNTF and leptin, TAT-CNTF neither induced morphological changes in adipose tissues nor increased uncoupling protein 1 expression in brown adipose tissue, a characteristic feature of rhCNTF and leptin. Acute intracerebroventricular administration of TAT-CNTF induced a less robust phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 in the hypothalamus, compared with rhCNTF. The data show that fusion of a protein transduction domain may change rhCNTF CNS distribution, while further strengthening the utility of cell-penetrating peptide technology to neurotrophic factor biology beyond the neuroscience field.
Receptor-protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs), like receptor tyrosine kinases, regulate neuronal differentiation. While receptor tyrosine kinases are dimerized and activated by extracellular ligands, the extent to which RPTPs dimerize, and the effects of dimerization on phosphatase activity, are poorly understood. We have examined a neuronal type III RPTP, PTPRO; we find that PTPRO can form dimers in living cells, and that disulfide linkages in PTPROs intracellular domain likely regulate dimerization. Dimerization of PTPROs transmembrane and intracellular domains, achieved by ligand binding to a chimeric fusion protein, decreases activity toward artificial peptides and toward a putative substrate, tropomyosin-related kinase C (TrkC). Dephosphorylation of TrkC by PTPRO may be physiologically relevant, as it is efficient, and TrkC and PTPRO can be co-precipitated from transfected cells. Inhibition of PTPROs phosphatase activity by dimerization is interesting, as dimerization of a related RPTP, CD148/PTPRJ, increases activity. Thus, our results suggest a complex relationship between dimerization and activity in type III RPTPs.
Human sirtuins are a family of seven conserved proteins (SIRT1-7). The most investigated is the silent mating type information regulation-2 homolog (SIRT1, NM_012238), which was associated with neuroprotection in models of polyglutamine toxicity or Alzheimer's disease (AD) and whose activation by the phytocompound resveratrol (RES) has been described. We have examined the neuroprotective role of RES in a cellular model of oxidative stress, a common feature of neurodegeneration. RES prevented toxicity triggered by hydrogen peroxide or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). This action was likely mediated by SIRT1 activation, as the protection was lost in the presence of the SIRT1 inhibitor sirtinol and when SIRT1 expression was down-regulated by siRNA approach. RES was also able to protect SK-N-BE from the toxicity arising from two aggregation-prone proteins, the AD-involved amyloid-beta (1-42) peptide (Abeta42) and the familiar Parkinson's disease linked alpha-synuclein(A30P) [alpha-syn(A30P)]. Alpha-syn(A30P) toxicity was restored by sirtinol addition, while a partial RES protective effect against Abeta42 was found even in presence of sirtinol, thus suggesting a direct RES effect on Abeta42 fibrils. We conclude that SIRT1 activation by RES can prevent in our neuroblastoma model the deleterious effects triggered by oxidative stress or alpha-syn(A30P) aggregation, while RES displayed a SIRT1-independent protective action against Abeta42.
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) is an abundant neuronal protein involved in synaptic neurotransmission. SNCA expression levels have been strongly implicated in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. We have previously demonstrated that in the PC12 cell line elements in intron 1 may mediate SNCA transcriptional regulation in response to neurotrophins. We have now identified transcription factor (TF) binding sites in intron 1 and the 5'-promoter of SNCA. A binding site for the TF zinc finger and SCAN domain containing (ZSCAN)21 in the 5'-region of intron 1 is required for intron 1 transcriptional activity. Small interfering RNA against ZSCAN21 inhibits activation in the luciferase assay and diminishes SNCA protein levels in nave and neurotrophin-treated PC12 cells and in primary cultured cortical neurons, demonstrating that ZSCAN21 is a novel transcriptional regulator of SNCA in neuronal cells. The 5'-promoter of SNCA has a complex architecture, including multiple binding sites for the TF zinc finger protein (ZNF)219, which functions as both an activator and a repressor. Targeting ZSCAN21 or other TFs controlling SNCA transcriptional activity may provide novel therapeutic avenues not only for Parkinson's disease but also for other synucleopathies.
Postmortem human brain tissue is widely used in neuroscience research, but use of tissue originating from different brain bank centers is considered inaccurate because of possible heterogeneity in sample quality. There is thus a need for well-characterized markers to assess the quality of postmortem brain tissue. Toward this aim, we determined tryptophan (TRP) concentrations, phosphofructokinase-1 and glutamate decarboxylase activities in 119 brain tissue samples. These neurochemical parameters were tested in samples from autopsied individuals, including control and pathological cases provided by 10 different brain bank centers. Parameters were assessed for correlation with agonal state, postmortem interval, age and gender, brain region, preservation and freezing methods, storage conditions and storage time, RNA integrity, and tissue pH value. TRP concentrations were elevated significantly (p = 0.045) with increased postmortem interval; which might indicate increased protein degradation. Therefore, TRP concentration might be one useful and convenient marker for estimating the quality of human postmortem brain tissue.
In the present study, we explore the central nervous system mechanism underlying the chronic central effects of ghrelin with respect to increasing body weight and body fat. Specifically, using a recently developed ghrelin receptor antagonist, GHS-R1A (JMV2959), we investigate the role of GHS-R1A in mediating the effects of ghrelin on energy balance and on hypothalamic gene expression. As expected, in adult male rats, chronic central treatment with ghrelin for 14 days, when compared to vehicle-treated control rats, resulted in an increased body weight, lean mass and fat mass (assessed by dual X-ray absorptiometry), dissected white fat pad weight, cumulative food intake, food efficiency, respiratory exchange ratio and a decrease of energy expenditure. Co-administration of the ghrelin receptor antagonist JMV2959 suppressed/blocked the majority of these effects, with the notable exception of ghrelin-induced food intake and food efficiency. The hypothesis emerging from these data, namely that GHS-R1A mediates the chronic effects of ghrelin on fat accumulation, at least partly independent of food intake, is discussed in light of the accompanying data regarding the hypothalamic genes coding for peptides and receptors involved in energy balance regulation, which were found to have altered expression in these studies.
Melatonin synthesis in rodents is tightly regulated at the transcriptional level by stimulatory and inhibitory transcription factors. Among them, phosphorylated cAMP-related element binding protein (pCREB) and inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER), a strong inhibitor of cAMP-related element-driven genes, have an antagonistic action in activating/inhibiting the transcription of the Aa-nat gene, which is an important enzyme in melatonin synthesis. In the Syrian hamster, a rodent displaying a seasonal control of reproduction, melatonin synthesis is strongly gated to the second part of the night. Indeed, exogenous adrenergic stimulation is unable to stimulate Aa-nat gene transcription and melatonin synthesis during daytime. In the present study, we investigated whether ICER may be the cause of this daytime repression by comparing the dynamic of ICER and the adrenergic regulation of two genes whose expression is rapidly activated by cAMP-dependant mechanisms, c-fos and Icer. Adrenergic induction of c-fos and Icer expression was not possible during daytime, except at early day. ICER immunoreactivity was elevated throughout the daily cycle but reached the highest levels at early day, when gene expression can be induced by adrenergic agonists. Additionally, CREB phosphorylation was subjected to the same daily gating with an adrenergic induction occurring in the early but not in the late day. Taken together, our results indicate that the diurnal gating of pineal activity in the Syrian hamster is not caused by the repressor ICER and that it may occur at the level of noradrenergic receptor signalling.
Rapid, nongenomic actions of 17beta-oestradiol (E(2)) on hypothalamic neurones that may be relevant to reproductive function were described decades ago. The orphan G protein-coupled receptor, GPR30, was recently shown to bind oestrogens and to trigger rapid signalling in vitro, and is expressed in several rat and human brain regions, including the hypothalamus. We used two complementary approaches to investigate the role of GPR30 in hypothalamic responses to E(2) that are relevant to reproductive physiology. Serial blood sampling after the acute administration of the selective GPR30 agonist G1 was used to assess the role of GPR30 in short latency negative-feedback inhibition of luteinising hormone (LH) secretion and facilitation of prolactin secretion in ovariohysterectomised female rats. In vivo RNA interference (RNAi), mediated by adeno-associated virus-expressing small hairpin RNA (shRNA) infused into the mediobasal hypothalamus, was used to study the effects of GPR30 knockdown on these rapid responses to E(2). Longer-term actions of E(2) on female sexual behaviour (lordosis) were also examined in female rats subjected to in vivo RNAi. Administration of E(2) or G1 triggered a short latency surge of prolactin secretion, and animals subjected to GPR30 RNAi showed significantly less E(2)-dependent prolactin release than animals receiving control virus. G1 did not mimic E(2) negative-feedback inhibition of LH secretion, and GPR30 RNAi did not interfere with E(2) suppression of LH or facilitation of lordosis behaviour. These findings suggest that activation of GPR30 promotes short latency prolactin secretion but does not mediate E(2) negative-feedback inhibition of LH secretion or E(2) facilitation of female reproductive behaviour.
A review is provided of current evidence supporting the actions of the stomach-derived peptide ghrelin on ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine cells to increase food intake and other appetitive behaviours. Ghrelin is a 28 amino-acid peptide that was first identified as an endogenous ligand to growth hormone secretagogue receptors (GHS-R). In addition to the hypothalamus and brain stem, GHS-R message and protein are distributed throughout the brain, with high expression being detected in regions associated with goal directed behaviour. Of these, the VTA shows relatively high levels of mRNA transcript and protein. Interestingly, ghrelin infusions into the VTA increase food intake dramatically, and stimulate dopamine release from the VTA. Moreover, VTA dopamine neurones increase their activity in response to ghrelin in slice preparations, suggesting that ghrelin increases food intake by modulating the activity of dopaminergic neurones in the VTA. On the basis of these data as well as the fact that VTA dopamine cells respond to other metabolic hormones such as insulin and leptin, it is proposed that VTA dopamine cells, similar to cells in the mediobasal hypothalamus, are first-order sensory neurones that regulate appetitive behaviour in response to metabolic and nutritional signals.
In our previous studies, CB(1) cannabinoid receptor agonists stimulated production of cyclic GMP and translocation of nitric oxide (NO)-sensitive guanylyl cyclase in neuronal cells (Jones et al., Neuropharmacology 54:23-30, 2008). The purpose of these studies was to elucidate the signal transduction of cannabinoid-mediated neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activation in neuronal cells. Cannabinoid agonists CP55940 (2-[(1S,2R,5S)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol), WIN55212-2 (R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazinyl]-(1-naphthalenyl)methanone mesylate), and the metabolically stable analog of anandamide, (R)-(+)-methanandamide stimulated NO production in N18TG2 cells over a 20-min period. Rimonabant (N-(piperidin-lyl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide), a CB(1) receptor antagonist, partially or completely curtailed cannabinoid-mediated NO production. Inhibition of NOS activity (N ( G )-nitro-L: -arginine) or signaling via Gi/o protein (pertussis toxin) significantly limited NO production by cannabinoid agonists. Ca(2+) mobilization was not detected in N18TG2 cells after cannabinoid treatment using Fluo-4 AM fluorescence. Cannabinoid-mediated NO production was attributed to nNOS activation since endothelial NOS and inducible NOS protein and mRNA were not detected in N18TG2 cells. Bands of 160 and 155 kDa were detected on Western blot analysis of cytosolic and membrane fractions of N18TG2 cells, using a nNOS antibody. Chronic treatment of N18TG2 cells with cannabinoid agonists downregulated nNOS protein and mRNA as detected using Western blot analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Cannabinoid agonists stimulated NO production via signaling through CB(1) receptors, leading to activation of Gi/o protein and enhanced nNOS activity. The findings of these studies provide information related to cannabinoid-mediated NO signal transduction in neuronal cells, which has important implications in the ongoing elucidation of the endocannabinoid system in the nervous system.
The development of novel immune-based therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases is an area of intense focus. Neurodegenerative diseases represent a particular challenge since in many cases the onset of symptoms occurs after considerable degeneration has ensued. Based on human genetic and histopathological evidence from patients with neurodegenerative diseases, animal models that recapitulate specific pathologic features have been developed. Utilizing these animal models in combination with viral vector-based gene therapeutics, specific epochs of disease can be targeted. One common feature of several neurodegenerative diseases is misfolded proteins. The mechanism by which these altered protein conformers lead to neurodegeneration is not completely understood but much effort has been put forward to either degrade aberrant protein or prevent the formation of misfolded conformers. In this review, we will summarize work that employs viral vector gene therapeutics to modulate the brain's response to misfolded proteins with a specific focus on neurodegeneration.
Although it is well recognized that MCI represents a risk state for subsequent dementia, estimates of conversion vary widely according to the diagnostic criteria employed. There are currently no simple cognitive predictors of high and low risk of progression. We followed 107 non-demented non-depressed subjects from an original cohort of 124--sub-classified as follows: pure amnestic MCI (22), multi-domain MCI (54), non-amnestic MCI (10) and worried well (21). At 2 years, outcome varied considerably. Of the multi-domain MCI group 59% progressed to dementia and only 5% improved. By contrast, in pure amnestic MCI only 18% progressed and 41% improved. Of non-amnestic MCI patients 70% improved. The best predictor of progression was a combination of the Addenbrooke's cognitive examination (ACE) and the paired associate learning task (PAL), which produced high negative predictive (90%) and sensitivity (94%) values. The results indicate very different outcomes according to whether patients have pure amnestic versus multi-domain MCI. While the latter is an aggressive disorder, the former is more benign and unstable even in a clinic setting. Patients with scores &gt;88 on the ACE and/or &lt;14 errors on the PAL can be confidently reassured of a good prognosis.
Previously we suggested that major depression (MD) in Parkinson's disease (PD) could be an indication of a more advanced and widespread neurodegenerative process, as PD symptoms were more severe in those with depression. We also found a different antidepressant response with SSRI medication in PD patients with depression compared to depressed patients without PD. This indicates diverse underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Investigations using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), measuring regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), may contribute to enlighten the neurobiological substrates linked to depressive symptoms. SPECT was performed in order to compare rCBF in MD patients with and without PD. The study included 11 MD patients with PD, 14 non-depressed PD patients and 12 MD patients without PD. All patients were followed for 12 weeks with repeated evaluation of depressive as well as PD symptoms. Anti-Parkinsonian treatment remained unchanged during the study. Antidepressant treatment with SSRI (citalopram) was given to all patients with MD. SPECT was performed before and after 12 weeks of antidepressant treatment. rCBF was found to differ between PD patients with and without MD, as well as between MD patients with and without PD, both at baseline and concerning the response to treatment with SSRI (citalopram). In patients with PD the rCBF was found to be decreased in preoccipital and occipital regions, a finding more common when PD was combined with MD. In summary, larger cortical areas were found to be involved in depressed PD patients, both with hyperactivity (reciprocal to basal degeneration in PD and maybe dopaminergic treatment) and with hypoactivity (probably due to organic lesions leading to hypoperfusion). These observations support our hypothesis that PD combined with MD is an expression of a more advanced and widespread neurodegenerative disorder.


The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway is involved in cell stress and apoptosis. We tested the hypothesis that this pathway plays a role in traumatic brain injury (TBI) by assessing JNK activation in human brain tissues and in brains of mice subjected to controlled cortical impact brain injury. We also assessed the effects of specific inhibition of the JNK pathway by the cell-permeable JNK inhibitor peptide, D-JNKI1, on neurobehavioral function and posttraumatic cell loss in mice. The inhibitor was administered intraperitoneally 10 minutes after injury. The JNK pathway showed robust activation both in human contusion specimens and in injured cortex and hippocampi of TBI-injured mice, 1, 4, and 48 hours after injury. D-JNKI1 treatment significantly improved motor performance at 48 hours and 7 days after injury and reduced the contusion volume compared with saline treatment; the numbers of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling-positive cells were significantly decreased in the hippocampi of injured mice 48 hours after treatment. Thus, because the JNK pathway is activated after human and experimental TBI and the inhibitor peptide D-JNKI1 affords significant neuroprotection and amelioration of neurobehavioral deficits after experimental TBI, therapeutic targeting of the JNK activation pathway may hold promise for future clinical applications.
Increasing evidence suggests a pivotal role for neuroinflammation in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease, but whether activated microglia participate in disease progression remains unclear. To clarify this issue, we determined the numbers of activated microglial cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area of monkeys subacutely and chronically exposed to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Monkeys in the subacute MPTP treatment group were killed 1 week after the last MPTP injection; chronically treated monkeys were killed either 6 or 35 months after the last MPTP injection. Subacute MPTP administration induced loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area and microglial activation in the same areas. Chronic MPTP treatment resulted in greater dopaminergic neuron depletion in both treatment groups. Both groups of chronic MPTP-treated monkeys showed increased numbers of activated microglial cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta that were similar to those of the subacute MPTP treatment group. These results indicate that microglial activation seems to be induced mainly by the toxic effects of MPTP and that it does not further progress once the toxin administration has been terminated. This suggests that the progressive degeneration of nigral cells in Parkinson disease may not necessarily be associated with progressively increased microglial activation.
The tau deposits found in neurodegenerative diseases are classified based on their isoforms, that is, 3-repeat (3R) tau and 4-repeat (4R) tau. These isoforms are distinguishable using the antibodies RD3 and RD4, respectively, and Gallyas (Gal) and Campbell-Switzer (CS) silver staining methods, respectively. Tau is also deposited in cerebral infarcts. To characterize the tau profile in these lesions, 21 brains from autopsied patients with cerebral infarcts were analyzed using immunohistochemistry with RD3, RD4, and the anti-paired helical filament antibody AT8 and with Gal and CS staining; all of these techniques identify Alzheimer disease-type neurofibrillary tangles. Fluorescence labeling followed by silver staining in mirror-section pairs was also used to compare the staining patterns. Neurons in and around ischemic foci exhibited the 4R-tau epitope until 34 days postinfarction; argyrophilia with Gal staining persisted longer. The 4R-tau/Gal-positive neurons were negative for 3R-tau and AT8 epitopes and lacked fibrillary structures and argyrophilia by CS staining; they are, therefore, distinct from neurons with neurofibrillary tangles. Positivity for 4R tau/Gal and negativity for 3R tau/CS were also seen in astrocytes and microglia around infarcts. Although this staining profile is characteristic of degenerative processes with 4R-tau deposition, lack of AT8 immunoreactivity and of fibrillary structures in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia indicates that selective 4R-tau deposition represents a stage without tau phosphorylation or fibril formation in cerebral infarcts.
Considerable information has been gathered on the anatomical connectivity within the parieto-frontal network of the primate brain. To examine the statistical regularities in this connectivity, we carried out hierarchical cluster analysis and found statistically significant clusters of areas: four in the parietal and six in the frontal lobe. Clusters were based on patterns of inputs from all cortical areas. Both parietal and frontal clusters were composed of sets of spatially contiguous architectonic areas. The four parietal clusters were composed of sets of anterior (somatosensory), dorsal, inferior, and medio-lateral parietal cortical areas. The six frontal clusters were composed of sets of dorsal premotor, ventral premotor, primary motor, cingulate motor, and dorsal and ventral prefrontal cortical areas. Furthermore, connectivity between frontal and parietal clusters was topographic and reciprocal. Thus we found substantial statistical structure and organization in the parieto-frontal network that gives a simplified but accurate description of this system.
Two distinct mechanisms mediate potentiating effects of depolarization on synaptic transmission. Recently there has been renewed interest in a type of plasticity in which a neuron's somatic membrane potential influences synaptic transmission. We study mechanisms that mediate this type of control at a synapse between a mechanoafferent, B21, and B8, a motor neuron that receives chemical synaptic input. Previously we demonstrated that the somatic membrane potential determines spike propagation within B21. Namely, B21 must be centrally depolarized if spikes are to propagate to an output process. We now demonstrate that this will occur with central depolarizations that are only a few millivolts. Depolarizations of this magnitude are not, however, sufficient to induce synaptic transmission to B8. B21-induced postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) are only observed if B21 is centrally depolarized by &gt;or=10 mV. Larger depolarizations have a second impact on B21. They induce graded changes in the baseline intracellular calcium concentration that are virtually essential for the induction of chemical synaptic transmission. During motor programs, subthreshold depolarizations that increase calcium concentrations are observed during one of the two antagonistic phases of rhythmic activity. Chemical synaptic transmission from B21 to B8 is, therefore, likely to occur in a phase-dependent manner. Other neurons that receive mechanoafferent input are electrically coupled to B21. Differential control of spike propagation and chemical synaptic transmission may, therefore, represent a mechanism that permits selective control of afferent transmission to different types of neurons contacted by B21. Afferent transmission to neurons receiving chemical synaptic input will be phase specific, whereas transmission to electrically coupled followers will be phase independent.
To delineate the role of cutaneous feedback from the paws in the regulation of balance during walking, we compared the corrective responses of cats to lateral support surface translation before and after cutaneous denervation of the hindpaws. In addition, we compared characteristics of undisturbed walking before and after denervation. Electromyographic and kinematic data were collected from three cats trained to walk across a walkway, the central portion of which could be unexpectedly translated laterally in either direction. Following denervation, all of the cats changed their step width, lowered their pelvis, and spent more time with the hindlegs in double-support when walking across the walkway. When displaced by lateral support surface translations, the denervated cats made larger lateral steps and required more than a single step to regain balance. However, none of the cats fell following the denervation. The appearance and latency of the responses evoked in the hindleg muscles by the perturbations were unaffected by the denervation. However, the amplitude of these responses was affected by the loss of cutaneous inputs. Responses evoked at paw contact were significantly reduced in most muscles in the absence of cutaneous input, whereas responses evoked at end of stance revealed significant increases in gluteus medius activity with little influence on the activity of other muscles. Therefore the loss of cutaneous inputs leads to instability during gait. Although cutaneous feedback from the hindpaws is not essential for triggering corrective responses to support surface disturbances, it appears that cutaneous inputs are important for scaling the responses initiated by other cues.
Working memory (WM) performance is impaired by the presence of external interference. Accordingly, more efficient processing of intervening stimuli with practice may lead to enhanced WM performance. To explore the role of practice on the impact that interference has on WM performance, we studied young adults with electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings as they performed three motion-direction, delayed-recognition tasks. One task was presented without interference, whereas two tasks introduced different types of interference during the interval of memory maintenance: distractors and interruptors. Distractors were to be ignored, whereas interruptors demanded attention based on task instructions for a perceptual discrimination. We show that WM performance was disrupted by both types of interference, but interference-induced disruption abated across a single experimental session through rapid learning. WM accuracy and response time improved in a manner that was correlated with changes in early neural measures of interference processing in visual cortex (i.e., P1 suppression and N1 enhancement). These results suggest practice-related changes in processing interference exert a positive influence on WM performance, highlighting the importance of filtering irrelevant information and the dynamic interactions that exist between neural processes of perception, attention, and WM during learning.
During sleep, warm-blooded animals exhibit cyclic alternations between rapid-eye-movement (REM) and nonrapid-eye-movement (non-REM) states, characterized by distinct patterns of brain activity apparent in electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings coupled with corresponding changes in physiological measures, including body temperature. Recently we have shown that urethane-anesthetized rats display cyclic alternations between an activated state and a deactivated state that are highly similar in both EEG and physiological characteristics to REM and non-REM sleep states, respectively. Here, using intracranial local field potential recordings from urethane-anesthetized rats, we show that brain-state alternations were correlated to core temperature fluctuations induced using a feedback-controlled heating system. Activated (REM-like) states predominated during the rising phase of the temperature cycle, whereas deactivated (non-REM-like) states predominated during the falling phase. Brain-state alternations persisted following the elimination of core temperature fluctuations by the use of a constant heating protocol, but the timing and rhythmicity of state alternations were altered. In contrast, thermal fluctuations applied to the ventral surface (and especially the scrotum) of rats in the absence or independently of core temperature fluctuations appeared to induce brain-state alternations. Heating brought about activated patterns, whereas cooling produced deactivated patterns. This shows that although alternations of sleeplike brain states under urethane anesthesia can be independent of imposed temperature variations, they can also be entrained through the activation of peripheral thermoreceptors. Overall, these results imply that brain state and bodily metabolism are highly related during unconsciousness and that the brain mechanisms underlying sleep cycling and thermoregulation likely represent independent, yet coupled oscillators.
One contention within the field of neuroimaging concerns the character of the depicted activity: Does it represent neuronal action potential generation (i.e., spiking) or postsynaptic excitation? This question is related to the metabolic costs of different aspects of neurosignaling. The cerebellar cortex is well suited for addressing this problem because synaptic input to and spiking of the principal cell, the Purkinje cell (PC), are spatially segregated. Also, PCs are pacemakers, able to generate spikes endogenously. We examined the contributions to cerebellar cortical oxygen consumption (CMRO2) of postsynaptic excitation and PC spiking during evoked and ongoing neuronal activity in the rat. By inhibiting excitatory synaptic input using ionotropic glutamate receptor blockers, we found that the increase in CMRO2 evoked by parallel fiber (PF) stimulation depended entirely on postsynaptic excitation. In contrast, PC spiking was largely responsible for the increase in CMRO2 when ongoing neuronal activity was increased by gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor blockade. In this case, CMRO2 increased equally during PC spiking with excitatory synaptic activity as during PC pacemaker spiking without excitatory synaptic input. Subsequent inhibition of action potential propagation and neurotransmission by blocking voltage-gated Na+-channels eliminated the increases in CMRO2 due to PF stimulation and increased PC spiking, but left a large fraction of CMRO2, i.e., basal CMRO2, intact. In conclusion, whereas basal CMRO2 in anesthetized animals did not seem to be related to neurosignaling, increases in CMRO2 could be induced by all aspects of neurosignaling. Our findings imply that CMRO2 responses cannot a priori be assigned to specific neuronal activities.
The spinal network underlying locomotion in lamprey is composed of excitatory and inhibitory interneurons mediating fast ionotropic action. In addition, several modulator systems are activated as locomotion is initiated, including the tachykinin system and the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1), the latter operating partially via the endocannabinoid system. The effects of mGluR1 agonists and tachykinins resemble each other. Like mGluR1 agonists, the tachykinin substance P accelerates the burst rate and reduces the crossed inhibition in an activity-dependent fashion. The present study therefore explores whether tachykinins also use the endocannabinoid system to modulate the locomotor frequency. By monitoring fictive locomotion, we were able to compare the facilitatory effects exerted by applying substance P (1 microM, 20 min), on the burst frequency before and during application of the endocannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (2-5 microM). By using two different lamprey species, we showed that the response to substance P on the burst frequency is significantly reduced during the application of AM251. To examine whether endocannabinoids are involved in the substance P-mediated modulation of reciprocal inhibition, the commissural axons were stimulated, while recording intracellularly from motoneurons. We compare the effect of substance P on the amplitude of the contralateral compound glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP) in control and in the presence of AM251. The blockade of CB1 receptors reduced the substance P-mediated decrease in the amplitude by 29%. The present findings suggest that the effects of substance P on the increase in the locomotor burst frequency and depression of IPSPs are mediated partially via release of endocannabinoids acting through CB1 receptors.
Intercepting a moving target requires a prediction of the target's future motion. This extrapolation could be achieved using sensed parameters of the target motion, e.g., its position and velocity. However, the accuracy of the prediction would be improved if subjects were also able to incorporate the statistical properties of the target's motion, accumulated as they watched the target move. The present experiments were designed to test for this possibility. Subjects intercepted a target moving on the screen of a computer monitor by sliding their extended finger along the monitor's surface. Along any of the six possible target paths, target speed could be governed by one of three possible rules: constant speed, a power law relation between speed and curvature, or the trajectory resulting from a sum of sinusoids. A go signal was given to initiate interception and was always presented when the target had the same speed, irrespective of the law of motion. The dependence of the initial direction of finger motion on the target's law of motion was examined. This direction did not depend on the speed profile of the target, contrary to the hypothesis. However, finger direction could be well predicted by assuming that target location was extrapolated using target velocity and that the amount of extrapolation depended on the distance from the finger to the target. Subsequent analysis showed that the same model of target motion was also used for on-line, visually mediated corrections of finger movement when the motion was initially misdirected.
The barn owl's midbrain and forebrain contain neurons tuned to sound direction. The spatial receptive fields of these neurons result from sensitivity to combinations of interaural time (ITD) and level (ILD) differences over a broad frequency range. While a map of auditory space has been described in the midbrain, no similar topographic representation has been found in the forebrain. The first nuclei that belong exclusively to the forebrain and midbrain pathways are the thalamic nucleus ovoidalis (Ov) and the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICx), respectively. The midbrain projects to the auditory thalamus before sharp spatial receptive fields emerge; although Ov and ICx receive projections from the same midbrain nuclei, they are not directly connected. We compared the spatial tuning in Ov and ICx. Thalamic neurons respond to a broader frequency range and their ITD and ILD tuning varied more across frequency. However, neurons in Ov showed spatial receptive fields as selective as neurons in ICx. Thalamic spatial receptive fields were tuned to frontal and contralateral space and correlated with their tuning to ITD and ILD. Our results indicate that spatial tuning emerges in both pathways by similar combination selectivity to ITD and ILD. However, the midbrain and the thalamus do not appear to repeat exactly the same processing, as indicated by the difference in frequency range and the broader tuning to binaural cues. The differences observed at the initial stages of these sound-localization pathways may reflect diverse functions and coding schemes of midbrain and forebrain.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) harbors the master circadian pacemaker. SCN neurons produce the amino acid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and several peptide molecules for coordination and communication of their circadian rhythms. A subpopulation of SCN cells synthesizes vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and provides a dense innervation of the subparaventricular zone (SPZ), an important CNS target of the circadian pacemaker. In this study, using patch-clamp recording techniques and rat brain slice preparations, the contribution of VIP to SCN efferent signaling to SPZ was evaluated by examining membrane responses of SPZ neurons to exogenous VIP receptor ligands. In approximately 50% of the SPZ neurons receiving monosynaptic GABAA receptor-mediated inputs from SCN, bath-applied VIP (0.5-1 microM) resulted in a membrane depolarization caused by tetrodotoxin-resistant inward currents reversing at approximately -23 mV. These data suggest the existence of postsynaptic receptors that activate a nonselective cationic conductance. In addition, a subset of SPZ neurons showed an increase in the amplitude of SCN-evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and a decrease in their paired-pulse ratios. This, together with an increase in frequency of spontaneous and miniature IPSCs, implies the presence of presynaptic receptors that facilitate GABA release from SCN and possibly other synaptic terminals. The effects occurred in separate neurons and could be mimicked by the selective VPAC2 receptor agonist BAY 55-9837 (0.2-0.5 microM) and partially blocked by the VIP receptor antagonist VIP(6-28) (5 microM). The results indicate that VIP acts via both post- and presynaptic VPAC2 receptors to differentially modulate SCN GABAergic signaling to distinct subpopulations of SPZ neurons.
To select an appropriate action, we conform to a behavioral rule determined uniquely in each behavioral context. If the rule is not predetermined and must be discovered, we often test hypotheses concerning rules by applying one candidate rule after another. The neural mechanisms underlying such rule identification are still unknown. To explore which brain areas are involved in the process of logical rule identification and to determine whether such areas differ from those taking part in implementing the rule to find a suitable action, we measured brain activation using functional magnetic resonance imaging while subjects performed a rule-identification task. The subjects were required to select a red or blue square on a screen based on either a &quot;sequence rule&quot; or a &quot;probability rule.&quot; Positive or negative feedback to the subject's choice led the subject to identify the correct rule. We found that the posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC), caudate nucleus, fusiform gyrus, and middle temporal cortex exhibited significant activation during the period when subjects underwent the hypothesis testing. Among these brain areas, the pMFC and caudate nucleus were also activated in response to the critical feedback signals selectively during the trials when the subjects identified a rule. Furthermore, we found a significant enhancement in effective connectivity between the active regions in the pMFC and caudate regions.
In mesial temporal lobe (MTL) epilepsy, which typically involves the hippocampus (HPC), epileptiform events are enhanced during slow wave sleep (SWS). It remains unclear how and why the electroencephalographic (EEG) states that constitute SWS might predispose the HPC to this type of pathological activity. Recently our laboratory has described a novel state of deactivated hippocampal EEG activity that occurs during both SWS and urethan anesthesia: the slow oscillation (SO). This activity is characterized by a high-amplitude approximately 1-Hz signal, high synchrony within the hippocampus, and a dynamic coordination with neocortical SO. To assess how this activity state might influence epileptiform discharges, we studied the properties of stimulation-evoked and spontaneous epileptiform events elicited in the HPC of urethan-anesthetized rats. We compared those elicited during the SO to those occurring during the theta rhythm. The average duration but not the amplitude of evoked afterdischarges (ADs) was consistently larger during the SO. In addition, spontaneous epileptiform events were more frequent and of higher amplitude during the SO. Last, the bilateral propagation of both ADs and spontaneous events in the hippocampus was enhanced during the SO. These results imply that the threshold for the generation and propagation of epileptiform activity in the hippocampus is lowered during the SO and that this state may be a seed for the initiation, maintenance, and generalization of MTL epilepsy. Further examination of the pathophysiology of sleep-epilepsy interactions in the HPC will be of benefit for an understanding of the mechanisms, prognosis, and therapy for this form of epilepsy.
Uncovering the roles of neural feedback in the brain is an active area of experimental research. In songbirds, the telencephalic premotor nucleus HVC receives neural feedback from both forebrain and brain stem areas. Here we present a computational model of birdsong sequencing that incorporates HVC and associated nuclei and builds on the model of sparse bursting presented in our preceding companion paper. Our model embodies the hypotheses that 1) different networks in HVC control different syllables or notes of birdsong, 2) interneurons in HVC not only participate in sparse bursting but also provide mutual inhibition between networks controlling syllables or notes, and 3) these syllable networks are sequentially excited by neural feedback via the brain stem and the afferent thalamic nucleus Uva, or a similar feedback pathway. We discuss the model's ability to unify physiological, behavioral, and lesion results and we use it to make novel predictions that can be tested experimentally. The model suggests a neural basis for sequence variations, shows that stimulation in the feedback pathway may have different effects depending on the balance of excitation and inhibition at the input to HVC from Uva, and predicts deviations from uniform expansion of syllables and gaps during HVC cooling.
At the somatosensory periphery, slowly adapting type 1 (SA1) and rapidly adapting (RA) afferents respond very differently to step indentations: SA1 afferents respond throughout the entire stimulus interval (sustained response), whereas RA afferents respond only at stimulus onset (on response) and offset (off response). We recorded the responses of cortical neurons to step indentations and found many neurons in areas 3b and 1 to exhibit properties that are intermediate between these two extremes: These neurons responded during the sustained portion of the stimulus and also at the offset of the stimulus. Several lines of evidence indicate that these neurons, which exist in large proportions even at these early stages of somatosensory cortical processing, receive input from both populations of afferents. First, we show that many cortical neurons have both a significant sustained response and a significant off response. Second, the strength of the off response is uncorrelated with that of the sustained response, which is to be expected if sustained and off responses stem from different populations of afferent fibers. Third, the bulk of the variance in cortical responses to step indentations can be accounted for using a linear combination of both SA1 and RA responses. Finally, we show that the off response in cortical neurons does not reflect rebound from inhibition. We conclude that the convergence of modality specific input onto individual neurons is common in primary somatosensory cortex and discuss how this conclusion might be reconciled with previous findings.
The telencephalic premotor nucleus HVC is situated at a critical point in the pattern-generating premotor circuitry of oscine songbirds. A striking feature of HVC's premotor activity is that its projection neurons burst extremely sparsely. Here we present a computational model of HVC embodying several central hypotheses: 1) sparse bursting is generated in bistable groups of recurrently connected robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA)-projecting (HVCRA) neurons; 2) inhibitory interneurons terminate bursts in the HVCRA groups; and 3) sparse sequences of bursts are generated by the propagation of waves of bursting activity along networks of HVCRA neurons. Our model of sparse bursting places HVC in the context of central pattern generators and cortical networks using inhibition, recurrent excitation, and bistability. Importantly, the unintuitive result that inhibitory interneurons can precisely terminate the bursts of HVCRA groups while showing relatively sustained activity throughout the song is made possible by a specific constraint on their connectivity. We use the model to make novel predictions that can be tested experimentally.

AI is unable to make eye-movements and has a deficit of reflexive attention. Here, we demonstrate that despite these deficits AI exhibits inhibition of return (IOR) for peripherally cued objects and locations. These data suggest that an intact oculomotor system is not required for the generation of either object-based or location-based IOR and are consistent with the view that the early, facilitatory effects of peripheral cues and late IOR effects are mediated by different mechanisms.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by autonomic failure, parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia, and oligodendrocytic accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alphasyn). Oxidative stress has been linked to neuronal death in MSA and the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) is known to enhance the motor deficits and neurodegeneration in transgenic mice models of MSA. However, the effect of 3NP administration on alphasyn itself has not been studied. In this context, we examined the neuropathological effects of 3NP administration in alphasyn transgenic mice expressing human alphasyn (halphasyn) under the control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter and the effect of this administration on posttranslational modifications of alphasyn, on levels of total alphasyn, and on its solubility. We demonstrate that 3NP administration altered levels of nitrated and oxidized alphasyn in the MBP-halphasyn tg while not affecting global levels of phosphorylated or total alphasyn. 3NP administration also exaggerated neurological deficits in the MBP-halphasyn tg mice, resulting in widespread neuronal degeneration and behavioral impairment.
Nervous system growth factor gene delivery can promote axonal growth and prevent cell death in animal models of CNS trauma and neurodegenerative diseases. The ability to regulate growth factor expression or signaling pathways downstream from growth factor receptors remains a desirable goal for in vivo gene transfer. To achieve precise pharmacological modulation of neurotrophin activity, we have generated a chimeric trkA receptor (ItrkA) by fusing the entire intracellular domain of the trkA high-affinity NGF receptor to two intracellular, modified FK506 binding domains for the synthetic small molecule dimerization ligand AP20187. Rat PC12 cells were transduced with lentiviral vectors containing ItrkA and green fluorescent protein (GFP; via an internal ribosome entry site). Treatment of ItrkA-expressing PC12 cells with AP20187 induced neurite outgrowth and differentiation in a time- and dose-dependent fashion, with a half-maximal response at a concentration of 1 nM AP20187. Seventy percent of cells responded to AP20187 by day 3. Western blots demonstrated that AP20187 treatment resulted in phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and Akt in ItrkA-transduced PC12 cells but not in nontransduced, nave cells. Phosphorylation levels were comparable to levels obtained with 50 ng/ml nerve growth factor (NGF). In addition, ItrkA lentiviral transduction of primary E15 dorsal root ganglion neurons significantly increased neurite growth three- to fourfold in the presence of AP20187 compared with control GFP transduced and nave neurons. These results demonstrate that small ligand-induced dimerization of the intracellular domain of trkA can efficiently simulate the biological activity of NGF and provide a means to regulate intracellular neurotrophin receptor signaling.
Febrile seizures are the most common seizure type in children, and hyperthermia may contribute to seizure generation during fever. We have previously demonstrated that hyperthermia suppressed gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic synaptic transmission in CA1 neurons of immature rats. However, whether this suppression is age-dependent is unknown. Moreover, it is unclear whether hyperthermia has differential effects on neuronal inhibition in CA1 pyramidal cells (PCs) and dentate gyrus granule cells (GCs). In this study, we investigated the effects of hyperthermia on GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in CA1 and DG neurons from immature (11-17 days old) and mature (6-8 weeks old) rats using whole-cell recordings in vitro. In immature rats, hyperthermia decreased the peak amplitude of GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs (GABA(A) IPSCs) in PCs but not in GCs. However, hyperthermia decreased the decay time constant of GABA(A) IPSCs to a similar extent in both PCs and GCs. In mature rats, hyperthermia decreased the peak amplitude but not the decay time constant of GABA(A) IPSCs in both PCs and GCs. Hyperthermia decreased charge transfer (area) of the GABA(A) IPSC of PCs more in immature than in mature rats. In contrast, hyperthermia decreased the GABA(B) receptor-mediated IPSCs to the same degree in immature and mature rats, for either CA1 or DG neurons. Because the hippocampus has been found to be involved in hyperthermia-induced behavioral seizures in immature rats, we suggest that the higher sensitivity of CA1 inhibitory synaptic function to hyperthermia in immature compared with mature rats might partially explain the higher susceptibility for febrile seizures in immature animals.
Although abundant evidence indicates mutual regulation between the immune and the central nervous systems, how the immune signals are transmitted to the brain is still an unresolved question. In a previous study we found strong expression of proinflammatory cytokine receptors, including interleukin (IL)-1 receptor I and IL-6 receptor alpha in the rat carotid body (CB), a well-known arterial chemoreceptor that senses a variety of chemostimuli in the arterial blood. We demonstrated that IL-1 stimulation increases intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in CB glomus cells, releases ATP, and increases the discharge rate in carotid sinus nerve. To explore the effect of IL-6 on CB, here we examine the effect of IL-6 on [Ca(2+)](i) and catecholamine (CA) secretion in rat CB glomus cells. Calcium imaging showed that extracellular application of IL-6 induced a rise in [Ca(2+)](i) in cultured glomus cells. Amperometry showed that local application of IL-6 evoked CA release from glomus cells. Furthermore, the CA secretory response to IL-6 was blocked by 200 microM Cd(2+), a well-known Ca(2+) channel blocker. Our experiments provide further evidence for the responsiveness of the CB to proinflammatory cytokines and indicate that the CB might play a role in inflammation sensing and transmission of such information to the brain.
In the present study, we investigated the role and mechanism through which activated retinal glia stimulate retinal ganglion cell (RGC) neurite outgrowth. We have found that the level of retinal glial activation correlates directly with enhanced RGC neurite outgrowth after a preconditioning intravitreal Zymosan injection. Reduction in the number of activated glia in primary rat retinal cultures led to significantly reduced RGC neurite outgrowth. Glial-related neurite outgrowth appears to be, at least in part, mediated via apolipoprotein E (ApoE), which is expressed by activated retinal astrocytes and Mller glia. ApoE-deficient mice showed significantly reduced RGC neurite outgrowth potential after intravitreal Zymosan injection compared with age-matched wild-type animals. These observations suggest that ApoE, expressed by activated retinal glia, stimulates RGC neurite outgrowth after intravitreal Zymosan injection.
Surgery within the third ventricle was a special challenge early in the conception of the discipline of neurosurgery due to a lack of diagnostic methods and difficulty in reaching and removing lesions affecting this vital region. Walter Dandy and Harvey Cushing performed pioneering approaches of the third ventricular region. The authors have reviewed the previously undisclosed efforts of Cushing to approach the third ventricle through a direct review of his available patient records at the Cushing Brain Tumor Registry. The authors compare these efforts to those of Dandy published in Dandy's pioneering work Benign Tumors in the Third Ventricle of the Brain: Diagnosis and Treatment. Based on the review of these records, the authors attempt to examine the foundations of surgery within the third ventricle.

Intracranial chondrosarcomas are cartilaginous tumours that are extremely rare with an estimated incidence of less than 0.16% of all intracranial neoplasms. They arise from the skull base synchondrosis or exceptionally from cartilaginous rests within the dura mater. This kind of tumours presents clinical features mimicking meningiomas, with symptoms secondary to mass effect (increased intracranial pressure, local brain dysfunction, cranial nerve palsies) and seizures. Intracranial chondrosarcomas are more frequently seen between 3 months and 76 years of age, with a peak around the third decade, with an equal sex distribution. The authors report a case of a 32-year-old woman with a chondrosarcoma of the falx cerebri.

Aging may be an important factor affecting brain injury by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). In the present study, we investigated the responses of glial cells and monocytes to intracerebral hemorrhage in normal and aged rats. ICH was induced by microinjecting autologous whole blood (15 microL) into the striatum of young (4 month old) and aged (24 month old) Sprague-Dawley rats. Age-dependent relations of brain tissue damage with glial and macrophageal responses were evaluated. Three days after ICH, activated microglia/macrophages with OX42-positive processes and swollen cytoplasm were more abundantly distributed around and inside the hemorrhagic lesions. These were more dramatic in aged versus the young rats. Western blot and immunohistochemistry analyses showed that the expression of interleukin-1beta protein after ICH was greater in aged rats, whereas the expression of GFAP and ciliary neurotrophic factor protein after ICH was significantly lower in aged rats. These results suggest that ICH causes more severe brain injury in aged rats most likely due to overactivation of microglia/macrophages and concomitant repression of reactive astrocytes.
Pseudorabies virus (PrV) strains such as PrV-Bartha and its marker protein-expressing variants have been used in numerous studies as retrograde transneuronal tracing tools, defining the synaptic organization of mammalian neuronal circuits. However, the possibilities for functional examination of virus-infected neurons are limited to electrophysiological approaches or bulk loading strategies using calcium-sensitive dyes. Herein we report the generation and functional characterization of three PrV-Bartha-derived recombinant virus mutants that express different fluorescent calcium indicator proteins (FCIPs). All three generated virus recombinants are able to infect murine trigeminal neurons and express the corresponding FCIP (GCaMP2, camgaroo-2, or inverse pericam). Functionality of these virally expressed constructs was verified by using confocal Ca-imaging technologies. These FCIP-expressing virus recombinants provide a new tool for the functional analysis of whole circuits of synaptically connected neurons in vitro and in vivo.
The purpose of this study was to verify the actual involvement of Chlamydia pneumoniae in multiple sclerosis (MS) by the evaluation of its specific intrathecal humoral immune response in MS. We measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum levels of anti-C. pneumoniae immunoglobulin G (IgG) in 27 relapsing-remitting (RR), 9 secondary progressive (SP), and 5 primary progressive (PP) MS patients, grouped according to clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of disease activity. Twenty-one patients with other inflammatory neurological disorders (OIND) and 21 with noninflammatory neurological disorders (NIND) were used as controls. Quantitative intrathecal synthesis of anti-C. pneumoniae IgG was determined by antibody-specific index (ASI), whereas the presence of C. pneumoniae-specific CSF oligoclonal IgG bands was assessed by antigen-specific immunoblotting. ASI values indicative of C. pneumoniae-specific intrathecal IgG synthesis were present in a small proportion of MS (29.3%), OIND (33.3%), and NIND (4.8%) patients and were significantly more frequent (P &lt; .05) in total MS and in OIND than in NIND and in SP (P &lt; .01) and PP MS (P &lt; .05) than in RR MS. C. pneumoniae-specific CSF-restricted OCB were detected only in three SP, one PP, and one RR MS patients. These findings suggest that an intrathecal production of anti-C. pneumoniae IgG is part of humoral polyreactivity driven by MS chronic brain inflammation. However, an intrathecal release of C. pneumoniae-specific oligoclonal IgG can occur in a subset of patients with MS progressive forms in whom a C. pneumoniae-persistent brain infection may play a pathogenetic role.


Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) is a relatively new discipline within the field of neuroscience which researches the relationship between emotional states, the central and peripheral nervous systems, and the endocrine and immune systems. Negative psychological states, such as stress, anxiety, and depression, may alter immune system regulation and modulation of peripheral cytokines. A plethora of PNI studies have shown that increased psychological stress and depression are associated with an alteration of immune functioning and worsened health outcomes for many conditions. To date, application of PNI methodology has not been reported for ocular diseases. This article provides an historical perspective on the origins of the rift between the emotional and spiritual from physical aspects of disease. A review of how stress is mediated through sympathetic adrenomedullary and hypothalamic pituitary axis activation with shifts in immunity is provided. The literature which supports spirituality in healing is presented. Finally, ocular diseases which would be most amenable to a PNI approach are discussed.[This corrects the article on p. in vol. .].



We believe that humanoid robots provide new tools to investigate human social cognition, the processes underlying everyday interactions between individuals. Resonance is an emerging framework to understand social interactions that is based on the finding that cognitive processes involved when experiencing a mental state and when perceiving another individual experiencing the same mental state overlap, both at the behavioral and neural levels. We will first review important aspects of his framework. In a second part, we will discuss how this framework is used to address questions pertaining to artificial agents' social competence. We will focus on two types of paradigm, one derived from experimental psychology and the other using neuroimaging, that have been used to investigate humans' responses to humanoid robots. Finally, we will speculate on the consequences of resonance in natural social interactions if humanoid robots are to become integral part of our societies.
Stimulation of the raphe pallidus nucleus produces facilitatory effects on respiratory activity. Numerous serotonergic projections from the raphe pallidus have been shown to terminate in the phrenic nucleus. This study was undertaken to examine the role of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors in the phrenic nucleus on the excitatory response of the phrenic nerve activity elicited from the raphe pallidus. We hypothesized that blockade of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the phrenic nucleus will attenuate raphe-induced facilitation of the phrenic nerve. Chemical stimulation of the raphe pallidus by synaptic excitant D,L-homocysteic acid produced increase in the amplitude of the phrenic nerve activity. After microinjection of the specific 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY, N-(2-(4,2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexane-carboxamide maleate into the phrenic nucleus, the raphe-induced facilitation of the phrenic nerve was attenuated. These data suggest that excitation of the phrenic nerve activity elicited by activation of the neurons in the raphe pallidus is mediated by 5-HT(1A) receptors in the phrenic nucleus.
A vast literature extolling the benefits of melatonin has accumulated during the past four decades. Melatonin was previously considered of importance to seasonal reproduction and circadian rhythmicity. Currently, it appears to be a versatile anti-oxidative and anti-nitrosative agent, a molecule with immunomodulatory actions and profound oncostatic activity, and also to play a role as a potent neuroprotectant. Nowadays, melatonin is sold as a dietary supplement with differential availability as an over-the-counter aid in different countries. There is a widespread agreement that melatonin is nontoxic and safe considering its frequent, long-term usage by humans at both physiological and pharmacological doses with no reported side effects. Endeavors toward a designated drug status for melatonin may be enormously rewarding in clinics for treatment of several forms of neurotrauma where effective pharmacological intervention has not yet been attained. This mini review consolidates the data regarding the efficacy of melatonin as an unique neuroprotective agent in traumatic central nervous system (CNS) injuries. Well-documented actions of melatonin in combating traumatic CNS damage are compiled from various clinical and experimental studies. Research on traumatic brain injury and ischemia/reperfusion are briefly outlined here as they have been recently reviewed elsewhere, whereas the studies on different animal models of the experimental spinal cord injury have been extensively covered in this mini review for the first time.
Rapid advances in neuroscience and clinical research have made the practice of quality clinical psychopharmacology increasingly difficult. While practice guidelines, model psychopharmacology curricula, and clinical algorithms have helped &quot;the science&quot; of psychopharmacology, they often fail to provide guidance for clinicians in specific clinical situations with individual patients. Quality psychopharmacology practice is based on a combination of knowledge, experience, judgment, and luck. In this article, the authors present their collection of psychopharmacology &quot;pearls&quot; for trainees as well as experienced clinicians. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice 2009;15:423-426).
Neuroethics is a new subset of bioethics that addresses ethical issues pertaining to the brain, primarily in the fields of neuroscience, cognitive science, and neuroradiology. Research in brain science is progressing at a phenomenal rate and, as a result, the acquisition and application of knowledge and technology raises ethical questions of a practical and philosophical nature. While neuroethics is developing as a distinct field of study, one area that should be addressed in greater depth is the relevance and potential impact of neurotechnology in psychiatry. New knowledge in the mind-brain conundrum and increasingly sophisticated techniques for imaging and intervening in human cognition, emotion, and behavior pose ethical issues at the intersection of technology and psychiatry. This article presents a broad survey of the new directions in neuroethics, neuroscience, and technology and considers the implications of technological advances for the practice of psychiatry in the new millennium. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice 2009;15:391-401).
Functional neuroimaging is widely used to unravel changes in brain functioning in psychiatric disorders. In the current study, we review single-photon emission tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies in anorexia nervosa (AN), a difficult-to-treat eating disorder with the highest mortality rate among psychiatric disorders. We discuss the role of the parietal cortex, anterior and subgenual cingulate cortex, frontal cortex and temporal lobe in light of the cardinal symptoms of AN. The insights of the current review may ultimately lead to the development of new treatments.
Several lines of evidence implicate BDNF in the pathophysiology of psychiatric illness. BDNF polymorphisms have also been associated with the risk of schizophrenia and mood disorders. We therefore investigated whether levels of (pro)BDNF and receptor proteins, TrkB and p75, are altered in hippocampus in schizophrenia and mood disorder and whether polymorphisms in each gene influenced protein expression. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded hippocampal sections from subjects with schizophrenia, major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder (BPD) and non-psychiatric controls were obtained from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium. (pro)BDNF, TrkB(T1) and p75 protein densities were quantified by immunoautoradiography and DNA extracted from each subject was used to determine the effect of genotype on protein expression. In MDD, reductions in (pro)BDNF were seen in all layers of the right but not the left hippocampus with no changes in the dentate gyrus. The pattern was similar but less marked for BPD. In addition, BPD but not MDD patients, had bilateral reductions in p75 in hippocampal layers but not in dentate gyrus. No changes in TrkB(T1) density were seen in any diagnosis. These findings suggest MDD and BPD may share impairment in (pro)BDNF expression. However, BPD may involve impairments of both (pro)BDNF and p75 receptor, whereas MDD may involve impaired (pro)BDNF alone. Moreover, the lateralisation of changes may indicate a role of asymmetry in vulnerability to MDD. Hippocampal (pro)BDNF and receptor levels were also affected by genotype, suggesting that allelic variations are important in the hippocampal abnormalities seen in these psychiatric disorders.



Two peptides (MW 1211.7 and 928.5 Da) were detected by RP-HPLC-ESI-MS analysis of parotid saliva secreted upon continuous parasympathetic stimulation. The peptide with the higher mass (PSPFr-A) corresponded to the N-terminal dodecapeptide (Fragment 1-12) of rat parotid secretory protein (PSP), while the peptide with the lower mass (PSPFr-B) corresponded to the 4-12 fragment of the same protein. During stimulation, the PSPFr-A secretion increased, while the PSPFr-B secretion decreased (HPLC-ESI-MS). In the presence of cycloheximide, PSPFr-A was not demonstrated, while the PSPFr-B secretion decreased. In the presence of aprotinin, the PSPFr-B secretion was almost abolished, while the PSPFr-A secretion increased to higher levels than those observed in the absence of the inhibitor. In vitro perfusion, with artificial solution, of stimulated rat parotid glands excluded that the fragments were derived from the circulation. Neither peptide occurred in enriched granule preparations from unstimulated glands. The results suggest that at least two pathways--granular and vesicular--are responsible for the generation of the two peptides. PSPFr-A is the first cleavage product in both pathways. PRPFr-B is probably generated from granular PSPFr-A only and, at the end of the granule mediated pathway, by the action of an enzyme of the serine protease class.


Experimental approaches currently used to quantify the activity of antiangiogenic treatments in cancer therapy do not generally address the importance of spatial distribution of microvessels in target tissues. We report a new computerized method to assess tumor vascularization by quantifying the distribution of functional microvessels as revealed by in vivo staining with sulfosuccinimidyl-6-(biotinamido) hexanoate. Our approach was based on pixel dilation of digital images of blood vessels and addressed the space-filling property of the vessel layouts. This was practically achieved computing the number of dilation cycles (Halo index) needed to permeate a pre-defined amount of each image. Our approach was validated on human tumor xenografts in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficient mice treated with the antiangiogenic drug sorafenib. For each experimental model, area normalization allowed the unbiased comparison of several hundreds of images showing different amounts of vascular tissue. In two different tumor types, comparison of Halo values showed statistically significant differences between control and sorafenib-treated samples. Conversely, this effect was not observed in samples from an additional xenograft known to resist the antiangiogenic treatment. By separating the analysis of vessel area from the quantification of vessel distributions, our approach can potentially contribute to a better evaluation of the antiangiogenic or vascular-disrupting activity of new drugs or treatments.
Parkinson's disease, the most common hypokinetic movement disorder, has received much attention from the clinical and scientific community, but there has been a relative paucity of comprehensive reviews of hyperkinetic disorders, even though they are equally or even more disabling. Hyperkinetic movement disorders include tremors, dystonia, chorea, tics, myoclonus, stereotypies, restless legs syndrome, and various other disorders with abnormal involuntary movements. Substantial progress has been made in the understanding of the role of the basal ganglia in the pathophysiology of these hyperkinesia disorders and in motor control, muscle tone, posture, and cognitive processes. Although therapies that target pathogenesis are still lacking, effective management of hyperkinetic movement disorders demands that physicians are knowledgeable about current and novel pharmacological and surgical approaches. In addition to tetrabenazine, a monoamine-depleting drug, new formulations of botulinum toxin are being increasingly used in the treatment of these movement disorders. Finally, success with surgical approaches, particularly deep brain stimulation in patients with Parkinson's disease who have levodopa-induced dyskinesias, has been extended to the treatment of many hyperkinetic movement disorders.
Endogenous glucose production (EGP), gluconeogenic and glycogenolytic fluxes by analysis of a single (2)H-NMR spectrum is demonstrated with 6-hr and 24-hr fasted rats. Animals were administered [1-(2)H, 1-(13)C]glucose, a novel tracer of glucose turnover, and (2)H(2)O. Plasma glucose enrichment from both tracers was quantified by (2)H-NMR analysis of monoacetone glucose. The 6-hr fasted group (n = 7) had EGP rates of 95.6 +/- 13.3 micromol/kg/min, where 56.2 +/- 7.9 micromol/kg/min were derived from PEP; 12.1 +/- 2.1 micromol/kg/min from glycerol, and 32.1 +/- 4.9 micromol/kg/min from glycogen. The 24-hr fasted group (n = 7) had significantly lower EGP rates (52.8 +/- 7.2 micromol/kg/min, P = 0.004 vs. 6 hr) mediated by a significantly reduced contribution from glycogen (4.7 +/- 5.9 micromol/kg/min, P = 0.02 vs. 6 hr) while PEP and glycerol contributions were not significantly different (39.5 +/- 3.9 and 8.5 +/- 1.2 micromol/kg/min, respectively). These estimates agree with previous assays of EGP fluxes in fasted rats obtained by multinuclear NMR analyses of plasma glucose enrichment from (2)H(2)O and (13)C-glucose tracers.
Although the opioid analgesics such as morphine represent an important class of agents for the treatment of severe clinical pain, the development of tolerance and dependence often overshadows the therapeutic advantages of morphine and related opioids in individuals undergoing long-term treatments. The mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance are not fully understood, but appear to be comprised of two types of plasticity or counter-adaptation, at the cellular level and through neuronal circuits. Current studies mostly emphasize the cellular adaptation mechanisms, which include altered gene expression and receptor desensitization due to phosphorylation and endocytosis. However, the mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance and dependence are not always explained by cellular adaptation mechanisms alone. This review focuses on the plasticity in neuronal circuits achieved through an enhancement of so-called anti-opioid glutamate/NMDA receptor synaptic activities. There have been also conceptual advances in understanding the changes to supporting systems, which include the altered expression of key molecules regulating the anti-opioid system through neuron-glial networks. We also introduce a new approach using in vivo electroporation to identify the brain loci responsible for morphine tolerance and dependence.
This article emphasizes some key points in the preoperative evaluation of patients with neurologic disease. The amount of neurologic disease in the general population is a difficult number to assess accurately. This is, in part, because of the wide-sweeping scope of neurologic disease. The International Classification of Diseases has the highest number of conditions attributable to neurologic disease. Patients with neurologic disease are commonly encountered, and their illness is often complicated by significant comorbid disease. It is important to think of the patient as a whole rather than the sum of his or her systems. While it is tempting to consider the traditional preoperative evaluation from a &quot;cardiac clearance&quot; point of view, we must resist this urge, and evaluate which risk factors we can modify and hopefully mitigate to optimize the perioperative period.
Neurodegenerative disorders constitute a set of heterogeneous conditions lacking a satisfactory unifying conceptual scheme. This situation is widely perceived as hampering progress in understanding them adequately in order to develop effective treatment and prevention, but there is no unanimously or even generally agreed upon solution to this dilemma. Here, we propose that progress in resolving this conundrum requires addressing in an integrated fashion multiple dimensions and scales of organization and (normal and disordered) function that include, but transcend the conventional levels of space, time, Molecular Biology/Biochemistry and Systems Neuroscience, among others. This approach must include also a revision of the nosological concepts that currently attempt to force pathophysiological and etiological explanations within a single domain (nowadays predominantly the Molecular/Biochemical) that have virtually always failed to deliver on titillating expectations based on relatively simple &quot;atomizing&quot; schemes focusing on one domain/level, while ignoring virtually all others. This multi-dimensional integrated approach is illustrated for the Alzheimer dementia-like syndrome taking advantage of the wealth of knowledge in several of the relevant domains, but is generally applicable to potentially the entire range of neurodegenerative disorders, and probably also to other aspects of normal and disordered cognition and behavior.
The ethical issues surrounding enforced release of forensic psychiatric patients are discussed in this article. Some patients disagree with their discharge because they are convinced that they need the continued structure of the hospital setting and the social relationships with fellow patients and therapists. They fear that without this structure they will unable to cope with the challenges of life in society and the consequence could be relapse and recidivism. Suggestions for guidelines on a practical approach to this category of forensic patients are presented.
Tolerance represents a dynamic mechanism that can be used to temper various regulatory processes regardless of whether they mediate excitation or inhibition. Tolerance operationally directs state-dependent attenuation of the action of endogenous and exogenous morphine. For example, tolerance ensures that immuno-inhibition induced by morphine does not compromise a requisite functional system over an extended period of time. In the nervous system, tolerance to inhibitory action insures that excitatory tone is resumed. Thus, desensitization sets in and allows various essential processes to be operational once again. Clearly, the temporal rebound of diverse immune and nervous processes involved with opiate actions provides a self-contained operational mechanism to ensure survival of the organism. Furthermore, love and/or pleasure, and satiety, are complex neurobiological phenomena linked to limbic brain reward circuitry. These processes are critically dependent on oxytocin, vasopressin, dopamine, endogenous morphine and serotoninergic signaling. Naturally rewarding and/or pleasurable activities are usually governed by beneficial biological behaviors like eating, sex, and reproduction. It is our contention that critically important tolerance mechanisms extend to behaviors mediated by CNS reward systems. In other words, we become satisfied with sex, food, pleasure for the moment and disinterest creeps in until the &quot;urges&quot; return.
Non-human primates (NHPs) are an invaluable resource for the study of genetic regulation of disease mechanisms. The main disadvantage of using NHPs as a preclinical model of human disease is the difficulty of manipulating the monkey genome using conventional gene modifying strategies. Lentiviruses offer the possibility of circumventing this difficulty because they can infect and transduce either dividing or nondividing cells, without producing an immune response. In addition, lentiviruses can permanently integrate into the genome of host cells, and are able to maintain long-term expression. In this article we describe the lentiviral vectors that we use to both express transgenes and suppress expression of endogenous genes via RNA interference (RNAi) in NHPs. We also discuss the safety features of currently available vectors that are especially important when lentiviral vectors are used in a species as closely related to humans as NHPs. Finally, we describe in detail the lentiviral vector production protocol we use and provide examples of how the vector can be employed to target peripheral tissues and the brain.
The development of species-specific gene microarrays has greatly facilitated gene expression profiling in nonhuman primates. However, to obtain accurate and physiologically meaningful data from these microarrays, one needs to consider several factors when designing the studies. This article focuses on effective experimental design while the companion article focuses on methodology and data analysis. Biological cycles have a major influence on gene expression, and at least 10% of the expressed genes are likely to show a 24-h expression pattern. Consequently, the time of day when RNA samples are collected can influence detection of significant changes in gene expression levels. Similarly, when photoperiodic species such as the rhesus macaque are housed outdoors, some of their genes show differential expression according to the time of year. In addition, the sex-steroid environment of humans and many nonhuman primates changes markedly across the menstrual cycle, and so phase of the cycle needs to be considered when studying gene expression in adult females.
Modeling human diseases using nonhuman primates including chimpanzee, rhesus, cynomolgus, marmoset and squirrel monkeys has been reported in the past decades. Due to the high similarity between nonhuman primates and humans, including genome constitution, cognitive behavioral functions, anatomical structure, metabolic, reproductive, and brain functions; nonhuman primates have played an important role in understanding physiological functions of the human body, clarifying the underlying mechanism of human diseases, and the development of novel treatments for human diseases. However, nonhuman primate research has been restricted to cognitive, behavioral, biochemical and pharmacological approaches of human diseases due to the limitation of gene transfer technology in nonhuman primates. The recent advancement in transgenic technology that has led to the generation of the first transgenic monkey in 2001 and a transgenic monkey model of Huntington's disease (HD) in 2008 has changed that focus. The creation of transgenic HD monkeys that replicate key pathological features of human HD patients further suggests the crucial role of nonhuman primates in the future development of biomedicine. These successes have opened the door to genetic manipulation in nonhuman primates and a new era in modeling human inherited genetic disorders. We focused on the procedures in creating transgenic Huntington's disease monkeys, but our work can be applied to transgenesis in other nonhuman primate species.
Gene microarray analyses represent potentially effective means for high-throughput gene expression profiling in non-human primates. In the companion article, we emphasize effective experimental design based on the in vivo physiology of the rhesus macaque, whereas this article emphasizes considerations for gene annotation and data interpretation using gene microarray platforms from Affymetrix. Initial annotation of the rhesus genome array was based on Affymetrix human GeneChips. However, annotation revisions improve the precision with which rhesus transcripts are identified. Annotation of the rhesus GeneChip is under continuous revision with large percentages of probesets under multiple annotation systems having undergone multiple reassignments between March 2007 and November 2008. It is also important to consider that quantitation and comparison of gene expression levels across multiple chips requires appropriate normalization. External corroboration of microarray results using PCR-based methodology also requires validation of appropriate internal reference genes for normalization of expression values. Many tools are now freely available to aid investigators with microarray normalization and selection of internal reference genes to be used for independent corroboration of microarray results.
Non-human primate genetic research defines itself through comparisons to humans; few other species require the implicit comparative genomics approaches. Because of this, errors in the identification of non-human primate orthologs can have profound effects. Gene prediction algorithms can and have produced false transcripts that have become incorporated into commonly used databases and genomics portals. These false transcripts can arise from deficiencies in the algorithms themselves as well as through gaps and other problems in the genome assembly. Putative genes generated can not only miss microexons, but improperly incorporate non-coding sequence resulting in pseudogenes or other transcripts without biological relevance. False transcripts then become identified as orthologs to established human genes and are too often taken as gospel by unwary researchers. Here, the processes through which these errors propagate are isolated and methods are described for identifying false orthologs in databases with several representative errors illustrated. Through these steps any researcher seeking to make use of non-human primate genetic information will have the tools at their disposal to ascertain where errors exist and to remedy them once encountered.
The identification of peripheral biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases is required to improve the accuracy of clinical diagnosis and monitor both disease progression and response to treatments. The data reviewed in this paper suggest that, in neurodegenerative disease, cytokines are links between peripheral immune system and nervous system dysfunction.
Here, we have analyzed the subcellular destiny of newly synthesized tight junction protein zona occludens (ZO)-2. After transfection in sparse cells, 74% of cells exhibit ZO-2 at the nucleus, and after 18 h the value decreases to 17%. The mutation S369A located within the nuclear exportation signal 1 of ZO-2 impairs the nuclear export of the protein. Because Ser369 represents a putative protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation site, we tested the effect of PKC inhibition and stimulation on the nuclear export of ZO-2. Our results strongly suggest that the departure of ZO-2 from the nucleus is regulated by phosphorylation at Ser369 by novel PKCepsilon. To test the route taken by ZO-2 from synthesis to the plasma membrane, we devised a novel nuclear microinjection assay in which the nucleus served as a reservoir for anti-ZO-2 antibody. Through this assay, we demonstrate that a significant amount of newly synthesized ZO-2 goes into the nucleus and is later relocated to the plasma membrane. These results constitute novel information for understanding the mechanisms that regulate the intracellular fate of ZO-2.
Lung tumor cell DNA copy number alteration (CNA) was expected to display specific patterns such as a large-scale amplification or deletion of chromosomal arms, as previously published data have reported. Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) CNA however, was expected to show normal variations in cancer patients as well as healthy individuals, and has thus been used as normal control DNA samples in various published studies. We performed array CGH to measure and compare genetic changes in terms of the CNA of PBMC samples as well as DNA isolated from tumor tissue samples, obtained from 24 non-small cell lung cancer patients. Contradictory to expectations, our studies showed that the PBMC CNA also showed chromosomal variant regions. The list included well-known tumor-associated NTRK1, FGF8, TP53, and TGFbeta1 genes and potentially novel oncogenes such as THPO (3q27.1), JMJD1B, and EGR1 (5q31.2), which was investigated in this study. The results of this study highlighted the connection between PBMC and tumor cell genomic DNA in lung cancer patients. However, the application of these studies to cancer prognosis may pose a challenge due to the large amount of information contained in genetic predisposition and family history that has to be processed for useful downstream clinical applications.

Nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) is a transcription factor that plays a major role in many human disorders, including immune diseases and cancer. We designed a reporter system based on NF-kappaB responsive promoter elements driving expression of the secreted Gaussia princeps luciferase (Gluc). We show that this bioluminescent reporter is a highly sensitive tool for noninvasive monitoring of the kinetics of NF-kappaB activation and inhibition over time, both in conditioned medium of cultured cells and in the blood and urine of animals. NF-kappaB activation was successfully monitored in real time in endothelial cells in response to tumor angiogenic signaling, as well as in monocytes in response to inflammation. Further, we demonstrated dual blood monitoring of both NF-kappaB activation during tumor development as correlated to tumor formation using the NF-kappaB Gluc reporter, as well as the secreted alkaline phosphatase reporter. This NF-kappaB reporter system provides a powerful tool for monitoring NF-kappaB activity in real time in vitro and in vivo.
The binding selectivity of charged liposomes to the spinal cord of rats affected by experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of multiple sclerosis, was investigated. Positively and negatively charged liposomes were injected into the tail vein of rats, and blood/brain barrier (BBB) targeting was determined by confocal microscopy as a function of the temporal evolution of the inflammatory response. Accumulation in spinal cord endoneural vessels was observed for cationic, but not for anionic, liposomes, and only in EAE but not in healthy rats. The overall binding efficacy paralleled the severity of the clinical score, but targeting was observed already before clinical manifestation of inflammation. Preferential binding of positively charged liposomes in the course of acute EAE can be ascribed to subtle changes of BBB morphology and charge distribution in a similar way as for the binding of cationic particles to proliferating vasculature in chronic inflammation and angiogenesis. Our findings suggest that vascular changes related to increased binding affinity for cationic particles are very early events within the inflammatory reaction in acute EAE. Investigation of cationic vascular targeting can help to shed further light on these occurrences, and, potentially, new diagnostic and therapeutic options may become available. In neuroinflammatory diseases, cationic colloidal carrier particles may enable intervention at affected BBB by an approach which is independent from permeability increase.
We have previously reported on the unusual human 5-hydroxytryptamine(7) (h5-HT(7)) receptor-inactivating properties of risperidone, 9-OH-risperidone, bromocriptine, methiothepin, metergoline, and lisuride. Inactivation was defined as the inability of 10 microM 5-HT to stimulate cAMP accumulation after brief exposure and thorough removal of the drugs from HEK293 cells expressing h5-HT(7) receptors. Herein we report that brief exposure of the h5-HT(7) receptor-expressing cells to inactivating drugs, followed by removal of the drugs, results in potent and efficacious irreversible inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. Pretreatment, followed by removal of the inactivating drugs inhibited 10 microM forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity with potencies similar to the drugs' affinities for the h5-HT(7) receptor. The actions of the inactivating drugs were pertussis toxin-insensitive, indicating the lack of G(i) in their mechanism(s) of action. Methiothepin and bromocriptine maximally inhibited 10 microM forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase, whereas the other drugs produced partial inhibition, indicating the drugs are inducing slightly different inactive conformations of the h5-HT(7) receptor. Maximal effects of these inactivating drugs occurred within 15 to 30 min of exposure of the cells to the drugs. A G(s)-mediated inhibition of forskolin-stimulated activity has never been reported. The inactivating antagonists seem to induce a stable conformation of the h5-HT(7) receptor, which induces an altered state of G(s), which, in turn, inhibits forskolin-mediated stimulation of adenylate cyclase. These and previous observations indicate that the inactivating antagonists represent a unique class of drugs and may reveal GPCR regulatory mechanisms previously unknown. These drugs may produce innovative approaches to the development of therapeutic drugs.
Dissecting trait neurobiological abnormalities in bipolar disorder (BD) from those characterizing episodes of mood disturbance will help elucidate the aetiopathogenesis of the illness. This selective review highlights the immunological, neuroendocrinological, molecular biological and neuroimaging abnormalities characteristic of BD, with a focus on those likely to reflect trait abnormalities by virtue of their presence in euthymic patients or in unaffected relatives of patients at high genetic liability for illness. Trait neurobiological abnormalities of BD include heightened pro-inflammatory function and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysfunction. Dysfunction in the intracellular signal transduction pathway is indicated by elevated protein kinase A activity and altered intracellular calcium signalling. Consistent neuroimaging abnormalities include the presence of ventricular enlargement and white matter abnormalities in patients with BD, which may represent intermediate phenotypes of illness. In addition, spectroscopy studies indicate reduced prefrontal cerebral N-acetylaspartate and phosphomonoester concentrations. Functional neuroimaging studies of euthymic patients implicate inherently impaired neural networks subserving emotional regulation, including anterior limbic, ventral and dorsal prefrontal regions. Despite heterogeneous samples and conflicting findings pervading the literature, there is accumulating evidence for the existence of neurobiological trait abnormalities in BD at various scales of investigation. The aetiopathogenesis of BD will be better elucidated by future clinical research studies, which investigate larger and more homogenous samples and employ a longitudinal design to dissect neurobiological abnormalities that are underlying traits of the illness from those related to episodes of mood exacerbation or pharmacological treatment.
The microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) and alpha-synuclein (SNCA) genes play central roles in neurodegenerative disorders. Mutations in each gene cause familial disease, whereas common genetic variation at both loci contributes to susceptibility to sporadic neurodegenerative disease. Here, we demonstrate exquisite gene regulation of the human MAPT and SNCA transgene loci and functional complementation in neuronal cell cultures and organotypic brain slices using the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) amplicon-based infectious bacterial artificial chromosome (iBAC) vector to express complete loci &gt;100 kb. Cell cultures transduced by iBAC vectors carrying a 143 kb MAPT or 135 kb SNCA locus expressed the human loci similar to the endogenous gene. We focused on analysis of the iBAC-MAPT vector carrying the complete MAPT locus. On transduction into neuronal cultures, multiple MAPT transcripts were expressed from iBAC-MAPT under strict developmental and cell type-specific control. In primary neurons from Mapt(-/-) mice, the iBAC-MAPT vector expressed the human tau protein, as detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunocytochemistry, and restored sensitivity of Mapt(-/-) neurons to Abeta peptide treatment in dissociated neuronal cultures and in organotypic slice cultures. The faithful retention of gene expression and phenotype complementation by the system provides a novel method to analyze neurological disease genes.



Hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (h-IBM), or distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), is an autosomal recessive disorder with onset in early adult life and a progressive course leading to severe disability. h-IBM/DMRV is due to mutations of a gene (GNE) that codes for a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway. Despite the identification of the causative gene defect, it has not been unambiguously clarified how GNE gene mutations impair muscle metabolism. Although numerous studies have indicated a key role of hyposialylation of glycoproteins in h-IBM/DMRV pathogenesis, others have demonstrated new and unpredicted functions of the GNE gene, outside the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway, that may also be relevant. This review illustrates the clinical and pathologic characteristics of h-IBM/DMRV and the main clues available to date concerning the possible pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic perspectives of this disorder.
Quantitative electromyography (QEMG) relies on a number of discharges of the same motor unit action potential (MUAP) from a train to create an averaged MUAP considered to be representative of a true potential. The train of potentials may be affected by changes in position of the electrode relative to contributing muscle fibers of the motor unit due to operator or subject movement. The effect of changes in electrode position, along with consideration for patient comfort, prompted this study to determine the shortest duration of recording time necessary for sufficient data acquisition for QEMG studies. We determined that 10 seconds of moderate muscle activity is the most reasonable acquisition duration to isolate up to 6 MUAPs at a given electrode site and minimize the effects of movement artifact in the signal.
Phosphotidylinositol (PtdIns) signaling is tightly regulated both spatially and temporally by subcellularly localized PtdIns kinases and phosphatases that dynamically alter downstream signaling events. Joubert syndrome is characterized by a specific midbrain-hindbrain malformation ('molar tooth sign'), variably associated retinal dystrophy, nephronophthisis, liver fibrosis and polydactyly and is included in the newly emerging group of 'ciliopathies'. In individuals with Joubert disease genetically linked to JBTS1, we identified mutations in the INPP5E gene, encoding inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E, which hydrolyzes the 5-phosphate of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 and PtdIns(4,5)P2. Mutations clustered in the phosphatase domain and impaired 5-phosphatase activity, resulting in altered cellular PtdIns ratios. INPP5E localized to cilia in major organs affected by Joubert syndrome, and mutations promoted premature destabilization of cilia in response to stimulation. These data link PtdIns signaling to the primary cilium, a cellular structure that is becoming increasingly recognized for its role in mediating cell signals and neuronal function.
Individual behavioral performance during learning is known to be affected by modulatory factors, such as stress and motivation, and by genetic predispositions that influence sensitivity to these factors. Despite numerous studies, no integrative framework is available that could predict how a given animal would perform a certain learning task in a realistic situation. We found that a simple reinforcement learning model can predict mouse behavior in a hole-box conditioning task if model metaparameters are dynamically controlled on the basis of the mouse's genotype and phenotype, stress conditions, recent performance feedback and pharmacological manipulations of adrenergic alpha-2 receptors. We find that stress and motivation affect behavioral performance by altering the exploration-exploitation balance in a genotype-dependent manner. Our results also provide computational insights into how an inverted U-shape relation between stress/arousal/norepinephrine levels and behavioral performance could be explained through changes in task performance accuracy and future reward discounting.
Chondroitinase ABC treatment promotes spinal cord plasticity. We investigated whether chondroitinase-induced plasticity combined with physical rehabilitation promotes recovery of manual dexterity in rats with cervical spinal cord injuries. Rats received a C4 dorsal funiculus cut followed by chondroitinase ABC or penicillinase as a control. They were assigned to two alternative rehabilitation procedures, the first reinforcing skilled reaching and the second reinforcing general locomotion. Chondroitinase treatment enhanced sprouting of corticospinal axons independently of the rehabilitation regime. Only the rats receiving the combination of chondroitinase and specific rehabilitation showed improved manual dexterity. Rats that received general locomotor rehabilitation were better at ladder walking, but had worse skilled-reaching abilities than rats that received no treatment. Our results indicate that chondroitinase treatment opens a window during which rehabilitation can promote recovery. However, only the trained skills are improved and other functions may be negatively affected.
A principal objective of spinal cord injury (SCI) research is the restoration of axonal connectivity to denervated targets. We tested the hypothesis that chemotropic mechanisms would guide regenerating spinal cord axons to appropriate brainstem targets. We subjected rats to cervical level 1 (C1) lesions and combinatorial treatments to elicit axonal bridging into and beyond lesion sites. Lentiviral vectors expressing neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) were then injected into an appropriate brainstem target, the nucleus gracilis, and an inappropriate target, the reticular formation. NT-3 expression in the correct target led to reinnervation of the nucleus gracilis in a dose-related fashion, whereas NT-3 expression in the reticular formation led to mistargeting of regenerating axons. Axons regenerating into the nucleus gracilis formed axodendritic synapses containing rounded vesicles, reflective of pre-injury synaptic architecture. Thus, we report for the first time, to the best of our knowledge, the reinnervation of brainstem targets after SCI and an essential role for chemotropic axon guidance in target selection.
Mammalian genomes encode numerous natural antisense transcripts, but the function of these transcripts is not well understood. Functional validation studies indicate that antisense transcripts are not a uniform group of regulatory RNAs but instead belong to multiple categories with some common features. Recent evidence indicates that antisense transcripts are frequently functional and use diverse transcriptional and post-transcriptional gene regulatory mechanisms to carry out a wide variety of biological roles.
Synaptic plasticity in adult neural circuits may involve the strengthening or weakening of existing synapses as well as structural plasticity, including synapse formation and elimination. Indeed, long-term in vivo imaging studies are beginning to reveal the structural dynamics of neocortical neurons in the normal and injured adult brain. Although the overall cell-specific morphology of axons and dendrites, as well as of a subpopulation of small synaptic structures, are remarkably stable, there is increasing evidence that experience-dependent plasticity of specific circuits in the somatosensory and visual cortex involves cell type-specific structural plasticity: some boutons and dendritic spines appear and disappear, accompanied by synapse formation and elimination, respectively. This Review focuses on recent evidence for such structural forms of synaptic plasticity in the mammalian cortex and outlines open questions.
Performance on serial tasks is influenced by first- and higher-order sequential effects, respectively, due to the immediately previous and earlier trials. As response-to-stimulus interval (RSI) increases, the pattern of reaction times transits from a benefit-only mode, traditionally ascribed to automatic facilitation (AF), to a cost-benefit mode, due to strategic expectancy (SE). To illuminate the sources of such effects, we develop a connectionist network of two mutually inhibiting neural decision units subject to feedback from previous trials. A study of separate biasing mechanisms shows that residual decision unit activity can lead to only first-order AF, but higher-order AF can result from strategic priming mediated by conflict monitoring, which we instantiate in two distinct versions. A further mechanism mediates expectation-related biases that grow during RSI toward saturation levels determined by weighted repetition (or alternation) sequence lengths. Equipped with these mechanisms, the network, consistent with known neurophysiology, accounts for several sets of behavioral data over a wide range of RSIs. The results also suggest that practice speeds up all the mechanisms rather than adjusting their relative strengths.
A new biologically plausible model of visual selective attention is developed based on synaptically coupled Hodgkin-Huxley neurons. The model is designed according to a two-layer architecture of excitatory and inhibitory connections which comprises two central neurons and a population of peripheral neurons. Two types of inhibition from the central neurons are present: fixed inhibition which is responsible for the formation of the attention focus, and short-term plastic inhibition which is responsible for the shift of attention. The regimes of synchronous dynamics associated with the development of the attentional focus are studied. In particular, the regime of partial synchronization between spiking activity of the central and peripheral neurons is interpreted as object selection to the focus of attention. It is shown that peripheral neurons with higher firing rates are selected preferentially by the attention system. The model correctly reproduces some observations concerning the mechanisms of attentional control, such as the coherence of spikes in the population of neurons included in the focus of attention, and the inhibition of neurons outside the focus of attention. Sequential selection of stimuli simultaneously present in the visual scene is demonstrated by the model in the frequency domain in both a formal example and a real image.
Activation of microglia along with the release of inflammatory cytokines and oxidative factors often accompanies toxin-induced degeneration of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neurons. Multiple toxin exposure may synergistically influence microglial-dependent DA neuronal loss and, in fact, pre-treatment with one toxin may sensitize DA neurons to the impact of subsequent insults. Thus, we assessed whether priming SNc neurons with the inflammatory agent, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), influenced the impact of later exposure to the pesticide, paraquat, which has been reported to provoke DA loss. Indeed, LPS infusion into the SNc sensitized DA neurons to the neurodegenerative effects of a series of paraquat injections commencing 2 days later. In contrast, LPS pre-treatment actually protected against some of neurodegenerative effects of paraquat when the pesticide was administered 7 days after the endotoxin. These sensitization and de-sensitization effects were associated with altered expression of reactive microglia expressing inducible immunoproteasome subunits, as well as variations of fibroblast growth factor and a time-dependent infiltration of peripheral immune cells. Circulating levels of the inflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-2, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma were also time-dependently elevated following intra-SNc LPS infusion. These data suggest that inflammatory priming may influence DA neuronal sensitivity to subsequent environmental toxins by modulating the state of glial and immune factors, and these findings may be important for neurodegenerative conditions, such as Parkinson's disease (PD).
3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP) is an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase that has been used to explore the primary mechanisms of cell death associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease. In this study we investigated the ability of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to suppress mitochondrial-dependent cell death induced by 3-NP in primary cortical neurons. This neurotrophin prevented 3-NP-induced release of cytochrome c and Smac/Diablo, caspase-3-like activity and nuclear condensation/fragmentation. Furthermore, it greatly increased phosphorylation of Akt and MAPK, suggesting the involvement of these signalling pathways in BDNF neuroprotection. Interestingly, BDNF decreased the levels of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim in mitochondrial and total cell lysates through the activation of the MEK1/2 pathway. This effect was due to an increase in the degradation rates of Bim. Our data support an important role for BDNF, in protecting cortical neurons against apoptotic cell death caused by inhibition of mitochondrial complex II.
Conditional inactivation of the 'neuropathy target esterase' (NTE) gene in mouse nerve cells was previously shown to result in CNS pathology comparable to the spongiform encephalopathy characteristic of prion diseases. To determine whether cellular prion protein (PrPc) is essential for development of this pathology we examined hippocampi of mice lacking NTE alone, PrPc alone or both NTE and PrPc. Light microscopic survey showed clear-cut spongiform changes in a majority of NTE-/- and NTE/PrP-/- double knockout mice but in only one PrP-/- mouse. EM analysis of spongiform lesions from NTE-/- and NTE/PrP-/- mice, and from the one affected PrP-/- mouse, revealed patches of branching tubular inclusions, comparable to the 'tubulovesicular inclusions' described previously in prion diseases. We conclude that spongiform pathology in conditional NTE knockout mice is not mediated by PrPc, and that tubulovesicular inclusions can be seen in spongiform encephalopathy of other etiologies and are not pathognomonic of prion disease.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) of the internal pallidum is effective for the treatment of dystonia. Only few studies have investigated the effects of stimulation on the activity of the cortex-basal ganglia network. We here assess within this network the effect of entopeduncular nucleus (EP) HFS on the expression of c-Fos and cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) in the dt(sz)-hamster, a well-characterized model of paroxysmal dystonia. In dt(sz)-hamsters, we identified abnormal activity in motor cortex, basal ganglia and thalamus. These structures have already been linked to the pathophysiology of human dystonia. EP-HFS (i) increased striatal c-Fos expression in controls and dystonic hamsters and (ii) reduced thalamic c-Fos expression in dt(sz)-hamsters. EP-HFS had no effect on COI expression. The present results suggest that EP-HFS induces a new network activity state which may improve information processing and finally reduces the severity of dystonic attacks in dt(sz)-hamsters.
This review focuses on synaptic depression at sensory neuron-to-motor neuron synapses in the defensive withdrawal circuit of Aplysia as a model system for analysis of molecular mechanisms of sensory gating and habituation. We address the following topics: 1. Of various possible mechanisms that might underlie depression at these sensory neuron-to-motor neuron synapses in Aplysia, historically the most widely-accepted explanation has been depletion of the readily releasable pool of vesicles. Depletion is also believed to account for synaptic depression at long interstimulus intervals in a variety of other systems. 2. Multiple lines of evidence now indicate that vesicle depletion is not an important contributing mechanism to synaptic depression at Aplysia sensory neuron-to-motor neuron synapses. More generally, it appears that vesicle depletion does not contribute substantially to depression that occurs with those stimulus patterns that are typically used in studying behavioral habituation. 3. Recent evidence suggests that at these sensory neuron-to-motor neuron synapses in Aplysia, synaptic depression is mediated by an activity-dependent, but release-independent, switching of individual release sites to a silent state. This switching off of release sites is initiated by Ca2+ influx during individual action potentials. We discuss signaling proteins that may be regulated by Ca2+ during the silencing of release sites that underlies synaptic depression. 4. Bursts of 2-4 action potentials in presynaptic sensory neurons in Aplysia prevent the switching off of release sites via a mechanism called &quot;burst-dependent protection&quot; from synaptic depression. 5. This molecular switch may explain the sensory gating that allows animals to discriminate which stimuli are innocuous and appropriate to ignore and which stimuli are more important and should continue to elicit responses.
This review surveys the literature that investigates the behavioral characterization and cellular and molecular mechanisms of habituation using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. In 1990, C. elegans was first observed to show habituation to a non-localized mechanical tap. The parameters that govern this behavioral plasticity in C. elegans were subsequently characterized, which lead to the important hypothesis that habituation is mediated by multiple mechanisms. Many tools are available to C. elegans researchers that allow for relatively easy genetic manipulation. This has lead to a number of recent genetic studies that have begun to identify key genes and molecules that play a role in the mechanisms of habituation. Some of these genes include a vesicular glutamate transporter, a glutamate receptor subunit, a dopamine receptor and downstream intracellular signaling molecules, such as G proteins and kinases. Some of these genes only affect certain parameters of habituation, but not others supporting the hypothesis that multiple mechanisms mediate habituation. The field of research has also led to the dissection of different phases of memory (short-term vs. long-term memory for habituation), which are triggered by different training paradigms. The differences in mechanism between these various forms of memory are also beginning to be revealed.

Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) in humans is a metabolic disorder caused by thiamine deficiency (TD). In both humans and experimental animals, TD leads to selective neuronal cell death in diencephalic and brainstem structures. Neuropathologic features of WE include petechial hemorrhagic lesions, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown has been suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis of TD. The goal of the present study was to examine expression of the tight junction (TJ) protein occludin, its associated scaffolding proteins zona occludens (ZO-1 and ZO-2), and to measure matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) levels as a function of regional BBB permeability changes in thiamine-deficient mice. TD was induced in 12-week-old male C57Bl/6 mice by feeding a thiamine-deficient diet and administration of the central thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine. BBB permeability was measured by IgG extravasation; expression of occludin, ZO-1 and ZO-2 was measured by Western blot analysis and RT-PCR, structural integrity of the BBB was assessed using occludin and ZO-1 immunostaining, and MMPs levels were measured by gelatin zymography and immunohistochemistry. Studies were performed in vulnerable (medial thalamus) versus spared (frontal cortex) regions of the brain. Hemorrhagic lesions, selective increases in brain IgG extravasation, a concomitant loss in protein expression of occludin, ZO-1 and ZO-2, as well as decreased and disrupted patterns of occludin and ZO-1 immunostaining were observed in the medial thalamus of thiamine-deficient mice. MMP-9 levels were also selectively increased in the medial thalamus of these animals, and were found to be localized in the vascular endothelium, as well as in cells with an apparent polymorphonuclear morphology. No changes of TJ gene expression were observed. These results indicate that alterations in TJ proteins occur in TD, and offer a plausible explanation for the selective increase in BBB permeability in thiamine-deficient animals. They also suggest a role for MMP-9 in the initiation of changes to BBB integrity in TD.
Brain serotonin (5-HT) modulates the neural effects of ethanol. In the present study, we investigated the changes in 5-HT level, 5-HT(2A) receptor binding and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity in brain stem and liver of ethanol treated rats and 5-HT(2A) regulation on ALDH in hepatocyte cultures in vitro. The 5-HT content in the brain stem and liver significantly decreased with an increased 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio in the ethanol treated rats compared to control. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H] (+/-)2,3-dimethoxyphenyl-1-[2-(-4-piperidine)-methanol] [(3)H] MDL 100907 against ketanserin in brain stem of ethanol treated rats showed a significant increase in B (max) without any change in K (d) compared to control. The competition curve for [(3)H] MDL 100907 against ketanserin fitted one-site model in both control and ethanol treated rats with unity as Hill slope value. A significant increase in V (max) of ALDH activity in liver and a significant decrease in K (m) in liver and brain stem of ethanol treated rats compared to control was observed. In 24 h culture studies, an increase in enzyme activity was observed in cells in medium with 10% ethanol. The elevated ALDH activity in ethanol treated cells was reversed to control level in presence of 10(-5) and 10(-7) M 5-HT. Ketanserin, an antagonist of 5-HT(2A), reversed the effect of 5HT on 10% ethanol induced ALDH activity in hepatocytes. Our results showed that there was a decreased 5-HT content with an enhanced 5-HT(2A) receptor and aldehyde dehydrogenase activity in the brain stem of alcohol treated rats and in vitro hepatocyte cultures. The enhanced ALDH activity in ethanol supplemented hepatocytes was reversed to control level in presence of 10(-5) and 10(-7) M 5-HT.
Cannabinoid signalling is an important mechanism of synaptic modulation in the nervous system. Endogenous cannabinoids (anandamide and 2-arachidonyl-glycerol) are synthesized and released via calcium-activated biosynthetic pathways. Exogenous cannabinoids and endocannabinoids act on CB1 and CB2 receptors. CB1 receptors are neuronal receptors which couple via G-proteins to inhibition of adenylate cyclase or to activation or inhibition of ion channels. CB2 receptors are expressed by immune cells and cannabinoids can suppress immune function. In the central nervous system, the endocannabinoids may function as retrograde signals released by the postsynaptic neuron to inhibit neurotransmitter release from presynaptic nerve terminals. Enteric neurons also express CB receptors. Exogenously applied CB receptor agonists inhibit enteric neuronal activity but it is not clear if endocannabinoids released by enteric neurons can produce similar responses in the enteric nervous system (ENS). In this issue of Neurogastroenterology and Motility, Boesmans et al. show that CB1 receptor activation on myenteric neurons maintained in primary culture can suppress neuronal activity, inhibit synaptic transmission and mitochondrial transport along axons. They also provide initial evidence that myenteric neurons (or other cell types present in the cultures) release endocannabinoids and which activate CB1 receptors constitutively. These data provide new information about targets for cannabinoid signalling in the ENS and highlight the potential importance of CB receptors as drug targets. It is necessary that future work extends these interesting findings to intact tissues and ideally to the in vivo setting.
Neuromuscular transmission is crucial for normal gut motility but little is known about its postnatal maturation. This study investigated excitatory/inhibitory neuromuscular transmission in vitro using ileal nerve-muscle preparations made from neonatal (&lt; or =48 h postnatal) and adult ( approximately 4 months postnatal) guinea pigs. In tissues from neonates and adults, nicotine (0.3-30 micromol L(-1)) contracted longitudinal muscle preparations in a tetrodotoxin (TTX) (0.3 micromol L(-1))-sensitive manner. The muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine (1 micromol L(-1)), reduced substantially nicotine-induced contractions in neonatal tissues but not adult tissues. In the presence of N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine (NLA, 100 micromol L(-1)) to block nitric oxide (NO) mediated inhibitory neuromuscular transmission, scopolamine-resistant nicotine-induced contractions were revealed in neonatal tissues. NLA enhanced the nicotine-induced contractions in neonatal but not in adult tissues. Electrical field stimulation (20 V; 0.3 ms; 5-25 Hz, scopolamine 1 micromol L(-1) present) caused NLA and TTX-sensitive longitudinal muscle relaxations. Frequency-response curves in neonatal tissues were left-shifted compared with those obtained in adult tissues. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that NO synthase (NOS)-immunoreactivity (ir) was present in nerve fibres supplying the longitudinal muscle in neonatal and adult tissues. However, quantitative studies demonstrated that fluorescence intensity of NOS-ir nerve fibres was higher in neonatal than adult tissues. Nerve fibres containing substance P were abundant in longitudinal muscle in adult but not in neonatal tissues. Inhibitory neuromuscular transmission is relatively more effective in the neonatal guinea pig small intestine. Delayed maturation of excitatory motor pathways might contribute to paediatric motility disturbances.

Neurocardiogenic syncope (NCS, simple fainting) is a common and typically benign familial condition, which rarely may result in traumatic injury or hypoxic convulsions. NCS is associated with emotional triggers, anxiety states and stress. However, the etiology of NCS, as a psychophysiological process, is poorly understood. We therefore investigated the relationship between NCS and brain anatomy. We studied a non-clinical sample of eighteen individuals with histories characteristic of NCS, and nineteen matched controls who had never fainted. We recorded fainting frequency, resting heart rate variability measures and anxiety levels. Structural T1-weighted magnetic resonance images (MRI) were acquired at 1.5 T. Associations between brain morphometry (regional gray and white matter volumes) and NCS, resting physiology and anxiety were tested using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Compared to controls, NCS participants had lower regional brain volume within medulla and midbrain (a priori regions of interest). Moreover, across NCS individuals, lower gray matter volume in contiguous regions of left caudate nucleus predicted enhanced parasympathetic cardiac tone, fainting frequency and anxiety levels. Our findings provide preliminary evidence for a hierarchical anatomical basis to NCS. First, differences in the volume of brainstem centers supporting cardiovascular homeostasis may relate to constitutional predisposition to NCS. Second, differences in the structural organization of the caudate nucleus in NCS individuals may relate to fainting frequency via interactions between emotional state and parasympathetic control of the heart. These observations highlight the application of VBM to the identification of neurovisceral mechanisms relevant to psychosomatic medicine and the neuroscience of emotion.
A key challenge for systems neuroscience is the question of how to understand the complex network organization of the brain on the basis of neuroimaging data. Similar challenges exist in other specialist areas of systems biology because complex networks emerging from the interactions between multiple non-trivially interacting agents are found quite ubiquitously in nature, from protein interactomes to ecosystems. We suggest that one way forward for analysis of brain networks will be to quantify aspects of their organization which are likely to be generic properties of a broader class of biological systems. In this introductory review article we will highlight four important aspects of complex systems in general: fractality or scale-invariance; criticality; small-world and related topological attributes; and modularity. For each concept we will provide an accessible introduction, an illustrative data-based example of how it can be used to investigate aspects of brain organization in neuroimaging experiments, and a brief review of how this concept has been applied and developed in other fields of biomedical and physical science. The aim is to provide a didactic, focussed and user-friendly introduction to the concepts of complexity science for neuroscientists and neuroimagers.
Brain mechanisms underlying hysterical conversion symptoms are still poorly known. Recent hypotheses suggested that activation of motor pathways might be suppressed by inhibitory signals based on particular emotional situations. To assess motor and inhibitory brain circuits during conversion paralysis, we designed a go-nogo task while a patient underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Preparatory activation arose in right motor cortex despite left paralysis, indicating preserved motor intentions, but with concomitant increases in vmPFC regions that normally mediate motivational and affective processing. Failure to execute movement on go trials with the affected left hand was associated with activations in precuneus and ventrolateral frontal gyrus. However, right frontal areas normally subserving inhibition were activated by nogo trials for the right (normal) hand, but not during go trials for the left hand (affected by conversion paralysis). By contrast, a group of healthy controls who were asked to feign paralysis showed similar activation on nogo trials and left-go trials with simulated weakness, suggesting that distinct inhibitory mechanisms are implicated in simulation and conversion paralysis. In the patient, right motor cortex also showed enhanced functional connectivity with the posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, and vmPFC. These results suggest that conversion symptoms do not act through cognitive inhibitory circuits, but involve selective activations in midline brain regions associated with self-related representations and emotion regulation.
The INTEGRATE Model draws on the framework of 'integrative neuroscience' to bring together brain-body and behavioral concepts of emotion, thinking and feeling and their regulation. The key organizing principle is the drive to 'minimize danger and maximize reward' that determines what is significant to us at each point in time. Traits of 'negativity bias' reflect the tendency to perceive danger rather than reward related information, and this bias influences emotion, thinking and feeling processes. Here, we examined a self-report measure of Negativity Bias in relation to its impact on brain and body correlates of emotion processing. The contributions of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT-LPR) allelic variants and early life stress to both negativity bias and these correlates were also examined. Data were accessed in collaboration with the Brain Resource International Database (BRID) which provides standardized data across these domains of measurement. From an initial sample of 303 nonclinical subjects from the BRID, subjects scoring one standard deviation below (n=55) and above (n=47) the mean on the measure of negativity bias were identified as 'Negativity Bias' and 'Positivity Bias' groups for analysis, respectively. These subjects had been genotyped for 5-HTT-LPR Short allele versus LL homozygote status, and completed the early life stress scale, and recording of startle responses and heart rate for conscious and nonconscious fear conditions. A matched subset (n=39) of BRID subjects completed functional MRI with the same facial emotion tasks. The Negativity Bias (compared to Positivity Bias) group was distinguished by both arousal and brain function correlates: higher startle amplitude, higher heart rate for conscious and nonconscious fear conditions, and heightened activation in neural circuitry for both fear conditions. Regions of heightened activation included brainstem and bilateral amygdala, anterior cingulate and ventral and dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) for conscious fear, and brainstem and right-sided amygdala, anterior cingulate and ventral, mPFC for nonconscious fear. The 5-HTT-LPR Short allele (versus LL) conferred a similar pattern of arousal and neural activation. For those with the 5-HTT-LPR Short allele, the addition of early life stress contributed to enhanced negativity bias, and to further effects on heart rate and neural activation for nonconscious fear in particular. These findings suggest that traits of negativity bias impact brain-body arousal correlates of fear circuitry. Both genetic variation and life stressors contribute to the impact of negativity bias. Given that negativity bias is a feature of conditions such as depression and associated biological alterations, the findings have implications for translation into clinical decision support.
Considerable effort has been put into animal studies establishing the sites in the brain that are responsible for control of the autonomic nervous system. These studies relied on an electrophysiological or neurochemical response to the activation of peripheral autonomic receptors or chemical or electrical stimulation of central sites. A large number of excellent reviews summarize the results of these studies. More recently, functional imaging has been used to not only confirm the electrophysiological and anatomical studies in animals, but has allowed a more complete understanding of how the brain responds as a whole for effecting autonomic control. The earliest studies to examine forebrain control during functional imaging utilized tests that involved active participation of the subjects and included maximal inspiration, Valsalva manoeuvre, isometric handgrip and cold compress application. There were a few issues that arose from these studies. First, they involved areas of the brain that included active decision making, they were more prone to inducing movement artefact, and some of these tests could activate noxious regions in the brain in addition to autonomic sites. In fact, this dual modality activation represented a more severe complication for investigators determining nociceptive sites in the brain, since virtually all of their stimuli had concomitant autonomic responses. More recent investigations attempted to resolve these issues with more selective passive and active stimuli. In spite of the very different approaches taken to visceral activation in functional imaging studies, a consistent picture of the key areas involved in autonomic control has emerged.
An individual's tendency to show exaggerated or otherwise dysregulated cardiovascular reactions to acute stressors has long been associated with increased risk for clinical and preclinical endpoints of coronary heart disease (CHD). However, the 'brain-body' pathways that link stressor-evoked cardiovascular reactions to CHD risk remain uncertain. This review summarizes emerging neuroimaging research indicating that individual differences in stressor-evoked blood pressure reactivity (a particular form of cardiovascular reactivity) are associated with activation patterns in corticolimbic brain areas that are jointly involved in processing stressors and regulating the cardiovascular system. As supported empirically by activation likelihood estimates derived from a meta-analysis, these corticolimbic areas include divisions of the cingulate cortex, insula, and amygdala--as well as networked cortical and subcortical areas involved in mobilizing hemodynamic and metabolic support for stress-related behavioral responding. Contextually, the research reviewed here illustrates how behavioral medicine and health neuroscience methods can be integrated to help characterize the 'brain-body' pathways that mechanistically link stressful experiences with CHD risk.

Conventional methods widely available for the analysis of spike trains and related neural data include various time- and frequency-domain analyses, such as peri-event and interspike interval histograms, spectral measures, and probability distributions. Information theoretic methods are increasingly recognized as significant tools for the analysis of spike train data. However, developing robust implementations of these methods can be time-consuming, and determining applicability to neural recordings can require expertise. In order to facilitate more widespread adoption of these informative methods by the neuroscience community, we have developed the Spike Train Analysis Toolkit. STAToolkit is a software package which implements, documents, and guides application of several information-theoretic spike train analysis techniques, thus minimizing the effort needed to adopt and use them. This implementation behaves like a typical Matlab toolbox, but the underlying computations are coded in C for portability, optimized for efficiency, and interfaced with Matlab via the MEX framework. STAToolkit runs on any of three major platforms: Windows, Mac OS, and Linux. The toolkit reads input from files with an easy-to-generate text-based, platform-independent format. STAToolkit, including full documentation and test cases, is freely available open source via http://neuroanalysis.org , maintained as a resource for the computational neuroscience and neuroinformatics communities. Use cases drawn from somatosensory and gustatory neurophysiology, and community use of STAToolkit, demonstrate its utility and scope.
Staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial pathogen implicated in pyomyositis. There are increasing reports of community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) infections. The present case report brings out the diverse clinical manifestations of MRSA infection in the form of paraspinal pyomyositis, myelitis, spinal osteomyelitis, and pneumonia. Molecular typing of the organism confirmed the diagnosis. Patient was successfully treated with vancomycin and surgical drainage. Consideration of the possibility of methicillin-resistance and appropriate antibiotic selection is vital in the treatment of serious community-acquired staphylococcal infections.

Wilson's disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disease involving a defect of copper transport by the hepatic lysosomes. It leads to excess copper deposition in the liver, the brain, the kidneys and the skeletal system, affecting most commonly children or young adults and running an invariably fatal course if not adequately treated by de-coppering therapy. The last century has witnessed several changes, notable among these are: Increased awareness, improved diagnostic facilities leading to earlier recognition even in the pre-symptomatic phase, clear distinction from its mimics, aggressive therapeutic approaches owing to availability of effective treatment and an overall reduction in the morbidity and mortality. It is widely acknowledged that the disease is not as rare as once believed. Sir SAK Wilson published his landmark article in 1912, but it was only in 1968 that the first patient of WD was reported from our country. Publications from India on WD have focused on phenotypic characterization, documentations of lesser recognized aspects of the disease e.g. seizures, behavior abnormality, speech and cognitive impairment, sub-clinical affection of visual pathway, heart and autonomic function and pre-symptomatic detection. Attempts have been made to understand the clinical heterogeneity of the disease through identification of biochemical and immunological markers, magnetic resonance imaging, neuropathological study and genetic analysis for novel and/or known mutations. Assessment of impairment and severity and effect of various therapeutic interventions namely zinc sulphate on the long-term outcome and quality of life have also been studied. Nevertheless, clinicians often face difficulties in long-term care of these patients. Diagnostic errors leading to delay in diagnosis and initiation of treatment are common, even in patients with positive family history. There is no consensus regarding therapeutic protocols since the use of penicillamine, once a 'gold standard' for treatment, has been debated by experts. Mortality and morbidity of this potentially treatable disease and nonavailability of medications to the poor patients remain a major area of concern.


Recent findings demonstrated the dysregulation of imidazoline receptor binding sites in major depression and their normalization by chronic treatment with antidepressants including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Present study investigated the role of agmatine and imidazoline receptors in antidepressant like effect of SSRIs and imipramine in mouse forced swimming test (FST) paradigm. The antidepressant like effect of fluoxetine or paroxetine was potentiated by imidazoline I(1)/I(2) receptor agonist agmatine (5-10 mg/kg, ip), imidazoline I(1) receptor agonists, moxonidine (0.25-0.5 mg/kg, ip) and clonidine (0.015-0.03 mg/kg, ip), imidazoline I(2) receptor agonist, 2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline (5-10 mg/kg, ip) as well as by the drugs known to increase endogenous agmatine levels in brain viz., L-arginine, an agmatine biosynthetic precursor (40 microg/mouse, icv), ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, difluoromethyl ornithine (12.5 microg/mouse, icv), diamine oxidase inhibitor, aminoguanidine (6.5 microg/mouse, icv) and agmatinase inhibitor, arcaine (50 microg/mouse, icv). Conversely, prior administration of I(1) receptor antagonist, efaroxan (1 mg/kg, ip), I(2) receptor antagonist, idazoxan (0.25 mg/kg, ip) and arginine decarboxylase inhibitor, d-arginine (100 mg/kg, ip) blocked the antidepressant like effect of paroxetine (10 mg/kg, ip) and fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, ip). On the other hand, antidepressant like effect of imipramine was neither augmented nor attenuated by any of the above drugs. Mice pretreated with SSRIs but not imipramine and exposed to FST showed higher concentration of agmatine in brain as compared to saline control. This effect of SSRIs on agmatine levels was completely blocked by arginine decarboxylase inhibitor d-arginine but not by imidazoline receptor antagonists, efaroxan or idazoxan. These results demonstrate that modulation of imidazoline receptors by agmatine are implicated in the antidepressant like effect of SSRIs and may be projected as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of depressive disorders.
Astrocytes are known to release several transmitters to impact neuronal activity. Cell-specific molecular genetic attenuation of vesicular release has shown that ATP is a primary astrocytic transmitter in situ and in vivo. In this review, we discuss the biology of astrocytic ATP release highlighting the exciting discovery that lysosomes might be primary stores for the release of this gliotransmitter. In addition, we discuss the role of ATP and its metabolite adenosine on synaptic transmission and the coordination of synaptic networks. Finally, we discuss the recent elucidation of the involvement of this form of glial signaling in the modulation of mammalian behavior. By controlling neuronal A1-receptor signaling, astrocytes modulate mammalian sleep homeostasis and are essential for mediating the cognitive consequences of sleep deprivation. These discoveries begin to paint a new picture of brain function in which slow-signaling glia modulate fast synaptic transmission and neuronal firing to impact behavioral output. Because these cells have privileged access to synapses, they may be valuable targets for the development of novel therapies for many neurological and psychiatric conditions.
The Slack gene encodes a Na(+)-activated K(+) channel and is expressed in many different types of neurons. Like the prokaryotic Ca(2+)-gated K(+) channel MthK, Slack contains two 'regulator of K(+) conductance' (RCK) domains within its carboxy terminal, domains likely involved in Na(+) binding and channel gating. It also contains multiple consensus protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) phosphorylation sites and although regulated by protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation, modulation by PKA has not been determined. To test if PKA directly regulates Slack, nystatin-perforated patch whole-cell currents were recorded from a human embryonic kidney (HEK-293) cell line stably expressing Slack. Bath application of forskolin, an adenylate cyclase activator, caused a rapid and complete inhibition of Slack currents however, the inactive homolog of forskolin, 1,9-dideoxyforskolin caused a similar effect. In contrast, bath application of 8-bromo-cAMP did not affect the amplitude nor the activation kinetics of Slack currents. In excised inside-out patch recordings, direct application of the PKA catalytic subunit to patches did not affect the open probability of Slack channels nor was open probability affected by direct application of protein phosphatase 2B. Preincubation of cells with the protein kinase A inhibitor KT5720 also did not change current density. Finally, mutating the consensus phosphorylation site located between RCK domain 1 and domain 2 from serine to glutamate did not affect current activation kinetics. We conclude that unlike PKC, phosphorylation by PKA does not acutely modulate the function and gating activation kinetics of Slack channels.
To better understand the effects of the tryptophan metabolite kynurenic acid (kynA) in the brain, we characterised its actions at five ligand-gated ion channels: NMDA, AMPA, GABA(A), glycine and alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we found that kynA was a more potent antagonist at human NR1a/NR2A compared with NR1a/NR2B receptors (IC(50): 158 muM and 681 muM, respectively; in 30 muM glycine). KynA inhibited AMPA-evoked currents to a similar degree in cultured hippocampal neurons and a human GluR2(flip/unedited) cell line (IC(50): 433 and 596 muM, respectively) and at higher concentrations, kynA also inhibited the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor ( approximately 35% inhibition by 3 mM kynA). Interestingly, kynA inhibited the peak amplitude (IC(50): 2.9 mM for 10 muM GABA) and slowed the decay kinetics of GABA-evoked currents in cultured neurons. In contrast, we found that kynA (1-3 mM) had no effect on ACh-evoked, methyllycaconitine (MLA)-sensitive currents in a human alpha7 nicotinic receptor (nAChR) cell line, rat hippocampal neurons in primary culture or CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons in rat brain slices. However, DMSO (&gt;1%) did inhibit alpha7 nAChR-mediated currents. In conclusion, kynA is an antagonist at NMDA, AMPA and glycine receptors and a modulator of GABA(A) receptors, but we find no evidence for any effect of kynA at the alpha7 nAChR.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are believed to be critically involved in ethanol-related behaviors as well as in neurochemical responses to ethanol. However, discernment of nAChR contribution to ethanol reinforcement and consumption remains incomplete. The current studies examined the influence of the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (MEC) on operant ethanol self-administration using a procedure that independently assessed appetitive and consumptive processes, and compared these findings to effects of MEC on sucrose self-administration. Male C57BL/6J (B6) mice were trained to respond for 30-min access to a retractable drinking tube containing either 10% v/v ethanol (10E) or 5% w/v sucrose (5S). Once trained, mice were habituated to saline injection and then treated with a series of MEC doses (0-8 mg/kg; i.p.) in a within-subject design. In a separate cohort, MEC was evaluated for its influence on locomotor activity. MEC dose-dependently reduced 10E and 5S self-administration. The suppression in ethanol intake was attributable to a reduction in bout frequency, whereas the attenuation in sucrose intake was due to a decrease in bout size. Doses of MEC (6-8 mg/kg) that altered drinking patterns were also found to impair locomotor activity. Although MEC non-selectively reduced 10E and 5S intakes in mice, there was some specificity in alterations of the underlying drinking pattern for each reinforcer. Assessment of drinking topography within an operant self-administration procedure may provide useful insights regarding the role of nAChR function in the regulation of ethanol consumption.

The human serotonin transporter (hSERT) is responsible for reuptake of serotonin (5-HT) from the synaptic cleft and is target for antidepressant medicine. Differential hSERT activity caused by genetic polymorphisms is believed to affect the risk of developing depression and, moreover, to affect the response to antidepressant therapy. The hSERT contains in the second extracellular loop (EL2) two sites for N-linked glycosylation that are critical for functional transporter expression. Here we examine a non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in EL2 that gives rise to a potential third glycosylation site due to substitution of a lysine at position 201 with an asparagine (K201N). In agreement with introduction of an additional glycosylation site, western blot analysis showed migration of hSERT K201N corresponding to a higher molecular weight than wild type hSERT upon expression in both HEK293 cells and primary cultures of cortical neurons. An increase in molecular weight was not observed after removal of glycans with peptide N-glycosidase F (PNGase F). Quantitative analysis of western blots indicated significantly increased total transporter expression ( approximately 30%) for hSERT K201N as compared to hSERT in both cell systems. The increase in expression was accompanied by corresponding significant increases in the number of [(3)H]citalopram binding sites and in the V(max) for [(3)H]5-HT uptake. Characterization of mutants carrying all possible combinations of glycosylation sites demonstrated clear correlation between the number of glycosylation sites and the level of transporter activity, and showed that K201N could substitute for either one of the two original glycosylation sites.
A recent randomized control study demonstrated that zonisamide (ZNS), an antiepileptic drug, is effective in Parkinson's disease at the lower than the therapeutic doses against epilepsy (25-50 mg/day); however, the detailed mechanism of antiparkinsonian effects of ZNS remains to be clarified. To determine the mechanism of antiparkinsonian effect of ZNS, we investigated the effects of ZNS on extracellular levels of dopamine in the striatum (STR), glutamate in substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), GABA in globus pallidus (GP), subthalamic nucleus (STN) and SNr, using multiple microdialysis probes. Striatal perfusion of 1000 microM ZNS (within therapeutic-relevant concentration against epilepsy) increased extracellular levels of dopamine in STR, whereas 100 microM ZNS (lower than the therapeutic-relevant concentration against epilepsy but within the therapeutic rage against Parkinson's disease) did not affect it. Striatal perfusion of ZNS (100 and 1000 microM) decreased the extracellular levels of GABA in STN and glutamate in SNr, but decreased extracellular GABA level in GP without affecting GABA level in SNr. These concentration-dependent effects of ZNS on extracellular neurotransmitter levels were independent of dopamine and delta(2) receptors; however, blockade of delta(1) receptor inhibited the effects of ZNS. Furthermore, activation of delta(1) receptor enhanced the effects of ZNS on neurotransmitter level. These results suggest that ZNS does not affect the direct pathway but inhibits the indirect pathway, which is mediated by delta(1) receptor. Therefore, the antiparkinsonian effects of ZNS seem to be mediated through the interaction between lower than therapeutically-relevant concentration against epilepsy of ZNS (100 microM) and delta(1) receptor.
Several cytisine derivatives have been developed in the search for more selective drugs at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR). Binding experiments in transfected cell lines showed that the iodination of cytisine in the position 3 of the pyridone ring increased potency at alpha7-nAChR and to a lesser extent at the alpha4beta2 subtypes, both of which are widely expressed in the brain. However, no in vivo studies have been published on this compound. Inhibition curves presented here using wild type, beta2, and beta4-null mutant mice confirm that 3-IC binds to alpha4beta2 *, alpha7 * and alpha3beta4 * receptors with higher affinity than cytisine (asterisk indicates the receptor may contain additional subunits, Lukas et al., 1999). Intraperitoneal injection of 3-iodocytisine (3-IC) induced considerable dose-dependent hypothermia in DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice. This response was blocked by mecamylamine and partially inhibited by hexamethonium. beta4-null mice displayed significantly less 3-IC-induced hypothermia than wild-type mice, beta2-null mice were somewhat less affected than wild types, while responses of alpha7 *-null mice were similar to wild types. Mice treated chronically with 3-IC display a marked increase in alpha7 * and alpha4beta2 * binding sites determined by radioligand binding in membrane preparations from cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Quantitative autoradiographic analysis of 28 brain regions of mice treated with 3-IC was consistent with the membrane binding, detecting an increase of cytisine-sensitive [(125)I]epibatidine binding sites, while cytisine-resistant [(125)I]epibatidine sites were unchanged. [(125)I]alpha-Bungarotoxin binding sites also exhibited up-regulation. These results give a first evaluation of in vivo consequences of 3-IC as a potent agonist with marked effects on mice.
Application of a neuropsychological perspective to the study of schizophrenia has established a number of important facts about this disorder. Some of the key findings from the existing literature are that, while neurocognitive impairment is present in most, if not all, persons with schizophrenia, there is both substantial interpatient heterogeneity and remarkable within-patient stability of cognitive function over the long-term course of the illness. Such findings have contributed to the firm establishment of neurobiologic models of schizophrenia, and thereby help to reduce the social stigma that was sometimes associated with purely psychogenic models popular during parts of the 20th century. Neuropsychological studies in recent decades have established the primacy of cognitive functions over psychopathologic symptoms as determinants of functional capacity and independence in everyday functioning. Although the cognitive benefits of both conventional and even second generation antipsychotic medications appear marginal at best, recognition of the primacy of cognitive deficits as determinants of functional disability in schizophrenia has catalyzed recent efforts to develop targeted treatments for the cognitive deficits of this disorder. Despite these accomplishments, however, some issues remain to be resolved. Efforts to firmly establish the specific neurocognitive/neuropathologic systems responsible for schizophrenia remain elusive, as do efforts to definitively demonstrate the specific cognitive deficits underlying specific forms of functional impairment. Further progress may be fostered by recent initiatives to integrate neuropsychological studies with experimental neuroscience, perhaps leading to measures of deficits in cognitive processes more clearly associated with specific, identifiable brain systems.
Patients with schizophrenia demonstrate marked impairments on most clinical neuropsychological tests. These findings suggest that patients suffer from a generalized form of cognitive impairment, with little evidence of spared performance documented in several large meta-analytic reviews of the clinical literature. In contrast, we review evidence for relative sparing of aspects of attention, procedural memory, and emotional processing observed in studies that have employed experimental approaches adapted from the cognitive and affective neuroscience literature. These islands of preserved performance suggest that the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are not as general as they appear to be when assayed with clinical neuropsychological methods. The apparent contradiction in findings across methods may offer important clues about the nature of cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. The documentation of preserved cognitive function in schizophrenia may serve to sharpen hypotheses about the biological mechanisms that are implicated in the illness.
Among the most fundamental issues in cognitive neuroscience is how the brain may be organized into process-specific and stimulus-specific regions. In the episodic memory domain, most functional neuroimaging studies have focused on the former dimension, typically investigating the neural correlates of various memory processes. Thus, there is little information about what role stimulus-specific brain regions play in successful memory processes. To address this issue, the present event-related fMRI study used a factorial design to focus on the role of stimulus-specific brain regions, such as the fusiform face area (FFA) and parahippocampal place area (PPA) in successful encoding and retrieval processes. Searching within regions sensitive to faces or places, we identified areas similarly involved in encoding and retrieval, as well as areas differentially involved in encoding or retrieval. Finally, we isolated regions associated with successful memory, regardless of stimulus and process type. There were three main findings. Within face sensitive regions, anterior medial PFC and right FFA displayed equivalent encoding and retrieval success processes whereas left FFA was associated with successful encoding rather than retrieval. Within place sensitive regions, left PPA displayed equivalent encoding and retrieval success processes whereas right PPA was associated with successful encoding rather than retrieval. Finally, medial temporal and prefrontal regions were associated with general memory success, regardless of stimulus or process type. Taken together, our results clarify the contribution of different brain regions to stimulus- and process-specific episodic memory mechanisms.
Patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy from hippocampal origin and patients with unilateral surgical excision of an epileptic focus located in the medial temporal lobe were compared to healthy controls on a version of the Autobiographical Interview (AI) adapted to assess memory for event-specific and generic personal episodes. For both types of episodes, patients with unilateral (left and right) temporal lobe epilepsy or excision (TLE) reported fewer internal details, which are bits of information pertaining to the recollected episode. The source of this deficit was mainly the paucity of perceptual information about the personal episodes, but temporal and spatial information was also deficient. Information about the episode's story elements was preserved in both AM conditions. Participants were also tested on a script generation task to assess retrieval of semantic information. Patients with TLE excision, but not pre-surgical patients, reported significantly fewer actions per script in comparison to controls, suggesting that the temporal neocortex is more involved than mesial temporal structures in recall of this type of information. Together, these results indicate that the hippocampus is essential to the recollection of sensory perceptual aspects of past experiences. Detailed story elements and gist information, as collected during the AI and the script generation task, respectively, are more resilient to hippocampal damage. The similarity of the impairment between the event-specific and the generic memory conditions also suggests that temporal specificity is not a key determinant of hippocampal engagement in autobiographical retrieval.
Developmental amnesia (DA) is a memory disorder due to hypoxia/ischaemia-induced damage to the hippocampus early in life. To test the hypothesis that this disorder is associated with a disproportionate impairment in recall vis--vis recognition, we examined a group of 10 patients with DA on the Doors and People test, which affords a quantitative comparison between measures of the two memory processes. The results supported the hypothesis in that the patients showed a sharp, though not complete, recall-recognition dissociation, exhibiting impairment on both measures relative to their matched controls, but with a far greater loss in recall than in recognition. Whether their relatively spared recognition ability is due to restriction of their medial temporal lobe damage to the hippocampus or whether it is due instead to their early age at injury is still uncertain.
Prior work on organization in free recall has focused on the ways in which semantic and temporal information determine the order in which material is retrieved from memory. Tulving's theory of ecphory suggests that these organizational effects arise from the interaction of a retrieval cue with the contents of memory. Using the continual-distraction free-recall paradigm [Bjork, R. A., &amp; Whitten, W. B. (1974). Recency-sensitive retrieval processes in long-term free recall. Cognitive Psychology, 6, 173-189] to minimize retrieval during the study period, we show that encoding task context can organize recall, suggesting that task-related information is part of the retrieval cue. We interpret these results in terms of the Context Maintenance and Retrieval model (CMR; [Polyn, S. M., Norman, K. A., &amp; Kahana, M. J. (2009). A context maintenance and retrieval model of organizational processes in free recall. Psychological Review, 116 (1), 129-156]), in which an internal contextual representation, containing semantic, temporal, and source-related information, serves as the retrieval cue and organizes the retrieval of information from memory. We discuss these results in terms of the guided activation theory [Miller, E. K., &amp; Cohen, J. D. (2001). An integrative theory of prefrontal cortex function. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 24, 167-202] of the role of prefrontal cortex in task performance, as well as the rich neuropsychological literature implicating prefrontal cortex in memory search (e.g., Schacter (1987). Memory, amnesia, and frontal lobe dysfunction. Psychobiology, 15, 21-36).
Left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (LVPFC) is often implicated in neuroimaging studies of context memory retrieval. This activation has been argued to reflect proactive semantic processing that facilitates recollection of past events, or instead to reflect a reactive response to experienced episodic interference. We investigated these characterizations in an fMRI study that manipulated the relative distinctiveness of encoding across subsequent targets and lures by varying encoding task manipulations. Critically, during later testing, retrieval queries and prior target processing where held constant across the distinctive and non-distinctive testing conditions, and therefore any differences in cortical activity would be linked to subject-initiated retrieval strategies. We found that LVPFC activity was specific to context retrieval under distinctive conditions even though this condition demonstrated the least interference. The results suggest that this region is critical for self-initiated semantic elaboration during retrieval, and this conclusion was bolstered by finding that LVPFC activity predicted individual differences in context memory discrimination. In line with Tulving's Encoding Specificity Principle, we suggest that subjects actively construct semantic retrieval cues, reflected in increased VLPFC activation, in an attempt to isolate the distinctive semantic features of hypothetical experiences when possible. If successful, this improves the match between retrieval cue and engram and facilitates performance.
The main objective of the present study was to determine whether event-related potentials (ERPs) predominant in prefrontal cortex (PFC) respond in a similar fashion to ERPs predominant in posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in duration and size discrimination tasks. The results indicate that contingent negative variation (CNV) and P300 components changed according to task demands. In the time-related task, amplitudes and duration of both components increased as a function of stimulus duration and easier discriminability. This was not the case in the size discrimination task. These results are in accordance with the hypothesis of a functional link between PFC and PPC in timing behavior. The later-appearing LPCt component was observed in both tasks, but its amplitude increased only as a function of stimulus duration.
Some patients with amnesia are able to retain new information for much longer than expected when the time that follows new learning is devoid of further stimuli. Animal work shows that the absence or delaying of interference improves long-term memory consolidation. Our study suggests that this is also true for at least some patients with amnesia. Retention of new verbal material was significantly higher in a sample of patients with amnesia (N = 12) when interference occurred at the end of a 9-min delay interval than when it occurred in the middle or at the beginning of the interval. Such findings cannot be accounted for by the mere use of explicit short-term memory rehearsal. Any such rehearsal should have been blocked by the interference, irrespective of interference onset, thus leading to poor retention in all three conditions. The current findings suggest that at least some of the severe forgetting observed in amnesia is the product of a disruption of memory consolidation by immediate postlearning interference.
Recent models assume that some symptoms of schizophrenia originate from defective reward processing mechanisms. Understanding the precise nature of reward-based learning impairments might thus make an important contribution to the understanding of schizophrenia and the development of treatment strategies. The present study investigated several features of probabilistic reward-based stimulus association learning, namely the acquisition of initial contingencies, reversal learning, generalization abilities, and the effects of reward magnitude. Compared to healthy controls, individuals with schizophrenia exhibited attenuated overall performance during acquisition, whereas learning rates across blocks were similar to the rates of controls. On the group level, persons with schizophrenia were, however, unable to learn the reversal of the initial reward contingencies. Exploratory analysis of only the subgroup of individuals with schizophrenia who showed significant learning during acquisition yielded deficits in reversal learning with low reward magnitudes only. There was further evidence of a mild generalization impairment of the persons with schizophrenia in an acquired equivalence task. In summary, although there was evidence of intact basic processing of reward magnitudes, individuals with schizophrenia were impaired at using this feedback for the adaptive guidance of behavior.
A meta-analysis of neuropsychological studies of patients with bipolar disorder comprised of 42 studies of 1,197 patients in euthymia, 13 studies consisting of 314 patients in a manic/mixed phase of illness, and 5 studies of 96 patients in a depressed state. Cohen d values were calculated for each study as the mean difference between patient and control group score on each neuropsychological measure, expressed in pooled SD units. For euthymia, results revealed impairment across all neuropsychological domains, with d values in the moderate-to-large range (d = .5 - .8) for the vast majority of measures. There was evidence of large effect-size impairment on measures of verbal learning (d = .81), and delayed verbal and nonverbal memory (d = .80 - .92), while effect-size impairment on measures of visuospatial function was small-to-moderate (d &lt;or= .55). Patients tested during a manic/mixed or depressed phase of illness showed exaggerated impairment on measures of verbal learning, whereas patients tested during a depressed phase showed greater decrement on measures of phonemic fluency. These results suggest that bipolar illness during euthymia is characterized by generalized moderate level of neuropsychological impairment with particular marked impairment in verbal learning and memory. These results also show that a subset of these deficits moderately worsen during acute disease states.
Prevailing opinion holds that normal brain aging is characterized by substantial atrophy of cortical gray matter. However, this conclusion is based on earlier studies whose findings may be influenced by the inclusion of subjects with subclinical cognitive disorders like preclinical dementia. The present magnetic resonance imaging study tested this hypothesis. Cognitively healthy subjects (mean age 72 years, range 52-82) who remained cognitively stable over a 3-year period were compared to subjects with significant cognitive decline. Subjects who developed dementia within 6 years after the scan session were excluded. The gray matter volumes of seven cortical regions were delineated on T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scans. Participants without cognitive decline did not exhibit an age effect on the gray matter volume. Conversely, participants with cognitive decline exhibited a significant age effect in all the seven areas. These results suggest that cortical gray matter atrophy may have been overestimated in studies on healthy aging, since most studies were unable to exclude participants with a substantial atypical cognitive decline or preclinical dementia. Our results underscore the importance of establishing stringent inclusion criteria for future studies on normal aging.
The negative motivational aspects of withdrawal include symptoms of both anxiety and depression, and emerge after termination of chronic drug use as well as after acute drug exposure. States of acute withdrawal are an inherent part of intermittent drug use in humans, but the contribution of acute withdrawal to the development of addiction has received limited systematic investigation, because of a lack of preclinical models for withdrawal states that emerge spontaneously after acute drug exposure. Here, we have characterized a spontaneous increase in the magnitude of the acoustic startle reflex (ie, spontaneous withdrawal-potentiated startle) that emerges after acute morphine administration in rats, and compared the time course of startle potentiation and place conditioning. We find that startle potentiation seems to be related to a decrease in opiate receptor occupancy and reflects an anxiety-like state with a pharmacological profile similar to other signs of opiate withdrawal. Spontaneous startle potentiation emerges before the rewarding effects of morphine have subsided, even though naloxone administration after a single morphine exposure causes both startle potentiation and conditioned place aversion (CPA). These results show that negative emotional signs of withdrawal develop after just one exposure to morphine, and are likely a recurrent aspect of intermittent drug use that may contribute to the earliest adaptations underlying the development of addiction. Furthermore, the dissociation between spontaneous startle potentiation and CPA suggests anxiogenic and dysphoric manifestations of opiate withdrawal may be mediated by distinct neural mechanisms that are progressively engaged as withdrawal unfolds.
Patients with bipolar disorder have abnormalities in glucocorticoid secretion, dopaminergic neurotransmission, and prefrontal cortical function. We hypothesized that the flattening of the diurnal glucocorticoid rhythm, commonly seen in bipolar disorder, modulates dopaminergic neurotransmission in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) leading to abnormalities in prefrontally mediated neurocognitive functions. To address this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of a flattened glucocorticoid rhythm on (i) the release of dopamine in the PFC and (ii) the transcription of genes in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) coding for proteins involved in presynaptic aspects of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Male rats were treated for 13-15 days with corticosterone (50 microg/ml in the drinking water) or vehicle (0.5% ethanol). Corticosterone treatment resulted in marked adrenal atrophy and flattening of the glucocorticoid rhythm as measured by repeated blood sampling. Animals treated with corticosterone showed markedly enhanced basal dopamine release in the PFC as measured by microdialysis in the presence of a dopamine reuptake inhibitor. Depolarization-evoked release was also enhanced, suggesting that the corticosterone effect on basal release did not result from an increase in the neuronal firing rate. Local blockade of terminal D(2) autoreceptors failed to normalize release to control values, suggesting that the enhanced release was not because of reduced autoreceptor sensitivity. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed that mRNAs coding tyrosine hydroxylase and the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 were elevated in the VTA of corticosterone-treated rats. Our data show that flattening of the glucocorticoid rhythm increases dopamine release in the PFC possibly as a result of increased synthesis and vesicular storage. This provides a mechanistic explanation for prefrontal dysfunction in bipolar and other affective disorders associated with glucocorticoid dysrhythmia.
Little formal research has been conducted on strategies to structure basic, preclinical, and clinical research to increase the likelihood of discovering efficacious interventions for patients with neurological diseases. How academic research is organized and funded by government agencies and foundations seems likely to affect the quality and rate of production of valued therapeutic agents. Few models for translational biomedical research, however, have been defined and no strategies have been compared. Given the narrow width of expertise and laboratory capacity of individual investigators, the complexity of identifying and manipulating mechanisms of disease components over time, and the demand for solutions from society, our continued reliance on funding therapeutic discovery through standalone investigators and projects seems counterproductive. Models are described for funding collaborations of basic and clinical scientists to work in iterative, adaptable, cross-disciplinary interactions around key progress-limiting questions. Problem-oriented collaborations require leadership, incentives, trust, ongoing assessment, and an efficient infrastructure that overcomes barriers. These models are as testable as the hypotheses that drive scientific research.


Humans can regulate their emotional states through a number of effortful cognitive strategies, a type of adaptive behavior not found in animals. The best studied strategy is reappraisal which consists in deliberately changing the emotional interpretation of a stimulus. Reappraisal modulates both subjective and physiological emotional response components and has long-term effects on well-being and mental health. Over the past few years, a rapidly growing neuroimaging literature has attempted to characterize the neural mechanisms that mediate reappraisal, but results have so far been relatively inconsistent. This article provides an overview of the current state of the field and presents a first formal quantitative meta-analysis of neuroimaging findings. It introduces a new model of the cognitive processes underlying reappraisal which builds on a conceptualization of reappraisal as a temporally extended, dynamic process and partitions reappraisal episodes into an early implementation and a later maintenance stage. In agreement with the model, preliminary evidence from parametric meta-analysis suggests the two stages are supported by distinct frontal networks. Hypotheses for further research are presented.
Autism is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown etiology. While the past decade has witnessed a proliferation of neuroimaging studies of autism, theoretical approaches for understanding systems-level brain abnormalities remain poorly developed. We propose a novel anterior insula-based systems-level model for investigating the neural basis of autism, synthesizing recent advances in brain network functional connectivity with converging evidence from neuroimaging studies in autism. The anterior insula is involved in interoceptive, affective and empathic processes, and emerging evidence suggests it is part of a &quot;salience network&quot; integrating external sensory stimuli with internal states. Network analysis indicates that the anterior insula is uniquely positioned as a hub mediating interactions between large-scale networks involved in externally and internally oriented cognitive processing. A recent meta-analysis identifies the anterior insula as a consistent locus of hypoactivity in autism. We suggest that dysfunctional anterior insula connectivity plays an important role in autism. Critical examination of these abnormalities from a systems neuroscience perspective should be a priority for further research on the neurobiology of autism.
Despite the existence of neural noise, which leads variability in motor commands, the central nervous system can effectively reduce movement variance at the end effector to meet task requirements. Although online correction based on feedback information is essential for reducing error, feedforward impedance control is another way to regulate motor variability. This Update Article reviews key studies examining the relation between task constraints and impedance control for human arm movement. When a smaller reaching target is given as a task constraint, flexor and extensor muscles are co-activated, and positional variance is decreased around the task constraint. Trial-by-trial muscle activations revealed no on-line feedback correction, indicating that humans are able to regulate their impedance in advance. These results demonstrate that not only on-line feedback correction, but also feedforward impedance control, helps reduce the motor variability caused by internal noise to realize dexterous movements of human arms. A computational model of movement planning considering the presence of signal-dependent noise provides a unifying framework that potentially accounts for optimizing impedance to maximize accuracy. A recently proposed learning algorism formulated as a V-shaped learning function explains how the central nervous system acquires impedance to optimize accuracy as well as stability and efficiency.
Interneurons in the olfactory bulb (OB) play essential roles in the processing of olfactory information. They are classified into several subpopulations by the expression of different neurochemical markers. Here we focused on a transcription factor Pax6, and examined its expression and function in distinct subtypes of OB interneurons. We identified Pax6 expression in specific subtypes of interneurons in the external plexiform layer (EPL). The number of these interneuron subtypes was dramatically decreased in Pax6 heterozygous mutant mice. These results indicate that Pax6 is required for differentiation and/or maintenance of EPL interneurons in the adult mouse OB.
Sex differences have been found in the spatial memory which involve several regions of the limbic system. The Morris water maze (MWM) is one of the most widely used tasks in behavioral neuroscience to explore spatial and episodic memory in rats. We evaluated the oxidative metabolic activity of the prefrontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus, anterior thalamic nuclei and mammillary region following the acquisition of a spatial working memory (WM) task in young rats (30 days) of both sexes using quantitative histochemistry of the cytochrome oxidase (COx). The rats were trained until they achieved the learning criteria in the MWM using a hidden escape platform with different daily locations, and two control groups were added to evaluate the oxidative metabolism not specific to the learning task. We found a delay in the acquisition of the WM in females. A significant decrease in COx activity was found in the prefrontal cortex in both sexes. Also, changes were found in the dentate gyrus and lateral mammillary nucleus in males, whereas females showed changes in the anterodorsal thalamus and CA3. These results suggest a sex difference in the contribution of brain limbic structures to the WM process during postnatal development.


The cerebellum and its associated circuitry constitutes the entire essential neuronal system for classical conditioning of eye-blink and other discrete responses (e.g. limb flexion) learned with an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US) using the standard delay paradigm where the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the US coterminate. Evidence reviewed here strongly supports the following conclusions. The CS pathway involves sensory relay nuclei projections to the pontine nuclei and its mossy fiber projections to the cerebellar cortex and nuclei. The US pathway involves activation of the inferior olive (dorsal accessory olive for eye blink) and its climbing fiber projections to the cerebellar cortex and nuclei. The conditioned response (CR) pathway involves the cerebellar interpositus nucleus, the superior cerebellar peduncle pathway to the magnocellular red nucleus and rubral projections to premotor and motor nuclei generating the behavioral response. Anatomical data, neuronal unit recordings, electrical stimulation, lesions and methods of reversible inactivation all strongly support the hypothesis that the essential memory trace for the learning of these discrete conditioned responses is formed and stored in the cerebellar interpositus nucleus. Neuronal/synaptic plasticity is also established in the cerebellar cortex in this form of learning but the role of the cortex is less clear. We argue that the cortex plays a key role in normal acquisition and adaptive timing of the conditioned response, under certain circumstances, but it remains unclear exactly what features of conditioning are being encoded in the cerebellar cortex in this basic form of associative learning and memory.
While high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) combined with newer analysis methods has become a powerful tool in human cerebral lesion studies, comparatively few studies have used these advanced imaging techniques to study lesions of the human cerebellum and their associated symptoms. This review will summarize the methodology of MRI-based lesion-symptom mapping of the human cerebellum and discuss its potential for gaining insights into cerebellar function. The investigation of patients with defined focal lesions yields the greatest potential for obtaining meaningful correlations between lesion site and behavioral deficits. In smaller groups of patients overlay plots and subtraction analysis are good options. If larger groups of patients are available, different statistical techniques have been introduced to compare behavior and lesion site on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Although localization in degenerative cerebellar disorders is less accurate because of the diffuse nature of the disease, certain information about the supposed function of larger subdivisions of the cerebellum can be gained. Examples are given which show that lesion-symptom mapping allows to investigate the function of the intermediate zone and cerebellar nuclei. We conclude that meaningful correlations between lesion site and behavioral data can be obtained in patients with degenerative as well as focal cerebellar disorders.
Activation of cerebellar Purkinje cells by either brief depolarizing steps or bursts of climbing fiber synaptic activation evokes a slow inward current, which we have previously called depolarization-induced slow current or DISC. DISC is triggered by Ca influx via voltage-sensitive Ca channels and is attenuated by inhibitors of vacuolar ATPase or vesicle fusion. This led us to suggest that DISC required vesicular release of glutamate from the somatodendritic region of Purkinje cells. Furthermore, we found that DISC was attenuated by the mGluR1 antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt), indicating that DISC required autocrine activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1). Here, we have revisited the role of mGluR1 and found that it is, in fact, not required for DISC. CPCCOEt, but not three other specific mGluR1 antagonists (JNJ16259685, alpha-amino-5-carboxy-3-methyl-2-thiopheneacetic acid (3-MATIDA), Bay 36-7620), attenuated DISC, even though all four of these drugs produced near-complete blockade of current evoked by puffs of the exogenous mGluR1/5 agonist DHPG. Cerebellar slices derived from mGluR1 null mice showed substantial DISC that was still attenuated by CPCCOEt. mGluR5 is functionally similar to mGluR1, but is not expressed at high levels in cerebellar Purkinje cells. 2-Methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP), an mGluR5 antagonist, did not attenuate DISC, and DISC was still present in Purkinje cells derived from mGluR1/mGluR5 double null mice. Thus, neither mGluR1 nor mGluR5 is required for DISC in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
The brain generates many rhythmic activities, and the olivo-cerebellar system is not an exception. In recent years, the cerebellum has revealed activities ranging from low frequency to very high-frequency oscillations. These rhythms depend on the brain functional state and are typical of certain circuit sections or specific neurons. Interestingly, the granular layer, which gates sensorimotor and cognitive signals to the cerebellar cortex, can also sustain low frequency (7-25 Hz) and perhaps higher-frequency oscillations. In this review we have considered (i) how these oscillations are generated in the granular layer network depending on intrinsic electroresponsiveness and circuit connections, (ii) how these oscillations are correlated with those in other cerebellar circuit sections, and (iii) how the oscillating cerebellum communicates with extracerebellar structures. It is suggested that the granular layer can generate oscillations that integrate well with those generated in the inferior olive, in deep-cerebellar nuclei and in Purkinje cells. These rhythms, in turn, might play a role in cognition and memory consolidation by interacting with the mechanisms of long-term synaptic plasticity.
Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are a class of excitatory interneuron found in the granule cell layer of the vestibulocerebellum. Mossy fibers form excitatory inputs on to the paint brush shaped dendrioles in the form of giant, glutamatergic synapses, activation of which results in prolonged bursts of action potentials in the postsynaptic UBC. The axons of UBCs themselves form mossy fiber contacts with other UBCs and granule cells, forming an excitatory, intrinsic cerebellar network that has the capacity to synchronize and amplify mossy fiber inputs to potentially large populations of granule cells. In this paper, we demonstrate that UBCs in rat cerebellar slices express low voltage activated (LVA) fast-inactivating and high voltage activated (HVA) slowly inactivating calcium channels. LVA calcium currents are mediated by T-type calcium channels and they are associated with calcium increases in the dendrites and to a lesser extent the cell soma. HVA currents, mediated by L-type calcium channels, are slowly inactivating and they produce larger overall increases in intracellular calcium but with a similar distribution pattern. We review these observations alongside several recent papers that examine how intrinsic membrane properties influence UBCs firing patterns and we discuss how UBC signaling may affect downstream cerebellar processing.
Fear conditioning involves learning that a previously neutral stimulus (CS) predicts an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US). Lesions of the cerebellar vermis may affect fear memory without altering baseline motor/autonomic responses to the frightening stimuli. Reversible inactivation of the vermis during the consolidation period impairs retention of fear memory. In patients with medial cerebellar lesions conditioned bradycardia is impaired. In humans, cerebellar areas around the vermis are activated during mental recall of emotional personal episodes, if a loved partner receives a pain stimulus, and during learning of a CS-US association. Moreover, patients with cerebellar stroke may fail to show overt emotional changes. In such patients, however, the activity of several areas, including ventromedial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, pulvinar and insular cortex, is significantly increased relative to healthy subjects when exposed to frightening stimuli. Therefore, other structures may serve to maintain fear response after cerebellar damage. These data indicate that the vermis is involved in the formation of fear memory traces. We suggest that the vermis is not only involved in regulating the autonomic/motor responses, but that it also participates in forming new CS-US associations thus eliciting appropriate responses to new stimuli or situations. In other words, the cerebellum may translate an emotional state elaborated elsewhere into autonomic and motor responses.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell (PF-PC) synapses in the cerebellum has been suggested to underlie aspects of motor learning. Previous in vitro studies have primarily used low frequency PF stimulation conditioning paradigms to generate either presynaptic PF-PC LTP (4-8 Hz) or postsynaptic PF-PC LTP (1 Hz). Little is known about the conditions that evoke PF-PC LTP in vivo. High frequency stimulation in vivo increases PC responsiveness to peripheral stimuli; however, neither the site of action nor the signaling pathways involved have been examined. Using flavoprotein autofluorescence optical imaging in the FVB mouse in vivo, this report describes that a conditioning stimulation consisting of a high frequency burst of PF stimulation (100 Hz, 15 pulse trains every 3 s for 5 min) evokes a long-term increase in the response to PF stimulation. Following the conditioning stimulation, the response to PF stimulation increases over 20 min to approximately 130% above baseline and this potentiation persists for at least 2 h. Field potential recordings of the responses to PF stimulation show that the postsynaptic component is potentiated but the presynaptic, parallel fiber volley is not. Paired-pulse facilitation does not change after the conditioning stimulation, suggesting the potentiation occurs postsynaptically. Blocking non-NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartic acid) ionotropic glutamate receptors with DNQX (6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium salt, 50 muM, bath application) during the conditioning stimulation has no effect on the long-term increase in fluorescence. However, blocking subtype I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGLuR(1)) with LY367385 (200 muM) during the conditioning stimulation abolishes the long-term increase in fluorescence. Blocking GABAergic neurotransmission is not required to evoke this long-term potentiation. Blocking GABA(A) receptors reduces but does not eliminate the long-term potentiation. Therefore, this study demonstrates that high frequency PF stimulation generates long-term potentiation of PF-PC synapses in vivo. This novel form of LTP is generated primarily postsynaptically and is mediated by mGluR(1) receptors.
There is growing evidence based on behavioral and functional imaging studies about the cerebellar involvement in the modulation of cognitive functions. However, it still remains to be clarified how the cerebellum interacts with brain regions sub-serving different cognitive domains. In this study we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and voxel based morphometry (VBM) to investigate changes of cerebral gray matter (GM) density in 15 patients with a focal cerebellar damage (CD) compared to 15 healthy controls. T2-weighted scans and T1-weighted volumes were collected from each subject. With the exception of the cerebellar lesion, none of the patients showed any additional brain MRI abnormality. T1-volumes were analyzed by voxel-based morphometry. Consistent with their neuropsychological abnormalities, patients with right-CD compared to controls showed a reduction of GM density mainly involving the left frontal, parietal and temporal lobes. Conversely, patients with left-CD did not show any significant neuropsychological or cerebral GM abnormality. The present study indicates that specific GM changes may be detected in patients with isolated CD and cognitive dysfunction. We discuss the findings in terms of cerebellar influence on the neuronal networks involved in higher level functions of the association cortex.
The cerebellum can be viewed as supporting two distinct aspects of motor execution related to a) motor coordination and the sequence that imparts such movement temporal coherence and b) the reorganization of ongoing movement when a motor execution error occurs. The former has been referred to as &quot;motor time binding&quot; as it requires that the large numbers of motoneurons involved be precisely activated from a temporal perspective. By contrast, motor error correction requires the abrupt reorganization of ongoing motor sequences, on occasion sufficiently important to rescue the animal or person from potentially lethal situations. The olivo-cerebellar system plays an important role in both categories of motor control. In particular, the morphology and electrophysiology of inferior olivary neurons have been selected by evolution to execute a rather unique oscillatory pace-making function, one required for temporal sequencing and a unique oscillatory phase resetting dynamic for error correction. Thus, inferior olivary (IO) neurons are electrically coupled through gap junctions, generating synchronous subthreshold oscillations of their membrane potential at a frequency of 1-10 Hz and are capable of fast and reliable phase resetting. Here I propose to address the role of the olivocerebellar system in the context of motor timing and reset.
Whereas the cerebellum contains 22 different types of neuropeptides as presently known, their expression is generally weak and diffusely dispersed in cerebellar tissues, which often makes their functional significance doubtful. Nevertheless, our knowledge about certain neuropeptides has advanced to the extent that we can figure out their unique functional roles in cerebellar circuits. Throughout the cerebellum, CRF is contained in climbing fibers and its spontaneous release is required for the induction of cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), a cellular mechanism of motor learning. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is also expressed in the paraventricular nucleus-pituitary system and amygdala-lower brainstem system, both of which are involved in coping responses to stress. In view that motor learning requires stressful efforts for correcting errors in repeated trials, CRF in climbing fibers may imply that the olivocerebellar system is part of a large CRF-operated functional system that acts to cope with various stressors. Orexin, on the other hand, is contained in beaded fibers, which, originating from the hypothalamus, project to various brainstem nuclei and also to the cerebellum, exclusively the flocculus. Currently available evidence suggests that, in fight-or-flight situations, orexinergic neurons switch the state of cardiovascular control systems including the flocculus to secure blood supply to working muscles. Considerable knowledge has also been accumulated about angiotensin II, galanin, and cerebellin, but there is still a gap in defining their unique functional roles in cerebellar circuits.
Classic central synaptic transmission by fast neurotransmitters-glutamate, GABA or glycine-involves liberation from vesicles directly opposite postsynaptic receptors at junctions containing both a presynaptic active zone and a postsynaptic specialisation. Such classic transmission is thought to underlie much of the information transfer and processing in the brain. However, there also exist a substantial number of reports of signalling by the same transmitters outside this classic framework, whereby liberation and/or receptor activation occur beyond synaptic boundaries. We term these processes collectively parasynaptic signalling. Here, we describe the various forms of parasynaptic signalling and the available methods for distinguishing them from synaptic transmission. We then review the numerous reports of parasynaptic signalling in the cerebellar cortex, a structure whose specialised anatomy and synapses have facilitated studies of these mechanisms. We examine more generally the question of how the multiple signalling pathways might avoid interaction and address the possible functions of parasynaptic transmission, which in the cerebellar cortex include the regulation of network activity, glial tropism and the control of synaptic plasticity.
The cerebellar circuitry consists of two main excitatory glutamatergic pathways. The inputs of mossy fibers and climbing fibers converge on Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar nuclei. In this circuitry, Golgi interneurons suppress granule cell excitability via the inhibitory GABA transmitter. A novel technique termed reversible neurotransmission blocking (RNB) was genetically established, in which granule cell transmission to Purkinje cells was selectively and reversibly blocked in the mouse cerebellar circuitry. This study revealed that Purkinje cells are essential for expression of conditioned eye-blink motor learning but that this memory is acquired and stored in deep cerebellar nuclei. A different technique termed immunotoxin-mediated cell targeting (IMCT) was developed to selectively ablate Golgi cells from the mouse cerebellar network. The study disclosed that excitatory glutamate receptors and inhibitory GABA receptors cooperatively act at Golgi cell-mossy fiber-granule cell synapses and are indispensable for motor coordination and adaptation. Finally, gene targeting of mGluR2 displayed that the metabotropic glutamate receptor acts collaboratively with the ionotropic AMPA receptors at granule cell-Golgi cell synapses and is crucial for the spatiotemporal regulation in the mouse cerebellar circuitry. The neural information is thus hierarchically regulated and integrated at different levels of the cerebellar network.
Internal models are a key feature of most modern theories of motor control. Yet, it has been challenging to localize internal models in the brain, or to demonstrate that they are more than a metaphor. In the present review, I consider a large body of data on the cerebellar floccular complex, asking whether floccular output has features that would be expected of the output from internal models. I argue that the simple spike firing rates of a single group of floccular Purkinje cells could reflect the output of three different internal models. (1) An eye velocity positive feedback pathway through the floccular complex provides neural inertia for smooth pursuit eye movements, and appears to operate as a model of the inertia of real-world objects. (2) The floccular complex processes and combines input signals so that the dynamics of its average simple spike output are appropriate for the dynamics of the downstream brainstem circuits and eyeball. If we consider the brainstem circuits and eyeball as a more broadly conceived &quot;oculomotor plant,&quot; then the output from the floccular complex could be the manifestation of an inverse model of &quot;plant&quot; dynamics. (3) Floccular output reflects an internal model of the physics of the orbit where head and eye motion sum to produce gaze motion. The effects of learning on floccular output suggest that it is modeling the interaction of the visually-guided and vestibular-driven components of eye and gaze motion. Perhaps the insights from studying oculomotor control provide groundwork to guide the analysis of internal models for a wide variety of cerebellar behaviors.
Pontine gray neurons of the brain stem are a major source of mossy fiber (MF) afferents to granule cells of the cerebellum. Achieving this connectivity involves an early regionalization of pontine gray neuron cell bodies within the brainstem pontine nuclei, as well as establishing the proper ratio of crossed versus uncrossed MF projections to contralateral versus ipsilateral cerebellar territories. Here, we report expression of the transcription factor Zic1 in newly postmitotic pontine gray neurons and present functional experiments in embryonic and postnatal mice that implicate Zic1 levels as a key determinant of pontine neuron cell body position within the pons and axon laterality. Reducing Zic1 levels embryonically via in utero electroporation of short hairpin RNA interference (shRNAi) vectors shifted the postnatal distribution of pontine neurons from caudolateral to rostromedial territories; by contrast, increasing Zic1 levels resulted in the reciprocal shift, with electroporated cells redistributing caudolaterally. Associated with the latter was a change in axon laterality, with a greater proportion of marked projections now targeting the ipsilateral instead of contralateral cerebellum. Zic1 levels in pontine gray neurons, therefore, play an important role in the development of pontocerebellar circuitry.
Elimination of redundant synapses and strengthening of the surviving ones are crucial steps in the development of the nervous system. Both processes can be readily followed at the climbing fiber to Purkinje cell synapse in the cerebellum. Shortly after birth, around five equally strong climbing fiber synapses are established. Subsequently, one of these five synaptic connections starts to grow in size and synaptic strength, while the others degenerate and eventually disappear. Both the elimination of the redundant climbing fiber synapses and the strengthening of the surviving one depend on a combination of a genetically coded blueprint and synaptic activity. Recently, it has been shown that synaptic activity affects the synaptic strength of developing climbing fibers. Remarkably, the same pattern of paired activity of the presynaptic climbing fiber and the postsynaptic Purkinje cell resulted in strengthening of already &quot;large&quot; climbing fibers and weakening of already &quot;weak&quot; climbing fibers. In this review, we will integrate the current knowledge of synaptic plasticity of climbing fibers with that of other processes affecting climbing fiber development.
Purkinje cell (PC) dendrites are made by a proximal dendritic domain, which is provided with scattered clusters of spines innervated by a single climbing fiber (CF) and by a distal domain with a high density of spines innervated by parallel fibers (PFs). Following block of electrical activity a spine increase occurs in the proximal domain and the new spines are innervated by the PFs while the number of synaptic contacts formed by the CF is reduced. Also the GABAergic input expands its territory of innervation on the proximal domain, which undergoes a profound restructuring of the glutamate and GABA receptors. Excitatory-like postsynaptic assemblies appear not only on the new spines, but also on the smooth region of the dendrite and both of them may be innervated by GABAergic terminals. In this case GABA receptors coexist with the glutamate receptors leading to the formation of hybrid synapses. In contrast, PF synapses contain solely glutamate receptors. Thus, the expression of glutamate receptors appears to be an intrinsic property of the PC, while the expression of the GABA receptors is induced by the presence of GABAergic terminals. The data highlight an important feature of the CF input; its electrical activity, in addition to inducing a powerful phasic excitation and a tonic inhibition, controls the finer architecture of the cerebellar cortex.
This paper will outline the history of study of the cerebellum from its beginnings to relatively recent times. Although there is no unanimous agreement about what the cerebellum does or how it does it, some principles of its structure and function are well understood. The historical approach can help to identify remaining questions and point the way to future progress. We make no effort to separate anatomical, physiological and clinical studies; rather, we hope to emphasize their interrelation. The cerebellum has always been seen as a distinct subdivision of the brain. Over the years there was an increasingly accurate description of its gross appearance and major subdivisions. By the beginning of the 19th century, the classical descriptive anatomical work was completed, and experimental study of the functions of the cerebellum began. Lesions were made in the cerebellum of experimental animals, and the behavioral deficits that were caused by the lesion were studied and described. These early animal studies powerfully influenced clinical interpretation of the symptoms seen in patients with cerebellar disease. Several questions are implicit in the anatomical and clinical studies of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, some of which remain incompletely answered. Many of these are addressed in other chapters in this volume. 1. Do different parts of the cerebellum do different things? The uniformity of the neuronal architecture of the cerebellar cortex suggests that each small region must operate in a similar way, but it is also clear that different regions control different functions. Is there a systematic sensory and/or body representation? 2. What are the functions of the cerebellar hemispheres? Massive in humans and very large in primates, their functions remain in dispute. Because the size of the cerebellar hemispheres parallels the development of the cerebral cortex, some have suggested that the hemispheres in humans and the higher primates may play a role in cognitive functions. 3. If one part of the cerebellum is damaged, can another part take over? A related question is whether normal motor function is possible in cases of complete or near-complete agenesis of the cerebellum. 4. What are the functions of the two distinctly different afferent systems to the cerebellum; the climbing and mossy fibers?
Grip force modulation has a rich history of research, but the results remain to be integrated as a neurocomputational model and applied in a robotic system. Adaptive grip force control as exhibited by humans would enable robots to handle objects with sufficient yet minimal force, thus minimizing the risk of crushing objects or inadvertently dropping them. We investigated the feasibility of grip force control by means of a biological neural approach to ascertain the possibilities for future application in robotics. As the cerebellum appears crucial for adequate grip force control, we tested a computational model of the olivo-cerebellar system. This model takes into account that the processing of sensory signals introduces a 100 ms delay, and because of this delay, the system needs to learn anticipatory rather than feedback control. For training, we considered three scenarios for feedback information: (1) grip force error estimation, (2) sensory input on deformation of the fingertips, and (3) as a control, noise. The system was trained on a data set consisting of force and acceleration recordings from human test subjects. Our results show that the cerebellar model is capable of learning and performing anticipatory grip force control closely resembling that of human test subjects despite the delay. The system performs best if the delayed feedback signal carries an error estimation, but it can also perform well when sensory data are used instead. Thus, these tests indicate that a cerebellar neural network can indeed serve well in anticipatory grip force control not only in a biological but also in an artificial system.
We review our recent experimental and modeling results on how cerebellar Purkinje cells encode information in their simple spike trains and present a theory of the function of pauses and regular spiking patterns. The regular spiking patterns were discovered in extracellular recordings of simple spikes in awake and anesthetized rodents, where it was shown that more than half of the spontaneous activity consists of short epochs of regular spiking. These periods of regular spiking are interrupted by pauses, which can be tightly synchronized among nearby Purkinje cells, while the spikes in the regular patterns are not. Interestingly, pauses are affected by long-term depression of the parallel fiber synapses. Both in modeling and slice experiments it was demonstrated that long-term depression causes a decrease in the duration of pauses, leading to an increase of the spike output of the neuron. Based on these results we propose that pauses in the simple spike train form a temporal code which can lead to a rebound burst in the target deep cerebellar nucleus neurons. Conversely, the regular spike patterns may be a rate code, which presets the amplitude of future rebound bursts.
Morphologically distinct neuron classes can be subdivided in sublineages by differential chemical phenotypes that correlate with functional diversity. Here we show by immunocytochemistry that chromogranin A (CgA) chromogranin B (CgB) and secretogranin II (SgII), the principal granins situated in neuronal secretory granules and large dense-core vesicles, are widely but differentially expressed in cells of the mouse cerebellum and terminals of cerebellar afferents. While CgA and CgB were nearly panneuronal, SgII was more restricted in distribution. The cells most intensely immunoreactive for SgII were a class of small, excitatory interneurons enriched in the granular layer of the vestibulocerebellum, the unipolar brush cells (UBCs), although larger neurons likely to be a subset of the Golgi-Lugaro-globular cell population were also distinctly immunopositive; by contrast, Purkinje cells and granule cells were, at best, faintly stained and, stellate, basket cells were unstained. SgII was also present in subsets of mossy fibers, climbing fibers and varicose fibers. Neurons in the cerebellar nuclei and inferior olive were distinctly positive for the three granins. Double-labeling with subset-specific cell class markers indicated that, while both CgA and CgB were present in most UBCs, SgII immunoreactivity was present in the calretinin (CR)-expressing subset, but lacked in metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha)-expressing UBCs. Thus, we have identified an additional cell class marker, SgII, which serves to study subtype properties in the UBC population. The abundance of SgII in only one of the two known subsets of UBCs is remarkable, as its expression in other neurons of the cortex was moderate or altogether lacking. The data suggest that the CR-positive UBCs represent a unique neuroendocrine component of the mammalian cerebellar cortex, presumably endowed with transynaptically regulated autocrine or paracrine action/s. Because of the well-known organization of the cerebellar system, several of its neuron classes may represent valuable cellular models to analyze granin functions in situ, in acute slices and in dissociated cell and organotypic slice cultures.
The recently described bi-stability of Purkinje cells and the state-dependence of the complex spike waveform suggest that calcium currents may play a pivotal role in both the complex spike waveform and the state of the membrane voltage. Here we used Ca2+ imaging to record the changes in intracellular [Ca2+] that are elicited by either spontaneous or climbing fiber-evoked activity in rat Purkinje cells. We show that a continuous somatic Ca2+ influx occurs during an &quot;UP&quot; state. Furthermore Ca2+ transients that are evoked by climbing fiber stimulation are state-dependent. Somatic transients are smaller following an &quot;UP&quot; state, while dendritic transients are smaller following a &quot;DOWN&quot; state. The state-dependence of these signals should affect the intrinsic firing of Purkinje cells as well as plastic processes that modulate synaptic strength.
Heterogeneity among AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subtypes is thought to be one of the key postsynaptic factors giving rise to diversity in excitatory synaptic signaling in the CNS. Recently, compelling evidence has emerged that ancillary AMPAR subunits-the so-called transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs)-also play a vital role in influencing the variety of postsynaptic signaling. This TARP family of molecules controls both trafficking and functional properties of AMPARs at most, if not all, excitatory central synapses. Furthermore, individual TARPs differ in their effects on the biophysical and pharmacological properties of AMPARs. The critical importance of TARPs in synaptic transmission was first revealed in experiments on cerebellar granule cells from stargazer mice. These lack the prototypic TARP stargazin, present in granule cells from wild-type animals, and consequently lack synaptic transmission at the mossy fibre-to-granule cell synapse. Subsequent work has identified many other members of the stargazin family which act as functional TARPs. It has also provided valuable information about specific TARPs present in many central neurons. Because much of the initial work on TARPs was carried out on stargazer granule cells, the important functional properties of TARPs present throughout the cerebellum have received particular attention. Here we discuss some of these recent findings in relation to the main TARPs and the AMPAR subunits identified in cerebellar neurons and glia.
The peculiar shape and disposition of Purkinje cell (PC) dendrites, planar and highly branched, offers an optimal model to analyze cellular and molecular regulators for the acquisition of neuronal dendritic trees. During the first 2 weeks after the end of the proliferation period, PCs undergo a 2-phase remodeling process of their dendrites. The first phase consists in the complete retraction of the primitive but extensive dendritic tree, together with the formation of multiple filopodia-like processes arising from the cell body. In the second phase, there is a progressive disappearance of the somatic processes along with rapid growth and branching of the mature dendrite. Mature Purkinje cell dendrites bear two types of spiny protrusions, named spine and thorn. The spines are numerous, elongated, located at the distal dendritic compartment and form synapses with parallel fibers, whereas the thorns are shorter, rounded, emerge from the proximal compartment and synapse with climbing fibers. Different culture models and mutant mice analyses suggest the identification of intrinsic versus extrinsic determinants of the Purkinje cell dendritic development. The early phase of dendritic remodeling might be cell autonomous and regulated by specific transcription factors such as retinoid-related orphan receptor alpha (RORalpha). Afferent fibers, trophic factors and hormones regulate the orientation and growth of the mature dendritic tree contributing, with still unknown intrinsic factors, to sculpt its general architecture. The formation of spines appears as an intrinsic phenomenon independent of their presynaptic partner, the parallel fibers, and confined to the distal compartment by inhibitory influences of the climbing fibers along the proximal compartment.
The climbing fiber (CF) to Purkinje cell (PC) synapse in the cerebellum provides an ideal model for the study of developmental rearrangements of neural circuits. At birth, each PC is innervated by multiple CFs. These surplus CFs are eliminated during postnatal development, and mono innervation is attained by postnatal day 20 (P20) in mice. Earlier studies on spontaneous mutant mice and animals with &quot;hypogranular&quot; cerebella indicate that regression of surplus CFs requires normal generation of granule cells and their axons, parallel fibers (PFs), and normal formation of PF-PC synapses. Our understanding of how PF-PC synapse formation affects development of CF-PC synapse has been greatly advanced by analyses of mutant mice deficient in glutamate receptor delta2 subunit (GluRdelta2), an orphan receptor expressed selectively in PCs. Deletion of GluRdelta2 results in impairment of PF-PC synapse formation, which leads to defects in development of CF-PC synapses. In this article, we review how impaired PF-PC synapse formation affects wiring of CFs to PCs based mostly on our data on GluRdelta2 knockout mice. We propose a new scheme that CF-PC synapses are shaped by the three consecutive events, namely functional differentiation of multiple CFs into one strong and a few weak inputs from P3 to P7, &quot;early phase&quot; of CF synapse elimination from P7 to around P11, and &quot;late phase&quot; of CF synapse elimination from around P12. Normal PF-PC synapse formation is required for the &quot;late phase&quot; of CF synapse elimination.
Classical conditioning of the eye-blink reflex in the rabbit is a form of motor learning that is uniquely dependent on the cerebellum. The cerebellar learning hypothesis proposes that plasticity subserving eye-blink conditioning occurs in the cerebellum. The major evidence for this hypothesis originated from studies based on a telecommunications network metaphor of eye-blink circuits. These experiments inactivated parts of cerebellum-related networks during the acquisition and expression of classically conditioned eye blinks in order to determine sites at which the plasticity occurred. However, recent evidence revealed that these manipulations could be explained by a network performance hypothesis which attributes learning deficits to a non-specific tonic dysfunction of eye-blink networks. Since eye-blink conditioning is mediated by a spontaneously active, recurrent neuronal network with strong tonic interactions, differentiating between the cerebellar learning hypothesis and the network performance hypothesis represents a major experimental challenge. A possible solution to this problem is offered by several promising new approaches that minimize the effects of experimental interventions on spontaneous neuronal activity. Results from these studies indicate that plastic changes underlying eye-blink conditioning are distributed across several cerebellar and extra-cerebellar regions. Specific input interactions that induce these plastic changes as well as their cellular mechanisms remain unresolved.
The establishment of neural circuits involves both the precise positioning of cells within brain regions and projection of axons to specific target cells. In the cerebellum (Cb), the medial-lateral (M-L) and anterior-posterior (A-P) position of each Purkinje cell (PC) and the topography of its axon can be defined with respect to two coordinate systems within the Cb; one based on the pattern of lobules and the other on PC gene expression in parasagittal clusters in the embryo (e.g. Pcp2) and stripes in the adult (e.g. ZebrinII). The relationship between the embryonic clusters of molecularly defined PCs and particular adult PC stripes is not clear. Using a mouse genetic inducible fate mapping (GIFM) approach and a Pcp2-CreER-IRES-hAP transgene, we marked three bilateral clusters of PC clusters with myristolated green fluorescent protein (mGfp) on approximately embryonic day (E) 15 and followed their fate into adulthood. We found that these three clusters contributed specifically to ZebrinII-expressing PCs, including nine of the adult stripes. This result suggests that embryonic PCs maintain a particular molecular identity, and that each embryonic cluster can contribute PCs to more than one adult M-L stripe. Each PC projects a primary axon to one of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) or the vestibular nuclei in the brainstem in an organized fashion that relates to the position of the PCs along the M-L axis. We characterized when PC axons from the three M-L clusters acquire topographic projections. Using a combination of GIFM to mark the PC clusters with mGfp and staining for human placental alkaline phosphatase (hAP) in Pcp2-CreER-IRES-hAP transgenic embryos we found that axons from each embryonic PC cluster intermingled with neurons within particular DCN or projected out of the Cb toward the vestibular nuclei by E14.5. These studies show that PC molecular patterning, efferent circuitry, and DCN nucleogenesis occur simultaneously, suggesting a link between these processes.
The delta2 glutamate receptor (GluRdelta2) is predominantly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells and plays crucial roles in cerebellar functions: GluRdelta2-null mice display ataxia and impaired motor learning. Interestingly, the contact state of synapses between parallel fibers (PFs) and Purkinje cells is specifically and severely affected, and the number of normal PF synapses is markedly reduced in GluRdelta2-null Purkinje cells. Furthermore, long-term depression at PF-Purkinje cell synapses is abrogated. Cbln1, a member of the C1q/tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily, is predominantly expressed and released from cerebellar granule cells. Unexpectedly, the behavioral, physiological and anatomical phenotypes of cbln1-null mice precisely mimic those of GluRdelta2-null mice. Thus, we propose that Cbln1, which is released from granule cells, and GluRdelta2, which is predominantly expressed in Purkinje cells, are involved in a common signaling pathway crucial for synapse formation/maintenance and plasticity in the cerebellum. Since molecules related to Cbln1 are expressed in various brain regions other than the cerebellum, other C1q/TNF superfamily proteins may also regulate various aspects of synapses in the CNS. Therefore, an understanding of the signaling mechanisms underlying Cbln1 and GluRdelta2 in the cerebellum will provide new insights into the roles of C1q/TNF superfamily proteins as new cytokines that regulate normal and abnormal brain functions.

Exposure to an environmental toxicant as a risk factor in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was first hinted at (demonstrated) in the Chamorro indigenous people of Guam. During the 1950s and 1960s these indigenous people presented an extremely high incidence of ALS which was presumed to be associated with the consumption of flying fox and cycad seeds. No other strong association between ALS and environmental toxicants has since been reported, although circumstantial epidemiological evidence has implicated exposure to heavy metals such as lead and mercury, industrial solvents and pesticides especially organophosphates and certain occupations such as playing professional soccer. Given that only approximately 10% of all ALS diagnosis have a genetic basis, a gene-environmental interaction provides a plausible explanation for the other 90% of cases. This mini-review provides an overview of our current knowledge of environmental etiologies of ALS with emphasis on the effects of mercury, lead and pesticides as potential risk factors in developing ALS. Epidemiologic and experimental evidence from animal models investigating the possible association between exposure to environmental toxicant and ALS disease has proven inconclusive. Nonetheless, there are indications that there may be causal links, and a need for more research.

Clarity about the nitric oxide (NO) concentrations existing physiologically is essential for developing a quantitative understanding of NO signalling, for performing experiments with NO that emulate reality, and for knowing whether or not NO concentrations become abnormal in disease states. A decade ago, a value of about 1 microM seemed reasonable based on early electrode measurements and a provisional estimate of the potency of NO for its guanylyl cyclase-coupled receptors, which mediate physiological NO signal transduction. Since then, numerous efforts to measure NO concentrations directly using electrodes in cells and tissues have yielded an irreconcilably large spread of values. In compensation, data from several alternative approaches have now converged to provide a more coherent picture. These approaches include the quantitative analysis of NO-activated guanylyl cyclase, computer modelling based on the type, activity and amount of NO synthase enzyme contained in cells, the use of novel biosensors to monitor NO release from single endothelial cells and neurones, and the use of guanylyl cyclase as an endogenous NO biosensor in tissue subjected to a variety of challenges. All these independent lines of evidence suggest the physiological NO concentration range to be 100 pM (or below) up to approximately 5 nM, orders of magnitude lower than was once thought.
Specific guanine-rich sequence motifs in the human genome have considerable potential to form four-stranded structures known as G-quadruplexes or G4 DNA. The enrichment of these motifs in key chromosomal regions has suggested a functional role for the G-quadruplex structure in genomic regulation. In this work, we have examined the spectrum of nucleotide substitutions in G4 motifs, and related this spectrum to G4 prevalence. Data collected from the large repository of human SNPs indicates that the core feature of G-quadruplex motifs, 5'-GGG-3', exhibits specific mutational patterns that preserve the potential for G4 formation. In particular, we find a genome-wide pattern in which sites that disrupt the guanine triplets are more conserved and less polymorphic than their neutral counterparts. This also holds when considering non-CpG sites only. However, the low level of polymorphisms in guanine tracts is not only confined to G4 motifs. A complete mapping of DNA three-mers at guanine polymorphisms indicated that short guanine tracts are the most under-represented sequence context at polymorphic sites. Furthermore, we provide evidence for a strand bias upstream of human genes. Here, a significantly lower rate of G4-disruptive SNPs on the non-template strand supports a higher relative influence of G4 formation on this strand during transcription.

Insulin resistance and central adiposity are strong risk indicators for type 2 diabetes and coronary heart disease. An important role for adipose tissue in the etiology and progression of these conditions has recently become more evident. A transcription factor, TFAP2B, has been shown to participate in the regulation of adipocyte metabolism, by facilitating glucose uptake and lipid accumulation, while simultaneously reducing insulin sensitivity, and recently a direct function for TFAP2B as an inhibitor of adiponectin expression was observed. In this study, we have investigated how insulin resistance, plasma adiponectin, and central adiposity, in a normal population of adolescents, are affected by genetic variability in TFAP2B. Our results show that both insulin sensitivity, as measured from levels of fasting glucose and insulin, and central adiposity, estimated by subscapular skinfold thickness, were significantly associated to genetic variability in TFAP2B. This association was restricted to males only, where carriers of the 4-repeat allele of intron 2 had higher insulin sensitivity and lower subscapular skinfold thickness. Levels of adiponectin did not show any association to the TFAP2B polymorphism, but was negatively correlated to central adiposity in females. These results suggest that reduction of TFAP2B expression could have a protective effect against future risk of complications associated with decreased insulin sensitivity and central adiposity, such as type 2 diabetes and coronary heart disease.
The effect of genistein, a protein tyrosine kinase and topoisomerase II inhibitor, on the DNA synthesis rate was studied in 21 human glioma specimens obtained at routine craniotomies for tumor resection. Ongoing DNA synthesis rate was determined by using a method based on the generation of tissue mini-units immediately after tumor resection and short incubation time (0-120 min) with [methyl-3H]-thymidine. A 9-77% inhibition of DNA synthesis rate by 100 microM genistein was observed in 18/21 of the glioma specimens. In these cases, the average percentage of inhibition was 55+/-20% (mean+/-SD, P&lt;0.0001, Student's t-test) and the inhibitory effect was &gt;50% in 12/18 of the cases. In 3 cases genistein increased the DNA synthesis rate. The inhibitory effect of genistein had a short-time onset and was concentration-dependent. Additional experiments in 4 cases showed that herbimycin A had no effect on DNA synthesis rate while etoposide inhibited similarly to that of genistein. Our results suggest that the effect of genistein on DNA synthesis rate in gliomas is independent of protein kinase inhibition and probably mediated by topoisomerase II inhibition. In the RG2 model, 50 microM genistein inhibited ongoing DNA synthesis in glioma cells with little or no effect in normal tissue. The data also encourage further investigations on the therapeutic potential of genistein for gliomas.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a nervous-system-seeking extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma whose incidence has increased in both immunocompromised and immunocompetent patients. Corticosteroids are used for symptomatic management but can interfere with pathological diagnosis. The well-established treatments such as radiotherapy, chemotherapy or a combination of both remain the mainstays. Traditionally, the most important role for surgery is to obtain and sample adequate tissue to confirm a diagnosis with stereotactic biopsy. Though no benefit could be demonstrated for debulking surgery, a subset of patients with large space occupying lesions which could be well circumscribed and surgically accessible may benefit from tumor resection. Moreover, surgical procedures to carry out interstitial chemotherapy and/or brachytherapy with or without tumor resection hold promise. Complications such as hydrocephalus could be managed by ventriculoperitoneal shunting. Further application of surgical procedures in the treatment of PCNSL is recommended with caution and strict patient selection criteria, and should be used in combination with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy.



Cytotoxic Necrotizing Factor 1 (CNF1) is a protein toxin from Escherichia coli that constitutively activates the Rho, Rac and Cdc42 GTPases. These regulatory proteins oscillate between a cytosolic GDP-bound inactive form and a membrane-linked GTP-bound active form, orchestrating the actin cytoskeleton assembly and dynamics. We herein describe, for the first time, the ability of CNF1 to potently counteract the formalin-induced inflammatory pain in mice. The analgesic response due to CNF1 requires both the sustained activation of the Rac GTPase, with consequent cerebral actin cytoskeleton remodeling, and the up-regulation of the mu-opioid receptors (MORs), the most important receptors controlling pain perception. The crucial role of Rac is proved by the lack of analgesic activity in mice challenged with a recombinant CNF1, in which the enzymatic activity was abolished by substituting serine with cysteine at position 866. The importance of MORs is proved by the inability of CNF1 to induce any analgesic effect in MORs knockout mice and by the ability of naloxone to antagonize the analgesic effects. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the analgesic effect in mice occurs after both peripheral and central administration of CNF1. Hence, taken altogether, our findings provide new insights into the comprehension of intracellular mechanisms involved in pain modulation, and indicate this bacterial protein toxin as a novel tool in the field of pain control. Conceivably, this might pave the way for new therapeutic strategies.


Male sex is a well-established risk factor for poor neurodevelopmental outcome after premature birth. The mechanisms behind this sex-related difference are unknown. The damage associated with prematurity can be mimicked in rodents by prolonged exposure to sublethal postnatal hypoxia. This chronic hypoxia leads to anatomical changes in mice that strongly resemble the loss of volume, decreased myelination, and ventriculomegaly seen in preterm newborns. However, no sex differences have been previously noted in this rodent model. We hypothesized that sex comparisons in hypoxic mice would show sex-related differences in brain volume and white matter loss in response to the same degree of hypoxic insult. Mice were placed in chronic sublethal hypoxia from postnatal day 3-11. Cortical, hippocampal, and cerebellar volumes and myelination indices were measured. We found that the male hippocampus, normally larger than the female, undergoes a greater volume loss compared with females (p &lt; 0.05). Myelination, generally greater in males, was significantly disrupted by hypoxia in neonatal male forebrain. These results support the use of this rodent model to investigate the basis of sex-related susceptibility to brain damage and develop new sex-based neuroprotective strategies.
Recent progress in functional neuroimaging research has provided the opportunity to probe at the brain's intrinsic functional architecture. Synchronized spontaneous neuronal activity is present in the form of resting-state networks in the brain even in the absence of external stimuli. The objective of this study was to investigate the presence of resting-state networks in the unsedated infant brain born at full term. Using functional MRI, we investigated spontaneous low-frequency signal fluctuations in 19 healthy full-term infants. Resting-state functional MRI data acquired during natural sleep was analyzed using independent component analysis. We found five resting-state networks in the unsedated infant brain born at full term, encompassing sensory cortices, parietal and temporal areas, and the prefrontal cortex. In addition, we found evidence for a resting-state network that enclosed the bilateral basal ganglia.
KCNE1 encodes the beta-subunit of the slow component of the delayed rectifier K(+) current. The Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is characterized by sensorineural deafness, prolonged QT intervals, and ventricular arrhythmogenicity. Loss-of-function mutations in KCNE1 are implicated in the JLN2 subtype. We recorded left ventricular epicardial and endocardial monophasic action potentials (MAPs) in intact, Langendorff-perfused mouse hearts. KCNE1 (-/-) but not wild-type (WT) hearts showed not only triggered activity and spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (VT), but also VT provoked by programmed electrical stimulation. The presence or absence of VT was related to the following set of criteria for re-entrant excitation for the first time in KCNE1 (-/-) hearts: Quantification of APD(90), the MAP duration at 90% repolarization, demonstrated alterations in (1) the difference, APD(90), between endocardial and epicardial APD(90) and (2) critical intervals for local re-excitation, given by differences between APD(90) and ventricular effective refractory period, reflecting spatial re-entrant substrate. Temporal re-entrant substrate was reflected in (3) increased APD(90) alternans, through a range of pacing rates, and (4) steeper epicardial and endocardial APD(90) restitution curves determined with a dynamic pacing protocol. (5) Nicorandil (20 microM) rescued spontaneous and provoked arrhythmogenic phenomena in KCNE1 (-/-) hearts. WTs remained nonarrhythmogenic. Nicorandil correspondingly restored parameters representing re-entrant criteria in KCNE1 (-/-) hearts toward values found in untreated WTs. It shifted such values in WT hearts in similar directions. Together, these findings directly implicate triggered electrical activity and spatial and temporal re-entrant mechanisms in the arrhythmogenesis observed in KCNE1 (-/-) hearts.

Adaptive motivated behaviors are at the core of a successful life. Conversely, perturbed motivated behaviors are the hallmark of psychiatric disorders. Based on the notion that most psychopathology is developmental in nature, understanding the neural mechanisms that control motivated behavior across development and in psychopathology is a critical step for preventing and treating psychiatric diseases. This review focuses on adolescence, which is the critical developmental period that determines the successful passage into adulthood. We first present a heuristic neural systems model of motivated behavior (triadic model) that integrates neuroscience theories and the emerging body of functional neuroimaging work on the neurodevelopment of motivated behavior. As a key feature of adolescence, social reorientation is particularly emphasized through the presentation of a parallel model of social integration processing network. Although not yet integrated in the triadic model, pubertal changes and their possible contribution to adolescent motivated behavior are reviewed. Similarly, given its central role in motivated actions, the dopamine system is discussed from the perspective of animal studies dedicated to changes of this system across adolescence. This review reveals vast gaps in knowledge about the neurobiology of motivated behavior in normally developing individuals, which makes the translation to psychopathology only tentative. However, it provides clear directions for future research.
Following stroke or traumatic damage, neuronal death via both necrosis and apoptosis causes loss of functions including memory, sensory perception and motor skills. Since necrosis has the nature to expand, while apoptosis stops the cell death cascade in the brain, necrosis is considered to be a promising target for rapid treatment for stroke. Pure neuronal necrosis occurs when cortical neurons are cultured under serum-free and low-density conditions. Prothymosin alpha (ProTalpha) isolated from conditioned medium after serum-free culture was found to prevent necrosis by recovering the energy crisis due to endocytosed glucose transporters. At a later time point under the same starvation conditions, ProTalpha causes apoptosis, which in turn seems to inhibit the rapidly occurring necrosis by cleaving poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, a major machinery involved in ATP consumption. Indeed, ProTalpha administered via systemic routes markedly inhibits the histological and functional damage induced by cerebral and retinal ischemia. Although ProTalpha also causes a cell death mode switch from necrosis to apoptosis in vivo, the induced apoptosis was found to be completely inhibited by endogenously occurring brain-derived neurotrophic factor or erythropoietin. Since forced downregulation of ProTalpha deteriorates the ischemic damage, it is evident that ProTalpha plays in vivo neuroprotective roles after ischemic events. Analyses in terms of the therapeutic time window and potency suggest that ProTalpha could be the prototypic compound to develop the medicine useful for treatment of stroke in clinics.
There has been substantial progress over the last several years in understanding aspects of the functional neuroanatomy of language. These advances are summarized in this review. It will be argued that recognizing speech sounds is carried out in the superior temporal lobe bilaterally, that the superior temporal sulcus bilaterally is involved in phonological-level aspects of this process, that the frontal/motor system is not central to speech recognition although it may modulate auditory perception of speech, that conceptual access mechanisms are likely located in the lateral posterior temporal lobe (middle and inferior temporal gyri), that speech production involves sensory-related systems in the posterior superior temporal lobe in the left hemisphere, that the interface between perceptual and motor systems is supported by a sensory-motor circuit for vocal tract actions (not dedicated to speech) that is very similar to sensory-motor circuits found in primate parietal lobe, that verbal short-term memory can be understand as an emergent property of this sensory-motor circuit. These observations are understood within the context of a dual stream model of speech processing in which one pathway supports speech comprehension and the other supports sensory-motor integration. Additional topics of discussion include the functional organization of the planum temporale for spatial hearing and speech-related sensory-motor processes, the anatomical and functional basis of a form of acquired language disorder, conduction aphasia, the neural basis of vocabulary development, and sentence-level/grammatical processing.
We provide an analytical expression for the mean frequency shift in phase oscillators as a function of the standard deviation, sigma and the autocorrelation time, tau of small random perturbations. We show that the frequency shift is negative and proportional to sigma;{2} . Its absolute value increases monotonically with tau , approaching an asymptote determined by the L2 -norm of the phase-response curve. We validate our theoretical predictions with computer simulations and discuss their implications for the design of electronic oscillators and for the encoding of information in biological neural networks.
Stochastic integrate-and-fire (IF) neuron models have found widespread applications in computational neuroscience. Here we present results on the white-noise-driven perfect, leaky, and quadratic IF models, focusing on the spectral statistics (power spectra, cross spectra, and coherence functions) in different dynamical regimes (noise-induced and tonic firing regimes with low or moderate noise). We make the models comparable by tuning parameters such that the mean value and the coefficient of variation of the interspike interval (ISI) match for all of them. We find that, under these conditions, the power spectrum under white-noise stimulation is often very similar while the response characteristics, described by the cross spectrum between a fraction of the input noise and the output spike train, can differ drastically. We also investigate how the spike trains of two neurons of the same kind (e.g., two leaky IF neurons) correlate if they share a common noise input. We show that, depending on the dynamical regime, either two quadratic IF models or two leaky IFs are more strongly correlated. Our results suggest that, when choosing among simple IF models for network simulations, the details of the model have a strong effect on correlation and regularity of the output.
Rhodiola rosea (roseroot) extract is a commercially successful product, primarily used to reduce the effect of fatigue on physical and mental performance. In this perspective we present our investigation of the most recent studies performed on human subjects. With a focus on the statistical methods we found considerable shortcomings in all but one of the studies that claim significant improvement from roseroot extract. Overall, the study designs have not been well explained. Experimental results have been confused and appear to be in some cases incorrect. Some of the conclusions are based on selected results and contradicting data have not been adequately taken into account. We point to other studies of higher quality performed on roseroot, several that found no significant effect and one that did. We conclude that the currently available evidence for the claimed effects is insufficient and that the effect of Rhodiola rosea is in need of further investigation before therapeutic claims can be made.
Various types of neural-based signals, such as EEG, local field potentials and intracellular synaptic potentials, integrate multiple sources of activity distributed across large assemblies. They have in common a power-law frequency-scaling structure at high frequencies, but it is still unclear whether this scaling property is dominated by intrinsic neuronal properties or by network activity. The latter case is particularly interesting because if frequency-scaling reflects the network state it could be used to characterize the functional impact of the connectivity. In intracellularly recorded neurons of cat primary visual cortex in vivo, the power spectral density of V(m) activity displays a power-law structure at high frequencies with a fractional scaling exponent. We show that this exponent is not constant, but depends on the visual statistics used to drive the network. To investigate the determinants of this frequency-scaling, we considered a generic recurrent model of cortex receiving a retinotopically organized external input. Similarly to the in vivo case, our in computo simulations show that the scaling exponent reflects the correlation level imposed in the input. This systematic dependence was also replicated at the single cell level, by controlling independently, in a parametric way, the strength and the temporal decay of the pairwise correlation between presynaptic inputs. This last model was implemented in vitro by imposing the correlation control in artificial presynaptic spike trains through dynamic-clamp techniques. These in vitro manipulations induced a modulation of the scaling exponent, similar to that observed in vivo and predicted in computo. We conclude that the frequency-scaling exponent of the V(m) reflects stimulus-driven correlations in the cortical network activity. Therefore, we propose that the scaling exponent could be used to read-out the &quot;effective&quot; connectivity responsible for the dynamical signature of the population signals measured at different integration levels, from Vm to LFP, EEG and fMRI.
The visual system must learn to infer the presence of objects and features in the world from the images it encounters, and as such it must, either implicitly or explicitly, model the way these elements interact to create the image. Do the response properties of cells in the mammalian visual system reflect this constraint? To address this question, we constructed a probabilistic model in which the identity and attributes of simple visual elements were represented explicitly and learnt the parameters of this model from unparsed, natural video sequences. After learning, the behaviour and grouping of variables in the probabilistic model corresponded closely to functional and anatomical properties of simple and complex cells in the primary visual cortex (V1). In particular, feature identity variables were activated in a way that resembled the activity of complex cells, while feature attribute variables responded much like simple cells. Furthermore, the grouping of the attributes within the model closely parallelled the reported anatomical grouping of simple cells in cat V1. Thus, this generative model makes explicit an interpretation of complex and simple cells as elements in the segmentation of a visual scene into basic independent features, along with a parametrisation of their moment-by-moment appearances. We speculate that such a segmentation may form the initial stage of a hierarchical system that progressively separates the identity and appearance of more articulated visual elements, culminating in view-invariant object recognition.


Eye-opening represents a turning point in the function of the visual cortex. Before eye-opening, the visual cortex is largely devoid of sensory inputs and neuronal activities are generated intrinsically. After eye-opening, the cortex starts to integrate visual information. Here we used in vivo two-photon calcium imaging to explore the developmental changes of the mouse visual cortex by analyzing the ongoing spontaneous activity. We found that before eye-opening, the activity of layer 2/3 neurons consists predominantly of slow wave oscillations. These waves were first detected at postnatal day 8 (P8). Their initial very low frequency (0.01 Hz) gradually increased during development to approximately 0.5 Hz in adults. Before eye-opening, a large fraction of neurons (&gt;75%) was active during each wave. One day after eye-opening, this dense mode of recruitment changed to a sparse mode with only 36% of active neurons per wave. This was followed by a progressive decrease during the following weeks, reaching 12% of active neurons per wave in adults. The possible role of visual experience for this process of sparsification was investigated by analyzing dark-reared mice. We found that sparsification also occurred in these mice, but that the switch from a dense to a sparse activity pattern was delayed by 3-4 days as compared with normally-reared mice. These results reveal a modulatory contribution of visual experience during the first days after eye-opening, but an overall dominating role of intrinsic factors. We propose that the transformation in network activity from dense to sparse is a prerequisite for the changed cortical function at eye-opening.
A clear demonstration of the role of melatonin and its receptors in specific retinal functions is lacking. The present study investigated the distribution of MT1 receptors within the retina, and the scotopic and photopic electroretinograms (ERG) and retinal morphology in wild-type (WT) and MT1 receptor-deficient mice. MT1 receptor transcripts were localized in photoreceptor cells and in some inner retinal neurons. A diurnal rhythm in the dark-adapted ERG responses was observed in WT mice, with higher a- and b-wave amplitudes at night, but this rhythm was absent in mice lacking MT1 receptors. Injection of melatonin during the day decreased the scotopic response threshold and the amplitude of the a- and b-waves in the WT mice, but not in the MT1(-/-) mice. The effects of MT1 receptor deficiency on retinal morphology was investigated at three different ages (3, 12, and 18 months). No differences between MT1(-/-) and WT mice were observed at 3 months of age, whereas at 12 months MT1(-/-) mice have a significant reduction in the number of photoreceptor nuclei in the outer nuclear layer compared with WT controls. No differences were observed in the number of cells in inner nuclear layer or in ganglion cells at 12 months of age. At 18 months, the loss of photoreceptor nuclei in the outer nuclear layer was further accentuated and the number of ganglion cells was also significantly lower than that of controls. These data demonstrate the functional significance of melatonin and MT1 receptors in the mammalian retina and create the basis for future studies on the therapeutic use of melatonin in retinal degeneration.
Gliotransmission, the release of molecules from astrocytes, regulates neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission in situ. Whether this process affects neuronal network activity in vivo is not known. Using a combination of astrocyte-specific molecular genetics, with in vivo electrophysiology and pharmacology, we determined that gliotransmission modulates cortical slow oscillations, a rhythm characterizing nonrapid eye movement sleep. Inhibition of gliotransmission by the expression of a dominant negative SNARE domain in astrocytes affected cortical slow oscillations, reducing the duration of neuronal depolarizations and causing prolonged hyperpolarizations. These network effects result from the astrocytic modulation of intracortical synaptic transmission at two sites: a hypofunction of postsynaptic NMDA receptors, and by reducing extracellular adenosine, a loss of tonic A1 receptor-mediated inhibition. These results demonstrate that rhythmic brain activity is generated by the coordinated action of the neuronal and glial networks.
Gap junction (GJ) channels assembled from connexin (Cx) proteins provide a structural basis for direct electrical and metabolic cell-cell communication. By combining fluorescence imaging and dual whole-cell voltage clamp methods, we demonstrate that in response to transjunctional voltage (Vj) Cx43/Cx45 heterotypic GJs exhibit both Vj-gating and dye transfer asymmetries. The later is affected by ionophoresis of charged fluorescent dyes and voltage-dependent gating. We demonstrate that small differences in resting (holding) potentials of communicating cells can fully block (at relative negativity on Cx45 side) or enhance (at relative positivity on Cx45 side) dye transfer. Similarly, series of high frequency Vj pulses resembling bursts of action potentials (APs) can fully block or increase the transjunctional flux (Jj) of dye depending on whether pulses are generated in the cell expressing Cx43 or Cx45, respectively. Asymmetry of Jj-Vj dependence is enhanced or reduced when ionophoresis and Vj-gating act synergistically or antagonistically, whereas single channel permeability (Pgamma) remains unaffected. This modulation of intercellular signaling by Vj can play a crucial role in many aspects of intercellular communication in the adult, in embryonic development, and in tissue regeneration.
Oscillatory brain activities have been traditionally studied in the context of how oscillations at a single frequency recorded from a single area could reveal functional insights. Recent advances in methodology used in signal analysis have revealed that cross-frequency coupling, within or between functional related areas, is more informative in determining the possible roles played by brain oscillations. In this review, we begin by describing the cellular basis of oscillatory field potentials and its theorized as well as demonstrated role in brain function. The recent development of mathematical tools that allow the investigation of cross-frequency and cross-area oscillation coupling will be presented and discussed in the context of recent advances in oscillation research based on animal data. Particularly, some pitfalls and caveats of methods currently available are discussed. Data generated from the application of examined techniques are integrated back into the theoretical framework regarding the functional role of brain oscillations. We suggest that the coupling of oscillatory activities at different frequencies between brain regions is crucial for understanding the brain from a functional ensemble perspective. Effort should be directed to elucidate how cross-frequency and area coupling are modulated and controlled. To achieve this, only the correct application of analytical tools may shed light on the intricacies of information representation, generation, binding, encoding, storage and retrieval in the brain.
A key objective of neuroscience research is to understand the processes leading to mature neural circuitries in the central nervous system (CNS) that enable the control of different behaviours. During development, network-constitutive neurons undergo dramatic rearrangements, involving their intrinsic properties, such as the blend of ion channels governing their firing activity, and their synaptic interactions. The spinal cord is no exception to this rule; in fact, in the ventral horn the maturation of motor networks into functional circuits is a complex process where several mechanisms cooperate to achieve the development of motor control. Elucidating such a process is crucial in identifying neurons more vulnerable to degenerative or traumatic diseases or in developing new strategies aimed at rebuilding damaged tissue. The focus of this review is on recent advances in understanding the spatio-temporal expression of the glycinergic/GABAergic system and on the contribution of this system to early network function and to motor pattern transformation along with spinal maturation. During antenatal development, the operation of mammalian spinal networks strongly depends on the activity of glycinergic/GABAergic neurons, whose action is often excitatory until shortly before birth when locomotor networks acquire the ability to generate alternating motor commands between flexor and extensor motor neurons. At this late stage of prenatal development, GABA-mediated excitation is replaced by synaptic inhibition mediated by glycine and/or GABA. At this stage of spinal maturation, the large majority of GABAergic neurons are located in the dorsal horn. We propose that elucidating the role of inhibitory systems in development will improve our knowledge on the processes regulating spinal cord maturation.
Relapse to old, unhealthy eating habits is a major problem in human dietary treatments. The mechanisms underlying this relapse are unknown. Surprisingly, until recently this clinical problem has not been systematically studied in animal models. Here, we review results from recent studies in which a reinstatement model (commonly used to study relapse to abused drugs) was employed to characterize the effect of pharmacological agents on relapse to food seeking induced by either food priming (non-contingent exposure to small amounts of food), cues previously associated with food, or injections of the pharmacological stressor yohimbine. We also address methodological issues related to the use of the reinstatement model to study relapse to food seeking, similarities and differences in mechanisms underlying reinstatement of food seeking versus drug seeking, and the degree to which the reinstatement procedure provides a suitable model for studying relapse in humans. We conclude by discussing implications for medication development and future research. We offer three tentative conclusions: (1)The neuronal mechanisms of food-priming- and cue-induced reinstatement are likely different from those of reinstatement induced by the pharmacological stressor yohimbine. (2)The neuronal mechanisms of reinstatement of food seeking are possibly different from those of ongoing food-reinforced operant responding. (3)The neuronal mechanisms underlying reinstatement of food seeking overlap to some degree with those of reinstatement of drug seeking.
Parkin is an ubiquitin-protein ligase (E3), mutations of which cause juvenile onset - autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease, and result in reduced enzymic activity. In contrast, increased levels are protective against mitochondrial dysfunction and neurodegeneration, the mechanism of which is largely unknown. In this study, 2-DE and MS proteomic techniques were utilised to investigate the effects of increased Parkin levels on protein expression in whole cell lysates using in an inducible Parkin expression system in HEK293 cells, and also to isolate potential interactants of Parkin using tandem affinity purification and MS. Nine proteins were significantly differentially expressed (+/-2-fold change; p&lt;0.05) using 2-DE analysis. MS revealed the identity of these proteins to be ACAT2, HNRNPK, HSPD1, PGK1, PRDX6, VCL, VIM, TPI1, and IMPDH2. The first seven of these were reduced in expression. Western blot analysis confirmed the reduction in one of these proteins (HNRNPK), and that its levels were dependent on 26S proteasomal activity. Tandem affinity purification/MS revealed 14 potential interactants of Parkin; CKB, DBT, HSPD1, HSPA9, LRPPRC, NDUFS2, PRDX6, SLC25A5, TPI1, UCHL1, UQCRC1, VCL, YWHAZ, YWHAE. Nine of these are directly involved in mitochondrial energy metabolism and glycolysis; four were also identified in the 2-DE study (HSP60, PRDX6, TPI1, and VCL). This study provides further evidence for a role for Parkin in regulating mitochondrial activity within cells.
This article presents the current evidence base for pharmacotherapy of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and an update on the phenomenology of GAD and its association with other psychiatric and somatic conditions. It discusses nosological issues and suggests ways to improve recognition, treatment, and care for patients who have GAD.

Recognition of the broad consequences of adolescent substance abuse has led to increased emphasis on balancing traditional measures of treatment effectiveness, such as frequency of substance use, with measures of patient functioning and quality of life (QOL). This study evaluated the longitudinal association between frequency of use and QOL among adolescent substance abusers receiving a brief outpatient intervention. Participants were 106 adolescents, aged 13 to 21 years, who met criteria for substance abuse or dependence and completed 4 assessments over a 12 month period. Results of a parallel-process latent growth curve model indicated a moderate longitudinal association, such that reduced frequency of use was associated with QOL improvement. Elaboration of the temporal ordering of this association via a cross-lagged panel model revealed that frequency of substance use predicted subsequent QOL, but that QOL did not predict subsequent frequency of use. Implications pertaining to the assessment of comprehensive outcomes and the setting of treatment expectations are discussed.
Cognitive capacity is believed to decline with age, but it is not known whether this decline extends to tasks involving social cognition. In the current study, social neuroscience methodologies were used to examine the effects of age-related cognitive decline on older adults' abilities to engage regulatory mechanisms (which are typically impaired by normal aging) to inhibit negative reactions to stigmatized individuals. Older and young adults were presented with images of stigmatized individuals (e.g., individuals with amputations, substance abusers) and of normal controls while they underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging. All participants were also given a battery of tests to assess their executive function capacity. Young adults showed more activity in areas associated with empathy (i.e., medial prefrontal cortex) than did older adults when viewing stigmatized faces. By contrast, older adults with relatively preserved levels of executive function had heightened activity in areas previously implicated in emotion regulation (i.e., lateral prefrontal cortex) as compared to other groups. These results suggest that although cognitive decline may interfere with older adults' attitudes toward stigmatized individuals, older adults with relatively preserved cognitive function may utilize different strategies to compensate for these deficits.
Cognitive neuroscience continues to build meaningful connections between affective behavior and human brain function. Within the biological sciences, a similar renaissance has taken place, focusing on the role of sleep in various neurocognitive processes and, most recently, on the interaction between sleep and emotional regulation. This review surveys an array of diverse findings across basic and clinical research domains, resulting in a convergent view of sleep-dependent emotional brain processing. On the basis of the unique neurobiology of sleep, the authors outline a model describing the overnight modulation of affective neural systems and the (re)processing of recent emotional experiences, both of which appear to redress the appropriate next-day reactivity of limbic and associated autonomic networks. Furthermore, a rapid eye movement (REM) sleep hypothesis of emotional-memory processing is proposed, the implications of which may provide brain-based insights into the association between sleep abnormalities and the initiation and maintenance of mood disturbances.

Autobiographical memory is constituted by different representations including general knowledge about one's past (semantic component) and specific personal events (episodic component). Some old memories can remain very vivid because they are particularly important for the subject's identity. The aim of this paper is, in the first part, to present a review of the properties of these memories, called self-defining memories, which present episodic characteristics and are closely related to personal semantics and subject's identity model. In the second part, we analyse the results of a preliminary study designed to assess the effect of age on self-defining memories compared to episodic and semantic memories. The results show that the elderly subjects' performance is impaired during the retrieval of episodic memories, while no difference was found between young and older group for retrieving semantic and self-defining memories. However, self-defining memories were predominantly constituted of episodic characteristics in the two age groups. In spite of their episodic nature, their close relationship to the subject's identity model enables to maintain an efficient access to most specific details of memories in normal aging. These results could contribute to improve autobiographical memory rehabilitation in old patients with depression and Alzheimer's disease who suffer from overgeneralization of memories.
For large numbers of targets, path planning is a complex and computationally expensive task. Humans, however, usually solve such tasks quickly and efficiently. We present experiments studying human path planning performance and the cognitive processes and heuristics involved. Twenty-five places were arranged on a regular grid in a large room. Participants were repeatedly asked to solve traveling salesman problems (TSP), i.e., to find the shortest closed loop connecting a start location with multiple target locations. In Experiment 1, we tested whether humans employed the nearest neighbor (NN) strategy when solving the TSP. Results showed that subjects outperform the NN-strategy, suggesting that it is not sufficient to explain human route planning behavior. As a second possible strategy we tested a hierarchical planning heuristic in Experiment 2, demonstrating that participants first plan a coarse route on the region level that is refined during navigation. To test for the relevance of spatial working memory (SWM) and spatial long-term memory (LTM) for planning performance and the planning heuristics applied, we varied the memory demands between conditions in Experiment 2. In one condition the target locations were directly marked, such that no memory was required; a second condition required participants to memorize the target locations during path planning (SWM); in a third condition, additionally, the locations of targets had to retrieved from LTM (SWM and LTM). Results showed that navigation performance decreased with increasing memory demands while the dependence on the hierarchical planning heuristic increased.
Mental image generation is a complex process mediated by dynamically interrelated components, e.g. image generation and image enrichment of details. This study investigated the cognitive and neural correlates of sequential image generation. An event-related fMRI experiment was carried out in which general and specific images had to be generated sequentially in two different positions. Participants had to generate either a general image first and then a specific one or a specific image first and then a general one, in response to the same word-stimulus. Generation times showed that specific images took shorter to be produced if they had been preceded by the generation of a general image. The fMRI results showed that position of generation and type of image was associated with different patterns of neurofunctional change. When an image was generated as first, areas of activation were found in the parahippocampal, fusiform and occipital regions. These are areas associated with memory retrieval and visual processing. When an image was generated as second, significant activations were found in superior temporal and precuneus areas, brain structures that are involved in the storage of visual memory for object shapes and imagery, respectively. The generation of a general image was supported by frontal areas and by the precuneus. The generation of a specific image involved frontal and thalamic areas (structures associated with visual processing of details) and the posterior cingulate cortex. When shifting from a specific image to a general one, a higher level of activity was found in the middle frontal gyrus involved in global visuo-spatial processing, suggesting that the generation of specific images required the retrieval of an object's global shape. Altogether, these data suggest that the sequential generation of different types of image is associated with discrete processes but also shares common cognitive and neural components.

The secretion of adrenal stress hormones in response to acute stress is known to affect learning and memory, particularly for emotionally arousing memory material. Here, we investigated whether stress-induced modulation of learning and memory performance depends on (i) the conceptual relatedness between the material to be learned/remembered and the stressor and (ii) the timing of stress exposure versus learning phase. Participants learned stressor-related and stressor-unrelated words of varying arousal 1h prior to, immediately following, or 2h after exposure to the Trier Social Stress Test (all groups n=16). Twenty-four hours later, delayed free recall was assessed. Cortisol and alpha-amylase were sampled to evaluate if concurrent stress-induced raised glucocorticoid levels and high adrenergic activity are implicated in modulating learning performance. Our results demonstrate that immediate and delayed post-stress learning selectively enhanced the learning and delayed recall of stressor-related high arousing words. This enhancing effect was strongly associated with concurrent stress-induced cortisol and sympathetic activity. Our data suggest that when to-be-learned information is conceptually related to a stressor and considered important (i.e., arousing) by the individual, learning under stressful circumstances results in improved memorability afterwards.



Studies involving patients with personality disorders (PD) have not focused on improvement of core aspects of the PD. This paper examines changes in quality of object relations, interpersonal problems, psychological mindedness, and personality traits in a sample of 156 patients with DSM-IV PD diagnoses being randomized to either manualized or non manualized dynamic psychotherapy. Effect sizes adjusted for symptomatic change and reliable change indices were calculated. We found that both treatments were equally effective at reducing personality pathology. Only in neuroticism did the non manualized group do better during the follow-up period. The largest improvement was found in quality of object relations. For the remaining variables only small and clinically insignificant magnitudes of change were found.

Athymic mice, injected with A375 human melanoma cells, were treated daily with intraperitoneal injections of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). The tumour volume and animal weight were measured over the course of the experiment and the final tumour nodule weight was measured at the end of the experiment. Tumour volume decreased by nearly 50% by 7 weeks in treated mice. Weight loss in untreated animals was prevented by ATP. Histological examination of the excised tumour nodules showed necrosis in the ATP-treated tumours only. The presence of P2Y(1) and P2X(7) receptors, previously proposed as extracellular targets for melanoma treatment with ATP, were demonstrated in the excised specimens by immunohistochemistry. This paper provides further support for the use of ATP as a treatment for melanoma.
Two recent papers reveal that the soluble and secreted prostatic acid phosphatase, an enzyme that has long served as a diagnostic marker for prostate cancer, has a membrane-bound splice variant. This enzyme exhibits ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity, is widely distributed, and implicated in the formation of chronic pain. While prostatic acid phosphatase hydrolyzes phosphomonoesters other than 5'-nucleoside monophosphates these novel data suggest that, in addition to ecto-5'-nucleotidase and the alkaline phosphatases, prostatic acid phosphatase must be taken into account in future studies on extracellular adenosine production.


Since years, the concepts of drug abuse and drug dependence changed, due to new knowledge coming from the neurosciences. Specifically, the role of a brain structure called &quot;reward circuit&quot; was emphasized. Therefore, the diagnosis criteria for abuse and dependence on drugs are presently defined mostly from a behavioral point of view: both in animal models and in clinical situations, it was stressed the importance of drug-seeking behavior and of the loss of control of the consumption. The occurrence of a pharmacological dependence is in fact of concern for only some of addictive drugs. According to these new criteria, dependence on benzodiazepines or antidepressants is certainly not frequent, even if withdrawal manifestations can occur after a long-term exposition. Furthermore, it is important to keep in mind the risk for non-medical use of benzodiazepines in persons with illicit drug use.


The clinical and neuro-cognitive correlates of the P50 and N100 auditory evoked responses gating deficits in schizophrenia have thus far eluded identification. Based on our prior results, we hypothesized that, in addition to the P50, gating of the N100 is significantly decreased in schizophrenia and that this deficit correlates with the negative symptoms dimension of schizophrenia. Amplitudes and gating measures of the P50 and N100 were compared between stable out-patients (N=45) (mainly on atypical antipsychotics) with chronic schizophrenia and age- and gender-matched healthy controls (N=49) and the clinical correlates examined. All subjects underwent the paired-stimulus paradigm in 3 or 4 different days. Data from day one and the mean of all days (MOAD) were examined. P50 and N100 amplitudes and gating measures were correlated with PANSS and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test data. Utilizing day one data, no amplitude or gating measures were significantly different between the groups. Utilizing MOAD data, both P50 and N100 gating were significantly decreased in schizophrenia patients. The N100 gating deficit correlated with the negative-symptoms cluster and measures of frontal lobe dysfunction. The data suggest a correlation between N100 gating deficit and the negative-cognitive deficits dimensions of schizophrenia. Data also suggest that improving the signal to noise ratio (MOAD data) increases the sensitivity for detecting gating abnormalities and assessing their clinical correlates.

As the key neuron-to-neuron interface, the synapse is involved in learning and memory, including traumatic memories during times of stress. However, the signal transduction mechanisms by which stress mediates its lasting effects on synapse transmission and on memory are not fully understood. A key component of the stress response is the increased secretion of adrenal steroids. Adrenal steroids (e.g., cortisol) bind to genomic mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors (gMRs and gGRs) in the cytosol. In addition, they may act through membrane receptors (mMRs and mGRs), and signal transduction through these receptors may allow for rapid modulation of synaptic transmission as well as modulation of membrane ion currents. mMRs increase synaptic and neuronal excitability; mechanisms include the facilitation of glutamate release through extracellular signal-regulated kinase signal transduction. In contrast, mGRs decrease synaptic and neuronal excitability by reducing calcium currents through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and voltage-gated calcium channels by way of protein kinase A- and G protein-dependent mechanisms. This body of functional data complements anatomical evidence localizing GRs to the postsynaptic membrane. Finally, accumulating data also suggest the possibility that mMRs and mGRs may show an inverted U-shaped dose response, whereby glutamatergic synaptic transmission is increased by low doses of corticosterone acting at mMRs and decreased by higher doses acting at mGRs. Thus, synaptic transmission is regulated by mMRs and mGRs, and part of the stress signaling response is a direct and bidirectional modulation of the synapse itself by adrenal steroids.

Sleep disturbances are common in neurodegenerative diseases. Disturbed sleep can result in fatigue, irritability, morning headaches, impaired motor and cognitive skills, depression, and daytime somnolence. The major sleep complaints include insomnia, hypersomnia, parasomnia, excessive nocturnal motor activity, circadian sleep-wake rhythm disturbance, and respiratory dysrhythmia. The pathogenetic mechanisms of sleep disturbances may be secondary to direct structural alteration of the sleep-wake generating neurons or from several other indirect mechanisms. At the biochemical level, neurodegenerative diseases may be largely classified as tauopathies, alpha-synucleinopathies, and other diseases. Overnight polysomnography (PSG), Multiple Sleep Latency Test, Maintenance of Wakefulness Test, and actigraphy are some important diagnostic laboratory tests in the evaluation of sleep disturbances. Management of sleep disturbances is complex and is based primarily on the nature of the sleep disturbance. The clinical profiles, pathogenetic mechanisms, PSG findings, and management issues are discussed here with reference to some common neurodegenerative diseases.
The neurobiology of sleep and narcolepsy is reviewed. Non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep is generated by neurons in the preoptic region of the hypothalamus and adjacent basal forebrain. Lesions in these regions cause insomnia. Stimulation of these regions rapidly produces sleep onset. The key brain structure for generating REM sleep is the pons and adjacent portions of the midbrain. Damage to the pons and/or caudal midbrain can cause abnormalities in REM sleep. The persistent sleepiness of narcolepsy is a result of a loss of hypocretin function.


Individuals with Williams syndrome (WS), a genetically determined disorder, show relatively strong face-processing abilities despite poor visuospatial skills and depressed intellectual function. Interestingly, beginning early in childhood they also show an unusually high level of interest in face-to-face social interaction. We employed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate physiological responses in face-sensitive brain regions, including ventral occipito-temporal cortex and the amygdala, in this unique genetic disorder. Participants included 17 individuals with WS, 17 age- and gender-matched healthy adults (chronological age-matched controls, CA) and 17 typically developing 8- to 9-year-old children (developmental age controls, DA). While engaged in a face discrimination task, WS participants failed to recruit the amygdala, unlike both CA and DA controls. WS fMRI responses in ventral occipito-temporal cortex, however, were comparable to those of DA controls. Given the integral role of the amygdala in social behavior, the failure of WS participants to recruit this region during face processing may be a neural correlate of the abnormally high sociability that characterizes this disorder.
Pluripotent stem cells are basic cells with an indefinite self-renewal capacity and the potential to generate all the cell types of the three germinal layers. So far, the major source for pluripotent stem cells is the inner cell mass of the blastocysts: embryonic stem (ES) cells. Potential clinical application of ES cells is faced with many practical and ethical concerns. So, a major breakthrough was achieved in 2006, when it was shown that pluripotent stem cells could be obtained by transducing mouse embryonic and adult fibroblasts with a limited set of defined transcription factors. These reprogrammed cells, named induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, resembled ES cells in many of their characteristics. Since this initial study, iPS cell research has taken an incredible flight, and to date iPS cells have been generated from cells from several species using different sets of reprogramming factors. Given the potential to generate patient-specific cell populations without the need for human embryonic cells, iPS cell technology has been received with great excitement by research and medical communities. However, many questions regarding the actual molecular process of induced reprogramming remain unanswered and need to be addressed before iPS cells can go to the clinic. In this review, we start by summarizing recent advances in iPS cell research and inventory the hurdles that still need to be taken before safe clinical application. Our major aim, however, is to review the available data on the molecular processes underlying pluripotency reprogramming and present a two-stage switch model.
Olfactory mucosal (OM) tissue, a potential source of stem cells, is currently being assessed in the clinic as a candidate tissue for transplant-mediated repair of spinal cord injury. We examined the ability of embryonic rat OM tissue to generate stem cells using culture conditions known to promote neural stem cell proliferation. Primary spheres formed that proliferated and exhibited two main morphologies: (a) CNS neurosphere-like (OM-I) and (b) small, tight spheroid-like (OM-II). The OM-I spheres expressed the neural stem cell marker nestin but also markers of peripheral glia, neurons, and connective tissue. Further studies demonstrated the presence of multipotential mesenchymal-like stem cells within OM-I spheres that differentiated into bone, adipose, and smooth muscle cells. In contrast, the OM-II spheres contained mainly cytokeratin-expressing cells. Immunolabeling of rat olfactory tissue with Stro-1, CD90, and CD105 showed the presence of multipotent mesenchymal cells in the lamina propria, whereas cytokeratin was expressed by the epithelial cells of the olfactory epithelium. In addition, a comparable pattern of immunoreactivity was detected in human tissue using Stro-1 and cytokeratin, suggesting the presence of similar cells in this tissue. The identification of a nonepithelial multipotent cell in the OM may explain the varied reports on olfactory stem cell differentiation capacity in vitro and in vivo and illustrates the cellular complexity of this tissue as a potential source of stem cells for transplantation and translation to the clinic.
Although embryonic stem (ES) cells can generate dopamine (DA) neurons that are potentially useful as a cell replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD), associated ethical and practical concerns remain major stumbling blocks to their eventual use in humans. In this study, we examined human amniotic fluid stem (hAFS) cells derived from routine amniocenteses for their potential to give rise to DA neurons in vitro and following transplantation into the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat brain. We show that undifferentiated hAFS cells constitutively expressed mRNAs and proteins typical of stem cells but also cell derivatives of all three germ layers, including neural progenitors/neurons (nestin, beta-tubulin III, neurofilament). Additionally, these cells expressed mRNAs of an immature DA phenotype (Lmx1a, Pitx-3, Nurr1, Aldh1a1) but not the corresponding proteins. Importantly, treatment with DA differentiation factors using a variety of protocols did not further promote the development of fully differentiated DA neurons from hAFS cells. Thus, Lmx1a, Aldh1a1, AADC, TH, and DAT proteins were not detected in hAFS cells in culture or after transplantation into the PD rat brain. Moreover, by 3 weeks after implantation, there were no surviving AFS cells in the graft, likely as a result of an acute immunorejection response, as evidenced by the abundant presence of CD11+ macrophage/microglia and reactive GFAP+ astrocytes in the host brain. Taken together, these results suggest that further studies will be needed to improve differentiation procedures in culture and to prolong cell survival in vivo if hAFS cells are to be useful as replacement cells in PD.

The presence of behavioral control over a stressor can blunt many of the effects of the stressor. We have recently reported that uncontrollable stress (inescapable electric tailshock, IS) reduces later social exploration of a juvenile whereas controllable stress (escapable shock, ES) does not. Activation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is crucial to blunting the effects of IS on later escape behavior (learned helplessness). The goal of the current study was to test the role of the vmPFC in modulating the effects of stressor controllability on anxiety in the social exploration test. Thus, adult male rats were implanted with cannula guides for drug microinjection into the vmPFC. In Experiment 1, temporary inactivation of the vmPFC with the GABA(A) agonist muscimol before exposure to ES prevented the protective effects of stress control, leading to reduced social exploration. In Experiment 2, excitation of the vmPFC prior to IS with the GABA-activated Cl(( - )) channel antagonist picrotoxin mimicked the stress resistance produced by control and prevented IS-induced reduction in social exploration. These results are consistent with prior work and identify the vmPFC as a critical component of the neural circuitry mediating the effects of stressor control on later behaviors. The relationship between the vmPFC, dorsal raph nucleus, and other structures mediating stress-induced anxiety are discussed.
Understanding effects of estrogen on the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) may help to elucidate the increased prevalence of depression and post-traumatic stress disorder in women of ovarian cycling age. Estrogen replacement in ovariectomized (OVX) young rats amplifies the detrimental effects of stress on working memory (a PFC-mediated task), but the mechanisms by which this occurs have yet to be identified. In male rats, stimulation of norepinephrine alpha-2 adrenoceptors protects working memory from stress-induced impairments. However, this effect has not been studied in females, and has not been examined for sensitivity to estrogen. The current study asked whether OVX females with estrogen replacement (OVX+Est) and without replacement (OVX+Veh) responded differently to stimulation of alpha-2 adrenoceptors after administration of the benzodiazepine inverse agonist FG7142, a pharmacological stressor. The alpha-2 agonist, guanfacine, protected working memory from the impairing effects of FG7142 in OVX+Veh, but not in OVX+Est rats. Western Blot analysis for alpha-2 receptors was performed on PFC tissue from each group, but no changes in expression were found, indicating that the behavioral effects observed were likely not due to changes in receptor expression. These findings point to possible mechanisms by which estrogen may enhance the stress response, and hold implications for the gender discrepancy in the prevalence of stress-related mental illness.




The development of diagnostic criteria has enabled greater recognition of menstrual migraine as a highly prevalent and disabling condition meriting specific treatment. Although few therapeutic trials have yet been undertaken in accordance with the criteria, the results of those published to date confirm the efficacy of acute migraine drugs for symptomatic treatment. If this approach is insufficient, the predictability of attacks provides the opportunity for perimenstrual prophylaxis. Continuous contraceptive strategies provide an additional option for management, although clinical trial data are limited. Future approaches to treatment could explore the genomic and nongenomic actions of sex steroids.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a neurotoxicant which enters the brain and may cause permanent change. Thus, the properties of MeHg transport across cell membranes are a key factor in designing an appropriate model for MeHg neurotoxicity. This study uses cell cultures to examine the uptake and efflux mechanisms of methylmercury in C6 glioma, B35 neuroblastoma and rat brain endothelial (RBE4) cells. The cellular uptake and efflux of MeHg was investigated using (14)C-labeled MeHg. The uptake of MeHg-chloride was temperature-independent while the uptake of MeHg-L-cysteine was temperature-dependent in all the three cell types. This indicates that uptake of MeHg-chloride is due to passive diffusion and uptake of MeHg-L-cysteine is due to a protein carrier. Substrates of the amino acid transport system L inhibited uptake of MeHg-L-cysteine in C6 and RBE4 cells, but not B35 cells, indicating a role for system L in MeHg-uptake in the former two. Probenecid, Na(+)-free medium, MeHg and several L-amino acids did not alter the efflux of MeHg from C6 and RBE4 cells. The amino acids L-cysteine and cystine however, increased the efflux. Both cysteine and cystine are important in the generation of glutathione (GSH), suggesting the involvement of GSH in MeHg efflux. HgCl(2) at low concentrations (0.5 and 1.0 microM) decreased the MeHg efflux and at high concentrations (5.0 and 10.0 microM) increased the efflux. This inhibiting effect of HgCl(2) at low concentrations is possibly due to binding to GSH while the effect of high HgCl(2) concentrations is attributed to disrupted membrane integrity, as measured by Trypan blue. This study demonstrates differing transport mechanisms of MeHg in the cell lines C6, B35 and RBE4.
Domoic acid (DOM) is known to cause hippocampal neuronal damage and produces amnesic effects. We examined synaptic plasticity changes induced by DOM exposure in rat hippocampal CA1 region. Brief bath application of DOM to hippocampal slices produces a chemical form of long-term potentiation (LTP) of CA1 field synaptic potentials. The potentiation cannot be blocked by NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 but can be blocked by the calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor KN-62 or cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) inhibitor H-89. DOM-potentiated slices show decreased autophosphorylated CaMKII (p-Thr286), an effect that is also dependent on the activity of CaMKII and PKA. Increased phosphorylation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 (p-Ser831) was seen in DOM-potentiated slices. Therefore, aberrant regulation of CaMKII and GluR1 phosphorylation occurs after DOM application. In addition, tetanus-induced LTP as well as the increase of phosphorylation of CaMKII (p-Thr286) were reduced in DOM-potentiated slices. Compared with brief exposure, slices recovering from prolonged exposure did not show potentiation or altered levels of CaMKII (p-Thr286) or GluR (p-Ser831). However, decreased phosphorylation of GluR1 at Ser845 was seen. These results describe a new chemical form of LTP and uncover novel molecular changes induced by DOM. The observed impairment of tetanus LTP and misregulation of CaMKII and GluR1 phosphorylation may partially account for DOM neurotoxicity and underlie the molecular basis for DOM-induced memory deficit.
Although is clear that exposure to high dosage levels of some phthalates delays the onset of puberty in the male rat, it has been hypothesized that low levels of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) accelerate puberty by enhancing testicular androgen synthesis. The current study was designed to determine if the dose response to DEHP was nonmonotonic, as hypothesized. Pubertal administration of DEHP delayed the onset of puberty and reduced androgen-dependent tissue weights in both Long-Evans (LE) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) male rats 300 and 900 mg DEHP/kg/day. These effects were generally of greater magnitude in LE than SD rats. By contrast, alterations in testis histopathology (300 and 900 mg/kg/day) were more severe in SD than in LE rats. Taken together, these results suggest that DEHP may be acting on the pubertal male rat testis via two modes of action; one via the Leydig cells and the other via the Sertoli cells. Treatment with DEHP generally reduced serum testosterone and increased serum luteinizing hormone (LH) levels, demonstrating that the reduction in testosterone was due to the effect of DEHP on the testis and not via an inhibition of LH from hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Testosterone production ex vivo (with and without human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation) was consistently reduced in males at the time of puberty and shortly thereafter. DEHP treatment did not accelerate the age at puberty or enhance testosterone levels at 10 or 100 mg/kg/day in either LE or SD rats, as some have hypothesized. Taken together, these results do not provide any evidence of a nonmonotonic dose response to DEHP during puberty.
Microsaccades are the largest and fastest of the fixational eye movements, which are involuntary eye movements produced during attempted visual fixation. In recent years, the interaction between microsaccades, perception and cognition has become one of the most rapidly growing areas of study in visual neuroscience. The neurophysiological consequences of microsaccades have been the focus of less attention, however, as have the oculomotor mechanisms that generate and control microsaccades. Here we review the latest neurophysiological findings concerning microsaccades and discuss their relationships to perception and cognition. We also point out the current gaps in our understanding of the neurobiology of microsaccades and identify the most promising lines of enquiry.
Despite anecdotal evidence suggesting conscious states in a variety of non-human animals, no systematic neuroscientific investigation of animal consciousness has yet been undertaken. We set forth a framework for such an investigation that incorporates integration of data from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and behavioral studies, uses evidence from humans as a benchmark, and recognizes the critical role of explicit verbal report of conscious experiences in human studies. We illustrate our framework with reference to two subphyla: one relatively near to mammals - birds - and one quite far -cephalopod molluscs. Consistent with the possibility of conscious states, both subphyla exhibit complex behavior and possess sophisticated nervous systems. Their further investigation may reveal common phyletic conditions and neural substrates underlying the emergence of animal consciousness.
Schizophrenia (SZ) is primarily an adult psychiatric disorder in which disturbances caused by susceptibility genes and environmental insults during early neurodevelopment initiate neurophysiological changes over a long time course, culminating in the onset of full-blown disease nearly two decades later. Aberrant postnatal brain maturation is an essential mechanism underlying the disease. Currently, symptoms of SZ are treated with anti-psychotic medications that have variable efficacy and severe side effects. There has been much interest in the prodromal phase and the possibility of preventing SZ by interfering with the aberrant postnatal brain maturation associated with this disorder. Thus, it is crucial to understand the mechanisms that underlie the long-term progression to full disease manifestation to identify the best targets and approaches towards this goal. We believe that studies of certain SZ genetic susceptibility factors with neurodevelopmental implications will be key tools in this task. Accumulating evidence suggests that neuregulin-1 (NRG1) and disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) are probably functionally convergent and play key roles in brain development. We provide an update on the role of these emerging concepts in understanding the complex time course of SZ from early neurodevelopmental disturbances to later onset and suggest ways of testing these in the future.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder largely of idiopathic nature with the exceptions of rare familial forms, and is characterized by both motor and non-motor disturbances. Pathologically, most motor features are the result of a dramatic loss of ventral tier mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and thus dopamine content at their target sites. Although the exact etiology of the disease remains to be elucidated, it is thought to be multifactorial, with a critical role for environmental factors, such as pesticides, that may act on genetically predisposed individuals. Arising from consideration of the potential environmental triggers of PD, in vivo animal models of the disease utilizing these compounds are increasingly reported in the literature. Here, we review recent advances in the predominant models employing the insecticide Rotenone, the herbicide Paraquat and the fungicide Maneb, discuss their scientific merit and evaluate their relevance in the study of PD pathogenesis.
We trained subjects to identify either upright or inverted faces in a 10AFC task and measured performance subsequently in four conditions: same- and different-upright faces, and same- and different-inverted faces. Performance improved for both the upright-trained and the inverted-trained groups. The improvements were highly specific to the trained face exemplars, and largely specific to the trained face orientations. This pattern of results yielded an increase in the face-inversion effect after upright-training, and a decrease in the inversion effect after inverted-training, but only for the trained set of faces in both groups. A similar pattern of results was found for phase-scrambled faces in which the configural structure of faces had been removed: although there was no baseline inversion effect for the scrambled stimuli, inversion effects emerged after training. We consider the implications of this pattern of learning for current views on the face-inversion effect, and face-encoding more generally.
The functional characterization of the mu opioid receptor from the zebrafish (zfMOR) is reported here. After transfection in HEK-293 cell line, using both peptidergic and nonpeptidergic opioid ligands in the competition and saturation-binding experiments, in addition to the functional assays of (35)S-GTPgammaS-binding assays and intracellular 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) level determinations, we demonstrate that zfMOR exhibits a pharmacological profile similar to that of the mammalian MOR. Besides, the internalization process of zfMOR after opiate agonist treatment (morphine, DAMGO, etorphine) resembles the pattern observed for its mammalian counterpart. These similarities suggest that the zebrafish is a good model for the study of the opioid effects in development.
The modification of proteins by reversible phosphorylation is a key mechanism in the regulation of various physiological functions. Abnormal protein kinase or phosphatase activity can cause disease by altering the phosphorylation of critical proteins in normal cellular and disease processes. Alzheimer's disease (AD), typically occurring in the elderly, is an irreversible, progressive brain disorder characterized by memory loss and cognitive decline. Accumulating evidence suggests that protein kinase and phosphatase activity are altered in the brain tissue of AD patients. Tau is a highly recognized phosphoprotein that undergoes hyperphosphorylation to form neurofibrillary tangles, a neuropathlogical hallmark with amyloid plaques in AD brains. This study is a brief overview of the altered protein phosphorylation pathways found in AD. Understanding the molecular mechanisms by which the activities of protein kinases and phosphatases are altered as well as the phosphorylation events in AD can potentially reveal novel insights into the role aberrant phosphorylation plays in the pathogenesis of AD, providing support for protein phosphorylation as a potential treatment strategy for AD.

Parkinson's disease (PD) results in movement and sensory impairments that can be reduced by familiar music. At present, it is unclear whether the beneficial effects of music are limited to lessening the bradykinesia of whole body movement or whether beneficial effects also extend to skilled movements of PD subjects. This question was addressed in the present study in which control and PD subjects were given a skilled reaching task that was performed with and without accompanying preferred musical pieces. Eye movements and limb use were monitored with biomechanical measures and limb movements were additionally assessed using a previously described movement element scoring system. Preferred musical pieces did not lessen limb and hand movement impairments as assessed with either the biomechanical measures or movement element scoring. Nevertheless, the PD patients with more severe motor symptoms as assessed by Hoehn and Yahr (HY) scores displayed enhanced visual engagement of the target and this impairment was reduced during trials performed in association with accompanying preferred musical pieces. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that preferred musical pieces, although not generally beneficial in lessening skilled reaching impairments, may normalize the balance between visual and proprioceptive guidance of skilled reaching.


Opioid analgesics are the most widely used and effective pharmacological agents for the treatment of acute, postoperative and chronic pain. However, activation of opiate receptors leads to significant depression of respiratory frequency in a subpopulation of patients. Here we test the hypothesis that the AMPAKINE CX717 is effective for alleviating fentanyl-induced respiratory depression without interfering with analgesia. Ampakines are a relatively new class of compounds that are in Phase II clinical trials as potential treatments for cognitive disorders and the enhancement of memory and attentiveness. They function by allosterically binding to amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors and modulating the kinetics of channel closing, transmitter dissociation and desensitization. AMPA receptor mediated conductances play a central role in controlling respiratory rhythmogenesis and drive to motoneurons. Here, we demonstrate that CX717 counters fentanyl-induced respiratory depression without significantly altering analgesia and sedation, or noticeably affecting the animals' behavior. Collectively, the preclinical data demonstrate the significant potential for the use of ampakines in respiratory medicine.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a multigenic disorder caused by the loss of paternal expression of genes in the 15q11-q13 region. It is a complex and progressive disease. From birth, patients present breathing disorders (apnea, rhythm instability, hypoventilation and blunted response to changes in CO(2) or O(2)). Recent advances allowing early diagnosis permitted to prevent obesity of PWS patients and to alleviate some symptoms mainly by growth hormone therapy but there is no therapy to alleviate all symptoms and respiratory distress in particular. To further understand PWS several mutant mice, in which each candidate gene has been separately inactivated, have been developed and shown variable symptoms depending on the genes inactivated. Among them the Necdin deficiency appears to be responsible for breathing disorders. In Necdin deficient mice, respiratory defects resembling PWS have been shown in vivo and in vitro. These defects are central from origin and are correlated with biochemical and anatomical anomalies of the respiratory regulatory systems including serotonergic alterations.
Disorders of respiratory control are a prominent feature of Rett syndrome (RTT), a severely debilitating condition caused by mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2). RTT patients present with a complex respiratory phenotype that can include periods of hyperventilation, apnea, breath holds terminated by Valsalva maneuvers, forced and deep breathing and apneustic breathing, as well as abnormalities of heart rate control and cardiorespiratory integration. Recent studies of mouse models of RTT have begun to shed light on neurologic deficits that likely contribute to respiratory dysfunction including, in particular, defects in neurochemical signaling resulting from abnormal patterns of neurotransmitter and neuromodulator expression. The authors hypothesize that breathing dysregulation in RTT results from disturbances in mechanisms that modulate the respiratory rhythm, acting either alone or in combination with more subtle disturbances in rhythm and pattern generation. This article reviews the evidence underlying this hypothesis as well as recent efforts to translate our emerging understanding of neurochemical defects in mouse models of RTT into preclinical trials of potential treatments for respiratory dysfunction in this disease.
Extracellular recordings from single units in the brain, for example the neocortex, have proven feasible in moving, awake rats, but have not yet been possible in the spinal cord. Single-unit activity during locomotor-like activity in reduced preparations from adult cats and rats have provided valuable insights for the development of hypotheses about the organization of functional networks in the spinal cord. However, since reduced preparations could result in spurious conclusions, it is crucial to test these hypotheses in animals that are awake and behaving. Furthermore, unresolved issues such as how muscle force precision is achieved by motoneurons as well as how spinal neurons are spatio-temporally correlated are better to investigate in the conscious and behaving animal. We have therefore developed procedures to implant arrays of extracellular recording electrodes in the lumbar spinal cord of the adult rat for long-term studies. In addition, we implanted pairs of electromyographic electrodes in the hindlimbs for the purpose of monitoring locomotion. With our technique, we obtained stable long-term recordings of spinal units, even during locomotion. We suggest this as a novel method for investigating motor pattern-generating circuitry in the spinal cord.
The occurrence and histopathological characteristics of demyelination and neurodegeneration have been well described in different demyelinating mouse models. However, histopathological analysis is limiting in that it is unable to describe the functional consequences of demyelination and recovery after remyelination. Establishing the functional correlates of axon demyelination and remyelination is an important goal and can be used to measure axon function and develop neuroprotective therapies. This report describes a previously established, simple, easily applied method of electrophysiological measurement that can characterize white matter axonal dysfunction following demyelination and potential recovery after remyelination. It is designed to study in vitro stimulated compound action potentials in the corpus callosum of superfused brain slices at various time points and can be similarly used on white matter tracts in the optic nerve, spinal cord and cerebellum. Since behavioral testing can be performed prior to the brain slice electrophysiology, and the recorded slices can be post-fixed and subjected to histological analysis, correlates between behavior, axon function, and pathology can be determined. A temporal pattern of white matter functional deterioration and recovery can also be established to study mechanisms of demyelination-induced white matter injury and repair.
The design and testing of a new microelectrode array, the NCTU (National Chiao Tung University) probe, was presented. Evaluation results showed it has good biocompatibility, high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR: the root mean square of background noise to the average peak-to-peak amplitude of spikes) during chronic neural recordings, and high reusability for electrolytic lesions. The probe was a flexible, polyimide-based microelectrode array with a long shaft (14.9 mm in length) and 16 electrodes (5 microm-thick and 16 microm in radius); its performance in chronic in vivo recordings was examined in rodents. To improve the precision of implantation, a metallic, impact-resistant layer was sandwiched between the polyimide layers to strengthen the probe. The three-dimensional (3D) structure of electrodes fabricated by electroplating produced rough textures that increased the effective surface area. The in vitro impedance of electrodes on the NCTU probe was 2.4+/-0.52 MOmega at 1 kHz. In addition, post-surgical neural recordings of implanted NCTU probes were conducted for up to 40 days in awake, normally behaving rats. The electrodes on the NCTU probe functioned well and had a high SNR (range: 4-5) with reliable in vivo impedance (&lt;0.7 MOmega). The electrodes were also robust enough to functionally record events, even after the anodal current (30 microA, 10s) was repeatedly applied for 60 times. With good biocompatibility, high and stable SNR for chronic recording, and high tolerance for electrolytic lesion, the NCTU probe would serve as a useful device in future neuroscience research.
Intramedullary metastases are rare, accounting for 0.9-5% of spinal metastases. Radiation myelopathy is considered one of the most distressing complications of radiotherapy. In both cases symptoms are aspecific, and there are no characteristic neuroradiologic findings. We describe a case of single intramedullary metastasis from lung microcytoma in a 55-year-old man with a history of malignancy, treated by radiotherapy five years previously. The patient returned to our observation complaining of pain and paraesthesia in the left C7 area. Spinal MRI and rachicentesis findings were aspecific. Ten days later a new MRI showed that the lesion size had increased, and neoplastic cells were found in CSF. Intramedullary metastases are extremely rare, accounting for 0.1-0.4% of all CNS tumors. The risk of developing delayed radionecrosis varies with the total dose administered. In both cases diagnosis is histological, while contrast-enhanced MRI is highly sensitive and specific in identifying and characterizing the lesion. In case of metastatic lesions the prognosis is unfavorable. Differential diagnosis is important because it has a strong effect on patient management.
We describe two cases of incidentally discovered split cord malformations in adults undergoing MR for symptoms unrelated to that malformation. Case 1 is an 80-year-old woman with pain due to a D7 and D8 vertebral body compression fracture resistant to medical treatment where we performed D7 and D8 percutaneous vertebroplasty with no complications and satisfactory pain control. Case 2 is a 59-year-old woman with L5 radiculopathy due to L5-S1 spondilolysthesis who had a satisfactory pain relief under medical treatment. The implementation and worldwide diffusion of MR revealed that diastematomyelia, split cord malformations traditionally seen in children, may be less rare than we thought in adults and can remain asymptomatic.
The mechanisms involved in the targeting of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), critical for their functional organization at neuronal synapses, are not well understood. We have identified a novel functional association between alpha4beta2 AChRs and the presynaptic cell adhesion molecule, neurexin-1beta. In non-neuronal tsA 201 cells, recombinant neurexin-1beta and mature alpha4beta2 AChRs form complexes. alpha4beta2 AChRs and neurexin-1beta also coimmunoprecipitate from rat brain lysates. When exogenous alpha4beta2 AChRs and neurexin-1beta are coexpressed in hippocampal neurons, they are robustly targeted to hemi-synapses formed between these neurons and cocultured tsA 201 cells expressing neuroligin-1, a postsynaptic binding partner of neurexin-1beta. The extent of synaptic targeting is significantly reduced in similar experiments using a mutant neurexin-1beta lacking the extracellular domain. Additionally, when alpha4beta2 AChRs, alpha7 AChRs, and neurexin-1beta are coexpressed in the same neuron, only the alpha4beta2 AChR colocalizes with neurexin-1beta at presynaptic terminals. Collectively, these data suggest that neurexin-1beta targets alpha4beta2 AChRs to presynaptic terminals, which mature by trans-synaptic interactions between neurexins and neuroligins. Interestingly, human neurexin-1 gene dysfunctions have been implicated in nicotine dependence and in autism spectrum disorders. Our results provide novel insights as to possible mechanisms by which dysfunctional neurexins, through downstream effects on alpha4beta2 AChRs, may contribute to the etiology of these neurological disorders.
We examined 10-12-year old elementary school children's ability to preattentively process sound durations in music and speech stimuli. In total, 40 children had either advanced foreign language production skills and higher musical aptitude or less advanced results in both musicality and linguistic tests. Event-related potential (ERP) recordings of the mismatch negativity (MMN) show that the duration changes in musical sounds are more prominently and accurately processed than changes in speech sounds. Moreover, children with advanced pronunciation and musicality skills displayed enhanced MMNs to duration changes in both speech and musical sounds. Thus, our study provides further evidence for the claim that musical aptitude and linguistic skills are interconnected and the musical features of the stimuli could have a preponderant role in preattentive duration processing.
Inflammation is believed to play an important role in the etiology and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, experimental and epidemiological evidences from various non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, seem contradictive. Using the intranigral lipopolysaccharide (LPS) rat model, we show that meloxicam, a preferential COX-2 inhibitor, diminishes the activation of OX-42-immunoreactive (ir) microglia and reduces the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-ir dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) that is normally induced by exposure to LPS. Double-labelling immunohistochemistry identified that activated microglia rather than intact resting microglia are the main intracellular venues for COX-2 expression. These findings suggest that inhibition of COX-2 activity in activated microglial cells may be potentially neuroprotective for DA neurons in the SNpc.


Absolute pitch has proved useful as an alternative perspective from which to investigate various cognitive faculties. A new functional magnetic resonance imaging study published recently in BMC Neuroscience adds new data to the ongoing debate concerning the neural underpinnings of this unusual ability.
Retaining agonistic activity at the glycine coagonist site of the NMDA receptor in molecules derived from glycine or d-serine has proven to be difficult because in the vicinity of the alpha-amino acid group little substitution is tolerated. We have solved this problem by replacing the hydroxy group of d-serine with an amido group, thus keeping the hydrogen donor function and allowing for further substitution and exploration of the adjacent space. Heterocyclic substitutions resulted in a series of 3-acylamino-2-aminopropionic acid derivatives, with high affinities in a binding assay for the glycine site. In a functional assay assessing the activation of the glycine site, these compounds displayed a wide range of intrinsic efficacies, from antagonism to a high degree of partial agonism. Structure-activity relationships reveal that lipophilic substituents, presumably filling an additional hydrophobic pocket, are accepted by the glycine site, provided that they are separated from the alpha-amino acid group by a short linker.
By utilizing structure-based drug design (SBDD) knowledge, a novel class of phosphodiesterase (PDE) 10A inhibitors was identified. The structure-based drug design efforts identified a unique &quot;selectivity pocket&quot; for PDE10A inhibitors, and interactions within this pocket allowed the design of highly selective and potent PDE10A inhibitors. Further optimization of brain penetration and drug-like properties led to the discovery of 2-[4-(1-methyl-4-pyridin-4-yl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl)-phenoxymethyl]-quinoline (PF-2545920). This PDE10A inhibitor is the first reported clinical entry for this mechanism in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Neural circuits display complex activity patterns both spontaneously and when responding to a stimulus or generating a motor output. How are these two forms of activity related? We develop a procedure called FORCE learning for modifying synaptic strengths either external to or within a model neural network to change chaotic spontaneous activity into a wide variety of desired activity patterns. FORCE learning works even though the networks we train are spontaneously chaotic and we leave feedback loops intact and unclamped during learning. Using this approach, we construct networks that produce a wide variety of complex output patterns, input-output transformations that require memory, multiple outputs that can be switched by control inputs, and motor patterns matching human motion capture data. Our results reproduce data on premovement activity in motor and premotor cortex, and suggest that synaptic plasticity may be a more rapid and powerful modulator of network activity than generally appreciated.
Placebo analgesia involves the endogenous opioid system, as administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone decreases placebo analgesia. To investigate the opioidergic mechanisms that underlie placebo analgesia, we combined naloxone administration with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Naloxone reduced both behavioral and neural placebo effects as well as placebo-induced responses in pain-modulatory cortical structures, such as the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC). In a brainstem-specific analysis, we observed a similar naloxone modulation of placebo-induced responses in key structures of the descending pain control system, including the hypothalamus, the periaqueductal gray (PAG), and the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). Most importantly, naloxone abolished placebo-induced coupling between rACC and PAG, which predicted both neural and behavioral placebo effects as well as activation of the RVM. These findings show that opioidergic signaling in pain-modulating areas and the projections to downstream effectors of the descending pain control system are crucially important for placebo analgesia.
We describe the role of Sox6 in cortical interneuron development, from a cellular to a behavioral level. We identify Sox6 as a protein expressed continuously within MGE-derived cortical interneurons from postmitotic progenitor stages into adulthood. Both its expression pattern and null phenotype suggests that Sox6 gene function is closely linked to that of Lhx6. In both Lhx6 and Sox6 null animals, the expression of PV and SST and the position of both basket and Martinotti neurons are abnormal. We find that Sox6 functions downstream of Lhx6. Electrophysiological analysis of Sox6 mutant cortical interneurons revealed that basket cells, even when mispositioned, retain characteristic but immature fast-spiking physiological features. Our data suggest that Sox6 is not required for the specification of MGE-derived cortical interneurons. It is, however, necessary for their normal positioning and maturation. As a consequence, the specific removal of Sox6 from this population results in a severe epileptic encephalopathy.
Hippocampal place cells fire selectively when a rat occupies a particular location. Under certain conditions, the cells briefly represent trajectories along locations away from the rat's current location. New results lend important insight into this phenomenon and demonstrate spatiotemporally coherent, cognitive representations that are independent of current sensory input.
One striking characteristic of human social interactions is unconscious mimicry; people have a tendency to take over each other's posture, mannerisms and behaviours without awareness. Our goal is to make the case that unconscious mimicry plays an important role in human social interaction and to show that mimicry is closely related to and moderated by our connectedness to others. First we will position human unconscious mimicry in relation to types of imitation used in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Then we will provide support for social moderation of mimicry. Characteristics of both the mimicker and the mimickee influence the degree of mimicry in a social interaction. Next, we turn to the positive social consequences of this unconscious mimicry and we will present data showing how being imitated makes people more assimilative in general. In the final section, we discuss what these findings imply for theorizing on the mechanisms of imitation and point out several issues that need to be resolved before a start can be made to integrate this field in the broader context of research on imitation.
A core requirement for imitation is a capacity to solve the correspondence problem; to map observed onto executed actions, even when observation and execution yield sensory inputs in different modalities and coordinate frames. Until recently, it was assumed that the human capacity to solve the correspondence problem is innate. However, it is now becoming apparent that, as predicted by the associative sequence learning model, experience, and especially sensorimotor experience, plays a critical role in the development of imitation. We review evidence from studies of non-human animals, children and adults, focusing on research in cognitive neuroscience that uses training and naturally occurring variations in expertise to examine the role of experience in the formation of the mirror system. The relevance of this research depends on the widely held assumption that the mirror system plays a causal role in generating imitative behaviour. We also report original data supporting this assumption. These data show that theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation of the inferior frontal gyrus, a classical mirror system area, disrupts automatic imitation of finger movements. We discuss the implications of the evidence reviewed for the evolution, development and intentional control of imitation.
Imitation is at the heart of social cognitive neuroscience. It is a neurocognitive process that bridges the gap between minds; powers cognitive and social development; promotes cooperation and well-being; and provides a channel of cultural inheritance. The papers in this theme issue review cutting-edge research on imitation and report original data using all of the principal methodologies, including comparative, developmental, cognitive-behavioural and neurological techniques. This paper introduces these interdisciplinary contributions and, proposing that the field currently has four inter-related foci--correspondence, control, cooperation and cultural inheritance--offers an overview of the state-of-the-art in research on the mechanisms and functions of imitation.



Dravet syndrome (also called severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy) is one of the most severe forms of childhood epilepsy. Most patients have heterozygous mutations in SCN1A, encoding voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.1 alpha subunits. Sodium channels are modulated by beta1 subunits, encoded by SCN1B, a gene also linked to epilepsy. Here we report the first patient with Dravet syndrome associated with a recessive mutation in SCN1B (p.R125C). Biochemical characterization of p.R125C in a heterologous system demonstrated little to no cell surface expression despite normal total cellular expression. This occurred regardless of coexpression of Na(v)1.1 alpha subunits. Because the patient was homozygous for the mutation, these data suggest a functional SCN1B null phenotype. To understand the consequences of the lack of beta1 cell surface expression in vivo, hippocampal slice recordings were performed in Scn1b(-/-) versus Scn1b(+/+) mice. Scn1b(-/-) CA3 neurons fired evoked action potentials with a significantly higher peak voltage and significantly greater amplitude compared with wild type. However, in contrast to the Scn1a(+/-) model of Dravet syndrome, we found no measurable differences in sodium current density in acutely dissociated CA3 hippocampal neurons. Whereas Scn1b(-/-) mice seize spontaneously, the seizure susceptibility of Scn1b(+/-) mice was similar to wild type, suggesting that, like the parents of this patient, one functional SCN1B allele is sufficient for normal control of electrical excitability. We conclude that SCN1B p.R125C is an autosomal recessive cause of Dravet syndrome through functional gene inactivation.
A hallmark feature of Alzheimer's disease pathology is the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are intracellular aggregates of conformationally abnormal and hyperphosphorylated tau. The presence of NFTs in the forebrain is associated with impairments of cognitive function, supporting a central role for tau in dementia. The significance of the accumulation of NFTs for neuronal and cognitive function is still obscure. It is possible that NFTs disrupt synaptic transmission and plasticity, leading to memory deficits and cognitive malfunction. To elucidate the relationship between the development of tau pathology and synaptic and cognitive functions, we performed behavioral tests and electrophysiological experiments in the htau mouse. Here we report age-dependent cognitive and physiological impairments in htau mice that preceded neurodegeneration. Twelve-month-old htau mice with moderate tau pathology, but not 4-month-old mice with early-stage tau pathology, presented cognitive deficits in an object recognition memory task in which the visual recognition memory of a novel object was disrupted. Moreover, only 12-month-old htau mice exhibit spatial memory deficits, as indicated by the impaired performance in the Morris water maze. In addition, we report that basal synaptic transmission and induction of long-term potentiation with high-frequency stimulation, but not theta burst stimulation, is perturbed in hippocampal CA1 region of old but not young htau mice. Our results suggest that tau pathology may underlie an age-dependent learning impairment through disruption of synaptic function.
Hearing relies on Ca(2+) influx-triggered exocytosis in cochlear inner hair cells (IHCs). Here we studied the role of the Ca(2+) channel subunit Ca(V)beta(2) in hearing. Of the Ca(V)beta(1-4) mRNAs, IHCs predominantly contained Ca(V)beta(2). Hearing was severely impaired in mice lacking Ca(V)beta(2) in extracardiac tissues (Ca(V)beta(2)(-/-)). This involved deficits in cochlear amplification and sound encoding. Otoacoustic emissions were reduced or absent in Ca(V)beta(2)(-/-) mice, which showed strongly elevated auditory thresholds in single neuron recordings and auditory brainstem response measurements. Ca(V)beta(2)(-/-) IHCs showed greatly reduced exocytosis (by 68%). This was mostly attributable to a decreased number of membrane-standing Ca(V)1.3 channels. Confocal Ca(2+) imaging revealed presynaptic Ca(2+) microdomains albeit with much lower amplitudes, indicating synaptic clustering of fewer Ca(V)1.3 channels. The coupling of the remaining Ca(2+) influx to IHC exocytosis appeared unaffected. Extracellular recordings of sound-evoked spiking in the cochlear nucleus and auditory nerve revealed reduced spike rates in the Ca(V)beta(2)(-/-) mice. Still, sizable onset and adapted spike rates were found during suprathreshold stimulation in Ca(V)beta(2)(-/-) mice. This indicated that residual synaptic sound encoding occurred, although the number of presynaptic Ca(V)1.3 channels and exocytosis were reduced to one-third. The normal developmental upregulation, clustering, and gating of large-conductance Ca(2+) activated potassium channels in IHCs were impaired in the absence of Ca(V)beta(2). Moreover, we found the developmental efferent innervation to persist in Ca(V)beta(2)-deficient IHCs. In summary, Ca(V)beta(2) has an essential role in regulating the abundance and properties of Ca(V)1.3 channels in IHCs and, thereby, is critical for IHC development and synaptic encoding of sound.
Inhibitory interneurons are crucially important for cerebral cortex function and behavior. The mechanisms controlling inhibitory interneuron diversification and allocation to distinct cortical areas remain poorly understood. GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) and its receptor GFRalpha1 have been implicated in the development of GABAergic precursors but, because of the early lethality of null mutants, their roles in postnatal maturation and function of cortical interneurons are unknown. &quot;cis-only&quot; mutant mice lack GFRalpha1 only in cells that do not express the RET signaling receptor subunit and survive to adulthood. At birth, both null mutants and cis-only mice showed a specific loss of GABAergic interneurons in rostro- and caudolateral cortical regions but not in more medial areas. Unexpectedly, the adult cortex of cis-only mice displayed a complete loss of parvalbumin (PV)-expressing GABAergic interneurons in discrete regions (PV holes) interspersed among areas of normal PV cell density. PV holes predominantly occurred in the visual and frontal cortices, and their size could be affected by neuronal activity. Consistent with deficits in cortical inhibitory activity, these mice showed enhanced cortical excitability, increased sensitivity to epileptic seizure, and increased social behavior. We propose that GFRalpha1 signaling guides the development of a subset of PV-expressing GABAergic interneurons populating discrete regions of the cerebral cortex and may thus contribute to the diversification and allocation of specific cortical interneuron subtypes.
The responses of neocortical cells to sensory stimuli are variable and state dependent. It has been hypothesized that intrinsic cortical dynamics play an important role in trial-to-trial variability; the precise nature of this dependence, however, is poorly understood. We show here that in auditory cortex of urethane-anesthetized rats, population responses to click stimuli can be quantitatively predicted on a trial-by-trial basis by a simple dynamical system model estimated from spontaneous activity immediately preceding stimulus presentation. Changes in cortical state correspond consistently to changes in model dynamics, reflecting a nonlinear, self-exciting system in synchronized states and an approximately linear system in desynchronized states. We propose that the complex and state-dependent pattern of trial-to-trial variability can be explained by a simple principle: sensory responses are shaped by the same intrinsic dynamics that govern ongoing spontaneous activity.
Focal epilepsy often develops following traumatic, ischemic, or infectious brain injury. While the electrical activity of the epileptic brain is well characterized, the mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis are poorly understood. We have recently shown that in the rat neocortex, long-lasting breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) or direct exposure of the neocortex to serum-derived albumin leads to rapid upregulation of the astrocytic marker GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), followed by delayed (within 4-7 d) development of an epileptic focus. We investigated the role of astrocytes in epileptogenesis in the BBB-breakdown and albumin models of epileptogenesis. We found similar, robust changes in astrocytic gene expression in the neocortex within hours following treatment with deoxycholic acid (BBB breakdown) or albumin. These changes predict reduced clearance capacity for both extracellular glutamate and potassium. Electrophysiological recordings in vitro confirmed the reduced clearance of activity-dependent accumulation of both potassium and glutamate 24 h following exposure to albumin. We used a NEURON model to simulate the consequences of reduced astrocytic uptake of potassium and glutamate on EPSPs. The model predicted that the accumulation of glutamate is associated with frequency-dependent (&gt;100 Hz) decreased facilitation of EPSPs, while potassium accumulation leads to frequency-dependent (10-50 Hz) and NMDA-dependent synaptic facilitation. In vitro electrophysiological recordings during epileptogenesis confirmed frequency-dependent synaptic facilitation leading to seizure-like activity. Our data indicate a transcription-mediated astrocytic transformation early during epileptogenesis. We suggest that the resulting reduction in the clearance of extracellular potassium underlies frequency-dependent neuronal hyperexcitability and network synchronization.
A central component of our ability to navigate an environment is the formation of a memory representation that is allocentric and thus independent of our starting point within that environment. Computational models and rodent electrophysiological recordings suggest a critical role for the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus in this type of coding; however, the hippocampal neural basis of spatial learning in humans remains unclear. We studied subjects learning virtual environments using high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (1.6 mm x 1.6 mm in-plane) and computational unfolding to better visualize substructural changes in neural activity in the hippocampus. We show that the right posterior CA1 subregion is active and positively correlated with performance when subjects learn a spatial environment independent of starting point and direction. Altogether, our results demonstrate that the CA1 subregion is involved in our ability to learn a map-like representation of an environment.
Macropinocytosis is a type of poorly characterized fluid-phase endocytosis that results in formation of relatively large vesicles. We report that Sonic hedgehog (Shh) protein induces macropinocytosis in the axons through activation of a noncanonical signaling pathway, including Rho GTPase and nonmuscle myosin II. Macropinocytosis induced by Shh is independent of clathrin-mediated endocytosis but dependent on dynamin, myosin II, and Rho GTPase activities. Inhibitors of macropinocytosis also abolished the negative effects of Shh on axonal growth, including growth cone collapse and chemorepulsive axon turning but not turning per se. Conversely, activation of myosin II or treatment of phorbol ester induces macropinocytosis in the axons and elicits growth cone collapse and repulsive axon turning. Furthermore, macropinocytosis is also induced by ephrin-A2, and inhibition of dynamin abolished repulsive axon turning induced by ephrin-A2. Macropinocytosis can be induced ex vivo by high Shh, correlating with axon retraction. These results demonstrate that macropinocytosis-mediated membrane trafficking is an important cellular mechanism involved in axon chemorepulsion induced by negative guidance factors.
Otoferlin, a C2-domain-containing Ca(2+) binding protein, is required for synaptic exocytosis in auditory hair cells. However, its exact role remains essentially unknown. Intriguingly enough, no balance defect has been observed in otoferlin-deficient (Otof(-/-)) mice. Here, we show that the vestibular nerve compound action potentials evoked during transient linear acceleration ramps in Otof(-/-) mice display higher threshold, lower amplitude, and increased latency compared with wild-type mice. Using patch-clamp capacitance measurement in intact utricles, we show that type I and type II hair cells display a remarkable linear transfer function between Ca(2+) entry, flowing through voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels, and exocytosis. This linear Ca(2+) dependence was observed when changing the Ca(2+) channel open probability or the Ca(2+) flux per channel during various test potentials. In Otof(-/-) hair cells, exocytosis displays slower kinetics, reduced Ca(2+) sensitivity, and nonlinear Ca(2+) dependence, despite morphologically normal synapses and normal Ca(2+) currents. We conclude that otoferlin is essential for a high-affinity Ca(2+) sensor function that allows efficient and linear encoding of low-intensity stimuli at the vestibular hair cell synapse.
The inferior olive projects climbing fiber axons to cerebellar Purkinje neurons, where they trigger calcium-based dendritic spikes. These responses dynamically shape the immediate spike output of Purkinje cells as well as provide an instructive signal to guide long-term plasticity. Climbing fibers typically fire approximately once a second, and the instructive role is distributed over many such firing events. However, transmission of salient information on an immediate basis needs to occur on a shorter timescale during which a Purkinje cell would typically be activated by a climbing fiber only once. Here we show using in vivo calcium imaging in anesthetized mice and rats that sensory events are rapidly and reliably represented by momentary, simultaneous coactivation of microbands of adjacent Purkinje cells. Microbands were sagittally oriented and spanned up to 100 microm mediolaterally, representing hundreds of Purkinje cells distributed over multiple folia. Spontaneous and sensory-evoked microbands followed boundaries that were close or identical to one another and were desynchronized by olivary injection of the gap junction blocker mefloquine, indicating that excitation to the olive is converted to synchronized firing by electrical coupling. One-time activation of microbands could distinguish a sensory response from spontaneous activity with up to 98% accuracy. Given the anatomy of the olivocerebellar system, microband synchrony may shape the output of neurons in the cerebellar nuclei either via powerful inhibition by Purkinje cells or by direct monosynaptic excitation from the inferior olive.

We studied the relation between cortical oscillatory rhythms and the structural integrity of the corpus callosum in 21 children with spina bifida and hydrocephalus. Participants underwent resting state neuromagnetic recordings and diffusion tensor imaging. Areas of three segments of the corpus callosum (genu, body, splenium) were derived through diffusion tensor imaging-based morphometrics. Children with spina bifida showed reduced values of spectral power in the theta, alpha and beta bands when compared with age-matched controls, but only in the posterior and temporal regions. Reduced spectral power in posterior regions correlated with decreased area of the posterior segments of the corpus callosum. Atypical cortical oscillatory activity is associated with reduced transcallosal connectivity in children with spina bifida.
Recent evidence suggests that rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation (REMSD) causes learning and memory deficits. However, the mechanism of REMSD-induced memory impairment remains unclear. Calcineurin (CaN) is involved in synaptic plasticity and is known as a negative constraint on learning and memory. Here we report that 72 h REMSD by the modified multiple platform method in rats resulted in spatial memory impairment in the Morris water maze and elevated hippocampal cytosolic CaN activity, both of which were reversed after 18 h sleep recovery. CaN expression in the whole-tissue homogenate of the hippocampus was not altered by REMSD. The results suggest that elevated hippocampal CaN activity is involved in REMSD-induced spatial memory impairment.
Cytosine-5 methylation within CpG dinucleotides is a potentially important mechanism of epigenetic influence on human traits and disease. In addition to influences of age and gender, genetic control of DNA methylation levels has recently been described. We used whole blood genomic DNA in a twin set (23 MZ twin-pairs and 23 DZ twin-pairs, N = 92) as well as healthy controls (N = 96) to investigate heritability and relationship with age and gender of selected DNA methylation profiles using readily commercially available GoldenGate bead array technology. Despite the inability to detect meaningful methylation differences in the majority of CpG loci due to tissue type and locus selection issues, we found replicable significant associations of DNA methylation with age and gender. We identified associations of genetically heritable single nucleotide polymorphisms with large differences in DNA methylation levels near the polymorphism (cis effects) as well as associations with much smaller differences in DNA methylation levels elsewhere in the human genome (trans effects). Our results demonstrate the feasibility of array-based approaches in studies of DNA methylation and highlight the vast differences between individual loci. The identification of CpG loci of which DNA methylation levels are under genetic control or are related to age or gender will facilitate further studies into the role of DNA methylation and disease.
Understanding motion perception continues to be the subject of much debate, a central challenge being to account for why the speeds and directions seen accord with neither the physical movements of objects nor their projected movements on the retina. Here we investigate the varied perceptions of speed that occur when stimuli moving across the retina traverse different projected distances (the speed-distance effect). By analyzing a database of moving objects projected onto an image plane we show that this phenomenology can be quantitatively accounted for by the frequency of occurrence of image speeds generated by perspective transformation. These results indicate that speed-distance effects are determined empirically from accumulated past experience with the relationship between image speeds and moving objects.
The experience of planning an action but then changing our minds and cancelling the action at the last instant is a common one. Here, we instructed participants to prepare voluntary (keypress) actions and sometimes intentionally inhibit them at the last possible moment. Participants could freely choose between left and right hand actions. Keypresses produced either a congruent (80% probability) or an incongruent (20% probability) tone after a short delay. If no voluntary action was made within a defined response window, one of the tones was nevertheless presented a short time later. At the end of the trial, participants judged the time of tone onset. We used an established marker to measure the experience of control, namely the intentional binding of the tone backwards in time towards the action that caused it. Results showed that voluntary actions produced the expected temporal binding of tones back towards the preceding action. In contrast, we found an opposite trend towards repulsion of the tone in intentional inhibition trials. When people intentionally inhibit a planned action, their experience of a subsequent event that was associated with the action is severely affected. Our results suggest that intentional inhibition is a specific cognitive process that strongly influences action prediction and action experience.
Studies in the 1930s demonstrated that birds possess photoreceptors that are located within the hypothalamus and regulate photoperiodic responses to day length. Most recently, photoperiod has been shown to alter the activity of the pars tuberalis to release thyrotrophin, which ultimately drives a reproductive response. Despite these significant findings, the cellular and molecular identity of the hypothalamic photoreceptors has remained a mystery. Action spectra implicated an opsin-based photopigment system, but further identification based on rod- or cone-opsin probes failed, suggesting the utilization of a novel opsin. The vertebrate ancient (VA) opsin photopigments were isolated in 1997 but were thought to have a restricted taxonomic distribution, confined to the agnatha and teleost fish. Here, we report the isolation of VA opsin from chicken and show that the two isoforms spliced from this gene (cVAL and cVA) are capable of forming functional photopigments. Further, we show that VA opsin is expressed within a population of hypothalamic neurons with extensive projections to the median eminence. These results provide the most complete cellular and molecular description of a deep brain photoreceptor in any vertebrate and strongly implicate VA opsin in mediating the avian photoperiodic response.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by selective and progressive loss of specific populations of neurons, which determines the clinical presentation. The same neuronal populations can be affected in a number of different disorders. Given that the clinical presentation reflects the particular population of neurons that are targets of the disease process, it is clear that for any given clinical syndrome, more than one neurodegenerative disease can account for the clinical syndrome. Because of this clinical ambiguity, for the purpose of this brief review neurodegenerative disorders are classified according to the underlying molecular pathology rather than their clinical presentation. The major neurodegenerative diseases can be classified into amyloidoses, tauopathies, alpha-synucleinopathies and TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Humans and animals form internal representations of external space based on their own body movement (dead reckoning) as well as external landmarks. It is poorly understood, however, how different types of information are integrated to form a unified representation of external space. To examine the role of dentate gyrus (DG) in this process, we conducted physiological and behavioral experiments using Bax knockout (Bax-KO) mice in which newly generated granule cells continue to accumulate disrupting neural circuitry specifically in the DG. Unlike in wild-type (WT) littermates, spatial firing of hippocampal neurons was completely dissociated from a distinct visual cue and instead, tended to stay constant relative to the recording room in Bax-KO mice. Behaviorally, whereas spatial learning was intact in conventional spatial reference memory tasks, Bax-KO mice were impaired in finding a target location based on visual landmarks when target locations predicted by dead reckoning and visual landmarks were made incongruent. These results provide converging evidence for the role of DG in binding animal's internal spatial map with the sensory information on external landmarks in building a distinct spatial representation for each environment.

Current models of synaptic vesicle trafficking implicate a core complex of proteins comprised of N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF), soluble NSF attachment proteins (SNAPs), and SNAREs in synaptic vesicle fusion and neurotransmitter release. Despite this progress, major challenges remain in establishing the in vivo functions of these proteins and their roles in determining the physiological properties of synapses. The present study employs glutamatergic adult neuromuscular synapses of Drosophila, which exhibit conserved properties of short-term synaptic plasticity with respect to mammalian glutamatergic synapses, to address these issues through genetic analysis. Our findings establish an in vivo role for SNAP-25 in synaptic vesicle priming, and support a zippering model of SNARE function in this process. Moreover, these studies define the contribution of SNAP-25-dependent vesicle priming to the detailed properties of short-term depression elicited by paired-pulse (PP) and train stimulation. In contrast, NSF is shown here not to be required for WT PP depression, but to be critical for maintaining neurotransmitter release during sustained stimulation. In keeping with this role, disruption of NSF function results in activity-dependent redistribution of the t-SNARE proteins, SYNTAXIN and SNAP-25, away from neurotransmitter release sites (active zones). These findings support a role for NSF in replenishing active zone t-SNAREs for subsequent vesicle priming, and provide new insight into the spatial organization of SNARE protein cycling during synaptic activity. Together, the results reported here establish in vivo contributions of SNAP-25 and NSF to synaptic vesicle trafficking and define molecular mechanisms determining conserved functional properties of short-term depression.
Myelin, formed by oligodendrocytes (OLs) in the CNS, is critical for axonal functions, and its damage leads to debilitating neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of myelination and the pathogenesis of human myelin disease has been limited partly by the relative lack of identification and functional characterization of the repertoire of human myelin proteins. Here, we present a large-scale analysis of the myelin proteome, using the shotgun approach of 1-dimensional PAGE and liquid chromatography/tandem MS. Three hundred eight proteins were commonly identified from human and mouse myelin fractions. Comparative microarray analysis of human white and gray matter showed that transcripts of several of these were elevated in OL-rich white matter compared with gray matter, providing confidence in their detection in myelin. Comparison with other databases showed that 111 of the identified proteins/transcripts also were expressed in OLs, rather than in astrocytes or neurons. Comparison with 4 previous myelin proteomes further confirmed more than 50% of the identified proteins and revealed the presence of 163 additional proteins. A select group of identified proteins also were verified by immunoblotting. We classified the identified proteins into biological subgroups and discussed their relevance in myelin biogenesis and maintenance. Taken together, the study provides insights into the complexity of this metabolically active membrane and creates a valuable resource for future in-depth study of specific proteins in myelin with relevance to human demyelinating diseases.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been proposed to play a pivotal role in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To address whether mitochondrial dysfunction precedes the development of AD pathology, we conducted mitochondrial functional analyses in female triple transgenic Alzheimer's mice (3xTg-AD) and age-matched nontransgenic (nonTg). Mitochondrial dysfunction in the 3xTg-AD brain was evidenced by decreased mitochondrial respiration and decreased pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) protein level and activity as early as 3 months of age. 3xTg-AD mice also exhibited increased oxidative stress as manifested by increased hydrogen peroxide production and lipid peroxidation. Mitochondrial amyloid beta (Abeta) level in the 3xTg-AD mice was significantly increased at 9 months and temporally correlated with increased level of Abeta binding to alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD). Embryonic neurons derived from 3xTg-AD mouse hippocampus exhibited significantly decreased mitochondrial respiration and increased glycolysis. Results of these analyses indicate that compromised mitochondrial function is evident in embryonic hippocampal neurons, continues unabated in females throughout the reproductive period, and is exacerbated during reproductive senescence. In nontransgenic control mice, oxidative stress was coincident with reproductive senescence and accompanied by a significant decline in mitochondrial function. Reproductive senescence in the 3xTg-AD mouse brain markedly exacerbated mitochondrial dysfunction. Collectively, the data indicate significant mitochondrial dysfunction occurs early in AD pathogenesis in a female AD mouse model. Mitochondrial dysfunction provides a plausible mechanistic rationale for the hypometabolism in brain that precedes AD diagnosis and suggests therapeutic targets for prevention of AD.
Therapeutics for cerebral ischemia/hypoxia, which often results in ischemic stroke in humans, are a global unmet medical need. Here, we report that bryostatin-1, a highly potent protein kinase C (PKC) activator, interrupts pathophysiological molecular cascades and apoptosis triggered by cerebral ischemia/hypoxia, enhances neurotrophic activity, and induces synaptogenesis in rats. This postischemic therapeutic approach is further shown to preserve learning and memory capacity even 4 months later as well as long-term memory induced before the ischemic event. Our results of electromicroscopic and immunohistochemical analyses of neuronal and synaptic ultra-structure are consistent with a PKC-mediated synaptic remodeling and repair process that confers long-lasting preservation of spatial learning and memory before and after the cerebral ischemic/hypoxic event, suggesting a previously undescribed therapeutic modality for cerebral ischemia/hypoxia and ischemic stroke.
Dominantly inherited mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). The importance of the R1441 residue in the pathogenesis is highlighted by the identification of three distinct missense mutations. To investigate the pathogenic mechanism underlying LRRK2 dysfunction, we generated a knockin (KI) mouse in which the R1441C mutation is expressed under the control of the endogenous regulatory elements. Homozygous R1441C KI mice appear grossly normal and exhibit no dopaminergic (DA) neurodegeneration or alterations in steady-state levels of striatal dopamine up to 2 years of age. However, these KI mice show reductions in amphetamine (AMPH)-induced locomotor activity and stimulated catecholamine release in cultured chromaffin cells. The introduction of the R1441C mutation also impairs dopamine D2 receptor function, as suggested by decreased responses of KI mice in locomotor activity to the inhibitory effect of a D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole. Furthermore, the firing of nigral neurons in R1441C KI mice show reduced sensitivity to suppression induced by quinpirole, dopamine, or AMPH. Together, our data suggest that the R1441C mutation in LRRK2 impairs stimulated dopamine neurotransmission and D2 receptor function, which may represent pathogenic precursors preceding dopaminergic degeneration in PD brains.
Anxiety-related behaviors were evaluated across five tests in a sample of 277 rats from a genetically heterogeneous stock (N/Nih-HS rats), derived from an eight-way cross of inbred strains, and compared with the performance of RLA-I (high anxious) and RHA-I (low anxious) rats in the same tests. These tests either evoke unlearned (novel-cage activity (NACT), elevated &quot;zero&quot; maze (ZM), baseline acoustic startle response (BAS)) or learned (fear-potentiated startle (FPS), two-way active-shuttle box-avoidance acquisition (SHAV)) anxious/fearful responses. The results overall showed that unlearned anxiety responses/behaviors were predictive of behavior in learned fear (i.e. fear-potentiated startle) and conflict (i.e. two-way active avoidance acquisition) situations. Moreover, it was found that N/Nih-HS rats either resemble RLA-I rat anxiety/fear scores or fall in between those of the RLA-I (high anxious) and the RHA-I (low anxious) rat strains. An additional regression analysis (of N/Nih-HS rat data) showed significant positive influences of (unlearned) baseline startle response, risk assessment (i.e. stretch-attend) behavior and activity (5min) in a novel cage on SHAV acquisition, while baseline startle and entries into the open section of the elevated 'zero' maze test of anxiety were the main variables influencing FPS. This indicates that startle responses may have a facilitating role in the rat's active responses in the two-way active (shuttlebox) avoidance acquisition. The results of this behavioral evaluation of N/Nih-HS rats show that unconditioned anxiety (e.g. in the ZM test) predicts learned fear-related responses (e.g. FPS and SHAV) to some extent, while a positive association is also observed between BAS and SHAV. These findings are discussed in terms of their potential usefulness for present and future neurobehavioral and genetic studies of fearfulness/anxiety.
Neurotoxic beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides participate in Alzheimer's disease (AD); therefore, reduction of Abeta generated from APP may provide a therapeutic approach for AD. Gene knockout studies in transgenic mice producing human Abeta may identify targets for reducing Abeta. This study shows that knockout of the cathepsin B gene in mice expressing human wild-type APP (hAPPwt) results in substantial decreases in brain Abeta40 and Abeta42 by 67% and decreases in levels of the C-terminal beta-secretase fragment (CTFbeta) derived from APP. In contrast, knockout of cathepsin B in mice expressing hAPP with the rare Swedish (Swe) and Indiana (Ind) mutations had no effect on Abeta. The difference in reduction of Abeta in hAPPwt mice, but not in hAPPSwe/Ind mice, shows that the transgenic model can affect cathepsin B gene knockout results. Since most AD patients express hAPPwt, these data validate cathepsin B as a target for development of inhibitors to lower Abeta in AD.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) is the most frequent inherited neuromuscular disorder, affecting 1 person in 2500. CMT1A, the most common form of CMT, is usually caused by a duplication of chromosome 17p11.2, containing the PMP22 (peripheral myelin protein-22) gene; overexpression of PMP22 in Schwann cells (SC) is believed to cause demyelination, although the underlying pathogenetic mechanisms remain unclear. Here we report an abnormally high basal concentration of intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in SC from CMT1A rats. By the use of specific pharmacological inhibitors and through down-regulation of expression by small interfering RNA, we demonstrate that the high [Ca(2+)](i) is caused by a PMP22-related overexpression of the P2X7 purinoceptor/channel leading to influx of extracellular Ca(2+) into CMT1A SC. Correction of the altered [Ca(2+)](i) in CMT1A SC by small interfering RNA or with pharmacological inhibitors of P2X7 restores functional parameters of SC (migration and release of ciliary neurotrophic factor), which are typically defective in CMT1A SC. More significantly, stable down-regulation of the expression of P2X7 restores myelination in co-cultures of CMT1A SC with dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons. These results establish a pathogenetic link between high [Ca(2+)](i) and impaired SC function in CMT1A and identify overexpression of P2X7 as the molecular mechanism underlying both abnormalities. The development of P2X7 inhibitors is expected to provide a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of CMT1A neuropathy.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system and its prevalence increases with age. Microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT), a neuronal protein is involved in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases including PD. To determine the broader significance of this association with PD, replicative studies in distinct ethnic populations are required. In this study, we investigated MAPT for its potential association with PD using five haplotype-tagging SNPs and the del-In9 polymorphism of MAPT in 301 PD patients and 243 healthy controls from eastern India. Our case-control analysis did not show a significant association with any of the markers and PD. However, a risk haplotype [GAC+G] for PD was identified (OR=1.563; 95% CI=1.045-2.337; p=0.03). In addition, haplotype AAC+A (OR=2.787; 95% CI=1.372-5.655; p=0.004) was strongly associated with early onset PD (age at onset &lt; or =40 years) and AAC+G haplotype showed a weak association (OR=2.233; 95% CI=1.018-4.895; p=0.045) with late onset PD (age at onset &gt;40 years). This observation highlights the significance of rs7521 in modifying the age at onset of PD under a common haplotype background. We also identified AGC+A as a risk haplotype for sporadic cases (OR=2.773, 95% CI=1.198-6.407, p=0.016). This is the first association study from India conducted on MAPT among PD patients and provides valuable information for comparison with other ethnic groups.
Myelin contains many axonal outgrowth inhibitory components which contribute to regeneration failure after neuronal injury in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). In an attempt to develop small molecular agents to promote axonal outgrowth, we screened a compound library purified from traditional Chinese herbs, and found a small molecular compound polygalasaponin G (PS-G), extracted from Polygala japonica, which has a potent neurotrophic activity on PC12 cells and cultured cortical neurons. We reported, to our knowledge for the first time, that PS-G could promote neurite outgrowth of neurons cultured on the myelin substrates and inhibit the activation of RhoA. Thus, our results could represent a therapeutic approach to improve axon regeneration after CNS injuries.
Our newly developed method using spatially and time-resolved reflectances can easily estimate the absorption coefficients of each layer in a two-layered medium if the thickness of the upper layer and the reduced scattering coefficients of the two layers are known a priori. We experimentally validated this method using phantoms and examined its possibility of estimating the absorption coefficients of the tissues in human heads. In the case of a homogeneous plastic phantom (polyacetal block), the absorption coefficient estimated by our method agreed well with that obtained by a conventional method. Also, in the case of two-layered phantoms, our method successfully estimated the absorption coefficients of the two layers. Furthermore, the absorption coefficients of the extracerebral and cerebral tissue inside human foreheads were estimated under the assumption that the human heads were two-layered media. It was found that the absorption coefficients of the cerebral tissues were larger than those of the extracerebral tissues.
Several studies have addressed the question of the time it takes for attention to shift from one position in space to another. Here we present a behavioural paradigm which offers a direct access to an estimate of voluntary shift time by comparing, in the same task, a situation in which subjects are required to re-engage their attention at the same spatial location with a situation in which they need to shift their attention to another location, all other sensory, cognitive and motor parameters being equal. We show that spatial attention takes on average 55 ms to voluntarily shift from one hemifield to the other and 38 ms to shift within the same hemifield. In addition, we show that across and within hemifields attentional processes are different. In particular, attentional spotlight division appears to be more difficult to operate within than across hemifields.
Umami taste (corresponds to savory in English) is elicited by L-glutamate, typically as its Na salt (monosodium glutamate: MSG), and is one of five basic taste qualities that plays a key role in intake of amino acids. A particular property of umami is the synergistic potentiation of glutamate by purine nucleotide monophosphates (IMP, GMP). A heterodimer of a G protein coupled receptor, TAS1R1 and TAS1R3, is proposed to function as its receptor. However, little is known about genetic variation of TAS1R1 and TAS1R3 and its potential links with individual differences in umami sensitivity. Here we investigated the association between recognition thresholds for umami substances and genetic variations in human TAS1R1 and TAS1R3, and the functions of TAS1R1/TAS1R3 variants using a heterologous expression system. Our study demonstrated that the TAS1R1-372T creates a more sensitive umami receptor than -372A, while TAS1R3-757C creates a less sensitive one than -757R for MSG and MSG plus IMP, and showed a strong correlation between the recognition thresholds and in vitro dose-response relationships. These results in human studies support the propositions that a TAS1R1/TAS1R3 heterodimer acts as an umami receptor, and that genetic variation in this heterodimer directly affects umami taste sensitivity.
The morphological and electrophysiological diversity of inhibitory cells in hippocampal area CA3 may underlie specific computational roles and is not yet fully elucidated. In particular, interneurons with somata in strata radiatum (R) and lacunosum-moleculare (L-M) receive converging stimulation from the dentate gyrus and entorhinal cortex as well as within CA3. Although these cells express different forms of synaptic plasticity, their axonal trees and connectivity are still largely unknown. We investigated the branching and spatial patterns, plus the membrane and synaptic properties, of rat CA3b R and L-M interneurons digitally reconstructed after intracellular labeling. We found considerable variability within but no difference between the two layers, and no correlation between morphological and biophysical properties. Nevertheless, two cell types were identified based on the number of dendritic bifurcations, with significantly different anatomical and electrophysiological features. Axons generally branched an order of magnitude more than dendrites. However, interneurons on both sides of the R/L-M boundary revealed surprisingly modular axodendritic arborizations with consistently uniform local branch geometry. Both axons and dendrites followed a lamellar organization, and axons displayed a spatial preference toward the fissure. Moreover, only a small fraction of the axonal arbor extended to the outer portion of the invaded volume, and tended to return toward the proximal region. In contrast, dendritic trees demonstrated more limited but isotropic volume occupancy. These results suggest a role of predominantly local feedforward and lateral inhibitory control for both R and L-M interneurons. Such a role may be essential to balance the extensive recurrent excitation of area CA3 underlying hippocampal autoassociative memory function.
Projection neurons in lamina I, together with those in laminae III-IV that express the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r), form a major route through which nociceptive information reaches the brain. Axons of these cells innervate various targets, including thalamus, periaqueductal gray matter (PAG), and lateral parabrachial area (LPb), and many cells project to more than one target. The aims of this study were to quantify projections from cervical enlargement to PAG and LPb, to determine the proportion of spinothalamic neurons at lumbar and cervical levels that were labelled from PAG and LPb, and to investigate morphological differences between projection populations. The C7 segment contained fewer lamina I spinoparabrachial cells than L4, but a similar number of spino-PAG cells. Virtually all spinothalamic lamina I neurons at both levels were labelled from LPb and between one-third and one-half from PAG. This suggests that significant numbers project to all three targets. Spinothalamic lamina I neurons differed from those labelled only from LPb in that they were generally larger, were more often multipolar, and (in cervical enlargement) had stronger NK1r immunoreactivity. Most lamina III/IV NK1r cells at both levels projected to LPb, but few were labelled from PAG. The great majority of these cells in C7 and over one-fourth of those in L4 were spinothalamic, and at each level some projected to both thalamus and LPb. These results confirm that neurons in these laminae have extensive collateral projections and suggest that different neuronal subpopulations in lamina I have characteristic patterns of supraspinal projection.
The overall goal of this study was to determine the role of ethnicity on features of hot flashes (HFs) in a population of menopausal women in North Central Texas. A total of 397 ethnically diverse menopausal women from North Central Texas were administered our Menopausal Vasomotor Symptoms (MVS) survey to ascertain accurate information about number, length, intensity and behaviorally disruptive effects of hot flash episodes for subsequent analysis for the role of ethnicity in the occurrence of hot flashes. The mean (SD) age for participants was 50.2 (5.3) years; 40% were Caucasian, 38% were African-American and 22% were Hispanic. To evaluate and identify potential associations of hot flash (HF) features, ethnicity, and other independent variables, ordinal/multinomial/binary logistic regression models were used to calculate crude and adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The analysis demonstrates strong associations with ethnicity and the number of HF's/day, the length of each HF episode, the intensity of HFs, and the interruption of daily activities and sleep. Ethnicity was important in the crude and adjusted model describing the association between the number of HFs per day and ethnicity. African-American women were 2.22 (95% CI, 1.38-3.56) times and Hispanic women were 1.85 (95% CI, 1.08-3.18) times more likely to experience more frequent HFs per day than Caucasian women. In contrast, Hispanic women were less likely than Caucasian women to experience sweating and disruption of both daily activities and sleep. Collectively, our results show more frequent and more bothersome HFs in African-American women and more frequent, but less intense and bothersome HFs in Hispanic women in comparison to Caucasian women.


With recent advances in understanding of the neuroscience of risk taking, attention is now turning to genetic factors that may contribute to individual heterogeneity in risk attitudes. In this paper we test for genetic associations with risk attitude measures derived from both the psychology and economics literature. To develop a long-term prospective study, we first evaluate both types of risk attitudes and find that the economic and psychological measures are poorly correlated, suggesting that different genetic factors may underlie human response to risk faced in different behavioral domains. We then examine polymorphisms in a spectrum of candidate genes that affect neurotransmitter systems influencing dopamine regulation or are thought to be associated with risk attitudes or impulsive disorders. Analysis of the genotyping data identified two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding the alpha 4 nicotine receptor (CHRNA4, rs4603829 and rs4522666) that are significantly associated with harm avoidance, a risk attitude measurement drawn from the psychology literature. Novelty seeking, another risk attitude measure from the psychology literature, is associated with several COMT (catechol-O-methyl transferase) SNPs while economic risk attitude measures are associated with several VMAT2 (vesicular monoamine transporter) SNPs, but the significance of these associations did not withstand statistical adjustment for multiple testing and requires larger cohorts. These exploratory results provide a starting point for understanding the genetic basis of risk attitudes by considering the range of methods available for measuring risk attitudes and by searching beyond the traditional direct focus on dopamine and serotonin receptor and transporter genes.

The time-dependent integration of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents is an important process for shaping the input-output profiles of individual excitable cells, and therefore the activity of neuronal networks. Here, we show that the decay time course of GABAergic inhibitory synaptic currents is considerably faster when recorded with physiological internal Cl(-) concentrations than with symmetrical Cl(-) solutions. This effect of intracellular Cl(-) is due to a direct modulation of the GABA(A) receptor that is independent of the net direction of current flow through the ion channel. As a consequence, the time window during which GABAergic inhibition can counteract coincident excitatory inputs is much shorter, under physiological conditions, than that previously measured using high internal Cl(-). This is expected to have implications for neuronal network excitability and neurodevelopment, and for our understanding of pathological conditions, such as epilepsy and chronic pain, where intracellular Cl(-) concentrations can be altered.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays an important role in shaping the activity of the spinal networks underlying locomotion in many vertebrate preparations. At larval stages in zebrafish, 5-HT does not change the frequency of spontaneous swimming; and it only decreases the quiescent period between consecutive swimming episodes. However, it is not known whether 5-HT exerts similar actions on the locomotor network at later developmental stages. For this, the effect of 5-HT on the fictive locomotor pattern of juvenile and adult zebrafish was analyzed. Bath-application of 5-HT (1-20 mum) reduced the frequency of the NMDA-induced locomotor rhythm. Blocking removal from the synaptic cleft with the reuptake inhibitor citalopram had similar effects, suggesting that endogenous serotonin is modulating the locomotor pattern. One target for this modulation was the mid-cycle inhibition during locomotion because the IPSPs recorded in spinal neurons during the hyperpolarized phase were increased both in amplitude and occurrence by 5-HT. Similar results were obtained for IPSCs recorded in spinal neurons clamped at the reversal potential of excitatory currents (0 mV). 5-HT also slows down the rising phase of the excitatory drive recorded in spinal cord neurons when glycinergic inhibition is blocked. These results suggest that the decrease in the locomotor burst frequency induced by 5-HT is mediated by a potentiation of mid-cycle inhibition combined with a delayed onset of the subsequent depolarization.
Previously, we identified progressive alterations in spontaneous EPSCs and IPSCs in the striatum of the R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD). Medium-sized spiny neurons from these mice displayed a lower frequency of EPSCs, and a population of cells exhibited an increased frequency of IPSCs beginning at approximately 40 d, a time point when the overt behavioral phenotype begins. The cortex provides the major excitatory drive to the striatum and is affected during disease progression. We examined spontaneous EPSCs and IPSCs of somatosensory cortical pyramidal neurons in layers II/III in slices from three different mouse models of HD: the R6/2, the YAC128, and the CAG140 knock-in. Results revealed that spontaneous EPSCs occurred at a higher frequency, and evoked EPSCs were larger in behaviorally phenotypic mice whereas spontaneous IPSCs were initially increased in frequency in all models and subsequently decreased in R6/2 mice after they displayed the typical R6/2 overt behavioral phenotype. Changes in miniature IPSCs and evoked IPSC paired-pulse ratios suggested altered probability of GABA release. Also, in R6/2 mice, blockade of GABA(A) receptors induced complex discharges in slices and seizures in vivo at all ages. In conclusion, altered excitatory and inhibitory inputs to pyramidal neurons in the cortex in HD appear to be a prevailing deficit throughout the development of the disease. Furthermore, the differences between synaptic phenotypes in cortex and striatum are important for the development of future therapeutic approaches, which may need to be targeted early in the development of the phenotype.
Animal models of menopause have been used to further define the cognitive processes that respond to hormone therapy and to investigate parameters that may influence the cognitive effects of estrogen. Many investigations in animals have focused on memory; however, the effects of hormone therapy on executive function and attention processes have not been well studied. Thus, the purpose of this set of investigations was to assess the effects of estrogen therapy alone or with progesterone on executive and attention processes in middle-aged ovariectomized monkeys. Monkeys were preoperatively trained on a modified version of the Wisconsin card sort task and on a visual cued reaction time task. Hormone therapy was initiated at the time of ovariectomy and cognitive function was reassessed at 2, 12, and 24 weeks postoperatively. Relative to monkeys receiving either of the estrogen therapies, monkeys receiving placebo were impaired in their ability to shift a cognitive set in the Wisconsin card sort task and were impaired in shifting visuospatial attention in the visual cued reaction time task. Our findings are consistent with clinical studies that indicate that hormone therapy can improve executive function and attention processes in postmenopausal women.
While learning to fear stimuli that predict danger promotes survival, the inability to inhibit fear to inappropriate cues leads to a pernicious cycle of avoidance behaviors. Previous studies have revealed large inter-individual variations in fear responding with clinically anxious humans exhibiting a tendency to generalize learned fear to safe stimuli or situations. To shed light on the origin of these inter-individual variations, we subjected rats to a differential auditory fear conditioning paradigm in which one conditioned auditory stimulus (CS+) was paired to footshocks whereas a second (CS-) was not. We compared the behavior of rats that received pretraining excitotoxic lesions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) to that of sham rats. Sham rats exhibit a continuum of anxious/fearful behaviors. At one end of the continuum were rats that displayed a poor ability to discriminate between the CS+ and CS-, high contextual freezing, and an anxiety-like trait in the elevated plus maze (EPM). At the other end were rats that display less fear generalization to the CS-, lower freezing to context, and a nonanxious trait in the EPM. Although BNST-lesioned rats acquired similarly high levels of conditioned fear to the CS+, they froze less than sham rats to the CS-. In fact, BNST-lesioned rats behaved like sham rats with high discriminative abilities in that they exhibited low contextual fear and a nonanxious phenotype in the EPM. Overall, this suggests that inter-individual variations in fear generalization and anxiety phenotype are determined by BNST influences on the amygdala and/or its targets.
Alterations in the expression, molecular composition, and localization of voltage-gated sodium channels play major roles in a broad range of neurological disorders. Recent evidence identifies sodium channel proteolysis as a key early event after ischemia and traumatic brain injury, further expanding the role of the sodium channel in neurological diseases. In this study, we investigate the protease responsible for proteolytic cleavage of voltage-gated sodium channels (NaChs). NaCh proteolysis occurs after protease activation in rat brain homogenates, pharmacological disruption of ionic homeostasis in cortical cultures, and mechanical injury using an in vitro model of traumatic brain injury. Proteolysis requires Ca(2+) and calpain activation but is not influenced by caspase-3 or cathepsin inhibition. Proteolysis results in loss of the full-length alpha-subunits, and the creation of fragments comprising all domains of the channel that retain interaction even after proteolysis. Cell surface biotinylation after mechanical injury indicates that proteolyzed NaChs remain in the membrane before noticeable evidence of neuronal death, providing a mechanism for altered action potential initiation, propagation, and downstream signaling events after Ca(2+) elevation.
Activity in neocortex is often characterized by synchronized oscillations of neurons and networks, resulting in the generation of a local field potential (LFP) and electroencephalogram. Do the neuronal networks of the cerebellum also generate synchronized oscillations and are they under the influence of those in the neocortex? Here we show that, in the absence of any overt external stimulus, the cerebellar cortex generates a slow oscillation that is correlated with that of the neocortex. Disruption of the neocortical slow oscillation abolishes the cerebellar slow oscillation, whereas blocking cerebellar activity has no overt effect on the neocortex. We provide evidence that the cerebellar slow oscillation results in part from the activation of granule, Golgi, and Purkinje neurons. In particular, we show that granule and Golgi cells discharge trains of single spikes, and Purkinje cells generate complex spikes, during the &quot;up&quot; state of the slow oscillation. Purkinje cell simple spiking is weakly related to the cerebellar and neocortical slow oscillation in a minority of cells. Our results indicate that the cerebellum generates rhythmic network activity that can be recorded as an LFP in the anesthetized animal, which is driven by synchronized oscillations of the neocortex. Furthermore, we show that correlations between neocortical and cerebellar LFPs persist in the awake animal, indicating that neocortical circuits modulate cerebellar neurons in a similar manner in natural behavioral states. Thus, the projection neurons of the neocortex collectively exert a driving and modulatory influence on cerebellar network activity.
Recent findings have revealed the importance of orthonasal and retronasal olfaction in food memory, especially in conditioned odor aversion (COA); however, little is known about the dynamics of the cerebral circuit involved in the recognition of an odor as a toxic food signal and whether the activated network depends on the way (orthonasal vs retronasal) the odor was first experienced. In this study, we mapped the modulations of odor-induced oscillatory activities through COA learning using multisite recordings of local field potentials in behaving rats. During conditioning, orthonasal odor alone or associated with ingested odor was paired with immediate illness. For all animals, COA retrieval was assessed by orthonasal smelling only. Both types of conditioning induced similarly strong COA. Results pointed out (1) a predictive correlation between the emergence of powerful beta (15-40 Hz) activity and the behavioral expression of COA and (2) a differential network distribution of this beta activity according to the way the animals were exposed to the odor during conditioning. Indeed, for both types of conditioning, the aversive behavior was predicted by the emergence of a strong beta oscillatory activity in response to the odor in the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, and basolateral amygdala. This network was selectively extended to the infralimbic and insular cortices when the odor was ingested during acquisition. These differential networks could participate in different food odor memory; these results are discussed in line with recent behavioral results that indicate that COA can be formed over long odor-illness delays only if the odor is ingested.
A fundamental question in neuroscience concerns how the human brain represents perceptual and conceptual information. Traditionally, researchers probed this issue by identifying single neurons that increased their firing rate when an animal encountered certain stimuli. Here we provide evidence of a complementary scheme in which gamma-band (25-128 Hz) electrocorticographic (ECoG) activity -- a phenomenon involving large groups of neurons -- encodes the active cognitive representation. We analyzed intracranial brain recordings from neurosurgical patients while they studied lists of visually presented letters and found that the amplitude of gamma-band activity encoded the identity of the current letter. These letter-specific patterns occurred during periods of overall increased gamma amplitude and were linked to the phase of simultaneous theta (4-8 Hz) oscillations. In occipital cortex, these patterns sometimes reflected the shape of the viewed letter, but, in other brain regions, this phenomenon was not related to letter form. Our findings show that gamma-band activity encodes a range of perceptual and conceptual information, suggesting that ECoG recordings can reveal neural correlates of specific human cognitive representations.
Recent neuroimaging evidence suggests that the retrieval of a prior episode reactivates sensory-processing brain regions that were active when the episode was encoded. However, with regard to reactivation of the medial temporal lobe (MTL), the results remain controversial. In the present study, we used positron emission tomography (PET) to identify the brain regions associated with the encoding and retrieval of motion information. Specifically, we assessed whether overlapping activity was found in both the MTL structures and motion-related cortical regions during the encoding and retrieval of motion information attached to meaningless shapes. During the study, subjects were asked to encode moving (rotating to the right or left) and static meaningless shapes. At subsequent testing, subjects were presented with only static shapes, which had been presented with or without motion during encoding, and were engaged in retrieval tasks of shapes and motion. Overlapping activity was found in the right middle temporal gyrus (V5/MT+) and the left MTL (hippocampus) during the encoding and retrieval of shapes with motion compared with those without motion. These results support the view that the retrieval of specific event information is associated with reactivation of both the MTL and the regions involved during the encoding of that information.
Mental and perceptual motor performance has been reported to be impaired during hypergravity. Current research has focused on physiological explanations (e.g., deficient proprioceptive feedback) and neglected psycho-physiological effects (e.g., arousal, emotion, cognitive engagement). This study aims at localising changes in brain cortical activity by using a distributed source localisation algorithm (sLORETA) to model the probable neural generators of changes in scalp voltage under hypergravity conditions. Brain cortical activity was measured by EEG before, during and after exposure to three time terrestrial gravity (3G(z)) on ten naive subjects aged 29+/-5 years. Changes in EEG activity were localised using standardised low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) for alpha-1 [7.5-10 Hz], alpha-2 [10-12.5 Hz], beta-1 [12.5-18 Hz], beta-2 [18-35 Hz] and gamma [35-45 Hz] activities. Individual concentrations of blood cortisol and perceived psychological strain were related to changes in cortical current density. An increase in alpha-1 activity occurred in the right inferior frontal lobe, beta-1 activity was found to be increased in the limbic lobe during 3G(z). Post acceleration alpha-2 and beta-1 activities declined in frontal, temporal and limbic lobes. Changes in blood cortisol concentrations and perceived strain showed a clear relationship to changes in right sided frontal alpha-1 activity. We conclude that frontal activity during hypergravity may serve as a marker of anxiety. This puts a new light on the debate as to whether cognitive and sensorimotor impairments are attributable to primary physiological effects or secondary psychological effects of a hypergravity environment.
The left parietal cortex contributes to goal-directed hand movement. In this study, we targeted this region with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to assess the effects on a wider distributed circuitry related to motor control. Ten healthy subjects underwent 3 Tesla functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with interleaved TMS. They either executed or imagined right wrist flexion/extension movements, which was preceded by a 10-second period either with or without TMS. This was applied to the left superior parietal cortex in 10 stimuli of 1 Hz at 115% motor threshold intensity. TMS preceding the movement execution condition resulted in significantly increased activation in the bilateral prefrontal, right temporo-parietal and left posterior parietal cortices, when compared to movement without such intervention (P&lt;0.001 voxel-level; P&lt;0.05, volume corrected). Movement imagery after TMS showed significantly increased activation in the left medial prefrontal cortex, right lateral prefrontal cortex, left supramarginal gyrus and right occipital cortex, while a decrease was present in bilateral anterior parietal cortex (P&lt;0.01 voxel-level; P&lt;0.05 volume corrected). Activation changes after TMS of left superior parietal cortex thus appears to increase prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex activation, associated with a reduced function of the anterior parietal cortex, including S2. These changes are thought to reflect an impaired ability to estimate the proprioceptive consequences of movement during its preparation, which is compensated by the increased contribution of more remote parietal and prefrontal cortical regions.
Phosphocreatine-Mg-complex acetate (PCr-Mg-CPLX) is a creatine-derived compound that in previous in vitro research was able to increase neuronal creatine independently of the creatine transporter, thus providing hope to cure the hereditary syndrome of creatine transporter deficiency. In previous research we showed that it reproduces in vitro the known neuroprotective effect of creatine against anoxic damage. In the present paper we investigated if PCr-Mg-CPLX reproduces this neuroprotective effect in vivo, too. We used a mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Mice received PCr-Mg-CPLX or a mixture of the two separate compounds phosphocreatine (PCr) and MgSO(4), or vehicle. The injections were done 60 min and 30 min before ischemia. Forty-eight hours after ischemia neurological damage was evaluated with Clark's behavioural tests, then the infarct volume was measured. PCr-Mg-CPLX reduced the infarct volume by 48%, an effect that was not duplicated by the separate administration of PCr and MgSO(4) and the neurological damage was decreased in a statistically significant way. We conclude that PCr-Mg-CPLX affords in vivo neuroprotection when administered before ischemia. These results are comparable to previous research on creatine administration in experimental stroke. PCr-Mg-CPLX maintains creatine-like neuroprotective effects in vivo as well as in vitro. Our study suggests that PCr-Mg-CPLX might have a therapeutic role in the treatment of hereditary creatine transporter deficiency and of conditions where there is a high risk of impending stroke or cerebral ischemic damage, like high-risk transient ischemic attacks, open heart surgery, and carotid surgery.
Neural correlates of explicit and implicit memory tend to co-occur and are therefore difficult to measure independently, posing problems for understanding the unique nature of different types of memory processing. To circumvent this problem, we developed an experimental design wherein subjects acquired information from words presented in a subliminal manner, such that conscious remembering was minimized. Cross-modal word repetition was used so that perceptual implicit memory would also be limited. Healthy human subjects viewed subliminal words six times each and about 2 min later heard the same words interspersed with new words in a category-verification test. Electrophysiological correlates of word repetition included negative brain potentials over left-frontal locations beginning approximately 500 ms after word onset. Behavioral responses were slower for repeated words than for new words. Differential processing of word meaning in the absence of explicit memory was most likely responsible for differential electrical and behavioral responses to old versus new words. Moreover, these effects were distinct from neural correlates of explicit memory observed in prior experiments, and were observed here in two separate experiments, thus providing a foundation for further investigations of relationships and interactions between different types of memory engaged when words repeat.
This study investigated the relationship between the formation of NADPH oxidase-dependent oxygen radicals in peripheral blood leukocytes ('respiratory burst') and disease severity in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Oxygen radical production was induced by formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (fMLF), Trp-Lys-Tyr-Met-Val-Met-NH2 (WKYMVM) or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and was assessed by quantifying superoxide anion, i.e. the initial radical formed by the NADPH oxidase. Disease severity was evaluated using the Multiple Sclerosis Severity Score (MSSS). In patients with severe disease, the production of superoxide anion was significantly lower for all three inducers of radical formation (p=0.04-0.004). Our findings are supportive of a protective role of oxygen radicals in autoimmunity.
The neuroregulatory activities of PMS-601, a platelet activating factor antagonist, were investigated in laboratory and animal models of HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE). For the former, PMS-601 reduced monocyte-derived macrophage pro-inflammatory secretions, multinucleated giant cell (MGC) formation, and neuronal loss independent of antiretroviral responses. PMS-601 treatment of HIVE severe combined immunodeficient mice showed reduced microgliosis, MGCs and neurodegeneration. These observations support the further development of PMS-601 as an adjunctive therapy for HIV-1 associated neurocognitive disorders.
A partial kindling procedure was used to investigate the correlation between focal seizure development and changes in dendritic spine morphology, ongoing neurogenesis and reactive astrogliosis in the adult rat dentate gyrus (DG). The processes of neurogenesis and astrogliosis were investigated using markers for doublecortin (DCX), 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Our data demonstrate that mild focal seizures induce a complex series of cellular events in the DG one day after cessation of partial rapid kindling stimulation consisting (in comparison to control animals that were electrode implanted but unkindled), firstly, of an increase in the number of postmitotic BrdU labeled cells, and secondly, an increase in the number of DCX labeled cells, mainly in subgranular zone. Ultrastructural changes were examined using qualitative electron microscope analysis and 3-D reconstructions of both dendritic spines and postsynaptic densities. Typical features of kindling in comparison to control tissue included translocation of mitochondria to the base of the dendritic spine stalks; a migration of multivesicular bodies into mushroom dendritic spines, and most notably formation of &quot;giant&quot; spinules originating from the head of the spines of DG neurons. These morphological alterations arise at seizure stages 2-3 (focal seizures) in the absence of signs of the severe generalized seizures that are generally recognized as potentially harmful for neuronal cells. We suggest that an increase in ongoing neurogenesis, reactive astrogliosis and dendritic spine reorganization in the DG is the crucial step in the chain of events leading to the progressive development of seizure susceptibility in hippocampal circuits.
We report on cellular actions of the illicit recreational drug gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) in the brain reward area nucleus accumbens. First, we compared the effects of GHB and the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen. Neither of them affected the membrane currents of medium spiny neurons in rat nucleus accumbens slices. GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic potentials of medium spiny neurons, however, were reduced by baclofen but not GHB. These results indicate the lack of GHB as well as postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors, and the presence of GHB insensitive presynaptic GABA(B) receptors in medium spiny neurons. In astrocytes GHB induced intracellular Ca(2+) transients, preserved in slices from GABA(B) receptor type 1 subunit knockout mice. The effects of tetrodotoxin, zero added Ca(2+) with/without intracellular Ca(2+) store depletor cyclopiazonic acid or vacuolar H-ATPase inhibitor bafilomycin A1 indicate that GHB-evoked Ca(2+) transients depend on external Ca(2+) and intracellular Ca(2+) stores, but not on vesicular transmitter release. GHB-induced astrocytic Ca(2+) transients were not affected by the GHB receptor-specific antagonist NCS-382, suggesting the presence of a novel NCS-382-insensitive target for GHB in astrocytes. The activation of astrocytes by GHB implies their involvement in physiological actions of GHB. Our findings disclose a novel profile of GHB action in the nucleus accumbens. Here, unlike in other brain areas, GHB does not act on GABA(B) receptors, but activates an NCS-382 insensitive GHB-specific target in a subpopulation of astrocytes. The lack of either post- or presynaptic effects on medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens distinguishes GHB from many drugs and natural rewards with addictive properties and might explain why GHB has only a weak reinforcing capacity.
Spine-associated Rap-specific GTPase-activating protein (SPAR) is a postsynaptic protein that forms a complex with postsynaptic density (PSD)-95 and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), and morphologically regulates dendritic spines. Mild intermittent hypoxia (IH, 16.0% O(2), 4 h/day for 4 weeks) is known to markedly enhance spatial learning and memory in postnatal developing mice. Here, we report that this effect is correlated with persistent increases in SPAR expression as well as long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus of IH-exposed mice. Furthermore, an infusion of SPAR antisense oligonucleotides into the dorsal hippocampus disrupted elevation of SPAR expression, preventing enhanced hippocampal LTP in IH-exposed developing mice and also reducing LTP in normoxic mice, without altering basal synaptic transmission. In SPAR antisense-treated mice, acquisition of the Morris water maze spatial learning task was impaired, as was memory retention in probe trails following training. This study provides the first evidence that SPAR is functionally required for synaptic plasticity and contributes to the IH-induced enhancement of spatial learning and memory in postnatal developing mice.
Several lines of evidence suggest that suicide may have, in part, a genetic predisposition. In this study, we identified a family with high rates of suicidal behavior and assessed brain gene expression levels in the proband. A neuronally-expressed solute carrier for glutamine (Sodium-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 1 (SNAT1), also known as solute carrier family 38, member 1 (SLC38A1)) was identified as severely decreased across all brain regions. Follow-up analysis by semi-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blot confirmed the reduction of SNAT1. We categorized the SNAT1 gene in human brain, cloned the gene promoter and assessed in silico the expression pattern of SNAT1 in &gt;25 tissues from human. Complete DNA sequencing of the SNAT1 gene was performed in the family and 276 controls. The family was homozygous for rare alleles which suggests a possible association between low expression of SNAT1 and suicidal behavior.
Spinal p38 mitogen activated (MAP) kinase plays a key role in chronic pain behavior. However, clinical development of p38 inhibitors has been hindered by significant toxicity. To evaluate alternative strategies of p38 regulation, we determined if known upstream activators of p38 (mitogen activated kinase kinase [MKK] 3 and MKK6), are involved in development and maintenance of pain and spinal p38 phosphorylation. Acute pain behaviors were not altered in MKK3 or MKK6 deficient mice. The phase 2 formalin response was delayed in MKK3-/- mice, but unchanged in magnitude, while the response remained normal in MKK6-/- mice. More striking, late formalin allodynia (3-18 days post-injection) was prominent in wild type and MKK6-/- mice, but was delayed for several days in MKK3-/- mice. In wild type, but not MKK3-/- mice, intraplantar formalin elicited increases in ipsilateral spinal MKK3/6 phosphorylation acutely and again at 9 days postinjection. Phosphorylation of MKK3/6 correlated with phase 2 formalin behavior. Wild type (WT) and MKK3-/- mice both expressed increases in spinal phosphorylated p38, however in WT mice this response began several days earlier, and was of higher magnitude and duration than in MKK3-/- mice. This phosphorylation correlated with the late allodynia. Phosphorylated MKK3/6 was detected only in astrocytes, given that phosphorylated p38 (P-p38) is usually not seen in astrocytes this argues for astrocytic release of soluble mediators that affect p38 phosphorylation in microglia. Taking these data together, MKK3, but not MKK6, is necessary for normal development of chronic pain behavior and phosphorylation of spinal p38.
The GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R) agonist baclofen is known to have a beneficial potency in patients who suffer from dystonia, a neurological syndrome characterized by involuntary co-contractions of opposing muscles. The underlying mechanisms of this movement disorder are still unclear. Previous studies in the dt(sz) hamster, an animal model of primary paroxysmal dystonia, revealed alterations of the GABAergic system, including a reduction of striatal GABAergic interneurons and an altered GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) binding in several brain regions. In order to clarify the pathophysiological role of central GABA(B)Rs in the hamster mutant, we performed pharmacological and receptor autoradiographic studies. Systemic administration of the GABA(B)R agonist (R)-baclofen (1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 mg/kg i.p.) produced pronounced antidystonic effects in the dt(sz) hamster. Striatal microinjections of baclofen (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 microg/0.5 microl) also strongly reduced the severity of dystonia. Single striatal administration of the selective GABA(B)R antagonist CGP 35348 [(3-Aminopropyl)(diethoxymethyl)phosphinic acid, 5 and 10 microg/0.5 microl] did not influence the severity of dystonia, but antagonized the antidystonic effect of baclofen. For receptor autoradiographic studies, [H3]-CGP 54626 ([S-(R*,R*)]-[3-[[1-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino]-2-hydroxypropyl](cyclohexylmethyl)phosphinic acid) binding was determined in dt(sz) hamsters in comparison to non-dystonic control hamsters. [H3]-CGP 54626 binding was not altered in motor areas but in some limbic structures of dt(sz) hamsters. In view of the absence of striatal changes in GABA(B) binding, the strong antidystonic effect of baclofen after its striatal microinjection is probably related to a suppression of a pathophysiologically increased synaptic activity.
Various stimuli, such as ischemia/hypoxia enhance newborn cell survival in the subventricular zone and their migration tangentially in chains toward the olfactory bulb. The present study assessed the fate of newborn neurons from subventricular zone to olfactory bulb under conditions of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, and examined the role of cAMP-responsive element binding protein signaling on the survival of these neurons by using cilostazol, a potent inhibitor of type III phosphodiesterase. Rats underwent bilateral common carotid artery ligation. They were divided into sham-operated (n=70), vehicle- (n=70), and type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor-treated (n=70) groups. Immunohistochemically-stained section for 5-bromodeoxyuridine and a series of neuronal and glial markers were analyzed at days 7, 14, 21 and 28 after hypoperfusion. The reduction of olfactory bulb size gradually progressed in the vehicle group (P&lt;0.05), but not in the sham-operated and type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor-treated group. The subventricular zone of the vehicle-treated rats contained significantly larger numbers of newborn neuroblasts after hypoperfusion, compared with sham-operated rats (P&lt;0.05), but significantly lower numbers in the rostral migratory stream and olfactory bulb (P&lt;0.05). Treatment of rats with type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor increased the number of neuroblasts and enhanced the survival and differentiation of cells (P&lt;0.05). Phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein within neuroblasts was markedly decreased in the subventricular zone, rostral migratory stream, and olfactory bulb of vehicle-treated rats (P&lt;0.05), but treatment with type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor resulted in recovery of this expression throughout hypoperfusion, leading to enhanced neurogenesis (P&lt;0.05). These effects were abrogated by protein kinase A and C inhibitor. Our results indicated that cAMP-responsive element binding protein signaling is a key mediator of neurogenesis after prolonged hypoperfusion and provide the basis for new regenerative therapies for ischemic brain injury.
The present study investigated the central connections of motor neurons innervating the thyroarytenoid laryngeal muscle that is active in swallowing, respiration and vocalization. In both intact and sympathectomized rats, the pseudorabies virus (PRV) was inoculated into the muscle. After initial infection of laryngomotor neurons in the ipsilateral loose division of the nucleus ambiguus (NA) by 3 days post-inoculation, PRV spread to the ipsilateral compact portion of the NA, the central and intermediate divisions of the nucleus tractus solitarii, the Botzinger complex, and the parvicellular reticular formation by 4 days. Infection was subsequently expanded to include the ipsilateral granular and dysgranular parietal insular cortex, the ipsilateral medial division of the central nucleus of the amygdala, the lateral, paraventricular, ventrolateral and medial preoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus (generally bilaterally), the lateral periaqueductal gray, the A7 and oral and caudal pontine nuclei. At the latest time points sampled post-inoculation (5 days), infected neurons were identified in the ipsilateral agranular insular cortex, the caudal parietal insular cortex, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the contralateral motor cortex. In the amygdala, infection had spread to the lateral central nucleus and the parvicellular portion of the basolateral nucleus. Hypothalamic infection was largely characterized by an increase in the number of infected cells in earlier infected regions though the posterior, dorsomedial, tuberomammillary and mammillary nuclei contained infected cells. Comparison with previous connectional data suggests PRV followed three interconnected systems originating in the forebrain; a bilateral system including the ventral anterior cingulate cortex, periaqueductal gray and ventral respiratory group; an ipsilateral system involving the parietal insular cortex, central nucleus of the amygdala and parvicellular reticular formation, and a minor contralateral system originating in motor cortex. Hypothalamic innervation involved several functionally specific nuclei. Overall, the data imply complex CNS control over the multi-functional thyroarytenoid muscle.
Diabetic encephalopathy is characterized by impaired cognitive functions that appear to underlie neuronal damage triggered by glucose driven oxidative stress. Hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress in diabetic brain may initiate structural and functional changes in synaptosomal membranes. The objective of the present study was to examine the neuroprotective role of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in hyperglycemia-induced alterations in lipid composition and activity of membrane bound enzymes (Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase) in the rodent model of type 1 diabetes. Male Wistar rats weighing between 180 and 200 g were rendered diabetic by a single injection of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg body weight, i.p.). The diabetic animals were administered NAC (1.4-1.5 g/kg body weight) for eight weeks and lipid composition along with membrane fluidity were determined. A significant increase in lipid peroxidation was observed in cerebral cortex of diabetic rats. NAC administration on the other hand lowered the hyperglycemia-induced lipid peroxidation to near control levels. The increased lipid peroxidation following chronic hyperglycemia was accompanied by a significant increase in the total lipids which can be attributed to increase in the levels of cholesterol, triglycerides and glycolipids. On the contrary phospholipid and ganglioside levels were decreased. Hyperglycemia-induced increase in cholesterol to phospholipid ratio reflected decrease in membrane fluidity. Fluorescence polarization (p) with DPH also confirmed decrease in synaptosomal membrane fluidity that influenced the activity of membrane bound enzymes. An inverse correlation was found between fluorescence polarization with the activities of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (r(2)=0.416, P&lt;0.05) and Ca(2+) ATPase (r(2)=0.604, P&lt;0.05). NAC was found to significantly improve lipid composition, restore membrane fluidity and activity of membrane bound enzymes. Our results clearly suggest perturbations in lipid composition and membrane fluidity as a major factor in the development of diabetic encephalopathy. Furthermore, NAC administration ameliorated the effect of hyperglycemia on oxidative stress and alterations in lipid composition thereby restoring membrane fluidity and activity of membrane bound enzymes.
Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) within the medial forebrain bundle of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) facilitates consolidation of implicit and explicit memories for a variety of learning paradigms in rats. However, the neural and molecular mechanisms involved in memory facilitation by ICSS are not known. Here, we investigated the influence of ICSS treatment on hippocampal gene expression in order to identify potential signaling pathways and cellular processes involved in ICSS-mediated cognitive improvements. Immunohistochemistry studies demonstrated that ICSS caused a rapid induction of c-Fos expression in hippocampal cornu ammonis (CA) 3 and dentatus gyrus areas. Moreover, using microarray or quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis, we showed that ICSS modulates the expression of 62 hippocampal genes shortly after training. Most of the proteins encoded by these genes, such as calmodulin-dependent-phosphodiesterase 1 A (Pde1a), are part of signal transduction machineries or are related to anti-apoptosis, as heat shock 70 kDa protein 1A (Hspa1a). Importantly, 10 of the regulated genes have been previously related with learning and memory or neural plasticity, including the cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (Cart), adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 (Adcyap1), serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase (Sgk), Ret proto-oncogene (Ret), and Fos. The fact that the Fos gene was differentially expressed in our microarray experiments validated our findings from our immunohistochemical studies mentioned above. In addition, using quantitative real-time PCR, we confirmed the observed expression changes for several of the genes identified by our microarray analyses. Our results suggest that ICSS may facilitate learning and memory by regulation of multiple signaling pathways in the hippocampus that may promote neuroplasticity.
ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels may be linked to mechanisms of pain after nerve injury, but remain under-investigated in primary afferents so far. We therefore characterized these channels in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, and tested whether they contribute to hyperalgesia after spinal nerve ligation (SNL). We compared K(ATP) channel properties between DRG somata classified by diameter into small or large, and by injury status into neurons from rats that either did or did not become hyperalgesic after SNL, or neurons from control animals. In cell-attached patches, we recorded basal K(ATP) channel opening in all neuronal subpopulations. However, higher open probabilities and longer open times were observed in large compared to small neurons. Following SNL, this channel activity was suppressed only in large neurons from hyperalgesic rats, but not from animals that did not develop hyperalgesia. In contrast, no alterations of channel activity developed in small neurons after axotomy. On the other hand, cell-free recordings showed similar ATP sensitivity, inward rectification and unitary conductance (70-80 pS) between neurons classified by size or injury status. Likewise, pharmacological sensitivity to the K(ATP) channel opener diazoxide, and to the selective blockers glibenclamide and tolbutamide, did not differ between groups. In large neurons, selective inhibition of whole-cell ATP-sensitive potassium channel current (I(K(ATP))) by glibenclamide depolarized resting membrane potential (RMP). The contribution of this current to RMP was also attenuated after painful axotomy. Using specific antibodies, we identified SUR1, SUR2, and Kir6.2 but not Kir6.1 subunits in DRGs. These findings indicate that functional K(ATP) channels are present in normal DRG neurons, wherein they regulate RMP. Alterations of these channels may be involved in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. Their biophysical and pharmacological properties are preserved even after axotomy, suggesting that K(ATP) channels in primary afferents remain available for therapeutic targeting against established neuropathic pain.
Glaucoma is a progressive neuropathy characterized by loss of vision as a result of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death. There are no effective neuroprotectants to treat this disorder. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is well known to transiently delay RGC death in ocular hypertensive eyes. The CNS-specific leucine-rich repeat protein LINGO-1 contributes to the negative regulation to some trophic pathways. We thereby examined whether BDNF combined with LINGO-1 antagonists can promote long-term RGC survival after ocular hypertension. In this study, intraocular pressure was elevated in adult rats using an argon laser to photocoagulate the episcleral and limbal veins. BDNF alone shows slight neuroprotection to RGCs after a long-term progress of 4 weeks following the induction of ocular hypertension. However, combination of BDNF and LINGO-1-Fc prevents RGC death in the same condition. We further identified that (1) LINGO-1 was co-expressed with BDNF receptor, TrkB in the RGCs, and (2) BDNF combined with LINGO-1-Fc activated more TrkB in the injured retina compared to BDNF alone. These results indicate that the combination of BDNF with LINGO-1 antagonist can provide long-term protection for RGCs in a chronic ocular hypertension model. TrkB may be the predominant mediator of this neuroprotection.
The pontine parabrachial nucleus (PBN) has been implicated in the modulation of ingestion and contains high levels of mu-opioid receptors (MOPRs). In previous work, stimulating MOPRs by infusing the highly selective MOPR agonist [d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) into the lateral parabrachial region (LPBN) increased food intake. The highly selective MOPR antagonist d-Phe-Cys-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP) prevented the hyperphagic action of DAMGO. The present experiments aimed to analyze both the pattern of neural activation and the underlying cellular processes associated with MOPR activation in the LPBN. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a unilateral microinfusion of a nearly maximal hyperphagic dose of DAMGO into the LPBN. We then determined the level of c-Fos immunoreactivity in regions throughout the brain. MOPR activation in the LPBN increased c-Fos in the LPBN and in the nucleus accumbens, hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus and hippocampus. Pretreatment with CTAP prevented the increase in c-Fos translation in each of these areas. CTAP also prevented the coupling of MOPRs to their G-proteins which was measured by [(35)S] guanosine 5'-O-[gamma-thio]triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) autoradiography. Together, these data strongly suggest that increasing the coupling of MOPRs to their G-proteins in the LPBN disinhibits parabrachial neurons which subsequently leads to excitation of neurons in regions associated with caloric regulation, ingestive reward and cognitive processes in feeding.
The present study assessed the possible pronociceptive role of peripheral and spinal 5-HT(6) receptors in the formalin test. For this, local peripheral administration of selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists N-[3,5-dichloro-2-(methoxy)phenyl]-4-(methoxy)-3-(1-piperazinyl)-benzenesulphonamide (SB-399885) (0.01-1 nmol/paw) and 4-iodo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)phenyl]benzene-sulfonamide hydrochloride (SB-258585) (0.001-0.1 nmol/paw) significantly reduced formalin-induced flinching. Local peripheral serotonin (5-HT) (10-100 nmol/paw) or 5-chloro-2-methyl-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)-1H-indole hydrochloride (EMD-386088) (0.01-0.1 nmol/paw; a selective 5-HT(6) receptor agonist) augmented 0.5% formalin-induced nociceptive behavior. The local pronociceptive effect of 5-HT (100 nmol/paw) or EMD-386088 (0.1 nmol/paw) was significantly reduced by SB-399885 or SB-258585 (0.1 nmol/paw). In contrast to peripheral administration, intrathecal injection of 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists SB-399885 and SB-258585 (0.1-10 nmol/rat) did not modify 1% formalin-induced nociceptive behavior. Spinal 5-HT (50-200 nmol/rat) significantly reduced formalin-induced flinching behavior during phases 1 and 2. Contrariwise, intrathecal EMD-386088 (0.1-10 nmol/rat) dose-dependently increased flinching during phase 2. The spinal pronociceptive effect of EMD-386088 (1 nmol/rat) was reduced by SB-399885 (1 nmol/rat) and SB-258585 (0.1 nmol/rat). Our results suggest that 5-HT(6) receptors play a pronociceptive role in peripheral as well as spinal sites in the rat formalin test. Thus, 5-HT(6) receptors could be a target to develop analgesic drugs.
Co-cultures of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with neurons from the rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) showed enhanced neuritogenesis and synaptogenesis. Microarray analysis for upregulated genes in adipocyte/DRG co-cultures currently points to apolipoproteins D and E (ApoD, ApoE) as influential proteins. We therefore tested adipocyte-secreted cholesterol and the carrier proteins ApoD and ApoE3. Cholesterol, ApoD, and ApoE3 each increased neurite outgrowth and upregulated the expression of presynaptic synaptophysin and synaptotagmin, as well as the postsynaptic density protein 95. The neurotrophic effects of ApoD and ApoE3 were associated with an increased expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor and apolipoprotein E receptor 2. Simultaneous treatment with receptor-associated protein, an apolipoprotein receptor antagonist, inhibited the neurotrophic function of both apolipoproteins. The application of ApoD, ApoE3, and cholesterol to DRG cell cultures corresponded with increased expression of the chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1 and its receptor CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4). Surprisingly, the inhibition of CXCR4 by the antagonistic drug AMD3100 decreased the apolipoprotein/cholesterol dependent neurotrophic effects. We thus assume that apolipoprotein-induced neuritogenesis in DRG cells interferes with CXCR4 signaling, and that adipocyte-derived apolipoproteins might be helpful in nerve repair.
Glutamate-induced neural cell death is mediated by excitotoxicity and oxidative stress. Treatment of glutamate toxicity with estrogen and its related compounds for neuroprotection remains controversial. In this study, we examined the effects of selective estrogen receptor (ER) ligands on glutamate toxicity and found that R,R-tetrahydrochrysene (R,R-THC), an antagonist of ERbeta and agonist of ERalpha, has neuroprotective effects against glutamate-induced death in primary rat cortical cells and mouse N29/4 hypothalamic cells. The protective effect of R,R-THC was dose-dependent and was maintained even when added several hours after the initial glutamate exposure. R,R-THC blocked glutamate-induced depletion of intracellular glutathione, increased superoxide dismutase activity, and protected cells from hydrogen peroxide-induced death. R,R-THC also prevented glutamate-induced nuclear translocation of apoptotic inducing factor and release of mitochondrial cytochrome c. The protective effect of R,R-THC was blocked by methyl-piperidino-pyrazole (MPP; an ERalpha antagonist) in glutamate-treated cortical cells, and pretreatment with MK-801 (an NMDA receptor antagonist) but not CNQX (an AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist) increased cell survival. On the other hand, MPP did not block the protective effect of R,R-THC in glutamate-treated N29/4 cells, and neither MK-801 nor CNQX conferred protection. Activation of ERalpha and/or ERbeta with 17beta-estradiol (E2), propyl-pyrazole-triol or diarylpropionitrile did not provide effective neuroprotection, and pretreatment with ICI 182,780 did not inhibit the protective effect of R,R-THC in either type of cell. These results suggest that the use of ER agonists (including E2) has limited beneficial effects when both excitotoxicity and oxidative stress occur. In contrast to agonists of ERs, R,R-THC, which possesses anti-excitotoxic and antioxidant actions via ER-dependent and -independent pathways, provides significant neuroprotection.
Most types of congenital and acquired hearing loss are caused by loss of sensory hair cells in the inner ear and their respective afferent neurons. Replacement of spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) would therefore be one prioritized step in an attempt to restore sensory neuronal hearing loss. To initiate an SGN repair paradigm we previously transplanted embryonic neuronal tissue and stem cells (SC) into the inner ear in vivo. The results illustrated good survival of the implant. One such repair, however, would not have any clinical significance unless central connections from the implanted SGN could be established. For the purpose of evaluating the effects of cell transplantation on cochlear nucleus (CN) neurons we have established organotypic brain stem (BS) cultures containing the CN. At present we have used in vitro techniques to study the survival and differentiation of tau-green fluorescent protein (GFP) mouse embryonic stem cells (MESC) as a mono- or co-culture with BS slices. For the co-culture, 300 mum thick auditory BS slices encompassing the CN were prepared from postnatal Sprague-Dawley rats. The slices were propagated using the membrane interface method and the CN neurons labeled with DiI. After 5+/-2 days in culture a tau-GFP MESC suspension was deposited next to CN in the BS slice. Following deposition the MESC migrated towards the CN. One and two weeks after transplantation the co-cultures were fixed and immunostained with antibodies raised against neuroprogenitor, neuronal, glial and synaptic vesicle protein markers. Our experiments with the tau-GFP MESC and auditory BS co-cultures show a significant MESC survival but also differentiation into neuronal cells. The findings illustrate the significance of SC and auditory BS co-cultures regarding survival, migration, neuronal differentiation and connections.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are active at resting membrane potential and thus contribute to neuronal excitability. Their increased activity has recently been demonstrated in models of nerve injury-induced pain. The major aim of the current study was to investigate altered HCN channel protein expression in trigeminal sensory neurons following inflammation of the dura. HCN1 and HCN2 channel immunoreactivity was observed on the membranes of medium- to large-sized trigeminal ganglion neurons with 76% and 85% of HCN1 and HCN2 expressing neurons also containing the 200 kDa neurofilament protein (associated with myelinated fibers). Western immunoblots of lysates from rat trigeminal ganglia also showed bands with appropriate molecular weights for HCN1 and HCN2. Three days after application of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) to the dura mater, Western blot band densities were significantly increased; compared to control, to 166% for HCN1 and 284% for HCN2 channel protein. The band densities were normalized against alpha-actin. In addition, the number of retrogradely labeled neurons from the dura expressing HCN1 and HCN2 was significantly increased to 247% (HCN1) and 171% (HCN2), three days after inflammation. When the opioid receptor partial agonist, buprenorphine, was given systemically, immediately after CFA, the inflammation-induced increase in HCN protein expression in both Western blot and immunohistochemical experiments was not observed. These results suggest that HCN1 and HCN2 are involved in inflammation-induced sensory neuron hyperexcitability, and indicate that an opioid receptor agonist can reverse the protein upregulation.
A multicenter randomized clinical trial demonstrated that acute ischemic stroke patients treated with edaravone, a scavenger of hydroxyl radicals, had significant functional improvement. We tested the hypothesis that edaravone has protective effects against white matter lesions (WML) and endothelial injury, using a rat chronic hypoperfusion model. Adult Wistar rats underwent ligation of bilateral common carotid artery (LBCCA) and were divided into the edaravone group (injected once only immediately after LBCCA [n=39, ED(1)]; and injected on three consecutive days [n=39, ED(3)]), the vehicle group (n=39), and the sham group (n=15). Cerebral blood flow, Morris water maze performance, footprint test for locomotor function, immunohistochemical analyses and Western blot analysis were performed before and after LBCCA. The ED(3) group upregulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase and attenuated Evans Blue extravasation at day 3 after LBCCA (P&lt;0.05). Edaravone markedly suppressed accumulation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified protein and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (P&lt;0.01), and loss of oligodendrocytes (P&lt;0.05) in the cerebral white matter at days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 after LBCCA. These results were more evident in the ED(3) group. Moreover, at day 21 after LBCCA, spatial memory but not motor function, and axonal damage were significantly improved by three-time treatment of edaravone (P&lt;0.05). Our results indicated that 3-day treatment with edaravone provides protection against WML through endothelial protection and free radical scavenging and suggested that edaravone is potentially useful for the treatment of cognitive impairment.
The majority of the studies on the actions of estrogens in the ventrolateral part of the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMNvl) concern the factors that modulate the receptive component of the feminine sexual behavior and the expression of molecular markers of neuronal activation. To further our understanding of the factors that regulate synaptic plasticity in the female VMNvl, we have examined the effects of estradiol and progesterone, and of estrogen receptor (ER) subtype selective ligands on the number of dendritic and spine synapses established by individual VMNvl neurons and on sexual behavior. In contrast to earlier studies that analyzed synapse densities, our results show that exogenous estradiol increases the number of spine as well as of dendritic synapses, irrespective of the dose and regimen of administration. They also reveal that an effective dose of estradiol administered as one single pulse induces the formation of more synapses than the same dose administered as two pulses on consecutive days. Our results further show that both ER subtypes are involved in the mediation of the synaptogenic effects of estrogens on VMNvl neurons since the administration of the selective ERalpha, propyl-pyrazole-triol (PPT), and ERbeta, diarylpropionitrile (DPN), agonists induced a significant increase in the number of synapses that, however, was more exuberant for PPT. Despite its relevant role in feminine sexual behavior, progesterone had no synaptogenic effect in the VMNvl as no changes in synapse numbers were noticed in rats treated with progesterone alone, with estradiol followed by progesterone or with the antiprogestin mifepristone (RU486). Except for the sequential administration of estradiol and progesterone, none of the regimens was associated with lordosis response to vaginocervical stimulation. Therefore, from the sex steroids that undergo cyclic variations over the estrous cycle, only estrogens, acting through both ERalpha and ERbeta, play a key role in the activation of the neural circuits involving the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus.
The plasma membrane calcium extrusion mechanism, PMCA (plasma membrane calcium ATPase) isoform 2 is richly expressed in the brain and particularly the cerebellum. Whilst PMCA2 is known to interact with a variety of proteins to participate in important signalling events [Strehler EE, Filoteo AG, Penniston JT, Caride AJ (2007) Plasma-membrane Ca(2+) pumps: structural diversity as the basis for functional versatility. Biochem Soc Trans 35 (Pt 5):919-922], its molecular interactions in brain synapse tissue are not well understood. An initial proteomics screen and a biochemical fractionation approach identified PMCA2 and potential partners at both pre- and post-synaptic sites in synapse-enriched brain tissue from rat. Reciprocal immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down approaches confirmed that PMCA2 interacts with the post-synaptic proteins PSD95 and the NMDA glutamate receptor subunits NR1 and NR2a, via its C-terminal PDZ (PSD95/Dlg/ZO-1) binding domain. Since PSD95 is a well-known partner for the NMDA receptor this raises the exciting possibility that all three interactions occur within the same post-synaptic signalling complex. At the pre-synapse, where PMCA2 was present in the pre-synapse web, reciprocal immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down approaches identified the pre-synaptic membrane protein syntaxin-1A, a member of the SNARE complex, as a potential partner for PMCA2. Both PSD95-PMCA2 and syntaxin-1A-PMCA2 interactions were also detected in the molecular and granule cell layers of rat cerebellar sagittal slices by immunohistochemistry. These specific molecular interactions at cerebellar synapses may allow PMCA2 to closely control local calcium dynamics as part of pre- and post-synaptic signalling complexes.
Olfactory disorders are common in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). In IPD patients with hyposmia olfactory event-related potentials (ERPs) are typically found to be delayed or absent. Altered ERPs in IPD patients may also be consistent with reduced neuronal activity in the medial temporal lobe following olfactory stimulation, as demonstrated by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We analyzed ERPs and fMRI scans of hyposmic IPD patients (n=18) to gain further insight about the brain regions involved in generation of olfactory ERPs. Patients were separated into two groups (n=9 per group), based on the detectability (+) or non-detectability (-) of ERPs. Central activation during olfactory stimulation was examined using fMRI. Both ERP+ and ERP- patients showed activity in brain areas relevant to olfactory processing, such as the amygdala, parahippocampal regions, and temporal regions (BA 37, 21/22). Comparison of both groups revealed higher activation in ERP+ patients, especially in the amygdala, parahippocampal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47), insula, cingulate gyrus, striatum, and inferior temporal gyrus. The relationship between the expression of olfactory ERPs and cortical activation patterns seen during olfactory stimulation in fMRI in IPD patients supports the idea that ERPs are a sensitive marker of neurodegeneration in olfactory regions. In accordance with current neuropathological staging concepts, olfactory ERPs may be reflecting pathological changes in olfactory regions, independent of the typically observed nigro-striatal degeneration in IPD. Reduced activation of primary olfactory areas in the ERP-group may reflect a severe disruption of olfactory processing in these patients.

Social vocalizations are particularly important stimuli in an animal's auditory environment. Because of their importance, vocalizations should be strongly represented in auditory pathways. Mice commonly emit ultrasonic vocalizations with spectral content between 45 and 100 kHz. However, there is limited representation of these ultra-high frequencies (particularly those greater than 60 kHz) throughout the ascending auditory system. Here, we show that neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of mice respond strongly to conspecific vocalizations even though the energy in the vocalizations is above the neurons' frequency tuning curves. This results in an over-representation of species-specific vocalizations in the IC. In addition, neurons in mouse IC show selectivity among different vocalizations. Many vocalization-responsive neurons do not respond to the individual ultrasonic frequencies contained within the vocalizations, but they do respond to combinations of ultrasonic tones if the difference between the tones is within the excitatory frequency tuning curve. The combinations of tones that elicit responses are the quadratic and/or cubic intermodulation distortion components that are generated by the cochlea. Thus, the intermodulation distortions in the cochlea may provide a previously overlooked mechanism for auditory processing of complex stimuli such as vocalizations. The implication of these findings is that nonlinear interactions of frequencies, possibly caused by distortions in the system, may be used to enhance the sensitivity to behaviorally important stimuli.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a tissue globin specifically expressed in neurons. Our laboratory and others have shown that Ngb overexpression protects neurons against hypoxia/ischemia, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Recent studies demonstrate that hypoxia/ischemia induces a multitude of spatially and temporally regulated responses in gene expression, and initial evidence suggested that Ngb might function in altering biological processes of gene expression. In this study, we asked how Ngb may help regulate genes responsive to hypoxia. Expression of hypoxic response genes following oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) was examined using mRNA arrays in neuroglobin-overexpressing transgenic (Ngb-Tg) and wild type (WT) mouse neurons. From a total of 113 genes on the microarray, mRNA expression of 65 genes was detected. Under rest condition, 14 genes were downregulated in Ngb-Tg neurons compared to WT. In WT neurons, after 4-h OGD followed by 4-h reoxygenation (O4/R4), 20 genes were significantly downregulated, and only Fos mRNA was significantly increased. However, out of the 20 downregulated genes in WT neurons, 12 of them were no longer significantly changed in Ngb-Tg neurons: Add1, Arnt2, Camk2g, Cstb, Dr1, Epas1, Gna11, Hif1a, Il6st, Khsrp, Mars and Rara. Among these 12 genes, 8 (Add1, Camk2g, Cstb, Dr1, Epas1, Gna11, Hif1a, Khsrp) were already reduced in Ngb-Tg neurons compared to WT under rest conditions. Additionally, three genes that initially showed no changes in WT neurons (Ctgf, Egfr and Pea15) were downregulated after OGD in the Ngb-Tg neurons. These findings suggest that Ngb overexpression modulates mRNA expression of multiple hypoxic response genes in the early phase after OGD/reoxygenation. Further studies on these gene networks and interactions may lead to better understanding of Ngb in signaling pathways that contribute to neuroprotection.
The Golgi complex plays a key role in cholesterol trafficking in cells. Our earlier study demonstrated amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) alters cholesterol distribution and abundance in the Golgi complex of astrocytes. We now test the hypothesis that the Abeta-induced increase in Golgi complex cholesterol is due to retrograde movement of the cholesterol carrier protein caveolin-1 from the cell plasma membrane to the Golgi complex in astrocytes. Results with mouse primary astrocytes indicated that Abeta(1-42)-induced increase in cholesterol and caveolin abundance in the Golgi complex was accompanied by a reduction in cholesterol and caveolin levels in the plasma membrane. Transfected rat astrocytes (DITNC1) with siRNA directed at caveolin-1 mRNA inhibited the Abeta(1-42)-induced redistribution of both cholesterol and caveolin from the plasma membrane to the Golgi complex. In astrocytes not treated with Abeta(1-42), suppression of caveolin-1 expression also significantly reduced cholesterol abundance in the Golgi complex, further demonstrating the role for caveolin in retrograde transport of cholesterol from the plasma membrane to the Golgi complex. Perturbation of this process by Abeta(1-42) could have consequences on membrane structure and cellular functions requiring optimal levels of cholesterol.
The integral membrane protein synaptophysin is one of the most abundant polypeptide components of synaptic vesicles. It is not essential for neurotransmission despite its abundance but is believed to modulate the efficiency of the synaptic vesicle cycle. Detailed behavioral analyses were therefore performed on synaptophysin knockout mice to test whether synaptophysin affects higher brain functions. We find that these animals are more exploratory than their wild type counterparts examining novel objects more closely and intensely in an enriched open field arena. We also detect impairments in learning and memory, most notably reduced object novelty recognition and reduced spatial learning. These deficits are unlikely caused by impaired vision, since all electroretinographic parameters measured were indistinguishable from those in wild type controls although an inverse optomotor reaction was observed. Taken together, our observations demonstrate functional consequences of synaptophysin depletion in a living organism.
Individuals vary in the way in which they cope with stressful situations. It has been suggested that 'active' coping behaviour, characterised by aggression and territorial control, is more effective in moderating the stress associated with social defeat than 'passive' coping behaviour, as characterised by immobility, decreased reactivity, and low aggression. We used the rodent 'resident/intruder' paradigm to determine whether individual differences in coping behaviour modulate the acute adrenocortical response to social defeat. During the 10 min conflict episode, behaviours displayed by the intruder were recorded and subsequently scored. Intruders that engaged in large numbers of fights and/or frequently used physical structures to block the resident's approach (a behaviour referred to as 'guarding'), displayed smaller corticosterone responses to defeat than other intruders. Corticosterone responses to defeat were unrelated to a measure of coping style preferences (defensive burying test) obtained prior to the defeat encounter. We further chose to investigate the neurobiological basis of this observation by comparing the patterns of defeat-induced neuronal activation in the forebrains of intruders that displayed high versus low numbers of defensive behaviours during the defeat episode. The results of this analysis indicated that 'low fight' and 'low guard' intruders, i.e. those that achieved a fight or a guard score below the 20th percentile, had significantly higher numbers of Fos-positive neurons in forebrain regions such as the medial prefrontal cortex and the amygdala than did control animals exposed to an empty resident's cage. In summary, the present data suggest that 'active' coping behaviour is associated with both a smaller adrenocortical response and a lower level of 'neural activation' following social defeat. This outcome differs from that of earlier studies, a difference that we suggest is due to the fact that the present study is the first to assess coping on the basis of behaviour actually displayed during the conflict interaction.
Na(+),K(+)-ATPase contributes to the asymmetrical distribution of sodium and potassium ions across the plasma membrane and to maintenance of the membrane potential in many types of cells. Alterations in this protein may play a significant role in many human neurological disorders, including epilepsy. We studied expression of the alpha3 isoform of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the freeze lesion (FL) microgyrus model of developmental epileptogenesis to test the hypothesis that it is downregulated following neonatal cortical injury. FL and sham-operated rat brains were examined at postnatal day (P)7, P10, P14, P21-28 and P50-60 after placement of a transcranial freeze lesion at P0 or P1. Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were used to assess the expression of the alpha3 isoform of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (termed alpha3, or alpha3 subunit below) in neuropil and the perisomatic areas of pyramidal cells and parvalbumin-containing interneurons. There was a significant decrease (P&lt;0.05) in alpha3 subunit immunoreactivity (IR) in the neuropil of FL cortical layer V of the P14 and P21-28 groups that extended up to 360 mum from the border of the microgyrus, an area that typically exhibits evoked epileptiform activity. Alpha-3 was decreased in the perisomatic area of pyramidal but not parvalbumin-containing cells in P21-28 FL animals. A reduction in alpha3 mRNA was observed in the neuropil of FL cortical layer V up to 1610 mum from the microgyral edge. The developmental time course for expression of the alpha3 subunit between P7 and P60 was examined in naive rat cortices and results showed that there was a significant increase in alpha3 IR between P7 and P10. The significant decreases in Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the paramicrogyral cortex may contribute to epileptogenesis.
We present evidence, using biochemical and cellular approaches, that the kinase, CK2, negatively controls signaling via Galpha(s) (or Galpha(olf)) coupled to dopamine D1 and adenosine A2A receptors. Pharmacological inhibition of CK2 or CK2 knockdown by RNAi lead to elevated cAMP levels in dopamine D1 receptor-activated neuroblastoma cells. Phosphorylation levels of protein kinase A substrates were increased in the presence of CK2 inhibitors in mouse striatal slices. The effect of D1 receptor and A2A receptor agonists on the phosphorylation of protein kinase A sites was potentiated upon CK2 inhibition. Furthermore, in cell lines, we observed that reduction in CK2 activity, pharmacologically or genetically, reduced the amount of D1 receptor that was internalized in response to dopamine. Finally, the beta subunit of CK2 was found to interact specifically with the Galpha(s) subunit through protein interaction analyses. Thus CK2 can inhibit G protein-coupled receptor action by enabling faster receptor internalization, possibly through a direct association with Galpha(s).





A new dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand, (E)-N-(3-iodoprop-2-enyl)-2beta-carbofluoroethoxy-3beta-(4'-methyl-phenyl) nortropane (FE-PE2I, 6), derived from PE2I (1), was prepared and found to be a potent inhibitor of rodent DAT in vitro. Compound 6 was radiolabelled with fluorine-18 (t(1/2)=109.8 min) for PET studies in monkeys. In vivo PET measurements showed a regional distribution in brain that corresponds to the known distribution of DAT. This binding was specific, reversible and the kinetics of [(18)F]6 binding in brain were faster than for its lead compound, [(11)C]1. The possible presence of a hydroxymethyl-radiometabolite formed by oxidation in the 3beta-benzylic position of [(18)F]6 warrants further detailed evaluation of the metabolism of [(18)F]6. [(18)F]6 is a potential radioligand for imaging DATs in the human brain with PET.
The synthesis and SAR studies about the bicyclic amine, carbamate linker and aromatic ring of a 1,4-diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonane phenyl carbamate series of alpha7 nAChR agonists is described. The development of the medicinal chemistry strategy and SAR which led to the identification of 5 and 7aa as subtype selective, high affinity alpha7 agonists as excellent leads for further evaluation is discussed, along with key physicochemical and pharmacokinetic data highlighting their lead potential.
As biomedical research has moved increasingly towards experimentation on single cells and subcellular structures, there has been a need for microscale devices that can perform manipulation and stimulation at a correspondingly small scale. We propose a microelectrode array (MEA) featuring thickened microelectrodes with vertical sidewalls (VSW) to focus electrical fields horizontally on targets positioned in between paired electrodes. These microelectrodes were fabricated using gold electroplating that was molded by photolithographically patterned SU-8 photoresist. Finite element modeling showed that paired VSW electrodes produce more uniform electrical fields compared to conventional planar microelectrodes. Using paired microelectrodes, 3 microm thick and spaced 10 microm apart, we were able to perform local electroporation of individual axonal processes, as demonstrated by entry of EGTA to locally chelate intra-axonal calcium, quenching the fluorescence of a pre-loaded calcium indicator dye. The same electrode configuration was used to electroporate individual cells, resulting in the targeted transfection of a transgene expressing a cytoplasmically soluble green fluorescent protein (GFP). In addition to electroporation, our electrode configuration was also capable of precisely targeted field stimulation on individual neurons, resulting in action potentials that could be tracked by optical means. With its ability to deliver well-characterized electrical fields and its versatility, our configuration of paired VSW electrodes may provide the basis for a new tool for high-throughput and high-content experimentation in broad areas of neuroscience and biomedical research.
In the adult cerebellum, basket/stellate cells are scattered throughout the ML, but little is known about the process underlying the cell dispersion. To determine the allocation of stellate/basket cells within the ML, we examined their migration in the early postnatal mouse cerebellum. We found that after entering the ML, basket/stellate cells sequentially exhibit four distinct phases of migration. First, the cells migrated radially from the bottom to the top while exhibiting saltatory movement with a single leading process (Phase I). Second, the cells turned at the top and migrated tangentially in a rostro-caudal direction, with an occasional reversal of the direction of migration (Phase II). Third, the cells turned and migrated radially within the ML at a significantly reduced speed while repeatedly extending and withdrawing the leading processes (Phase III). Fourth, the cells turned at the middle and migrated tangentially at their slowest speed, while extending several dendrite-like processes after having completely withdrawn the leading process (Phase IV). Finally, the cells stopped and completed their migration. These results suggest that the dispersion of basket/stellate cells in the ML is controlled by the orchestrated activity of external guidance cues, cell-cell contact and intrinsic programs in a position- and time-dependent manner.
The adenosine A(2A) receptor in the basal ganglia is involved in the control of movement and plays a role in movement disorders such as Parkinsonism. Developing ligands to evaluate that receptor by noninvasive methods such as positron emission tomography has a high priority. In vitro radioligand binding guides the selection of ligands for in vivo application. This study measured the binding of the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist [(3)H]MSX-2 (3-(3-hydroxypropyl)-8-m-methoxystyryl)-7-methyl-1-propargylxanthine) to rat, mouse and pig brain by autoradiography. Other studies measured binding to membranes from PC12 pheochromocytoma cells. Those binding parameters were compared to those of the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist [(3)H]ZM241385 (4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin-5-ylamino)ethyl)phenol), the adenosine A(2A) receptor agonist [(3)H]CGS21680 (2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)-phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine) and the unselective adenosine receptor agonist [(3)H]NECA (5'N-ethylcarboxamido)adenosine). The potency order (K(d)) in the three species was [(3)H]ZM241385&lt;[(3)H]MSX-2&lt;[(3)H]NECA&lt;[(3)H]CGS21680. The density of [(3)H]MSX-2 binding sites was greater in the striatum than in the cortex. Preliminary ex vivo experiments showed that by 10min after iv injection, [(3)H]MSX-2 and [(3)H]CGS21680 crossed the blood-brain barrier to the extent of almost 1% ID/g brain tissue, but [(3)H]NECA and [(3)H]ZM241385 to only 0.2% ID/g. The prior administration of unlabeled ZM241385 significantly lowered brain uptake of [(3)H]MSX-2. In conclusion, [(3)H]MSX-2 has a high affinity and sufficient selectivity for the adenosine A(2A) receptor. It penetrates the blood-brain barrier. Sensitivity to photoisomerization is a limitation. Further investigations assess its suitability as a ligand for imaging the brain adenosine A(2A) receptor.
Cell-based therapies are attractive approaches to promote myelin repair. Recent studies demonstrated a reduction in disease burden in mice with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) treated with mouse mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Here, we demonstrated human bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-hMSCs) promote functional recovery in both chronic and relapsing-remitting models of mouse EAE, traced their migration into the injured CNS and assayed their ability to modulate disease progression and the host immune response. Injected BM-hMSCs accumulated in the CNS, reduced the extent of damage and increased oligodendrocyte lineage cells in lesion areas. The increase in oligodendrocytes in lesions may reflect BM-hMSC-induced changes in neural fate determination, since neurospheres from treated animals gave rise to more oligodendrocytes and less astrocytes than nontreated neurospheres. Host immune responses were also influenced by BM-hMSCs. Inflammatory T-cells including interferon gamma producing Th1 cells and IL-17 producing Th17 inflammatory cells and their associated cytokines were reduced along with concomitant increases in IL-4 producing Th2 cells and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Together, these data suggest that the BM-hMSCs represent a viable option for therapeutic approaches.
We investigated the role of PPAR gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC-1alpha) in muscle dysfunction in Huntington's disease (HD). We observed reduced PGC-1alpha and target genes expression in muscle of HD transgenic mice. We produced chronic energy deprivation in HD mice by administering the catabolic stressor beta-guanidinopropionic acid (GPA), a creatine analogue that reduces ATP levels, activates AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), which in turn activates PGC-1alpha. Treatment with GPA resulted in increased expression of AMPK, PGC-1alpha target genes, genes for oxidative phosphorylation, electron transport chain and mitochondrial biogenesis, increased oxidative muscle fibers, numbers of mitochondria and motor performance in wild-type, but not in HD mice. In muscle biopsies from HD patients, there was decreased PGC-1alpha, PGC-1beta and oxidative fibers. Oxygen consumption, PGC-1alpha, NRF1 and response to GPA were significantly reduced in myoblasts from HD patients. Knockdown of mutant huntingtin resulted in increased PGC-1alpha expression in HD myoblast. Lastly, adenoviral-mediated delivery of PGC-1alpha resulted increased expression of PGC-1alpha and markers for oxidative muscle fibers and reversal of blunted response for GPA in HD mice. These findings show that impaired function of PGC-1alpha plays a critical role in muscle dysfunction in HD, and that treatment with agents to enhance PGC-1alpha function could exert therapeutic benefits. Furthermore, muscle may provide a readily accessible tissue in which to monitor therapeutic interventions.
Ghrelin is a recently identified gastric hormone that displays strong growth hormone-releasing activity mediated by the growth hormone secretagogue receptor. While this unique endogenous peptide participates in the regulation of energy homeostasis, increases food intake, and decreases energy expenditure, its ability to inhibit the production of proinflammatory cytokines in vitro indicates its role in the regulation of inflammatory process in vivo. Here we examine the effect of exogenous ghrelin on the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a representative model of multiple sclerosis. In the C57BL/6 mouse model of EAE induced by sensitization to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein 35-55 peptide, we found that alternate-day s.c. injections of ghrelin (5 mug/kg/day) from day 1 to 35 significantly reduced the clinical severity of EAE. The suppression of EAE was accompanied by reduced mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 in the spinal cord cellular infiltrates and microglia from ghrelin-treated mice at the peak of disease, suggesting the role of ghrelin as an antiinflammatory hormone. Consistently, ghrelin significantly suppressed the production of proinflammatory cytokines in LPS-stimulated microglia in vitro. These results shed light on the new role of ghrelin in the regulation of inflammation with possible implications for management of human diseases.
The diagnosis of dementing disorders is severely hampered by the absence of reliable biomarkers that can be measured in body fluids such as blood, urine and cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF). Searching for biomarkers is hampered by the huge variability between individuals; the use of autopsy specimens induces significant data fluctuation due to rapid post-mortem changes in the specimens. The search for biomarkers obtained from living donors has contributed already a vast amount of data. The role of amyloid and tau as early diagnostic markers in the pathology of dementia has been reported in differential involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD), late onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD), Lewy Body dementia (DLBD), Vascular dementia, fronto-temporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and non neurological controls. In the coming decennia, brain/tissue/biobanks (BTB-banks) will have a major role in identifying the relevant biomarkers and will collect, preserve and type RNA and DNA extracted from brain/tissue/body fluids in order to update the pathological hallmarks of dementing disorders. The present paper reviews and compares the currently known/clinically applied biomarkers in dementia which can be identified and incorporated into clinical drug trials and elucidate proposed mechanisms of disease and drug action. Furthermore, the review screens a panel of biomarkers used for early and differential diagnosis and comments on the validity of these biomarkers in reflecting the typical hallmarks of neurological disorders.
The in vivo diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be facilitated by cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in combination with imaging and clinical assessments. By determining the concentration of beta amyloid fragments, total tau (t-tau) and phospho-tau (p-tau), it is possible to detect the conversion of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD or distinguish AD vs. pseudo-dementia. However, these markers are poorly sensitive to the progressive disease stages. And far from clear is their role in &quot;mixed&quot; forms of dementia, as far as hemodynamic deficits complicate the clinical history. We have studied cerebral hemodynamic impairment in AD patients, relative to control subjects. Mean flow velocity (MFV), pulsatility index (PI) and cerebrovascular reactivity (assayed as breath-holding index, BHI) were evaluated by bilateral transcranial Doppler (TCD) monitoring of middle cerebral arteries. MFV and BHI were significantly lower and PI was significantly higher in AD patients with respect to control subjects. The presence of white-matter changes (WMC) in the AD cases did not influence any of the hemodynamic variables. Noticeably, MMSE score was correlated to BHI reduction (P&lt;0.005). Our results, consistent with the recent literature indicate that hemodynamic impairment is a critical marker of cognitive decline and supports once more the hypothesis of a significant pathigenic role of vascular damage in AD. Similar functional alterations might be early hallmarks in a variety of dementia subtypes, including &quot;mixed&quot; dementia, whose prevalence is undoubtedly increased. Assessment of hemodynamic reactivity could provide valuable correlations with individual patient's cognitive profile, which in turn would assist in the identification of critical steps in disease progression and the validation of effective therapies.
Gangliosides are a family of sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids highly enriched in neuronal and glial membranes, where they play pleiotropic roles in nervous system function. In this glial cell biological study, we used mice deficient in glycosyltransferases involved in ganglioside biosynthesis to gain insights into the possible role of ganglioside overexpression or deficiency on glial cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation in vitro. Primary cultures of olfactory ensheathing cells, oligodendrocyte lineage cells, and Schwann cells isolated from beta1,4-N-acetylgalactosaminyl (beta1,4-GalNAc) transferase- and alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase-deficient mice demonstrated subtle differences in their behavior when compared with wild-type glia. Oligodendrocyte-axonal interactions were investigated in dissociated embryonic mixed spinal cord cultures in which axonal ensheathment with myelin internodes and organized nodes of Ranvier form. In these myelinating cultures, deficiency of complex gangliosides, as found in beta1,4-GalNAc T(-/-) mice, resulted in the temporal disorganization of K(v) and Na(+) channels at the nodes of Ranvier, similar to that seen in beta1,4-GalNAc T(-/-) mice in vivo. These data show that glycosyltransferase deficiency and the consequent ganglioside imbalance has subtle effects on a range of glial cell functions and that in vitro systems can be used to explore these in ways that complement whole animal physiology. Our results are also consistent with the absence of gross neurodevelopmental dysfunction in mice lacking a variety of different gangliosides, suggesting that ganglioside redundancy and substitution are mechanisms that compensate for the lack of a full complement of complex gangliosides.
In the central nervous system (CNS), central pattern generators (CPGs) are generally considered as specialized networks that can produce oscillatory motor output in the absence of any oscillatory input. For instance, respiration and mastication are among the critical biological functions well known to be controlled by such specialized networks. Several other CPGs have also been found specifically in the spinal cord. Among them, the CPG for locomotion is probably the most extensively studied rhythm- and pattern-generating network of the CNS. Other, less completely understood CPGs have also been associated with the control of scratching, micturition, and ejaculation. This review provides a brief update on CPG organization and function in the spinal cord and focuses on similarities and differences between these networks and their pharmacological modulation.
In order to evaluate proinflammatory cytokine levels and their producing cell types in the control aged rat brain and after acute excitotoxic damage, both adult and aged male Wistar rats were injected with N-methyl-D-aspartate in the striatum. At different survival times between 6 hr and 7 days after lesioning, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and by double immunofluorescence of cryostat sections by using cell-specific markers. Basal cytokine expression was attributed to astrocytes and was increased in the normal aged brain showing region specificity: TNF-alpha and IL-6 displayed age-dependent higher levels in the aged cortex, and IL-1beta and IL-6 in the aged striatum. After excitotoxic striatal damage, notable age-dependent differences in cytokine induction in the aged vs. the adult were seen. The adult injured striatum exhibited a rapid induction of all cytokines analyzed, but the aged injured striatum showed a weak induction of cytokine expression: IL-1beta showed no injury-induced changes at any time, TNF-alpha presented a late induction at 5 days after lesioning, and IL-6 was only induced at 6 hr after lesioning. At both ages, in the lesion core, all cytokines were early expressed by neurons and astrocytes, and by microglia/macrophages later on. However, in the adjacent lesion border, cytokines were found in reactive astrocytes. This study highlights the particular inflammatory response of the aged brain and suggests an important role of increased basal levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the reduced ability to induce their expression after damage.
We found that caffeine is a structural analogue of strychnine and a competitive antagonist at ionotropic glycine receptors (GlyRs). Docking simulations indicate that caffeine and strychnine may bind to similar sites at the GlyR. The R131A GlyR mutation, which reduces strychnine antagonism without suppressing activation by glycine, also reduces caffeine antagonism. GlyR subtypes have differing caffeine sensitivity. Tested against the EC(50) of each GlyR subtype, the order of caffeine potency (IC(50)) is: alpha2beta (248 +/- 32 microm) alpha3beta (255 +/- 16 microm) &gt; alpha4beta (517 +/- 50 microm) &gt; alpha1beta(837 +/- 132 microm). However, because the alpha3beta GlyR is more than 3-fold less sensitive to glycine than any of the other GlyR subtypes, this receptor is most effectively blocked by caffeine. The glycine dose-response curves and the effects of caffeine indicate that amphibian retinal ganglion cells do not express a plethora of GlyR subtypes and are dominated by the alpha1beta GlyR. Comparing the effects of caffeine on glycinergic spontaneous and evoked IPSCs indicates that evoked release elevates the glycine concentration at some synapses whereas summation elicits evoked IPSCs at other synapses. Caffeine serves to identify the pharmacophore of strychnine and produces near-complete inhibition of glycine receptors at concentrations commonly employed to stimulate ryanodine receptors.
The concentration of extracellular calcium plays a critical role in synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability as well as other physiological processes. The time course and extent of local fluctuations in the concentration of this ion largely depend on its effective diffusion coefficient (D*) and it has been speculated that fixed negative charges on chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and other components of the extracellular matrix may influence calcium diffusion because it is a divalent cation. In this study we used ion-selective microelectrodes combined with pressure ejection or iontophoresis of ions from a micropipette to quantify diffusion characteristics of neocortex and hippocampus in rat brain slices. We show that D* for calcium is less than the value predicted from the behaviour of the monovalent cation tetramethylammonium (TMA), a commonly used diffusion probe, but D* for calcium increases in both brain regions after the slices are treated with chondroitinase ABC, an enzyme that predominantly cleaves chondroitin sulphate glycans. These results suggest that CSPGs do play a role in determining the local diffusion properties of calcium in brain tissue, most likely through electrostatic interactions mediating rapid equilibrium binding. In contrast, chondroitinase ABC does not affect either the TMA diffusion or the extracellular volume fraction, indicating that the enzyme does not alter the structure of the extracellular space and that the diffusion of small monovalent cations is not affected by CSPGs in the normal brain ionic milieu. Both calcium and CSPGs are known to have many distinct roles in brain physiology, including brain repair, and our study suggests they may be functionally coupled through calcium diffusion properties.
Paroxysmal exercise-induced dyskinesias (PED) are involuntary intermittent movements triggered by prolonged physical exertion. Autosomal dominant inheritance may occur. Recently, mutations in the glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) gene (chr. 1p35-p31.3) have been identified as a cause in some patients with autosomal dominant PED. Mutations in this gene have previously been associated with the GLUT1 deficiency syndrome. We performed mutational analysis in 10 patients with apparently sporadic PED. We identified two novel GLUT1 mutations, at least one likely to be de-novo, in two of our patients. Onset was in early childhood. One of our patients had a predating history of childhood absence epilepsy and a current history of hemiplegic migraine as well as a family history of migraine. The other patient had no other symptoms apart from PED. Brain MRI showed cerebellar atrophy in one case. Mutations in GLUT1 are one cause of apparently sporadic PED. The detection of this has important implications for treatment as ketogenic diet has been reported to be beneficial.
Corticobasal syndrome (CBS) has been associated with a heterogeneous spectrum of pathologies with an increasing number of reports of Alzheimer's type pathology. There is, however, no means of predicting pathology of CBS in vivo at present. We compared the clinical features of patients presenting with CBS who have either pathologic changes of classic corticobasal degeneration (CBD) or Alzheimer's disease (AD) at post-mortem to identify predictors of the specific pathological processes in life. Twelve patients with CBS were followed prospectively; six had AD and six had classic CBD neuropathology. After review of the presenting clinical features, we identified nine potential predictor variables, compared their frequency in the two groups, and performed a discriminant function analysis. Initial episodic memory complaints and poor performance on the combined orientation-memory subtest of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination (ACE) reliably predicted AD pathology while varying combinations of early frontal-lobe type behavioral symptoms, nonfluent language disturbance, orobuccal apraxia, and utilization behavior predicted CBD pathology ante-mortem. CBS is frequently associated with Alzheimer's disease pathology. Early episodic memory impairment versus early behavioral symptomatology appears to best predict AD or CBD pathology in life.
To describe a family with a hereditary ferritinopathy (HF) due to a mutation in the ferritin light chain gene (FTL498-499InsTC mutation). Case reports of the clinical features, MRI, (18)FDG PET, and pathological findings observed in this family with two patients described in more details. Postural tremor (phenotype-1) or cerebellar signs (phenotype-2) were the first neurological symptoms detected. Parkinsonian, cerebellar and pyramidal syndromes, abnormal involuntary movements, dementia were observed in both phenotypes at more advanced stages. Beside characteristics T2* hypointense signals suggestive of iron accumulation in the striatum, mesencephalon, and cerebellum, we detected more diffuse changes including cerebellar, cortical and subcortical atrophy, cortical iron deposition, and severe leukoencephalopathy. (18)FDG PET showed frontal and cerebellum hypometabolism with more severe frontal defect in patients with cognitive decline. Pathological examination showed ferritin and iron deposition in the liver, kidney, muscle, skin, and in the central nervous system. Members of this family affected by HF due to the FTL498-499InsTC mutation have a specific clinical presentation with initial postural tremor or cerebellar ataxia, followed by pyramidal and extrapyramidal motor syndromes and late severe subcortical dementia.
Despite the fact that essential tremor (ET) is the most prevalent movement disorder, the underlying pathological mechanisms are not fully understood. There is accumulating evidence that this specific type of tremor is mainly of central origin, in particular involving inferior olive, cerebellum, thalamus, and primary motor cortex. We studied 8 patients with ET recording simultaneously neural activity with a whole-scalp neuromagnetometer and tremor activity with surface electromyography (EMG). Subjects performed an isometric contraction of the left forearm. Tremor frequency of 5 to 7 Hz and its first harmonic were clearly evident in power spectra of EMG recordings. We used the localization technique dynamic imaging of coherent sources (DICS) to identify cerebral areas coherent to the EMG signal at tremor frequency and its first harmonic. All subjects showed coherence to the contralateral primary motor cortex. In a further step, DICS was used to identify areas of significant cerebro-cerebral coherence. The analysis revealed a network of areas consisting of contralateral primary motor cortex, premotor cortex, thalamus, brainstem, and ipsilateral cerebellum. These results are consistent with the view that in ET, a network of cerebral areas including brainstem shows oscillatory interactions, which lead to a rhythmic modulation of muscle activity becoming apparent as tremor.
Different brain structures accumulate iron at different rates throughout the adult life span. Typically, striatal and brain stem structures are higher in iron concentrations in older than younger adults, whereas cortical white matter and thalamus have lower concentrations in the elderly than young adults. Brain iron can be measured in vivo with MRI by estimating the relaxivity increase across magnetic field strengths, which yields the Field-Dependent Relaxation Rate Increase (FDRI) metric. The influence of local iron deposition on susceptibility, manifests as MR phase effects, forms the basis for another approach for iron measurement, Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging (SWI), for which imaging at only one field strength is sufficient. Here, we compared the ability of these two methods to detect and quantify brain iron in 11 young (5 men, 6 women; 21 to 29 years) and 12 elderly (6 men, 6 women; 64 to 86 years) healthy adults. FDRI was acquired at 1.5 T and 3.0 T, and SWI was acquired at 1.5 T. The results showed that both methods detected high globus pallidus iron concentration regardless of age and significantly greater iron in putamen with advancing age. The SWI measures were more sensitive when the phase signal intensities themselves were used to define regions of interest, whereas FDRI measures were robust to the method of region of interest selection. Further, FDRI measures were more highly correlated than SWI iron estimates with published postmortem values and were more sensitive than SWI to iron concentration differences across basal ganglia structures. Whereas FDRI requires more imaging time than SWI, two field strengths, and across-study image registration for iron concentration calculation, FDRI appears more specific to age-dependent accumulation of non-heme brain iron than SWI, which is affected by heme iron and non-iron source effects on phase.
Studying of the impact of social context on the perception of pain in others is important for understanding the role of intentionality in interpersonal sensitivity, empathy, and implicit moral reasoning. Here we used an event-related fMRI with pain and social context (i.e., the number of individuals in the stimuli) as the two factors to investigate how different social contexts and resulting perceived agency modulate the neural response to the perception of pain in others. Twenty-six healthy participants were scanned while presented with short dynamic visual stimuli depicting painful situations accidentally caused by or intentionally caused by another individual. The main effect of perception of pain was associated with signal increase in the aMCC, insula, somatosensory cortex, SMA and PAG. Importantly, perceiving the presence of another individual led to specific hemodynamic increase in regions involved in representing social interaction and emotion regulation including the temporoparietal junction, medial prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus, and orbitofrontal cortex. Furthermore, the functional connectivity pattern between the left amygdala and other brain areas was modulated by the perceived agency. Our study demonstrates that the social context in which pain occurs modulate the brain response to other's pain. This modulation may reflect successful adaptation to potential danger present in a social interaction. Our results contribute to a better understanding of the neural mechanisms underpinning implicit moral reasoning that concern actions that can harm other people.
Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) is a recently developed medical imaging method which could enable fast neural imaging in the brain by recording the resistance changes which occur as ion channels open during neuronal depolarization. In published studies in animal models with intracranial electrodes, changes of 0.005 to 3% have been reported but the amplitude of changes in the human is not known. The purpose of this work was to determine if resistance changes could be recorded non-invasively in humans during evoked activity which could form the basis for EIT of fast neural activity. Resistance was recorded with scalp electrodes during 2 Hz pattern visual evoked responses over 10 min using an insensible 1 Hz square wave constant current of 0.1-1 mA. Significant resistance decreases of 0.0010+/-0.0005% (0.30+/-0.15 microV, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 2:1, n=16 recordings over 6 subjects) (mean+/-SE) were recorded. These are in broad agreement with modelling which estimated changes of 0.0039+/-0.0034% (1.03+/-0.75 microV) using an anatomically realistic finite element model. This is the first demonstration of such changes in humans and so encourages the belief that EIT could be used for neural imaging. Unfortunately, the signal-to-noise ratio was not sufficient to permit imaging at present because recording over multiple injection sites needed for imaging would require impractically long recording times. However, in the future, invasive imaging with intracranial electrodes in animal models or humans and improved signal processing or recording may still enable imaging; this would constitute a significant advance in neuroscience technology.
Although information flow in the neocortex has an apparent hierarchical organization, there is much ambiguity with respect to the definition of such a hierarchy, particularly in higher cortical regions. This ambiguity has been addressed by utilizing observable anatomical criteria, based upon tract tracing experiments, to constrain the definition of hierarchy [Felleman D.J. and van Essen D.C., 1991. Distributed hierarchical processing in the primate. Cereb. Cortex. 1(1), 1-47.]. There are, however, a high number of equally optimal hierarchies that fit these constraints [Hilgetag C.C., O'Neill M.A., Young M.P., 1996. Indeterminate organization of the visual system. Science. 271(5250), 776-777.]. Here, we propose a refined constraint set for optimization which utilizes continuous, rather than discrete, hierarchical levels, and permits a range of acceptable values rather than attempting to fit fixed hierarchical distances. Using linear programming to obtain hierarchies across a number of range sizes, we find a clear hierarchical pattern for both the original and refined versions of the Felleman and Van Essen [Felleman D.J. and van Essen D.C., 1991. Distributed hierarchical processing in the primate. Cereb. Cortex. 1(1), 1-47.] visual network. We also obtain an optimal hierarchy from a refined set of anatomical criteria which allows for the direct specification of hierarchical distance from the laminar distribution of labelled cells (Barone P., Batardiere A., Knoblauch K., Kennedy H., 2000. Laminar distribution of neurons in extrastriate areas projecting to visual areas V1 and V4 correlates with the hierarchical rank and indicates the operation of a distance rule. J. Neurosci. 20(9), 3263-3281.), and discuss the limitations and further possible refinements of such an approach.
The premise of this report is that functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) imaging data contain valuable physiological information that can be extracted by using analysis techniques that simultaneously consider the components of the measured hemodynamic response [i.e., levels of oxygenated, deoxygenated and total hemoglobin (oxyHb, deoxyHb and totalHb, respectively)]. We present an algorithm for examining the spatiotemporal co-variations among the Hb components, and apply it to the data obtained from a demonstrational study that employed a well-established visual stimulation paradigm: a contrast-reversing checkerboard. Our results indicate that the proposed method can identify regions of tissue that participate in the hemodynamic response to neuronal activation, but are distinct from the areas identified by conventional analyses of the oxyHb, deoxyHb and totalHb data. A discussion is provided that compares these findings to other recent studies using fNIRS techniques.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has recently been used to measure human motor-cortical activation, enabling the classification of the content of a sensory-motor event such as whether the left or right hand was used. Here, we advance this NIRS application by demonstrating quantitative estimates of multiple sensory-motor events from single-trial NIRS signals. It is known that different degrees of sensory-motor activation are required to generate various hand/finger force levels. Thus, using a sparse linear regression method, we examined whether the temporal changes in different force levels could be reconstructed from NIRS signals. We measured the relative changes in oxyhemoglobin concentrations in the bilateral sensory-motor cortices while participants performed an isometric finger-pinch force production with their thumb and index finger by repeatedly exerting one of three target forces (25, 50, or 75% of the maximum voluntary contraction) for 12 s. To reconstruct the generated forces, we determined the regression parameters from the training datasets and applied these parameters to new test datasets to validate the parameters in the single-trial reconstruction. The temporal changes in the three different levels of generated forces, as well as the baseline resting state, could be reconstructed, even for the test datasets. The best reconstruction was achieved when using only the selected NIRS channels dominantly located in the contralateral sensory-motor cortex, and with a four second hemodynamic delay. These data demonstrate the potential for reconstructing different levels of external loads (forces) from those of the internal loads (activation) in the human brain using NIRS.
Although social functioning is clearly impaired in anorexia nervosa (AN), there has been limited empirical assessment of this domain in this illness. This study assesses social cognition in AN by examining performance on two 'theory of mind' (ToM) tasks; Baron-Cohen's &quot;Reading the mind in the Eyes&quot; task (RME) and Happ's cartoon task. These tasks probe affective and cognitive ToM, respectively. Forty-four female participants were recruited (AN N=22; healthy controls N=22) and completed both tasks, with concurrent clinical and intellectual functioning assessment. Compared with healthy controls, AN performed significantly worse on both the RME and the Cartoon task (both conditions). The mental state condition did not facilitate performance in the AN group, as it did in the healthy controls. The findings broadly replicate limited previous work [Tchanturia, K., Happ, F., Godley, J., Bara-Carill, N., Treasure, J., Schmidt, U., 2004. Theory of mind in AN. European Eating Disorders Review 12, 361-366] but in addition demonstrate abnormalities on a task requiring affective ToM interpretation. More detailed information about the components of ToM and the ToM difficulties demonstrated in AN sufferers may inform our understanding of the disorder as well as future social-cognitive based treatments.
Dithiocarbamates are a commercially important class of compounds that can produce peripheral neuropathy in humans and experimental animals. Previous studies have supported a requirement for copper accumulation and enhanced lipid peroxidation in dithiocarbamate-mediated myelinopathy. The study presented here extends previous investigations in two areas. Firstly, although total copper levels have been shown to increase within the nerve it has not been determined whether copper is increased within the myelin compartment, the primary site of lesion development. Therefore, the distribution of copper in sciatic nerve was characterized using synchrotron X-ray fluorescence microscopy to determine whether the neurotoxic dithiocarbamate, N,N-diethyldithiocarbamate, increases copper levels in myelin. Secondly, because lipid peroxidation is an ongoing process in normal nerve and the levels of lipid peroxidation products produced by dithiocarbamate exposure demonstrated an unusual cumulative dose response in previous studies the biological impact of dithiocarbamate-mediated lipid peroxidation was evaluated. Experiments were performed to determine whether dithiocarbamate-mediated lipid peroxidation products elicit an antioxidant response through measuring the protein expression levels of three enzymes, superoxide dismutase 1, heme oxygenase 1, and glutathione transferase alpha, that are linked to the antioxidant response element promoter. To establish the potential of oxidative injury to contribute to myelin injury the temporal relationship of the antioxidant response to myelin injury was determined. Myelin structure in peripheral nerve was assessed using multi-exponential transverse relaxation measurements (MET(2)) as a function of exposure duration, and the temporal relationship of protein expression changes relative to the onset of changes in myelin integrity were determined. Initial assessments were also performed to explore the potential contribution of dithiocarbamate-mediated inhibition of proteasome function and inhibition of cuproenzyme activity to neurotoxicity, and also to assess the potential of dithiocarbamates to promote oxidative stress and injury within the central nervous system. These evaluations were performed using an established model for dithiocarbamate-mediated demyelination in the rat utilizing sciatic nerve, spinal cord and brain samples obtained from rats exposed to N,N-diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDC) by intra-abdominal pumps for periods of 2, 4, and 8 weeks and from non exposed controls. The data supported the ability of DEDC to increase copper within myelin and to enhance oxidative stress prior to structural changes detectable by MET(2). Evidence was also obtained that the excess copper produced by DEDC in the central nervous system is redox active and promotes oxidative injury.
For studies of remyelination in demyelinating diseases, the cuprizone model of CC (corpus callosum) demyelination has experimental advantages that include overall size, proximity to neural stem cells of the subventricular zone, and correlation with a lesion predilection site in multiple sclerosis. In addition, cuprizone treatment can be ended to allow more direct analysis of remyelination than with viral or autoimmune models. However, CC demyelination lacks a useful functional correlate in rodents for longitudinal analysis throughout the course of demyelination and remyelination. In the present study, we tested two distinct behavioural measurements in mice fed 0.2% cuprizone. Running on a 'complex' wheel with varied rung intervals requires integration between cerebral hemispheres for rapid bilateral sensorimotor coordination. Maximum running velocity on the 'complex' wheel decreased during acute (6 week) and chronic (12 week) cuprizone demyelination. Running velocity on the complex wheel distinguished treated (for 6 weeks) from non-treated mice, even after a 6-week recovery period for spontaneous remyelination. A second behavioural assessment was a resident-intruder test of social interaction. The frequency of interactive behaviours increased among resident mice after acute or chronic demyelination. Differences in both sensorimotor coordination and social interaction correlated with demonstrated CC demyelination. The wheel assay is applicable for longitudinal studies. The resident-intruder assay provides a complementary assessment of a distinct modality at a specific time point. These behavioural measurements are sufficiently robust for small cohorts as a non-invasive assessment of demyelination to facilitate analysis of subsequent remyelination. These measurements may also identify CC involvement in other mouse models of central nervous system injuries and disorders.
What processes are involved in the formation of enduring memory traces? Sleep has been proposed to play a role in memory consolidation and the present study provides evidence to support 2-stage models of sleep and memory including both non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Previous research has shown REM sleep increases following avoidance learning and memory is impaired if REM deprivation occurs during these post-training periods indicating that REM sleep may have a role in memory consolidation processes. These discrete post-training periods have been termed REM sleep windows (RSWs). It is not known whether the electroencephalogram has unique characteristics during the RSW. Further investigation of the RSW was one of the primary goals of this study. We investigated the epidural-recorded electrophysiological learning-related changes following avoidance training in rats. Theta power increased in the learning group during the RSW, suggesting that theta is involved in memory consolidation during this period. Sleep spindles subsequently increased in slow wave sleep (SWS). The results suggest that both NREM and REM sleep are involved in sleep-dependent memory consolidation, and provide support for existing 2-stage models. Perhaps first theta increases to organize and consolidate material via hippocampal-neocortical dialogue, followed by subsequent refinement in the cortex by spindles during SWS.
Adult female rats continuously exposed to androgens from prepuberty have reproductive and metabolic features of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). We investigated whether such exposure adversely affects estrous cyclicity and the expression and distribution of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), GnRH receptors, and corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the hypothalamus and whether the effects are mediated by the androgen receptor (AR). We also assessed the effect of low-frequency electro-acupuncture (EA) on those variables. At 21 days of age, rats were randomly divided into three groups (control, PCOS, and PCOS EA; n = 12/group) and implanted subcutaneously with 90-day continuous-release pellets containing vehicle or 5alpha-dihydrostestosterone (DHT). From age 70 days, PCOS EA rats received 2-Hz EA (evoking muscle twitches) five times/week for 4-5 weeks. Hypothalamic protein expression was measured by immunohistochemistry and western blot. DHT-treated rats were acyclic, but controls had regular estrous cycles. In PCOS rats, hypothalamic medial preoptic AR protein expression and the number of AR- and GnRH-immunoreactive cells were increased, but CRH was not affected; however, GnRH receptor expression was decreased in both the pituitary and hypothalamus. Low-frequency EA restored estrous cyclicity within 1 week and reduced the elevated hypothalamic GnRH and AR expression levels. EA did not affect GnRH receptor or CRH expression. Interestingly, nuclear AR co-localized with GnRH in the hypothalamus. Thus, rats with DHT-induced PCOS have disrupted estrous cyclicity and an increased number of hypothalamic cells expressing GnRH, most likely mediated by AR activation. Repeated low-frequency EA normalized estrous cyclicity and restored GnRH and AR protein expression. These results may help explain the beneficial neuroendocrine effects of low-frequency EA in women with PCOS.


Warm antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia is due to the presence of warm agglutinins that react with protein antigens on the surface of red blood cells causing premature destruction of circulating red blood cells. We report the first case of concurrent reactive arthritis, Graves' disease, and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. A 40-year-old man with reactive arthritis, Graves' disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, mitral valve prolapse, and Gilbert's disease presented with a one month history of jaundice, fatigue, and black stools. After diagnosis of warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia, the patient was started on prednisone 1 mg/kg with rapid improvement in his anemia and jaundice. Our subject's mother and possibly his maternal grandmother also had autoimmune hemolytic anemia, which raises the possibility of hereditary autoimmune hemolytic anemia, a rarely reported condition.
A new histamine H3 receptor (H3R) antagonist chemotype 1 was designed by combining key pharmacophoric elements from two different precursor structural series and then simplifying and optimizing the resulting combined structural features. First, analogues were made based on a previously identified conessine-based H3R antagonist series. While the first analogues 11 and 15 showed no antagonistic activity to H3R, the mere addition of a key moiety found in the reference compound 7 (ABT-239) elevated the series to high potency at H3R. The hybrid structure (16b) was judged too synthetically demanding to enable an extensive SAR study, thus forcing a strategy to simplify the chemical structure. The resulting (3aR,6aR)-5-alkyl-1-aryl-octahydropyrrolo[3,4-b]pyrrole series proved to be highly potent, as exemplified by 17a having a human H3 K(i) of 0.54 nM, rat H3 K(i) of 4.57 nM, and excellent pharmacokinetics (PK) profile in rats (oral bioavailability of 39% and t(1/2) of 2.4 h).
The discovery of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells has overthrown the long-held belief that rods and cones are the exclusive retinal photoreceptors. Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells use melanopsin as the photopigment, and mediate non-image-forming visual functions such as circadian photoentrainment. In fish, in situ hybridization studies indicated that melanopsin is present in retinal horizontal cells-lateral association neurons critical for creating the centre-surround receptive fields of visual neurons. This raises the question of whether fish horizontal cells are intrinsically photosensitive. This notion was examined previously in flat-mount roach retina, but all horizontal-cell light response disappeared after synaptic transmission was blocked, making any conclusion difficult to reach. To examine this question directly, we have now recorded from single, acutely dissociated horizontal cells from catfish and goldfish. We found that light induced a response in catfish cone horizontal cells, but not rod horizontal cells, consisting of a modulation of the nifedipine-sensitive, voltage-gated calcium current. The light response was extremely slow, lasting for many minutes. Similar light responses were observed in a high percentage of goldfish horizontal cells. We have cloned two melanopsin genes and one vertebrate ancient (VA) opsin gene from catfish. In situ hybridization indicated that melanopsin, but less likely VA opsin, was expressed in the horizontal-cell layer of catfish retina. This intrinsic light response may serve to modulate, over a long timescale, lateral inhibition mediated by these cells. Thus, at least in some vertebrates, there are retinal non-rod/non-cone photoreceptors involved primarily in image-forming vision.
The entorhinal cortex provides both direct and indirect inputs to hippocampal CA1 neurons through the perforant path and Schaffer collateral synapses, respectively. Using both two-photon imaging of synaptic vesicle cycling and electrophysiological recordings, we found that the efficacy of transmitter release at perforant path synapses is lower than at Schaffer collateral inputs. This difference is due to the greater contribution to release by presynaptic N-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels at the Schaffer collateral than perforant path synapses. Induction of long-term potentiation that depends on activation of NMDA receptors and L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels enhances the low efficacy of release at perforant path synapses by increasing the contribution of N-type channels to exocytosis. This represents a previously uncharacterized presynaptic mechanism for fine-tuning release properties of distinct classes of synapses onto a common postsynaptic neuron and for regulating synaptic function during long-term synaptic plasticity.
NR3A is the only NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit that downregulates sharply prior to the onset of sensitive periods for plasticity, yet the functional importance of this transient expression remains unknown. To investigate whether removal/replacement of juvenile NR3A-containing NMDARs is involved in experience-driven synapse maturation, we used a reversible transgenic system that prolonged NR3A expression in the forebrain. We found that removal of NR3A is required to develop strong NMDAR currents, full expression of long-term synaptic plasticity, a mature synaptic organization characterized by more synapses and larger postsynaptic densities, and the ability to form long-term memories. Deficits associated with prolonged NR3A were reversible, as late-onset suppression of transgene expression rescued both synaptic and memory impairments. Our results suggest that NR3A behaves as a molecular brake to prevent the premature strengthening and stabilization of excitatory synapses and that NR3A removal might thereby initiate critical stages of synapse maturation during early postnatal neural development.
