Past studies have implicated calcium influx through the N-methyl-D-aspartate class of ionotropic glutamate receptors as a key factor in excitotoxicity. Here, primary cultures of hippocampal neurons were exposed to N-methyl-D-aspartate with or without the L-type calcium channel agonist BayK8644(+/-). Calcium influxes were monitored with Fura-2 microfluorescent imaging and 45Ca measurements, and survival was assayed through cell counts. While 100 microM BayK8644 alone evoked a moderate elevation of intraneuronal calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i), it dramatically attenuated the larger calcium influxes triggered by 500 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. This attenuation was non-competitive and reversible; it was not inhibited by charybdotoxin or cyclosporin A. In spite of this attenuation of [Ca2+]i responses, 5-min exposures to BayK8644 produced much greater neurotoxicity 24 h later than did doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate evoking larger [Ca2+]i increases. This neurotoxicity was not observed with potassium-mediated depolarization or cobalt; indeed, both reversed the neurotoxicity of BayK8644. The relevant conclusions are two-fold: BayK8644 inhibits influx of calcium through a ligand-gated glutamate receptor, and BayK8644 exhibits considerable neurotoxicity. The former effect does not appear to depend upon the major metabolic pathways that modulate N-methyl-D-aspartate channels and thus may involve a direct allosteric interaction with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. The toxicity of BayK8644 depends, at least partially, upon its activation of voltage-gated (cobalt-sensitive) calcium channels. However, the reversal of this toxicity by depolarization suggests that depolarization can be beneficial to neuronal survival through mechanisms other than calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels.
We measured glutamate-stimulated increases in intracellular free Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) in cultured rat forebrain neurons loaded with both a high- and a low-affinity Ca2+ indicator. In these dual-dye studies, the high-affinity indicators Fluo-3 and Fura-2 gave both qualitatively and quantitatively different results than the low-affinity indicators Mag-fura-2 and Calcium Green-5N. The glutamate-stimulated peak [Ca2+]i reported using Fluo-3 and Fura-2 were less than 6 microM while the low-affinity indicators Mag-fura-2 and Calcium Green-5N indicated [Ca2+]i responses were more than 12 microM. The shapes of the responses obtained with the two types of dyes were also different, and only the low-affinity indicators effectively demonstrated that [Ca2+]i continues to rise during prolonged (5-min) stimulations. These dual-dye studies also revealed that kainate- and depolarization-induced [Ca2+]i responses could be differentiated from glutamate responses only with the low-affinity indicators. These results suggest that Fluo-3 and Fura-2 underestimate [Ca2+]i induced by excitotoxic glutamate stimuli and that these responses are greater than have previously been reported. These studies also reveal, in contrast to previous reports, that excitotoxic stimuli do indeed cause increases in [Ca2+]i that are greater than those produced by non-toxic stimuli.
The small magnocellular group located within the rostrolateral extension of the basal forebrain was named and described as the nucleus subputaminalis in the human and chimpanzee brain by Ayala. Analysis of cytoarchitectonic and cytochemical characteristics of this cell group has been largely disregarded in both classical and more current studies. We examined the nucleus subputaminalis in 33 neurologically normal subjects (ranging from 15 weeks of gestation to 71 years-of-age) by using Nissl staining, choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry, acetyl cholinesterase histochemistry and nerve growth factor receptor immunocytochemistry. In addition, we applied reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry and calbindin-D28k immunocytochemistry in three neurologically normal subjects. At the most rostrolateral levels we describe the previously poorly characterized component of the lateral (periputaminal) subdivision of the subputaminal nucleus, which may be human specific since it is not described in non-human primates. Moreover, we find the human subputaminal nucleus best developed at the anterointermediate level, which is the part of the basal nucleus that is usually much smaller or missing in monkeys. The location of subputaminal cholinergic neurons within the frontal lobe, the ascension of their fibers through the external capsule towards the inferior frontal gyrus, the larger size of the subputaminal nucleus on the left side at the most rostral and anterointermediate levels and the most protracted development among all magnocellular aggregations within the basal forebrain strongly suggest that they may be connected with the cortical speech area. These findings give rise to many hypotheses about the possible role of the subputaminal nucleus in various neurodegenerative, neurological and psychiatric disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease and primary progressive aphasia. Therefore, future studies on the basal forebrain should more carefully investigate this part of the basal nucleus.
We have investigated the effect of morphine on (i) dorsal hippocampus field CA1 nociceptive response to a formalin injection, and (ii) septohippocampal neural processing. Extracellular recordings were made in urethane (1.0 g/kg)-anaesthetized rats. Previously, we reported that formalin (5%, 0.05 ml, s.c.) injection into a hindpaw evoked, in the CA1 field, a &quot;signal-to-noise processing&quot;, i.e. a selective excitation of a few pyramidal cells with high spontaneous extracellular activity against a background of widespread pyramidal cell suppression accompanied by an increase in period of rhythmic slow activity. In the present study, morphine administered i.p. concurrent to a formalin injection reversed the pyramidal cell suppression in conjunction with a decrease in the period of evoked rhythmic slow activity. The effect was dose dependent and was prominent at the dose of 5 mg/kg. This dose, administered as a pretreatment, also truncated CA1 pyramidal cell suppression or excitation to a formalin injection. Furthermore, the drug decreased the power and frequency of the posterior hypothalamus-supramammillary region stimulation-evoked hippocampal field CA1 rhythmic slow activity. Such an effect was observed in a time-frame parallel to the decline in the period of formalin injection-induced field CA1 rhythmic slow activity. However, morphine sulphate administration per se did not alter pyramidal cell excitability or extracellular activity. Together, the above findings are consistent with the notion that morphine influences dorsal hippocampus field CA1 pyramidal cell suppression partly via an effect on the septohippocampal neural processing. However, the effect of the drug does not involve a change in the pyramidal cell basal extracellular responses. The effect of morphine on septohippocampal neural processing might be functionally relevant to the influence of the drug on the affective-motivational component of pain.
Damage to sensory nerves invokes the expression of neuropeptide Y in the cell bodies of sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia. We therefore compared the action of this peptide on control dorsal root ganglia neurons with its action on neurons from animals in which the sciatic nerve had been cut. Neuropeptide Y (0.1-1.0 microM) increased the excitability of 24% of control neurons and its effect was stronger and more cells (56%) were affected after axotomy. Increased excitability was mediated via a Y2-receptor and resulted from attenuation of Ca2+-sensitive K+-conductance(s) secondary to suppression of N-type Ca2+ channel current. Y1-agonists potentiated L-type Ca2+ channel current in control neurons without altering excitability. This Y1-effect was attenuated whereas effects mediated via Y2-receptors were enhanced after axotomy. No evidence was found for involvement of Y4- or Y5-receptor subtypes in the actions of neuropeptide Y either on control or on axotomized dorsal root ganglion neurons. It is concluded that neuropeptide Y increases the excitability of sensory neurons by interacting with a Y2-receptor and thereby decreasing N-type Ca2+ channel current and Ca2+-sensitive K+-conductance(s). When peripheral nerves are damaged, dorsal root ganglion neurons start to express neuropeptide Y and its excitatory Y2-excitatory effects are enhanced. The peptide may therefore contribute to the generation of aberrant sensory activity and perhaps to the etiology of injury-induced neuropathic pain.
The effect of noradrenaline on the glycine response was investigated in neurons acutely dissociated from the rat sacral dorsal commissural nucleus using nystatin perforated patch recording configuration under voltage-clamp conditions. Noradrenaline reversibly potentiated the 10(-5)M glycine-induced Cl- current in a concentration-dependent manner. Single channel recordings in a cell-attached mode revealed that noradrenaline decreased the closing time of the glycine-activated channel activity. Noradrenaline neither changed the reversal potential of the glycine response nor affected the affinity of glycine to its receptor. Clonidine mimicked and yohimbine blocked the noradrenaline action on glycine response. N-[2(methylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline sulfonamide dihydrochloride, protein kinase A inhibitor, mimicked the effect of noradrenaline on glycine response. Noradrenaline failed to affect the glycine response in the presence of these intracellular cyclic AMP and protein kinase A modulators. However, noradrenaline further enhanced the glycine response even in the presence of phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and chelerythrine, a protein kinase C inhibitor. Pertussis toxin treatment for 6-8 h blocked the noradrenaline facilitatory effect on the glycine response. In addition, noradrenaline potentiated the strychnine-sensitive postsynaptic currents evoked in a slice preparation of sacral dorsal commissural nucleus. These results suggest that the activation of alpha2-adrenoceptor by noradrenaline coupled with pertussis toxin-sensitive G-proteins reduces intracellular cyclic AMP formation through the inhibition of adenyl cyclase. The reduction of cyclic AMP decreases the protein kinase A activity, thus resulting in the potentiation of the glycinergic inputs to the sacral dorsal commissural neurons. It is thus feasible that the noradrenergic input to the sacral dorsal commissural nucleus modulates such nociceptive signals as pain by intracellular enhancing the glycine response.
The substance P receptor neurokinin-1 is expressed by a subset of neurons in the rat spinal cord. We have combined immunostaining for Fos, a marker of noxious peripheral stimulation, and neurokinin-1 to examine whether nociceptive signals from particular peripheral tissues (skin, muscle or knee joint) or activity generated by nerve injury or formalin-induced inflammation are preferentially modulated by substance P. Our results indicate that superficial and deep spinal neurokinin-1-positive neurons process nociceptive information in markedly different ways. In lamina I, the number of double-labelled neurons was positively correlated with the intensity of the stimulus (defined by the total Fos count) and was not directly related to any particular peripheral target. However, in the deeper layers of the spinal cord (V-X), there was no such correlation, and stimulation of joint nociceptors and formalin-induced inflammation produced the greatest proportion of Fos/neurokinin-1 co-localization, suggesting a particular role for substance P in the mediation of joint pain and inflammatory hyperalgesia. Thus, lamina I neurokinin-1 receptor-bearing neurons appear to be involved in intensity discriminative aspects of pain, whereas the deep neurokinin-1 cells are involved in spatial localization or the detection of particular nociceptive submodalities.
Contrary to the prevailing view that the axon lacks the capacity to synthesize proteins, a substantial body of evidence points to the existence of a metabolically active endogenous translational machinery. The machinery appears to be largely localized in the cortical zone of the axon, where, in vertebrate axons, it is distributed longitudinally as intermittent, discrete domains, called periaxoplasmic plaques. Studies, based on translation assays and probes of RNA transcripts in axon models such as the squid giant axon and selected vertebrate axons, provide evidence of locally synthesized proteins, most of which appear to be constituents of the slow axoplasmic transport rate groups. Metabolic and molecular biological findings are consistent with the view that the synthesis of proteins undergoing local turnover in the axonal compartment of macroneurons depends on the activity of an endogenous translational machinery. The documented presence of a metabolically active machinery in presynaptic terminals of squid photoreceptor neurons is also described. Finally, potential sources of axoplasmic RNAs comprising the machinery, which may include the ensheathing cell of the axon, as well as the cognate cell body, are also discussed.
Spontaneous remyelination of previously demyelinated axons is found in a substantial minority of acute and chronic lesions in multiple sclerosis. In the rodent, central remyelination restores saltatory conduction and helps restore limb function, and it seems likely that endogenous myelin repair contributes to neurological recovery in multiple sclerosis. However, the identity of the remyelinating cell remains enigmatic. Fully differentiated oligodendrocytes have very limited capacity for recapitulating their developmental activities and re-engaging myelination pathways. Proliferative oligodendrocyte progenitors--often known as O-2A cells because of their ability to differentiate in vitro into either oligodendrocytes or (&quot;type 2&quot;) astrocytes--are, in contrast, extremely efficient at myelin repair either spontaneously, or after transplantation into the de- or dysmyelinated CNS. Oligodendrocyte progenitors are present in both developing and adult rodent CNS. We have previously demonstrated that proliferative oligodendrocyte progenitors are present in cultures prepared from the adult human CNS. Here, using fresh tissue print preparations, we report that cells with processes and the A2B5-positive immunophenotype of proliferative oligodendrocyte progenitors are present in situ in adult human white matter. This technique also reveals the occurrence of A2B5-positive astrocytes, a cell also not previously identified in the normal adult human CNS. In the light of the rodent data showing the importance of oligodendrocyte progenitors in myelin repair, our findings suggesting the presence of progenitors in the adult human brain may have significant implications for spontaneous remyelination in multiple sclerosis and other demyelinating conditions.
DESPITE MAJOR ADVANCES in neuroscience, potential therapeutic options for the treatment of central nervous system diseases often cannot be optimized secondary to the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). During the next decade of inquiry, it is crucial that basic science and clinical research that is focused on overcoming the BBB, to optimize delivery to the central nervous system, be identified and supported as a priority topic. For this reason, the third international Cerebrovascular Biology and Blood-Brain Barrier Conference was convened in March 1998 in Gleneden Beach, OR. This meeting brought together basic science and clinical researchers from around the world to analyze BBB function and to discuss delivery of effective agents to the central nervous system for treatment of brain disease. This report summarizes the information presented at the meeting and the discussions that ensued. The current state of knowledge, obstacles to further understanding the BBB, and research priorities are identified.
Apoptotic cell death was examined in autopsied brains with Werdnig Hoffmann disease, hereditary DNA repair disorders (xeroderma pigmentosum and Cockayne syndrome) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, using in situ nick end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemistry for cell death-related proteins. TUNEL-positive cells were found in the thalamus, cerebellum and/or hippocampus in each disorder. The expression of cell death-related proteins in the cerebellum of hereditary DNA repair disorders and the hippocampus of neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis suggested the involvement of apoptotic process in neurodegeneration in these disorders. On the other hand, TUNEL-reactivity without the altered expression of cell death-related proteins might reflect neuronal changes preceding the thalamic degeneration in Werdnig-Hoffmann disease.
Neuroscience has advanced markedly through the 20th century; material processes of brains have been analyzed in detail, and information processes approached as well. Clarification of the material processes has brought about three major strategies to cure and prevent neurological and psychiatric diseases: creation of new drugs, regeneration and transplantation therapy, and gene therapy. An epoch-making progress in medicine is expected to arise from the combination of these three strategies. A trend expected in the 21st century is developmental neuroscience on the growth and differentiation of brains. Cognitive and computational neuroscience will also aim at the clarification of information processes of brains. Neuroscience will exert great influence on pediatrics, in particular on the studies of mental development in childhood.
The lens-rearing paradigm has developed great importance in the field of experimental myopia. Although an apparently simple paradigm, the results of any experiment can be influenced by a variety of factors including habitual viewing distance, ocular refraction, oculomotor performance and the spatial sensitivity of the retinal elements involved in retinal image assessment. Computer modelling has been used to evaluate the expected impact when lenses are placed in front of a primate eye as a function of the above parameters. Spatial band-pass responses of the mechanisms responsible for emmetropization are predicted to lead to a limited range of retinal defocus over which compensation to lenses could occur. Even assuming an equal ability to detect hyperopic and myopic defocus, it is predicted that primate eyes should be able to compensate for a much larger range of minus lenses than plus lenses. This derives from the ability of the accommodation system to keep retinal defocus within this operating range over a wider range of minus lenses than plus lenses. The range over which compensation can occur will depend on the spatial tuning of the elements responsible for detecting retinal defocus and capabilities of the accommodation system. The observed asymmetry in responses of the primate eye to rearing with plus and minus lenses and observed differences between primates and chickens in lens rearing studies may therefore be partly attributable to optical and neurophysiological considerations.
A single injection of streptozocin (50 mg/kg, i.p.) led to the development of static and dynamic allodynia in the rat. The two responses were detected, respectively, by application of pressure using von Frey hairs or lightly stroking the hind paw with a cotton bud. Static allodynia was present in the majority of the animals within 10 days following streptozocin. In contrast, dynamic allodynia took almost twice as long to develop and was only present in approximately 60% of rats. Morphine (1-3 mg/kg, s.c.) and amitriptyline (0.25-2.0 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently blocked static allodynia. However, neither of the compounds was effective against dynamic allodynia. In contrast, gabapentin (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.) and the related compound pregabalin (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently blocked both types of allodynia. However, the corresponding R-enantiomer (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.) of pregabalin, was found to be inactive. The intrathecal administration of gabapentin dose-dependently (1-100 microg/animal) blocked both static and dynamic allodynia. In contrast, administration of similar doses of gabapentin into the hind paw failed to block these responses. It is suggested that in this model of neuropathic pain dynamic allodynia is mediated by A beta-fibres and the static type involves small diameter nociceptive fibres. These data suggest that gabapentin and pregabalin possess a superior antiallodynic profile than morphine and amitriptyline, and may represent a novel class of therapeutic agents for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Enadoline is a highly selective and potent kappa-opioid receptor agonist. This report describes and compares the activities of enadoline and morphine in a rat model of postoperative pain. A 1 cm incision through the muscle and skin of the plantar surface of the right hind paw induced thermal hyperalgesia as well as static and dynamic allodynia lasting at least 2 days. Postoperative testing was carried out using the plantar test for thermal hyperalgesia, von Frey hairs for static allodynia and light stroking with a cotton bud for dynamic allodynia. A single i.v. dose of enadoline 15 min before surgery dose-dependently (1-100 microg/kg) blocked the development of thermal hyperalgesia as well as static and dynamic allodynia for over 24 h with respective MEDs of &lt; or = 1, 10 and 10 microg/kg. The administration of enadoline (100 microg/kg, i.v.), 1 h after surgery, completely blocked the maintenance of the hyperalgesic and allodynic responses, but its duration of action was much shorter (2 h) than when administered before surgery. Previous studies have shown that administration of morphine (1-6 mg/kg, s.c.) 0.5 h before surgery can prevent the development of thermal hyperalgesia with a MED of &lt; or =1 mg/kg, but it has little effect on static allodynia. In the present study similar administration of morphine (1-3 mg/kg), unlike enadoline, had no effect on the development of dynamic allodynia. Morphine dose-dependently (1-6 mg/kg, s.c.) potentiated isoflurane-induced sleeping time and respiratory depression in the rat. However, whilst enadoline also (1-1000 microg/kg, i.v.) potentiated isoflurane-induced sleeping time, it did not cause respiratory depression. It is suggested that enadoline may possess therapeutic potential as a pre-emptive antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic agent.
We tested both pain thresholds and pain tolerance in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) by means of phasic and tonic noxious stimuli. In the first case, electrical stimulation was used, whereas in the second case arm ischemia was studied. By comparing AD patients with normal subjects of the same age, we found no differences in stimulus detection and pain thresholds, whereas a clearcut increase in pain tolerance was present in AD patients. The severity of AD was assessed by means of the Mini Mental State Examination test (MMSE) and the spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram (EEG). There was a straightforward correlation between MMSE scores and pain tolerance such that the more severe the cognitive impairment the higher the tolerance to pain. In addition, analysis of the EEG power spectra indicated that patients with low alpha and high delta peaks showed an increase in pain tolerance to both electrical stimulation and ischemia. These findings show that, whereas the sensory-discriminative component of pain is maintained in AD patients, pain tolerance is altered and depends on cognitive and affective factors. Thus, pain tolerance is tightly related to the severity of the disease according to the rule, 'the more severe the MMSE and EEG changes, the higher the tolerance to pain'.
Although intrathecally administered senktide, an agonist at the neurokinin3 receptor, attenuates withdrawal responses to noxious stimuli in the restrained animal, senktide increases motor neuron activity in spinal cords of neonatal rats and facilitates the electrically-evoked nociceptive flexor reflex in the adult rat. The present study examined the effects of intrathecal administration of senktide on withdrawal responses to noxious thermal and mechanical stimuli in awake, unrestrained, adult rats. Intrathecal administration of senktide (10 nmol) in chronically catheterized rats did not alter the responses elicited by a noxious mechanical stimulus (508 mN, von Frey monofilament). Conversely, intrathecal senktide (10 nmol) induced thermal hyperalgesia, indicated by decreased withdrawal latency to radiant heat. Thermal hyperalgesia peaked 20-26 min following drug injection and returned to normal within 30 min. SR 142801 (60 nmol), a non-peptide neurokinin3 receptor antagonist, inhibited the senktide-induced hyperalgesia, providing further support that the effect of senktide is mediated by neurokinin3 receptors. Pretreatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 nmol), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, blocked the effect of senktide, indicating that senktide-induced thermal hyperalgesia is also mediated by the production of nitric oxide. Intrathecal senktide produced vasodilation and increased skin temperature in the hind paw. Intravenous hexamethonium, a ganglionic nicotinic receptor antagonist, similarly increased paw temperature without decreasing withdrawal latency to radiant heat. Thus, the increased skin temperature associated with intrathecal senktide was insufficient to account for the thermal hyperalgesia observed. Collectively, the present work demonstrates that NK3 receptors mediate thermal but not mechanical hyperalgesia through a pathway that involves the production of NO.
The present study examined the effects of intrathecal administration of neurokinin3 receptor agonists on the electrically-evoked nociceptive flexor reflex in decerebrate and spinalized adult rats. The reflex was evoked by stimulating the isolated sural nerve at an intensity that activates C fibers and was measured by recording the number of compound potentials in the ipsilateral hamstring muscles. Intrathecal senktide (1-30 nmol), a neurokinin3 receptor agonist, dose-dependently facilitated the reflex reaching a maximum effect of 230% of the baseline reflex at 10 nmol. SR 142801 (60 nmol), a non-peptide neurokinin3 receptor antagonist, blocked facilitation of the reflex induced by 10 nmol senktide, providing further support that the effect of senktide is mediated by neurokinin3 receptors. The intrathecal administration of senktide (10 nmol) did not alter the monosynaptic reflex elicited by stimulating the L5 dorsal root at an intensity that was at the threshold for activating A fibers. This indicates that the senktide-induced facilitation of the nociceptive flexor reflex was not at the level of the motor neuron. Pretreatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 nmol), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, attenuated the effect of senktide, indicating that facilitation of the reflex by senktide is also mediated by the production of nitric oxide. Data from the present work have shown that spinal neurokinin3 receptors facilitate the nociceptive flexor reflex through a pathway that involves interneurons and the production of NO. Therefore, neurokinin3 receptors are likely to be involved in enhancing nociceptive neurotransmission at the level of the spinal cord.
We have shown previously that the development of hyperalgesia and inflammation associated with knee joint arthritis depends on interactions among various receptors in the central and peripheral nervous system in addition to the contribution of blood borne inflammatory mediators. In the present study, the involvement of spinal nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the modulation of inflammatory pain was evaluated using a model of acute arthritis in rats. Epibatidine (EP), a potent agonist for neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors sharing similar structural and functional characteristics with acetylcholine and nicotine, has been used in this study. The physiological effects of EP on pain-related behaviors and inflammation were tested after administration to the dorsal horn via a microdialysis fiber. Knee joint inflammation was induced in rats by injecting a mixture of kaolin and carrageenan into the knee joint. Paw withdrawal latency to radiant heat was measured before and at 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 h after induction of inflammation. The decrease in PWL in this arthritis model is indicative of secondary hyperalgesia. The extent of peripheral inflammation was also assessed by measuring knee joint circumference and temperature. Treatment of the spinal cord of animals with EP prior to induction of arthritis attenuated the development of heat hyperalgesia and resulted in a significant improvement of the animals' spontaneous pain-related behaviors. More interestingly, the knee joint circumference and temperature of these animals were also significantly lower than those of the control animals when measured at 8 h. Likewise, spinal administration of epibatidine after the development of hyperalgesia not only significantly attenuated the decrease in PWL, but prevented further increases in knee joint swelling and temperature. The antinociceptive effect of epibatidine was selectively blocked by the nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine. Joint circumference and temperature were not selectively altered by mecamylamine suggesting another mechanism involving non-nicotinic receptors in the spinal regulation of joint inflammatory responses. Collectively, these findings provide considerable evidence to suggest an important role for central nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the modulation of persistent pain and neurogenic inflammation mediated by events in the dorsal horn.
It is known that stimulation of thin cutaneous nerve fibers can induce long lasting analgesia through both supraspinal and segmental mechanisms, the latter often exhibiting restricted receptive fields. On this basis, we recently developed a new method, termed cutaneous field stimulation (CFS), for localized stimulation of A delta and C fibers in the superficial part of the skin. In the present study, we have evaluated the effects of CFS on non-nociceptive and nociceptive skin senses. We compared the effects of CFS with those of conventional transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), known to preferentially activate coarse myelinated fibers. A battery of sensory tests were made on the right volar forearm of 20 healthy subjects. CFS (16 electrodes, 4 Hz per electrode, 1 ms, up to 0.8 mA) and TENS (100 Hz, 0.2 ms, up to 26 mA) applied either on the right volar forearm (homotopically), or on the lower right leg (heterotopically) were used as conditioning stimulation for 25 min. The tactile threshold was not affected by either homo- or heterotopical CFS or TENS. The mean thresholds for detecting warming or cooling of the skin were increased by 0.4-0.9 degrees C after homo- but not heterotopical CFS and TENS. Regarding nociceptive skin senses, homo- but not heterotopical CFS, markedly reduced CO2-laser evoked A delta- and C fiber mediated heat pain to 75 and 48% of control, respectively, and mechanically evoked pain to 73% of control. Fabric evoked prickle, was not affected by CFS. Neither homo- nor heterotopical TENS induced any marked analgesic effects. It is concluded that different qualities of nociception can be differentially controlled by CFS.
Although many pharmacological studies indicate that bulbospinal noradrenergic projections contribute to antinociception, lesions of the major brainstem noradrenergic cell groups have provided conflicting evidence. Here we used a new immunotoxin, anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase-saporin, to re-examine the contribution of noradrenergic pathways to nociception and to morphine analgesia. We treated rats intrathecally by lumbar puncture with the immunotoxin and examined dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) immunoreactivity seven and 14 days after treatment. There was no change in DbetaH staining at 7 days; however, 14 days after treatment we demonstrated significant destruction of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus and in the A5 and A7 cell groups. There was a concomitant loss of noradrenergic axons in the dorsal and ventral horns of the lumbosacral and cervical cord. Consistent with the lack of anatomical changes, we found no difference in nociceptive responses in the hot-plate, tail-flick or formalin tests one week post-toxin. On day 14 we examined the behavioral response to injection of formalin into the hindpaw and found that responses during the second phase of pain behavior were significantly reduced. There was no change during the first phase. Formalin-evoked fos expression in the spinal cord was also reduced. We also evaluated morphine analgesia in the formalin test and found that toxin-treated animals exhibited enhanced morphine analgesia. These results establish the utility of using this immunotoxin to selectively destroy subpopulations of noradrenergic cell groups and provide evidence that acute and persistent nociception are differentially regulated by descending noradrenergic pathways.
We previously demonstrated induction of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in rat islet beta-cells by the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX). Because noradrenergic nerves appear to regulate NPY expression in the central nervous system (CNS), we investigated whether DEX-induced islet cell expression of NPY could be modulated by catecholaminergic nerves. Therefore rats were treated with DEX (2 mg/kg, i.p., for 12 days) and received injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 80 mg/kg, i.v., at day 1 or 10). 6-OHDA treatment eliminated islet adrenergic nerves. The frequency of NPY-immunoreactive islet cells and the levels of islet cell NPY messenger RNA (mRNA) were markedly lower in rats given 6-OHDA at day 1 of the DEX-treatment period. In contrast, the frequency of NPY-immunoreactive cells and levels of islet cell NPY mRNA in DEX-treated rats receiving 6-OHDA at day 10 did not differ from those treated with DEX alone. The findings suggest that DEX-induced islet cell expression of NPY is partially dependent on adrenergic nerves and that the effect of sympathectomy is exerted at an early stage of the NPY induction.
Activation of the basolateral receptor for adenosine in HT-29cl.19A cells, by 100 microM adenosine, increased the equivalent short-circuit current (DeltaIsc= 24+/-2 microA/cm2), depolarized the intracellular potential (DeltaVa= 26+/-2 mV) and decreased the fractional apical membrane resistance (DeltafRa=-0.48). The changes in all parameters reached their peak values simultaneously. This suggests that the primary action of the adenosine-activated pathway is on only one membrane. Bumetanide inhibited the transepithelial response and repolarized the cell potential. After preincubation with 100 microM forskolin, application of 300 microM adenosine caused a significant further change in Va, Isc, the transepithelial potential (Vt) and fRa. Together with the results from ion-replacement studies, the observations indicate that adenosine activates channels other than the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The rank order of potencies of adenosine and adenosine analogues implies that the receptor is of the A2 subtype. Preincubation with 4-bromophenacyl bromide (4-BPB) inhibited the effect of an adenosine analogue by 50%, indicating that activation of phospholipase A2 may be involved in the adenosine-induced response.
Glutamic acid is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. Glutamic acid binds to a variety of excitatory amino acid receptors, which are ligand-gated ion channels. It is activation of these receptors that leads to depolarisation and neuronal excitation. In normal synaptic functioning, activation of excitatory amino acid receptors is transitory. However, if, for any reason, receptor activation becomes excessive or prolonged, the target neurones become damaged and eventually die. This process of neuronal death is called excitotoxicity and appears to involve sustained elevations of intracellular calcium levels. Impairment of neuronal energy metabolism may sensitise neurones to excitotoxic cell death. The principle of excitotoxicity has been well-established experimentally, both in in vitro systems and in vivo, following administration of excitatory amino acids into the nervous system. A role for excitotoxicity in the aetiology or progression of several human neurodegenerative diseases has been proposed, which has stimulated much research recently. This has led to the hope that compounds that interfere with glutamatergic neurotransmission may be of clinical benefit in treating such diseases. However, except in the case of a few very rare conditions, direct evidence for a pathogenic role for excitotoxicity in neurological disease is missing. Much attention has been directed at obtaining evidence for a role for excitotoxicity in the neurological sequelae of stroke, and there now seems to be little doubt that such a process is indeed a determining factor in the extent of the lesions observed. Several clinical trials have evaluated the potential of antiglutamate drugs to improve outcome following acute ischaemic stroke, but to date, the results of these have been disappointing. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, neurolathyrism, and human immunodeficiency virus dementia complex, several lines of circumstantial evidence suggest that excitotoxicity may contribute to the pathogenic process. An antiglutamate drug, riluzole, recently has been shown to provide some therapeutic benefit in the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease are examples of neurodegenerative diseases where mitochondrial dysfunction may sensitise specific populations of neurones to excitotoxicity from synaptic glutamic acid. The first clinical trials aimed at providing neuroprotection with antiglutamate drugs are currently in progress for these two diseases.
The effects of Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate ester, Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) on performance in various cognitive and affective tasks were investigated. Ovariectomized rats (n = 48) received 0.0, 3.0, or 7.5 mg/kg s.c. of DHEA or DHEAS suspended in 10% ethanol/sesame oil v/v. For the cognitive tasks (water maze, Y-maze, passive avoidance, and object recognition), subjects were injected after training trials. For the affective tasks (tail flick, open field, and elevated plus-maze), subjects were injected 1 or 24 h prior to testing. DHEA deceased latencies and trials to criterion in the water maze, and decreased motor activity in the open field at 24 h postinjection. DHEAS decreased latencies to the goal arm in the Y-maze and reduced motoricity and the number of entries into the center of a brightly lit open field, both 1 and 24 h after injection. These findings suggest that DHEA and DHEAS may alter performance on cognitive tasks due to motor or anxiety effects.
A number of association studies have investigated the role of the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) gene in the susceptibility to bipolar disorder. Although some studies have reported positive findings, there remains some controversy, because results from different studies have not been consistent. A common explanation for inconsistencies between studies is genetic heterogeneity. We have focused on lithium responsive bipolar disorder as a way to reduce heterogeneity. In this study, we investigated the role of MAOA in lithium responsive bipolar patients using association and linkage study designs. The investigation used 138 patients and 108 normal controls. In addition, 25 families were also studied. Our results were not supportive of a major role of MAOA in the predisposition to bipolar disorder.


It has been postulated that opioid systems in the brain may play a role in ethanol reinforcement. In this respect, mu- and delta-opioid receptors may mediate the rewarding effects whereas kappa receptors are thought to mediate the aversive effects of opioids. Accordingly, long-acting benzomorphans such as bremazocine, that simultaneously act as mu and delta receptor antagonists and kappa receptor agonists may be particularly effective in reducing ethanol self-administration. Therefore, we studied the effect of bremazocine on oral ethanol self-administration in rats using a paradigm [unrestricted free-choice drinking of 10% (v/v) ethanol], previously shown to cause long-term neuroadaptations in the nucleus accumbens and caudate putamen. Bremazocine (0.1 mg/kg, once daily for five consecutive days) reduced ethanol drinking by about 50% during the active period of the animals, whereas the intake of sucrose (3-10% w/v) was affected neither in naive nor in ethanol-experienced rats. This effect of bremazocine appeared not to be secondary to its acute sedative effect or the slight increase in total fluid consumption. Unlike bremazocine, the selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U50,488H (10 mg/kg, once daily) inhibited ethanol drinking only during the first of 5 treatment days and the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (0.3-10 mg/kg, once daily) only caused a modest (about 20%) suppression of ethanol drinking during the first hours after drug injection. Thus, bremazocine appears to be far more potent than the clinically applied drug naltrexone in this respect. Our data further support the role of opioid receptors in ethanol reinforcement and indicate that long-acting mixed-action opioids such as bremazocine may be useful as adjuvants for the clinical management of ethanol addiction.
Clinical observations indicate that persons with eating disorders exhibit many psychopathologic symptoms such as difficulty with impulse control and depressed mood associated with impaired regulation of serotonin (5-HT) synaptic function in the central nervous system. In this study, we focused on the relationship between the 5-HT-induced calcium response in platelets and the clinical symptoms. While age, body weight, and severity of depressive symptoms were not correlated with 5-HT-induced response, there was an enhanced response in patients with bulimic symptoms or other impulsive behaviors. Moreover, patients with multi-impulsive behaviors had a significantly higher maximal increase than patients with uni-impulsive behavior, i.e., those who had only bulimic symptoms, as well as non-impulsive patients, and controls. Considering these results, the 5-HT-induced response may be related to difficulty with impulse control in general rather than bulimic eating attitudes specifically.
Phenelzine (PLZ) is a non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor commonly used to treat depression and panic disorder. In addition to increasing levels of biogenic amines in the brain, PLZ elevates brain levels of the amino acid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA; Baker et al. 1991; present study). Given the extensive evidence implicating biogenic amines and GABA in mnemonic processes, PLZ may affect learning and memory. To investigate this possibility, male Sprague-Dawley rats were given PLZ sulfate (15 or 30 mg/kg, based on free base weight) 2 h prior to training in a continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance (CMIA) and spatial water maze task. Retention was assessed 48 h later. The results indicated that PLZ enhanced CMIA and impaired water maze retention performance. Compared to control rats, rats given PLZ took significantly longer to re-enter the shock compartment and swam longer distances before reaching the escape platform on the retention tests. These effects of PLZ did not appear to be the result of PLZ-induced changes in acquisition or retrieval processes, activity levels, or footshock sensitivity. Combined, these findings indicate that PLZ influences memory in a task-dependent manner. These differential effects of PLZ may be the result of contrasting influences of GABA and biogenic amines on memory.

Reference values of facial features in white Scandinavian children were ascertained using a newly developed range-camera technique with a three-dimensional measuring program specifically designed for anthropometric measurements. Seven facial features in 613 healthy subjects (322 girls, 291 boys), aged 1 month to 18 years, and nine subjects with the fetal alcohol syndrome,aged 7 to 18 years, were studied. Data were analysed by multivariate multiple regression and measurements of each facial feature plotted against age and presented as curves, with 95% and 99% univariate prediction limits. All children with fetal alcohol syndrome had shorter palpebral fissures, and in six of them the outer canthal distance was shorter than that in the reference group. The reference values presented may be useful in clinical practice--for example, in the evaluation of children with syndromes that result in dysmorphology of the face and in the planning of plastic and reconstructive surgery.
A reversed phase HPLC method for separation and determination of the major tryptophan (TRP) metabolites in both pyrrolas pathway and TRP hydroxylase pathway, including TRP, kynurenine(KN), 3-hydroxykynurenine(3-HKN), kynurenic acid(KA), xanthurenic acid(XA), 5-hydroxytryptophan(5-HTP), 5-hydroxytryptamin(5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid(5-HIAA), has been developed by sequential optimization of mobile phase based on acetate buffer and methanol. Trichloroacetic acid(TCA) was used as ion-pairing reagent to increase the retention of 3-HKN. The effects of pH and concentrations of TCA on separation were studied. Good separation can be achieved at pH 4.0-5.0 of mobile phase in less than 25 min. When TCA was not used, 3-HKN was hard to be detected in biological samples. The maximum retention of 3-HKN was obtained at pH 4.0 with mobile phase containing 50 mmol/L TCA. Combination of electrochemical (ED) and ultraviolet (UV) detection was used in which ED was responsible for detection of 3-HKN, 5-HTP, 5-HT and 5-HIAA and UV for the others. The influences of potential of ED and wavelength of UV on detection were studied. The optimization of conditions for separation and detection in different biological samples was also discussed.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a common cause of legal blindness in the developed countries in people older than 50 years of age. AMD complicated by choroidal neovascular membranes (CNV) accounts for 12% of AMD, but for 88% of legal blindness cases. Because of the progressive aging of the population, it is expected that AMD will be one of the greater public health problems in ophthalmology in the first half of the next century. Laser photocoagulation remains the only proven treatment for CNV in AMD, but unfortunately, is applicable only to a minority of patients presenting with CNV in AMD. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a new experiment treatment for CNV that combines the application of low-intensity light with a photosensitizing agent in the presence of oxygen to produce tissue effects. It uses the noninvasive potential of the laser light to cause a nonthermal localized chemotoxic reaction and obtain highly selective occlusion of the neovascular channels, with sparing of the overlying photoreceptors. Animal studies showed that PDT accounts for the effective closure of experimentally induced CNV. Phase I-II clinical studies showed that PDT using BPD can safely stabilize leakage from CNV in a majority of patients for up to 3 months. Phase III clinical studies to assess the long term prognosis of PDT-treatment of CNV in AMD are ongoing.
The neurological sequelae following surgery for complex cardiac malformations is being increasingly recognized. The electroencephalogram (EEG) and evoked potentials may be used as monitors of neurological integrity. Criteria for a successful intensive care unit monitoring system have been proposed. EEG findings in the preoperative, perioperative, and postoperative periods are reviewed and may aid in the prediction of neurological sequelae. Recent advances in the development of a computerized neurophysiological monitor at the Montreal Children's Hospital are reviewed. Evoked potentials, auditory, somatosensory, and visual can be used to monitor children with complex cardiac lesions and evaluate them for potential neurological sequelae.
Unfamiliar, predominantly eccentric exercise, frequently results in muscle damage. A repeated bout of similar eccentric exercise results in less damage and is referred to as the 'repeated bout effect'. Despite numerous studies that have clearly demonstrated the repeated bout effect, there is little consensus as to the actual mechanism. In general, the adaptation has been attributed to neural, connective tissue or cellular adaptations. Other possible mechanisms include, adaptation in excitation-contraction coupling or adaptation in the inflammatory response. The 'neural theory' predicts that the initial damage is a result of high stress on a relatively small number of active fast-twitch fibres. For the repeated bout, an increase in motor unit activation and/or a shift to slow-twitch fibre activation distributes the contractile stress over a larger number of active fibres. Although eccentric training results in marked increases in motor unit activation, specific adaptations to a single bout of eccentric exercise have not been examined. The 'connective tissue theory' predicts that muscle damage occurs when the noncontractile connective tissue elements are disrupted and myofibrillar integrity is lost. Indirect evidence suggests that remodelling of the intermediate filaments and/or increased intramuscular connective tissue are responsible for the repeated bout effect. The 'cellular theory' predicts that muscle damage is the result of irreversible sarcomere strain during eccentric contractions. Sarcomere lengths are thought to be highly non-uniform during eccentric contractions, with some sarcomeres stretched beyond myofilament overlap. Loss of contractile integrity results in sarcomere strain and is seen as the initial stage of damage. Some data suggest that an increase in the number of sarcomeres connected in series, following an initial bout, reduces sarcomere strain during a repeated bout and limits the subsequent damage. It is unlikely that one theory can explain all of the various observations of the repeated bout effect found in the literature. That the phenomenon occurs in electrically stimulated contractions in an animal model precludes an exclusive neural adaptation. Connective tissue and cellular adaptations are unlikely explanations when the repeated bout effect is demonstrated prior to full recovery, and when the fact that the initial bout does not have to cause appreciable damage in order to provide a protective effect is considered. It is possible that the repeated bout effect occurs through the interaction of various neural, connective tissue and cellular factors that are dependent on the particulars of the eccentric exercise bout and the specific muscle groups involved.


Demonstrating that neural activity 'represents' physical properties of the world such as the orientation of a line in the receptive field of a nerve cell is a standard procedure in neuroscience. However, not all such neural activity will be associated with the mental representations that form the contents of consciousness. In some cases, such as when patients with blindsight correctly 'guess' the location of a stimulus, neural activity is associated with physical stimulation and with appropriate behaviour, but not with awareness. To identify the neural correlates of conscious experience we need to identify patterns of neural activity that are specifically associated with awareness. Experiments aimed at making such identifications require that subjects report some aspect of their conscious experience either verbally or through some pre-arranged non-verbal report while neural activity is measured. If there is some characteristic neural signature of consciousness, then this should be distinguishable from the kinds of neural activity associated with stimulation and/or behaviour in the absence of awareness. It remains to be seen whether the neural signature of consciousness relates to the location of the neural activity, the temporal properties of the neural activity or the form of the interaction between activity in different brain regions.
The richness and complexity of data sets acquired from PET or fMRI studies of human cognition have not been exploited until recently by computational neural-modeling methods. In this article, two neural-modeling approaches for use with functional brain imaging data are described. One, which uses structural equation modeling, estimates the functional strengths of the anatomical connections between various brain regions during specific cognitive tasks. The second employs large-scale neural modeling to relate functional neuroimaging signals in multiple, interconnected brain regions to the underlying neurobiological time-varying activities in each region. Delayed match-to-sample (visual working memory for form) tasks are used to illustrate these models.
The mechanisms that underlie a wine lover's ability to identify a favorite vintage and a dog's ability to track the scent of a lost child are still deep mysteries. Our understanding of these olfactory phenomena is confounded by the difficulty encountered when attempting to identify the parameters that define odor stimuli, by the broad tuning and variability of neurons in the olfactory pathway,and by the distributed nature of olfactory encoding. These issues pertain to both biological systems and to newly developed 'artificial noses' that seek to mimic these natural processes. Information theory, which quantifies explicitly the extent to which the state of one system (for example, the universe of all odors) relates to the state of another (for example, the responses of an odor-sensing device),can serve as a basis for analysing both natural and engineered odor sensors. This analytical approach can be used to explore the problems of defining stimulus dimensions, assessing strategies of neuronal processing, and examining the properties of biological systems that emerge from interactions among their complex components. It can also serve to optimize the design of artificial olfactory devices for a variety of applications, which include process control, medical diagnostics and the detection of explosives.
Neuroactive steroids are a novel class of positive allosteric modulators of the GABAA receptor. Although neuroactive steroids are endogenous neuronal modulators, synthetic entities with improved oral bioavailability have recently been developed. These compounds demonstrate efficacy as anticonvulsants against a range of convulsant stimuli and demonstrate anti-epileptogenic activity in a kindling model of epilepsy. Efficacy has also been reported in preclinical models of anxiety, insomnia, migraine and drug dependence. Clinical evidence to date is generally supportive of these findings and indicates that neuroactive steroids are generally well tolerated. Taken as a whole, current data suggest that neuroactive steroids could have a future role in clinical practice. In this article, Maciej Gasior, Richard Carter and Jeffrey Witkin review preclinical and clinical evidence that forms the basis for predicting the potential therapeutic application of neuroactive steroids.
The electroretinogram (ERG) of the rhodopsin knockout (rho-/-) mouse of Humphries et al. (1997) (Humphries et al., 1997) was studied for evidence of light-evoked rod activity and to describe the cone function. The rho-/- retina develops normal numbers of rod and cone nuclei, but the rods have no outer segments, and no rhodopsin is found by immunohistochemistry. The dark-adapted ERG threshold was elevated 4.7 log units above wild-type (WT) control mice, indicating that any residual rod responses were reduced &gt;50,000-fold, consistent with a complete functional knockout. The dark-adapted rho-/- ERG had a cone waveform, and the spectral sensitivity peaked near 510 nm for both dark-adapted and light-adapted conditions, without evidence of a Purkinje shift. The light-adapted ERG b-wave amplitude of young rho-/- mice was the same as WT. The amplitude remained steady up to postnatal day P47, but thereafter it declined to only 1-2% by P80 when no cone outer segments remained. Cone b-wave threshold of dark-adapted rho-/- mice was -1.07 +/- 0.39 log cd-s/m2 (n = 17), which is 1.27 log units more sensitive than light-adapted thresholds against a rod-suppressing Ganzfeld background of 1.61 log scotopic cd/m2. This indicates that dark-adapted WT responses to still dimmer stimuli are exclusively rod driven with minimal cone intrusion. Above this cone threshold intensity, the dark-adapted b-wave of WT will be a summation of rod and cone responses. Threshold versus intensity (TVI) studies gave no evidence of a rod influence on the mouse cone b-wave.
To study processing of UV stimuli in the retina of the turtle, Trachemys dorbignii, we recorded intracellular responses to spectral light from 89 cells: 54 horizontal (47 monophasic, five (R/G) biphasic and two (Y/B) triphasic), 14 bipolar, 12 amacrine, and nine ganglion cells. Spectral sensitivities were measured with monochromatic flashes or with the dynamic constant response method in dark or chromatic adapted states. Stray light and second-order harmonics were also measured. (1) All cells responded to UV stimuli, although none had maximum sensitivity in the UV. (2) Most horizontal, bipolar, and amacrine cells had red-peaked spectral sensitivities. (3) Red adaptation of all monophasic horizontal cells indicated a single red input, except one that had additional peaks in the blue and UV. (4) Responses of biphasic and triphasic horizontal cells to UV light were always hyperpolarizing. Opposition between hyperpolarizing and depolarizing responses at long wavelengths indicates that UV responses were not due to the beta band of red receptors. (5) An unstained spectrally opponent bipolar cell hyperpolarized in the center to green light and antagonistically depolarized in the surround to UV, blue, and green flashes, but hyperpolarized to red. (6) All dark-adapted amacrine cells were red-peaked monophasic cells, but red adaptation broadened their spectral-sensitivity curves or displaced their peaks. An A15, an A18, and an A24 wide-field amacrine cell were stained. (7) A G15 bistratified ganglion cell is shown here for the first time to be spectrally opponent. This UVB/RG cell depolarized to UV and blue and hyperpolarized to red and green. It differs from previously reported turtle ganglion cells in being color opponent in the entire field, not only in the surround, and in showing spatial opponency.
Psychophysiology, physiological psychology (Sechenov), human physiology of higher nervous activity (Pavlov) is an interdisciplinary field, which appeared at the interface between psychology and neurosciences for exploration of the brain mechanisms of mental functions. The fundamental complementation of subjective and objective, psychological and neurobiological approaches as the facets of investigation of the basically whole process made it possible to fill with a specific content and clearly differentiate the forms of human psyche such as emotion, consciousness, personality, character, and creativity.
The extension of neurites is a major task of developing neurons, requiring a significant metabolic effort to sustain the increase in molecular synthesis necessary for plasma membrane expansion. In addition, neurite extension involves changes in the subsets of expressed proteins and reorganization of the cytomatrix. These phenomena are driven by environmental cues which activate signal transduction processes as well as by the intrinsic genetic program of the cell. The present review summarizes some of the most recent progress made in the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying these processes.
Mitochondria are critical for the function of nerve terminals as the cycling of synaptic vesicle membrane requires an efficient supply of ATP. In addition, the presynaptic mitochondria take part in functions such as Ca2+ buffering and neurotransmitter synthesis. To learn more about presynaptic mitochondria, we have examined their organization in two types of synapse in the lamprey, both of which are glutamatergic but are adapted to different temporal patterns of activity. The first is the giant lamprey reticulospinal synapse, which is specialized to transmit phasic signals (i.e. bursts of impulses). The second is the synapse established by sensory dorsal column axons, which is adapted to tonic activity. In both cases, the presynaptic axons were found to contain two distinct types of mitochondria; small 'synaptic' mitochondria, located near release sites, and larger mitochondria located in more central parts of the axon. The size of the synapse-associated mitochondria was similar in both types of synapse. However, their number differed considerably. Whereas the reticulospinal synapses contained only single mitochondria within 1 micron distance from the edge of the active zone (on average 1.2 per active zone, range of 1-3), the tonic dorsal column synapses were surrounded by clusters of mitochondria (4.5 per active zone, range of 3-6), with individual mitochondria sometimes apparently connected by intermitochondrial contacts. In conjunction with studies of crustacean neuromuscular junctions, these observations indicate that the temporal pattern of transmitter release is an important determinant of the organization of presynaptic mitochondria.
Current views on quantal release of neurotransmitters hold that after the vesicle migrates towards release sites (active zones), multiple protein interactions mediate the docking of the vesicle to the presynaptic membrane and the formation of a multimolecular protein complex (the 'fusion machine') which ultimately makes the vesicle competent to release a quantum in response to the action potential. Classical biophysical studies of quantal release have modelled the process by a binomial system where n vesicles (sites) competent for exocytosis release a quantum, with probability p, in response to the action potential. This is likely to be an oversimplified model. Furthermore, statistical and kinetic studies have given results which are difficult to reconcile within this framework. Here, data are presented and discussed which suggest a revision of the biophysical model. Transient silencing of release is shown to occur following the pulse of synchronous transmitter release, which is evoked by the presynaptic action potential. This points to a schema where the vesicle fusion complex assembly is a reversible, stochastic process. Asynchronous exocytosis may occur at several intermediate stages in the process, along paths which may be differentially regulated by divalent cations or other factors. The fusion complex becomes competent for synchronous release (armed vesicles) only at appropriately organized sites. The action potential then triggers (deterministically rather than stochastically) the synchronous discharge of all armed vesicles. The existence of a specific conformation for the fusion complex to be competent for synchronous evoked fusion reconciles statistical and kinetic results during repetitive stimulation and helps explain the specific effects of toxins and genetic manipulation on the synchronization of release in response to an action potential.
One of the crucial issues in understanding neuronal transmission is to define the role(s) of the numerous proteins that are localized within presynaptic terminals and are thought to participate in the regulation of the synaptic vesicle life cycle. Synapsins are a multigene family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins and are the most abundant proteins on synaptic vesicles. Synapsins are able to interact in vitro with lipid and protein components of synaptic vesicles and with various cytoskeletal proteins, including actin. These and other studies have led to a model in which synapsins, by tethering synaptic vesicles to each other and to an actin-based cytoskeletal meshwork, maintain a reserve pool of vesicles in the vicinity of the active zone. Perturbation of synapsin function in a variety of preparations led to a selective disruption of this reserve pool and to an increase in synaptic depression, suggesting that the synapsin-dependent cluster of vesicles is required to sustain release of neurotransmitter in response to high levels of neuronal activity. In a recent study performed at the squid giant synapse, perturbation of synapsin function resulted in a selective disruption of the reserve pool of vesicles and in addition, led to an inhibition and slowing of the kinetics of neurotransmitter release, indicating a second role for synapsins downstream from vesicle docking. These data suggest that synapsins are involved in two distinct reactions which are crucial for exocytosis in presynaptic nerve terminals. This review describes our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which synapsins modulate synaptic transmission, while the increasingly well-documented role of the synapsins in synapse formation and stabilization lies beyond the scope of this review.
Information transfer among neurons is operated by neurotransmitters stored in synaptic vesicles and released to the extracellular space by an efficient process of regulated exocytosis. Synaptic vesicles are organized into two distinct functional pools, a large reserve pool in which vesicles are restrained by the actin-based cytoskeleton, and a quantitatively smaller releasable pool in which vesicles approach the presynaptic membrane and eventually fuse with it on stimulation. Both synaptic vesicle trafficking and neurotransmitter release depend on a precise sequence of events that include release from the reserve pool, targeting to the active zone, docking, priming, fusion and endocytotic retrieval of synaptic vesicles. These steps are mediated by a series of specific interactions among cytoskeletal, synaptic vesicle, presynaptic membrane and cytosolic proteins that, by acting in concert, promote the spatial and temporal regulation of the exocytotic machinery. The majority of these interactions are mediated by specific protein modules and domains that are found in many proteins and are involved in numerous intracellular processes. In this paper, the possible physiological role of these multiple protein-protein interactions is analysed, with ensuing updating and clarification of the present molecular model of the process of neurotransmitter release.

The ionotropic glutamate receptors N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and kainate (KA) have been localized on subpopulations of unmyelinated and myelinated sensory axons in normal skin. Behavioral studies indicate that activation of these receptors results in nociceptive behaviors and contributes to inflammatory pain. The goal of the present study was to determine if these glutamate receptors might contribute to the peripheral hypersensitivity observed in inflammation. The major findings were that 48 h following complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammation, the proportions of unmyelinated axons labeled for NMDA, AMPA or KA receptors were 61%, 43% and 48%, respectively, in cutaneous nerves in the inflamed paw compared to 48%, 22% and 27%, respectively, in the non-inflamed paw. The proportions of myelinated axons labeled for NMDA, AMPA or KA receptors were 61%, 61% and 43%, respectively, compared to 43%, 42% and 28%, respectively, in the non-inflamed hindpaw. These increases were all significant. These data indicate that the number of sensory axons containing ionotropic glutamate receptors increases during inflammation, and this may be a contributing factor to peripheral sensitization in inflammation.
Our earlier studies have identified oligomycin sensitivity-conferring protein (OSCP), a subunit of proton F0F1-ATPase/ATP synthase in the mitochondrial inner membranes, as a new estradiol binding protein. This finding suggests that mitochondrial ATPase/ATP synthase could be a potential target for estradiol or compounds with similar structures. Here, we report that estradiol and several other compounds inhibited F0F1-ATPase activity of detergent-solubilized rat brain mitochondrial preparations in a following decreasing order: diethylstilbestrol (half-inhibition concentration, IC50 of 10-25 microM) &gt; alpha-zearalenol, 4-hydroxyestradiol (1C50 of 55 microM) &gt;2-hydroxyestradiol (IC50 of 110 microM), 17beta-estradiol, 17alpha-estradiol &gt; beta-zearalanol &gt; estriol, testosterone, 16alpha-hydroxyestrone &gt; corticosterone, progesterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate, cholesterol (less than 10% inhibition at 140 microM). On the other hand, Na+, K+ -ATPase of porcine cortex showed different sensitivity to the compounds tested above. At 70 microM, the rank of inhibitory potency in decreasing order was as follows: 2-hydroxyestradiol (IC50 of 70 microM) &gt; diethylstilbestrol&gt; 4-hydroxyestradiol &gt; progesterone &gt; alpha-zearalenol, while other compounds had little effect (less than 5%). The data indicate that the ubiquitous mitochondrial F0F1-ATPase is a specific target site for estradiol and related estrogenic compounds; however, under this in vitro condition, the effect seems to require pharmacological concentrations.
We have studied the effects in three rodent models of generalised convulsive or absence epilepsy of two antagonists of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors that are selective for the mGlu1 receptor. LY 367385 ((+)-2-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine) and AIDA ((RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid) have been administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) to DBA/2 mice and lethargic mice (lh/lh), and focally into the inferior colliculus of genetically epilepsy prone rats (GEPR). In DBA/2 mice both compounds produce a rapid, transient suppression of sound-induced clonic seizures (LY 367385: ED50 = 12 nmol, i.c.v., 5 min; AIDA: ED50 = 79 nmol, i.c.v., 15 min). In lethargic mice both compounds significantly reduce the incidence of spontaneous spike and wave discharges on the electroencephalogram, from &lt;30 to &gt;150 min after the administration of AIDA, 500 nmol, i.c.v., and from 30 to &gt;150 min after the administration of LY 367385, 250 nmol, i.c.v. LY 367385, 50 nmol, suppresses spontaneous spike and wave discharges from 30 to 60 min. In genetically epilepsy prone rats both compounds reduce sound-induced clonic seizures. LY 367385, 160 nmol bilaterally, fully suppresses clonic seizures after 2-4 h. AIDA is fully effective 30 min after 100 nmol bilaterally. It is concluded that antagonists of mGlu1 receptors are potential anticonvulsant agents and that activation of mGlu1 receptors probably contributes to a variety of epileptic syndromes.
We used positron emission tomography (PET) to monitor the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as an index of brain activity in regions proposed to participate in affective-motivational and cognitive-evaluative dimensions of pain during anticipation of a noxious stimulation. Specifically we were interested in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) and the periaqueductal grey (PAG). Anticipating an unpredictable and unlearned pain stimulus activated the right ACC, the VMPFC and the PAG while anticipating a learned pain-stimulus resulted in a decreased activity in the ACC and the VMPFC. These patterns are compatible with two facets of affect-laden cognitive coping: alertness and attention-distraction. The right-preponderant expression of the changes in the ACC supports the hypothesis of a preferential role of the non-dominant hemisphere in negative emotional processing. The data demonstrate an anticipatory coping mechanism and illustrate a neurophysiological process underlying the modulation of attention to pain.
We induced heat stress in urethane-anesthetized rats (the animals were exposed to an ambient temperature at 42 degrees C), and monitored their colon temperature, mean arterial pressure and local cerebral blood flow. Rats 0, 20, 40 or 80 min after heat stress were sacrificed for determination of c-fos mRNA and protein expression in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), supraoptic nucleus (SON) and preoptic nucleus (PON). The heatstroke, which appears as profound decreases in both mean arterial pressure and local cerebral blood flow and increases in colon temperature, is produced 80 min after heat stress. We show the c-fos mRNA and protein is strongly induced in all these nuclei of rat hypothalamus after the onset of heatstroke. We conclude that c-fos expression in the hypothalamus during rat heatstroke is associated with hyperthermia, arterial hypotension and cerebral ischemia.
To clarify the effects of the proteolytic cleavage of presenilin 1 (PS1) and presenilin 2 (PS2) proteins on their functions, we established stable cell lines which expressed the physiologically cleaved N-terminal fragment (NTF) with or without mutations of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). We found that exogenous expression of the PS1-NTF or PS2-NTF harboring FAD mutations was insufficient for increased production of amyloidogenic A beta X-42 peptide and that the overexpressed NTFs had no effect on the accumulation of endogenous presenilin fragments.
In this study we examined the presence of dopamine D1 receptors in monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) using RT-PCR and radioligand binding experiments. We found that MAEC express D1 receptor mRNA that is having 99% homology with human dopamine D1 receptors. Saturation binding studies using [3H]SCH-23390 showed a high affinity D1 site with K(D) and Bmax values of 0.82 +/- 0.12 nM and 20.77 +/- 4.22 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition experiments showed that selective D1, but not D2, antagonists are potent displacers of [3H]SCH 23390 binding with a rank order of potency that is consistent with the pharmacology of the dopaminergic D1 site. These data provide, for the first time, compelling evidence that MAEC natively express D1 mRNA and binding sites and suggest that it may be a potential primate cell model to study D1 receptors and to explore new selective drugs active at these receptors.
In the nervous system, glial cells greatly outnumber neurons but the full extent of their role in determining neural activity remains unknown. Here the axotactin (axo) gene of Drosophila was shown to encode a member of the neurexin protein superfamily secreted by glia and subsequently localized to axonal tracts. Null mutations of axo caused temperature-sensitive paralysis and a corresponding blockade of axonal conduction. Thus, the AXO protein appears to be a component of a glial-neuronal signaling mechanism that helps to determine the membrane electrical properties of target axons.

Clinically effective antimigraine drugs such as Sumatriptan have similar affinity at h5-HT1D and h5-HT1B receptors. In the search for a h5-HT1D-selective agonist as an antimigraine agent, a novel series of 3-(propylpiperazinyl)indoles have been synthesized and evaluated at h5-HT1D and h5-HT1B receptors. This class of compounds has provided subnanomolar, fully efficacious h5-HT1D agonists with up to 200-fold selectivity for the h5-HT1D receptor over the h5-HT1B receptor. Unlike other h5-HT1D-selective series, several propylpiperazines demonstrate good oral bioavailability. The optimum compound was 1-(3-[5-(1,2, 4-triazol-4-yl)-1H-indol-3-yl]propyl)-4-(2-(3-fluorophenyl)ethyl)p ipe razine (7f) which has excellent selectivity for h5-HT1D receptors over other 5-HT receptor subtypes and good oral bioavailability in three species. Compound 7f has been selected for further investigation as a potential development candidate in the treatment of migraine.
The design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of a novel series of 3-[2-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)ethyl]indoles with excellent selectivity for h5-HT1D (formerly 5-HT1Dalpha) receptors over h5-HT1B (formerly 5-HT1Dbeta) receptors are described. Clinically effective antimigraine drugs such as Sumatriptan show little selectivity between h5-HT1D and h5-HT1B receptors. The differential expression of h5-HT1D and h5-HT1B receptors in neural and vascular tissue prompted an investigation of whether a compound selective for the h5-HT1D subtype would have the same clinical efficacy but with reduced side effects. The pyrrolidine 3b was initially identified as having 9-fold selectivity for h5-HT1D over h5-HT1B receptors. Substitution of the pyrrolidine ring of 3b with methylbenzylamine groups gave compounds with nanomolar affinity for the h5-HT1D receptor and 100-fold selectivity with respect to h5-HT1B receptors. Modification of the indole 5-substituent led to the oxazolidinones 24a,b with up to 163-fold selectivity for the h5-HT1D subtype and improved selectivity over other serotonin receptors. The compounds were shown to be full agonists by measurement of agonist-induced [35S]GTPgammaS binding in CHO cells expressed with h5-HT receptors. This study suggests that the h5-HT1D and h5-HT1B receptors can be differentiated by appropriate substitution of the ligand in the region which binds to the aspartate residue and reveals a large binding pocket in the h5-HT1D receptor domain which is absent for the h5-HT1B receptor. The compounds described herein will be important tools to delineate the role of h5-HT1D receptors in migraine.
We screened proteins for interaction with presenilin (PS) 1, and cloned the full-length cDNA of human delta-catenin, which encoded 1225 amino acids. Yeast two-hybrid assay, GST binding assay and immunoprecipitation demonstrated that delta-catenin interacted with a hydrophilic loop region in the endoproteolytic C-terminal fragment of PS1, but not with that of PS-2. These results suggest that PS1 and PS2 partly differ in function. PS1 loop fragment containing the pathogenic mutation retained the binding ability. We also found another armadillo-protein, p0071, interacted with PS1.
Saturation analyses of [3H]L-689,560, [3H]CGP 39653 and NMDA-specific [3H]ifenprodil binding revealed an equivalent increase (0.7 pmol/mg) in the number of [3H]L-689,560 and [3H]ifenprodil binding sites in superior temporal cortex (BA22) from drug-treated chronic schizophrenic patients and control subjects. No differences were observed between control and schizophrenic subjects for [3H]CGP 39653 binding in BA22, or for any of the radioligands binding to pre-motor cortex (BA6). Since [3H]L-689,560, [3H]CGP 39653 and [3H]ifenprodil label the glycine, glutamate and ifenprodil sites of the NMDA receptor complex, which are associated with NR1, NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B subunits respectively, our findings suggest that NR2B-containing receptors are selectively up-regulated in superior temporal cortex in schizophrenia.
We screened proteins for interaction with Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and cloned a new member of the X11 protein family, X11L2. The PID/PTB element of X11L2 protein interacted with the intracellular domain of APP by GST binding assay, and in vivo interaction was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation from cell extracts overexpressing APP and HA-tagged X11L2. This gene encoded 575 amino acids and the deduced amino acid sequence was highly homologous to rat Mint3. Three protein-protein interaction domains, a PID/PTB and two PDZ elements, were conserved among the X11 protein family, and the N-terminal region of X11L2 protein had several putative SH3 binding motifs, PXXP. Unlike other members of the X11 protein family, X11L2 mRNA was expressed in various tissues.
7-azaindole compounds bearing a cyclic amine moiety linked by a one or two carbon chain attached at the 2- or 3-position were synthesised and evaluated as potential dopamine D4 ligands. Highest affinity and selectivity for the D4 receptor resided in the 3-aminomethyl-7-azaindole series.
Drosophila affords a genetically well-defined system to study apoptosis in vivo. It offers a powerful extension to in vitro models that have implicated a requirement for cytochrome c in caspase activation and apoptosis. We found that an overt alteration in cytochrome c anticipates programmed cell death (PCD) in Drosophila tissues, occurring at a time that considerably precedes other known indicators of apoptosis. The altered configuration is manifested by display of an otherwise hidden epitope and occurs without release of the protein into the cytosol. Conditional expression of the Drosophila death activators, reaper or grim, provoked apoptogenic cytochrome c display and, surprisingly, caspase activity was necessary and sufficient to induce this alteration. In cell-free studies, cytosolic caspase activation was triggered by mitochondria from apoptotic cells but identical preparations from healthy cells were inactive. Our observations provide compelling validation of an early role for altered cytochrome c in PCD and suggest propagation of apoptotic physiology through reciprocal, feed-forward amplification involving cytochrome c and caspases.
The neutral and basic amino acid transporter (NBAT) facilitates sodium-independent transport of L-amino acids in renal and intestinal epithelial cells and has been postulated to play a similar role in neurons. In previous studies, NBAT has been detected within enteric and brainstem autonomic neurons in a distribution similar to that of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS). Furthermore, L-arginine, the required precursor for nitric oxide synthesis, is an excellent NBAT substrate. Together, these findings suggest that NBAT may play a role in the regulation of nitric oxide synthesis, through the control of precursor availability. To gain insight into the potential physiological role of NBAT in central neurons, we used an antipeptide antiserum to examine the light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of NBAT in the rat forebrain and to compare this distribution with that of cNOS. Immunolabeling for NBAT was detected within perikarya and dendrite-like processes that were most numerous in the frontal and cingulate cortex, the ventral striatum, the central amygdala, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Labeled varicose axonal processes were distributed most densely in the agranular insular cortex and the paraventricular nuclei of the thalamus and hypothalamus (PVH). Electron microscopy showed that immunogold labeling for NBAT was distributed along plasmalemmal and vacuolar membranes within somata, dendrites, and axonal profiles. Many of the NBAT-containing somata and dendrites contained detectable cNOS. Our results suggest that expression of NBAT may provide specific populations of cNOS-containing forebrain neurons with a unique mechanism for regulating somatodendritic synthesis of nitric oxide.
Caloric stimulation induced a transient reversal of multimodal hemispatial cognitive deficits in an 81-year-old woman with an acute left cerebral hemisphere stroke. The patient had unawareness of her right hand (asomatognosia), right-sided visual unawareness (hemineglect), aphasia and right-sided weakness (hemiplegia) prior to the stimulation. Transient improvements in impaired sensory, motor, linguistic and cognitive function developed within 30 s following application of the caloric stimulus and onset of horizontal nystagmus. The effect persisted for 3 min and ceased completely after 5 min. While several recent reports have described the capacity of caloric stimulation to transiently improve or reverse a wide range of attentional, cognitive and motor impairments, most examples are in right-hemisphere-damaged patients with long-standing brain injury. Typically, patients have been tested several months or years after the onset of the deficit. A possible mechanism for the temporary reintegration of multiple cognitive functions in this patient is discussed.
In a mouse model of focal cerebral ischaemia, we observed after 1 h of ischaemia, that the total Na+, K+-ATPase activity was decreased by 39.4%, and then did not vary significantly up to 6 h post-occlusion. In the sham group, the dose-response curves for ouabain disclosed three inhibitory sites of low (LA), high (HA) and very high (VHA) affinity. In ischaemic animals, we detected the presence of only two inhibitory sites for ouabain. After 1 h of permanent occlusion, the first site exhibited a low affinity while the second site presented an affinity intermediate between those of HA and VHA sites, which evolved after 3 h and 6 h of occlusion towards that of the VHA site. The presence of only two ouabain sites for Na+, K+-ATPase after ischaemia could result from a change in ouabain affinity of both HA and VHA sites (alpha2 and alpha3 isoforms, respectively) to form a unique component. Irrespective of the duration of ischaemia, the smaller activity of this second site accounted entirely for the loss in total activity. Surprisingly, no modifications in protein and mRNA expression of any alpha or beta isoforms of the enzyme were observed, thus suggesting that ischaemia could induce intrinsic modifications of the Na+, K+-ATPase.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, the principal circadian pacemaker, is a paired structure with two subdivisions, a ventral core receiving photic input and a dorsal shell receiving non-photic input. Rhythmicity is thought to be generated by individual SCN neurons which are coupled to achieve synchrony [D.K. Welsh, D.E. Logothetis, M. Meister, S.M. Reppert, Individual neurons dissociated from rat suprachiasmatic nucleus express independently phased circadian firing patterns, Neuron, 14 (1995) 697-706]. Normally, the core and shell, and the nuclei on each side, act in unison to transmit rhythmicity to effector systems. It is not known how coupling between neurons in the two subdivisions, and between the two SCNs, takes place. In the present study, we analyze the intrinsic, commissural, and efferent projections of the SCN using the swine herpesvirus (pseudorabies virus, PRV) as a tool for transynaptic analysis of circuits and small iontophoretic injections of the conventional tracer horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated to fluorescein. We find that the core and shell each project through commissural efferents to homologous contralateral areas. The core projects densely to shell but we find little reciprocal innervation. The two subdivisions project to different hypothalamic areas, with the core projecting to the lateral subparaventricular zone and shell to the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and medial subparaventricular zone. These data are the first demonstration that connections within the SCN, and from the SCN to effector regions, are topographically organized and lend insight into the flow of information through and out of the pacemaker.
There is considerable evidence for a role of stressful experiences in psychosomatic disorders in humans, but the mechanisms leading to altered responsivity and the relative contributions of central and peripheral neuronal changes, however, are still under debate. To investigate the contribution of specific brain areas to sensitized responsivity, rats were exposed to a single brief session of inescapable footshocks (preshocked) or no shocks (control) in a gridcage. Two weeks later, an electrified prod was inserted in the home cage for 15 min and the behaviour recorded. One hour later rats were perfused and brain sections were stained for Fos protein immunoreactivity. The number of Fos positive neurons was quantified in 27 brain areas. No significant difference in behaviour was found between the groups during the shock prod challenge. A significantly higher number of Fos positive neurons was found in preshocked rats compared to controls in the following brain areas: agranular insular cortex, frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, basolateral amygdala, CA1 area of the hippocampus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, dorsolateral central grey, locus coeruleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and lateral paragigantocellular nucleus. We conclude that altered reactivity to stressful challenges in brain areas involved in neuroendocrine and autonomic control may play a role in long-term sensitization of neuroendocrine and autonomic responses in preshocked rats under conditions where behavioural sensitization is not expressed.
The expression of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) in rat hippocampus was studied following kainic acid-induced seizure activity in vivo and in hippocampal slice cultures. Protein and mRNA levels of the glial (EAAT2) and neuronal (EAAT3) transporters were determined with affinity-purified antibodies and oligonucleotide probes, respectively. Kainate treatment decreased EAAT3 immunoreactivity in stratum lacunosum moleculare within 4 h of seizure onset. Upon pyramidal cell death (5 days after kainate treatment), EAAT3 immunoreactivity in stratum pyramidale of CA1 and in stratum lacunosum moleculare was almost completely eliminated. The rapid effect of kainate on EAAT3 expression was confirmed by in situ hybridization; EAAT3 mRNA levels were decreased in CA1 and CA3 regions within 4-8 h of seizure onset. Kainate treatment had an opposite effect on levels and expression of EAAT2. Developmental studies indicated that the rapid regulation of transporter expression was not observed in rats younger than 21 days, an observation congruent with previous reports regarding the resistance of young rats to kainate. In hippocampal organotypic cultures, which lack a major excitatory input from the entorhinal cortex, kainate produced a slow decrease in [3H]d-aspartate uptake. This study indicates that an early effect of kainate treatment consists of down-regulation of the neuronal transporter EAAT3 in restricted hippocampal regions, together with a modest increase in the expression of the glial transporter EAAT2. Differential regulation of neuronal and glial glutamate transporters may thus play a role in kainate-induced seizure, neurotoxicity and neuronal plasticity.
PACAP is a member of the secretin/vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) family, isolated from hypothalamus. Recent studies have shown that PACAP is expressed in many parts of adult brain. We have studied the precise distribution of PACAP mRNA in developing rat brain, employing in situ hybridisation. PACAP mRNA is expressed in distinct parts of the embryonic rat brain from embryonic day 13, with a robust expression in developing cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and hypothalamus as well as in spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. The expression in hippocampus and cortex diminishes towards adulthood, compared to new-born rat brain. In the mature brain, PACAP mRNA is located in alternating layers of cerebral cortex (layers I, III and V), in the dentate gyrus, in CA4 and CA1 regions, but not in CA2 or CA3 of the hippocampus. The presence of PACAP mRNA in different structures of developing rat brain suggests an important function for this peptide during brain development.
Two distinct signaling pathways, involving Wnt signaling and polycystin, have been found to be critical for normal kidney development. Renal tubulogenesis requires the presence of certain Wnt proteins, whereas mutations in polycystin impede the terminal differentiation of renal tubular epithelial cells, causing the development of large cystic kidneys that characterize autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Polycystin is an integral membrane protein, consisting of several extracellular motifs indicative of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, coupled through multiple transmembrane domains to a functionally active cytoplasmic domain. We report here that expression of the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of polycystin stabilizes soluble endogenous beta-catenin and stimulates TCF-dependent gene transcription in human embryonic kidney cells. Microinjection of the polycystin C-terminal cytoplasmic domain induces dorsalization in zebrafish. Our findings suggest that polycystin has the capacity to modulate Wnt signaling during renal development.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is synthesized in a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons and transported anterogradely to the spinal cord and peripheral targets. In the present study, the peripheral projection of sensory neurons immunoreactive (-ir) for BDNF was examined by a combined method of immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing in rats. It was found that 36.3% of sensory neurons projecting to subcutaneous tissues, 9.8% to epidermis and 8.3% to muscle, contained BDNF immunoreactivity. In contrast, only 0.2% of sensory neurons projecting to adrenal gland and 0.9% to coeliac ganglia contained BDNF. A small proportion of sensory neurons projecting to muscles, mesenteric blood vessels and hair follicles was also BDNF immunoreactive. These results provide evidence that primary sensory neurons immunoreactive for BDNF project mainly to subcutaneous tissues but not to autonomic ganglia and their adjacent viscera.
Despite much study since its discovery in 1995, the effects of orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), the endogenous ligand of the 'orphan' opioid receptor, on nociceptive sensitivity remain unclear. Different laboratories have variously reported hyperalgesic, analgesic, anti-analgesic or no effect of the peptide on thermal assays following supraspinal injection in rodents. We and others have argued previously that methodological inconsistencies and experimental parameters may explain some of the contradictions in the literature, especially in mice where intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections proceed directly through the skull. We report presently that both the magnitude of stress-induced analgesia (SIA) produced by such i.c.v. injections, and the ability of OFQ/N to antagonize this opioid-mediated SIA, are strain-dependent. Specifically, significant injection-related SIA was observed in four of six strains studied (outbred: CD-1, SW; inbred: AKR/J, BALB/cJ, C3H/HeJ, CBA/J) on the 47.5 degrees C tail-withdrawal assay, and OFQ/N blocked this SIA in two strains. These data suggest that genetic variability among subject populations may underlie the inconsistent findings among researchers, and may in addition provide a promising avenue for future study of this novel neuromodulator.
We report the cDNA sequence of human Fe65L2. The human Fe65L2 encoded 486 amino acids; the deduced amino acid sequence was shorter by 18 amino acids than the rat protein and had 86% identity to the rat protein Three protein-protein interaction domains, a WW and two PID/PTB elements, were conserved among the Fe65 protein family. Human Fe65L2 mRNA was expressed in various tissues; a transcript of about 2.2 kb was mainly expressed in the brain. A splicing variant lacking two amino acids in the first PID/PTB element was detected. We also confirmed that the carboxyl-terminal region of PID/PTB of the Fe65L2 interacted with the intracellular domain of the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and APP-like proteins.

Dendritic spines are a key structure in neuronal plasticity. Enhanced activity is commonly associated with an increase in spine size and density. Purkinje cell dendrites are characterized by a proximal and a distal compartment on which climbing fibers and parallel fibers, respectively, impinge. The proximal region has a very low spine density, whereas the distal region has a high density. Previous experiments showed that after climbing fiber deletion, Purkinje cells become hyperactive, and a large number of spines develop on the proximal dendrites. Here we show that the same hyperspiny transformation occurs in the proximal dendrites of adult Purkinje cells by depressing electrical activity with tetrodotoxin. Thus, spines in different dendritic compartments are created or maintained independently from the level of Purkinje cell-firing rate and when the afferent activity is blocked. This conclusion supports the view that spinogenesis is the expression of an intrinsic program and the two regions of the dendritic tree respond differently to activity block because of differences in the inputs that they receive. On tetrodotoxin treatment, climbing fibers become atrophic and may sprout thin collateral ramifications directed mainly toward the granular layer. All changes are reversible on tetrodotoxin removal. Therefore, Purkinje cells provide a model where spines in different compartments of the same neuron are differently regulated by the activity of their local afferents. In addition, electrical activity is also essential to maintain the full climbing fiber innervation.
Physiological evidence indicates that the resting tremor of Parkinson's disease originates in oscillatory neural activity in the forebrain, but it is unknown whether that activity is globally synchronized or consists of parallel, independently oscillating circuits. In the present study, we used dual microelectrodes to record tremor-related neuronal activity from eight sites in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) from an awake Parkinson's disease patient undergoing stereotaxic pallidotomy. We utilized spectral analysis to evaluate the temporal correlations between multiunit activity at spatially separated sites and between neural and limb electromyographic activity. We observed that some GPi neural pairs oscillated synchronously at the tremor frequency, whereas other neural pairs oscillated independently. Additionally, we found that GPi tremor-related activity at a given site could fluctuate between states of synchronization and independence with respect to upper limb tremor. Consistent with this finding, some paired recording sites within GPi showed periods of transient synchronization. These observations support the hypothesis of independent tremor-generating circuits whose coupling can fluctuate over time.
Photochemical release (uncaging) of bioactive messengers with three-dimensional spatial resolution in light-scattering media would be greatly facilitated if the photolysis could be powered by pairs of IR photons rather than the customary single UV photons. The quadratic dependence on light intensity would confine the photolysis to the focus point of the laser, and the longer wavelengths would be much less affected by scattering. However, previous caged messengers have had very small cross sections for two-photon excitation in the IR region. We now show that brominated 7-hydroxycoumarin-4-ylmethyl esters and carbamates efficiently release carboxylates and amines on photolysis, with one- and two-photon cross sections up to one or two orders of magnitude better than previously available. These advantages are demonstrated on neurons in brain slices from rat cortex and hippocampus excited by glutamate uncaged from N-(6-bromo-7-hydroxycoumarin-4-ylmethoxycarbonyl)-L-glutamate (Bhc-glu). Conventional UV photolysis of Bhc-glu requires less than one-fifth the intensities needed by one of the best previous caged glutamates, gamma-(alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl)-L-glutamate (CNB-glu). Two-photon photolysis with raster-scanned femtosecond IR pulses gives the first three-dimensionally resolved maps of the glutamate sensitivity of neurons in intact slices. Bhc-glu and analogs should allow more efficient and three-dimensionally localized uncaging and photocleavage, not only in cell biology and neurobiology but also in many technological applications.
Raccoons have been widely used for neurobiological research and with respect to paw (hand) use have been 'considered' to be primates because they display highly developed skilled hand use. Their exceptional manipulatory ability is puzzling from an evolutionary perspective both because they belong to a taxon that is divergent from primates and because most members of their taxon are not especially skilled. Surprisingly, there has been no systematic investigation of their manipulatory ability. This was the purpose of the present study. Captive and zoo-housed raccoons were video recorded during food handling in a wide variety of conditions and the video records were subjected to descriptive frame-by-frame analysis aided by the use of Eshkol-Wachman Movement Notation (EWMN). The results confirm that raccoons display good manual skills in food finding, grasping and handling. Like primates, they use vision to identify and reach for objects, but additionally they make extensive use of haptically controlled movements. Unlike primates, they do not have a true convergent hand as it has limited flexive properties. Objects are grasped between the digits or between the apical digit and distal palmar pads. Manipulation of objects consisted of rolling the object between the palms of both hands, with little or no digit movement. Finally, although they can make unimanual reaching movements, they make extensive use of a bimanual reaching strategy. These results suggest that raccoons are like primates in that they display visual guidance of reaching, but are similar to other carnivores in that they do not use convergent grasping and digit manipulation and frequently use bimanual grasping. The results, consistent with a growing body of information on skilled use in mammals, including marsupials and rodents, suggest that raccoons are specialised, but not special.
The role of lateral septal vasopressin (VP) in the modulation of spatial memory, social memory, and anxiety-related behavior was studied in adult, male Wistar rats. Animals were equipped with osmotic minipumps delivering the VP-antagonist d(CH2)5-D-Tyr(Et)VAVP (1 ng/0.5 microl per h) bilaterally into the lateral septum (LS). Subsequently, all rats were subjected to four behavioral tests. First, animals were tested in a spatial learning paradigm (Morris water maze; 12 trials), followed by the social recognition test. A possible role for VP in anxiety-related behavior was then studied in the shock-probe burying test and the elevated plus-maze, respectively. The results showed that VP receptor antagonism impaired social recognition and reduced open-arm activity in the plus-maze, while it had no effect on spatial learning (Morris maze) and shock-probe burying behavior. The results indicate a strong task-dependent specificity of lateral septal VP functioning.
Dichotic listening performance was examined in an auditory selective attention task where subjects responded to occasional consonant-vowel (CV) or shaped broadband noise-burst (NB) targets in rapid serial auditory presentation (RASP). Trial types were randomized and included monaural CVs and NBs as well as dichotic CV-CV and CV-NB pairings. CVs were spoken by two different voices (male and female), and the two NB stimuli differed in their filter slopes at higher frequencies. The target was designated by stimulus category (/ba/, /da/, /ga/, or NB) and voice (e.g., &quot;female /ba/&quot;). Performance was compared for targets in the left and right ears on monaural and dichotic trials using accuracy and reaction time (RT) measures. Right ear advantages (REAs) were present for CV targets with either CV or NB distractors, but not for monaural CVs. The REA found for monaural NB targets was eliminated by CV distractors, yielding a left ear advantage (LEA) for the distractor effect of CVs on NB targets. The pattern of results suggests initial preprocessing of speech stimuli through phonetic feature analysis, followed by serial attentional processing of the objects in the auditory field. REAs are attributed to a rightward asymmetry in the preattentive control of auditory attention similar to that found in visual search.
To facilitate the identification of the gene responsible for Clouston hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED), we used a chromosome 13-specific radiation hybrid panel to map 54 loci in the HED candidate region. The marker retention data were analyzed using RHMAP version 3. The 54 markers have an average retention frequency of 31.6% with decreasing retention as a function of distance from the centromere. Two-point analysis identified three linkage groups with a threshold lod score of 4.00; one linkage group consisted of 49 loci including the centromeric marker D13Z1 and the telomeric flanking marker for the HED candidate region D13S143. Assuming a centromeric retention model, multipoint maximum likelihood analysis of these 49 loci except D13Z1 provided a 1000:1 framework map ordering 29 loci with 21 unique map positions and approximately 2000 times more likely than the next order. Loci that could not be ordered with this level of support were positioned within a range of adjacent intervals. This map spans 347 cR9000, has an average resolution of 17.3 cR9000, and includes 3 genes (TUBA2, GJbeta2, and FGF-9), 18 ESTs, 19 polymorphic loci, and 8 single-copy DNA segments. Comparison of our RH map to a YAC contig showed an inconsistency in order involving a reversed interval of 6 loci. Fiber-FISH and FISH on interphase nuclei analyses with PACs isolated from this region supported our order. We also describe the isolation of 8 new chromosome 13q polymorphic (CA)n markers that have an average PIC value of 0.67. These data and mapping reagents will facilitate the isolation of disease genes from this region.
Upregulation of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in astrocytes is a hallmark of the phenomenon known as reactive gliosis and, yet, the function of GFAP in this process is largely unknown. Our previous studies have shown that mature astrocytes react vigorously to substrate bound beta-amyloid protein (BAP) in a variety of ways (i.e., increased GFAP, enhanced motility, unusual aggregation patterns, inhibitory ECM production). In order to uncover which, if any, of these phenomena are causally related to the function of GFAP, primary cortical astrocytes from transgenic mice lacking GFAP were cultured on BAP substrates at low or high density and at various lengths of time following in vitro maturation. Differences between mutant and control cells became progressively more obvious when cells were matured in vitro for two weeks or longer and especially in cultures that were at high density. Mature control astrocytes show a dramatic response to BAP by aggregating into a meshwork of rope-like structures that completely bridge over the peptide surface. In marked contrast, mature GFAP-null astrocytes initiate the response much more slowly and had a much reduced ability to aggregate tightly. Furthermore, we prepared hippocampal slice cultures from GFAP-/- and GFAP+/+ mice and compared their astrocytic responses to injected BAP. GFAP-/- astrocytes of hippocampal slice cultures failed to form a barrier-like structure around the edge of the BAP deposit as did GFAP+/+ astrocytes. Our data suggest that GFAP may be essential for mature astrocytes to constrain certain types of highly inflammatory lesions in the brain.
Haemodynamic and hormonal effects of two oral isovolaemic, isoosmotic solutions of 0.5 g/kg and 1.0 g/kg glucose were studied in 10 humans with sympathetic denervation due to primary autonomic failure (AF). Measurements were made supine for 60 min, and also after 5 min 45 head-up tilt, before and 60 min after glucose. There was a similar fall in blood pressure (BP) after each dose, after 0.5 g/kg from 160+/-12 / 87+/-6 to 143+/-13 / 76+/-6 mm Hg, P &lt; 0.05 and after 1.0 g/kg from 160+/-13 / 90+/-6 to 136+/-9 / 76+/-5 mm Hg, P &lt; 0.05. Heart rate, cardiac index and forearm muscle blood flow did not change after either dose. After 0.5 g/kg, superior mesenteric artery blood flow was unchanged but rose significantly after 1.0 g/kg, from 243 (169-395) to 722 (227-982) ml/min, P &lt; 0.05, 15 min after ingestion. BP fell further on tilt 60 min after each dose, but there was no difference between doses. Plasma glucose was higher after 1.0 g/kg but plasma insulin was similar after each dose. Thus, in AF with sympathetic denervation there was no dose-related effect of glucose on supine or postural hypotension. Supine hypotension after glucose was not attributable solely to increased splanchnic blood flow; other factors, including dilatation in other vascular beds may have contributed.
The organization of layer VI in cat primary auditory cortex (AI) was studied in mature specimens. Golgi-impregnated neurons were classified on the basis of their dendritic and somatic form. Ipsilateral and contralateral projection neurons and the corticogeniculate cells of origin were labeled with retrograde tracers and their profiles were compared with the results from Golgi studies. Layer VI was divided into a superficial half (layer VIa) with many pyramidal neurons and a deeper part (layer VIb) that is dominated by horizontal cells. Nine types of neuron were identified; four classes had subvarieties. Classical pyramidal cells and star, fusiform, tangential, and inverted pyramidal cells occur. Nonpyramidal neurons were Martinotti, multipolar stellate, bipolar, and horizontal cells. This variety of neurons distinguished layer VI from other AI layers. Pyramidal neuron dendrites contributed to the vertical, modular organization in AI, although their apical processes did not project beyond layer IV. Their axons had vertical, intrinsic processes as well as corticofugal branches. Horizontal cell dendrites extended laterally up to 700 microm and could integrate thalamic input across wide expanses of the tonotopic domain. Connectional experiments confirmed the sublaminar arrangement seen in Nissl material. Commissural cells were concentrated in layer VIa, whereas corticocortical neurons were more numerous in layer VIb. Corticothalamic cells were distributed more equally. The cytological complexity and diverse connections of layer VI may relate to a possible role in cortical development. Layer VI contained most of the neuronal types found in other layers in AI, and these cells form many of the same intrinsic and corticofugal connections that neurons in other layers will assume in adulthood. Layer VI, thus, may play a fundamental ontogenetic role in the construction and early function of the cortex.
Adult rat retinal ganglion cells (RGC) undergo degeneration after optic nerve transection. Studies have shown that exogenously applied neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) can attenuate axotomy-induced as well as developmental RGC death. Here, we examined whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a known neurotrophic factor for dopaminergic neurons and motor neurons, could provide neurotrophic support to RGC in adult rats. We determined whether RGC could retrogradely transport GDNF from their target tissue. After injection into the superior colliculus of adult rats, 125I-GDNF was retrogradely transported to contralateral eyes but not to ipsilateral eyes. The transport of 125I-GDNF could be blocked by coinjection of excess unlabeled GDNF, indicating that it was receptor mediated. We tested whether intravitreally applied GDNF could prevent axotomy-induced RGC degeneration. The RGC were prelabeled with Fluorogold (FG) and axotomized by intraorbital optic nerve transection. GDNF, BDNF (positive control), cytochrome c (negative control), or a GDNF/BDNF combination was injected intravitreally on days 0 and 7. On day 14, FG-labeled RGC were counted from whole-mount retinas. We found that, similar to BDNF, GDNF could significantly attenuate the degeneration of RGC in a dose-dependent fashion. Furthermore, the combination treatment of GDNF and BDNF showed better protection than either factor used individually. Our data indicate that GDNF is a neurotrophic factor for the adult rat RGC. GDNF, like BDNF, may be useful for the treatment of human RGC degenerative diseases.
Adenovirus-mediated gene transfer into the brain is associated with significant inflammation and activation of anti-vector and anti-transgene immune responses that curtail the gene delivery of adenoviruses and therapeutic efficacy. Elucidating the molecular mediators of inflammatory and immune responses to adenoviruses injected into the brain should allow us to inhibit their inflammatory actions, thereby reducing vector clearance and enhance adenoviral-mediated gene transfer into the CNS. Cytokines are primary mediators of the immune response and are released during inflammation. Here we report for the first time that injection of replication-deficient adenovirus vectors into the cerebral ventricles of rats causes a rapid increase in body temperature. This fever response precedes any vector-encoded transgene expression and occurs with vectors encoding no transgene, as well as with vectors encoding a therapeutic transgene i.e., HSV1-thymidine kinase. No fever is detected after infection of the striatum, an important brain target in studies on neurodegeneration. After infection of the brain ventricles, CSF levels of immunoreactive tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta increase significantly (up to 300-fold). In the hypothalamus, the locus of thermoregulation in the brain, only IL-1beta and IL-6 are significantly elevated. A neutralizing TNF-alpha antibody has no effect on adenovirus-induced fever. However, pretreatment with either the IL-1 receptor antagonist or the cyclooxygenase inhibitor flurbiprofen completely abolishes adenovirus-induced fever, suggesting that IL-1 and prostaglandins are direct mediators of this response. These results are the first to demonstrate that IL-1, but not TNF-alpha, is the main mediator of a very early inflammatory response to adenovirus in the brain.
Methamphetamine-induced toxicity has been shown to require striatal dopamine and to involve mechanisms associated with oxidative stress. Dopamine is a reactive molecule that can oxidize to form free radicals and reactive quinones. Although this has been suggested to contribute to the mechanism of toxicity, the oxidation of dopamine has never been directly measured after methamphetamine exposure. In this study we sought to determine whether methamphetamine-induced toxicity is associated with the oxidation of dopamine by measuring the binding of dopamine quinones to cysteinyl residues on protein. We observed that administration of neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine to rats resulted in a two- to threefold increase in protein cysteinyl-dopamine in the striatum 2, 4, and 8 hr after treatment. When methamphetamine was administered at an ambient temperature of 5 degreesC, no increase in dopamine oxidation products was observed, and toxicity was prevented. Furthermore, as shown by striatal microdialysis, animals treated with methamphetamine at 5 degreesC showed DA release identical to that of animals treated at room temperature. These data suggest that the toxicity of methamphetamine and the associated increase in dopamine oxidation are not exclusively the result of increases in extracellular dopamine. Because dopamine-induced modifications of protein structure and function may result in cellular toxicity, it is likely that dopamine oxidation contributes to methamphetamine-induced toxicity to dopamine terminals, adding support to the role of dopamine and the evidence of oxidative stress in this lesion model.
Expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) by juxtaglomerular (JG) neurons of the olfactory bulb (OB) requires innervation of the bulb by olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). ORN lesion selectively downregulates TH in JG neurons. In reversible odor deprivation, TH expression is downregulated as the naris is closed and then upregulated upon naris reopening. The mechanism or mechanisms regulating this dependence are unknown. TH expression could be regulated by trophic factor release and/or synaptic activity from ORN terminals. We investigated TH expression in cocultures of dissociated postnatal rat OB cells and embryonic olfactory neuroepithelium (OE) slice explants. TH-positive neurons in control dissociated OB cell cultures alone comprise only a small fraction of the total population of cells present in the culture. However, when OE slice explants are cocultured with dispersed OB cells, there is a mean 2.4-fold increase in the number of TH-positive neurons. ORNs in vivo use glutamate as a neurotransmitter. Broad spectrum excitatory amino acid antagonists (kyurenic acid) or selective antagonists of the NMDA receptor (APV) both prevent induction of TH expression in OE-OB cocultures. Furthermore, pulse application of NMDA stimulates TH expression in OB neurons in the absence of OE. In vitro, OB TH neurons express NMDA receptors, suggesting that NMDA stimulation is acting directly on TH neurons. Exposure of OE explants to natural odorants results in upregulation of TH, presumably through increased ORN activity, which could be blocked by APV. These findings indicate that odorant-stimulated glutamate release by ORN terminals regulates TH expression via NMDA receptors on JG dopaminergic neurons.
When near-threshold electrical stimulation is used to evoke epileptiform discharges in brain slices, a latent period of up to 150 msec elapses before the discharge begins. During this period most neurons are silent, and abnormal electrical activity is difficult to detect with microelectrodes. A fundamental question about epileptiform activity concerns how synchronous discharges arise abruptly in a relatively quiescent slice. This issue was addressed here by using voltage imaging techniques to study epileptiform discharges in rat piriform cortex slices. These experiments revealed two distinct forms of electrical activity during the latent period. (1) A steeply increasing depolarization, referred to here as onset activity, has been described previously and occurs at the site of discharge onset. (2) A sustained depolarization that precedes onset activity, referred to here as plateau activity, has not been described previously. Plateau and onset activity occurred in different subregions of the endopiriform nucleus (a region of high seizure susceptibility). When cobalt or kynurenic acid was applied focally to inhibit electrical activity at the site of plateau activity, discharges were blocked. However, application of these agents to other nearby sites (except the site of onset) failed to block discharges. Plateau activity represents a novel form of electrical activity that precedes and is necessary for epileptiform discharges. Discharges thus are generated in a sequential process by two spatially distinct neuronal circuits. The first circuit amplifies and sustains activity initiated by the stimulus, and the second generates the actual discharge in response to an excitatory drive from the first.
To explore the feasibility of cell type-specific gene expression in oligodendrocytes as a possible therapeutic approach for demyelinating diseases, the cell specificity, tissue specificity, and duration of gene expression were investigated using recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAV) carrying a green fluorescence protein (GFP) gene. Recombinant AAV vectors carrying either the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter (rAAV-MBP-GFP) or the cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early promoter (rAAV-CMV-GFP) were semistereotactically injected into the brain of C57BL/6J mice. Injection of the rAAV-MBP-GFP vector into or near the corpus callosum resulted in high levels of GFP expression in white matter regions. Double immunostaining with cell- specific markers proved that these GFP-expressing cells were oligodendrocytes. Injection of the rAAV- MBP-GFP vector into gray matter rarely produced GFP expression. In contrast, injection of the rAAV-CMV-GFP vector resulted in few GFP-expressing cells in the white matter, with most of the GFP-expressing cells being neurons located in the cerebral cortex along the needle track. The expression of the GFP driven by the MBP promoter persisted for at least 3 months.
1. The influence of a transmembrane (TM2) amino acid located at a homologous position in human beta1 (S290) and beta3 (N289) GABAA receptor subunits and the RDL GABA receptor of Drosophila (M314) upon allosteric regulation by general anaesthetics has been investigated. 2. GABA-evoked currents mediated by human wild-type (WT) alpha6beta3gamma2L or WT RDL GABA receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes were augmented by propofol or pentobarbitone. High concentrations of either anaesthetic directly activated alpha6beta3gamma2L, but not RDL, receptors. 3. GABA-evoked currents mediated by human mutant GABAA receptors expressing the RDL methionine residue (i.e. alpha6beta3N289Mgamma2L) were potentiated by propofol or pentobarbitone with approximately 2-fold reduced potency and, in the case of propofol, reduced maximal effect. Conspicuously, the mutant receptor was refractory to activation by either propofol or pentobarbitone. 4. Incorporation of the homologous GABAA beta1-subunit residue in the RDL receptor (i.e. RDLM314S) increased the potency, but not the maximal effect, of GABA potentiation by either propofol or pentobarbitone. Strikingly, either anaesthetic now activated the receptor, an effect confirmed for propofol utilizing expression of WT or mutant RDL subunits in Schnieder S2 cells. At RDL receptors expressing the homologous beta3-subunit residue (i.e. RDLM314N) the actions of propofol were similarly affected, whereas those of pentobarbitone were unaltered. 5. The results indicate that the identity of a homologous amino acid affects, in a complementary manner, the direct activation of human (alpha6beta3gamma2L) and RDL GABA receptors by structurally distinct general anaesthetics. Whether the crucial residue acts as a regulator of signal transduction or as a component of an anaesthetic binding site per se is discussed.

The ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO) of the nocturnal laboratory rat receives direct input from the retina and is active during sleep; however, nothing is known about VLPO function in day-active (diurnal) species. In the first study, we used 24-h videotaping of Arvicanthis niloticus, a diurnal murid rodent, to estimate the distribution of sleep and wakefulness across a 12:12 light-dark cycle. Based on behavioral data, A. niloticus were perfused at a time when the animals are inactive (zeitgeber time (ZT) 20) or at a time when they are awake and active (ZT 23). The brains were processed for immunocytochemistry for Fos, an immediate early gene product used as an index of neural activity. Animals had more Fos-immunoreactive (Fos+) cells in the VLPO at ZT 20 than at ZT 23. The pattern of change in Fos expression seen in this area suggest that the VLPO serves the same function in A. niloticus as in rats. Eye injections of cholera toxin (beta subunit) were used to identify the retinal inputs to the VLPO of A. niloticus. In these animals, the VLPO had only very sparse retinal inputs compared to the rat. Together, these results raise the possibility that inputs from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) or the retina affect neuronal activity in the VLPO differently in rats and A. niloticus, thereby, contributing to differences in their sleep/wake patterns.
Nerve-evoked muscle depolarisation plays an important role in the downregulation of extrasynaptic AChRs which accompanies the increase in synaptic AChR expression at the neuromuscular junction during embryonic development. However, additional mechanisms may be involved in the AChR downregulation. This study provides evidence for a neurotrophic factor present in adult and embryonic chick neural extracts which downregulates fetal-type AChR density independently of depolarisation. Treatment of skeletal muscle cell lines with crude neural extracts decreased AChR density up to 50%, as measured by changes in 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin binding levels. Decreases in membrane-bound AChR density were accompanied by a decrease in the size of the intracellular AChR pool; RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that extract treatment also induced a decrease in gamma-subunit mRNA expression. These studies demonstrate that crude neural extracts contain a factor which may account for the activity-independent regulatory mechanism previously proposed to operate in concert with activity-dependent mechanisms to downregulate fetal-type AChR expression.
In rat, electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) for 1 h reduces the volume of focal ischemic infarctions produced by occluding the middle cerebral artery (MCAO), even 10 days later. The mechanism by which this 'central neurogenic neuroprotection' salvages ischemic brain is not known but does not result from changes in cerebral perfusion. MCAO also triggers periodic periinfarction depolarizing waves (PIDs) in the ischemic penumbra, the territory of salvage. These may contribute to neuronal death and promote infarct expansion. Conceivably, FN stimulation, which can otherwise modify cortical excitability, may alter the development of PIDs. We investigated in anesthetized rats whether FN stimulation modifies PIDs expression and, if so, the threshold for evoking cortical spreading depression (CSD), a process sharing characteristics with PIDs and an index of cortical excitability. Stimulation of FN immediately or 72 h before MCAO decreased infarction volumes by approximately 45% (p&lt;0.01), increased PID latency &gt;10-fold, and decreased the number of PIDs by &gt;50% (p&lt;0.001). In normal rats, stimulation of FN increased the threshold current for eliciting CSD by 175% and slowed its propagation velocity by 35% (p&lt;0.01 for each) immediately, but not 72 h, after FN stimulation. We conclude: FN stimulation elicits long-lasting suppression of PIDs in parallel with neuroprotection. However, PIDs suppression over time is unlikely to result from a major increase in cortical tolerance to depolarization and probably is not the principal mechanism of salvage.
Systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces sickness behaviors, as well as alterations of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal functioning commonly associated with stressors. In the present investigation, it was demonstrated that systemic LPS treatment induced a sickness-like behavioral profile (reduced active behaviors, soporific effects, piloerection, ptosis), which appeared to be dependent upon the novelty of the environmental context in which animals were tested. As well, LPS induced anxiogenic-like responses, including decreased time spent in the illuminated portion of a light-dark box, reduced open-arm entries in a plus-maze test, and decreased contact with a novel stimulus object in an open-field situation. The behavioral changes were accompanied by increased plasma ACTH and corticosterone levels. As well, LPS induced increased turnover of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), median eminence plus arcuate nucleus, hippocampus, as well as NE turnover within the locus coeruleus and DA turnover within the nucleus accumbens. Although these neurochemical variations were reminiscent of those elicited by stressors, LPS was not particularly effective in modifying DA activity within the prefrontal cortex or NE within the amygdala, variations readily induced by stressors. Whether the LPS-induced anxiogenic-like responses were secondary to the illness engendered by the endotoxin remains to be determined. Nevertheless, it ought to be considered that bacterial endotoxin challenge, and the ensuing cytokine changes, may contribute to emotionality and perhaps even anxiety-related behavioral disturbances.
ATP-sensitive inwardly rectifying potassium channels (KATPs) couple cell metabolism with its membrane potential. The best characterized KATP is the pancreatic KATP which is an heteromultimer of Kir6.2 and SUR1 protein subunits. KATPs are found in a variety of excitable cells, including neurons of the central nervous system. Basal ganglia (BG), especially in the substantia nigra (SN) reticulata and the globus pallidus (GP), have a high density of KATPs. Pharmacological modulation of the KATPs within the BG alters GABAergic activity and produces behavioural changes. However, the relatively high concentrations of drugs used might not have been entirely selective for the KATPs and may have acted at presynaptic nerve terminals as well as on the post-synaptic neurons. As an alternative means of examining the role of KATPs in regulating motor behavior, we used oligoantisense technology to diminish selectively Kir6.2 formation in the GP neurons. We then examined the effect of reduction in Kir6.2 expression on apomorphine-induced turning behavior in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the SN. Two weeks after injection of 6-OHDA, contralateral circling in response to apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg sc) was recorded. Kir6.2 antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide (ODN) was then administered daily for 6 days into the GP ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA injection. Responses to apomorphine were then tested again and the animals killed to determine the effect of the antisense ODN on Kir6. 2 mRNA. Administration of Kir6.2 antisense ODN significantly attenuated apomorphine-induced contralateral turning and specifically reduced Kir6.2 mRNA in the injected GP. These results are consistent with pharmacological experiments which suggest that KATP channels in the GP are involved in motor responses to apomorphine in 6-OHDA lesioned rats, localizing the effects to the GP neurons, probably through modulation of the GABAergic system.
The biotransformation of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (NOFQ) by enzyme activity isolated from U1690 human lung carcinoma and SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cell lines, and from rat brain cortex cells in primary culture was investigated. The identification and quantification of the cleavage products were performed using electrospray ionization mass spectrometry linked to size-exclusion chromatography. The effect of chronic morphine treatment of the cells (5 days) on NOFQ biotransformation was also studied. It was found that major products generated from NOFQ were the amino-terminal peptides N1-9 and N1-13. The pattern of NOFQ biotransformation was quite similar for all three cell cultures. However, different proportions of the formed peptides were noted. The cleavage was inhibited by EDTA, PMSF, Hg2+, Cu2+ and Zn2+. Dynorphin A2-13 inhibited NOFQ cleavage in a manner suggesting competition of the two peptides for the same enzyme. Chronic morphine treatment of the cell cultures resulted in a substantial increase in the enzyme activity, leading to higher levels of the major fragments and accumulation of N1-12 and the shorter peptides N1-5, N1-6. Since the effect of morphine treatment of the cells was blocked by naloxone, it is likely that it was receptor specific. Taken together, the findings suggest that a metallosensitive endopeptidase, the activity of which is increased by chronic morphine treatment of the cells, is responsible for the biotransformation of NOFQ with fragments N1-9 and N1-13 being the major products.
The pharmacological activity of diadenosine polyphosphates was investigated at three recombinant P2X receptors (rat P2X1, rat P2X3, rat P2X4) expressed in Xenopus oocytes and studied under voltage-clamp conditions. For the rat P2X1 receptor, only P1,P6-diadenosine hexaphosphate (Ap6A) was a full agonist yet 2-3 folds less potent than ATP. At rat P2X3, P1,p4-diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap4A), P1,P5-diadenosine pentaphosphate (Ap5A) and Ap6A were full agonists and more potent than ATP. Ap4A alone was equipotent with ATP at rat P2X4, but only as a partial agonist. Compared to known data for rat P2X2 and human P2X1 receptors, our findings contrast with rat P2X2 where only Ap4A is a full agonist although four folds less potent than ATP. At rat and human orthologues of P2X1, Ap5A was a partial agonist with similar potency. These data provide a useful basis for selective agonists of P2X receptor subunits.
We compared the effects of sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and of 8-bromo guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-BrcGMP), on the 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-evoked Ca2+-dependent release of glutamate from hippocampal nerve terminals and further investigated the role of protein kinase G (PKG) in this mechanism. SNP and 8-BrcGMP dose-dependently inhibited glutamate release, however SNP concentrations ([SNP]) &gt; 500 microM abolished the 4-AP evoked release, whereas 8-BrcGMP maximally inhibited the release by about 30%. The inhibition of glutamate release at low concentrations of SNP (&lt; or = 5 microM) was of about 20%, and was reversed by Rp-8(4-chlorophenylthio)guanosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphorotioate ) (RpCPTcGMP, 50 nM), but the inhibition at higher concentrations (5 &lt; SNP &lt; or = 50 microM) was insensitive to the PKG inhibitor, but sensitive to [1 H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3-a)quinoxalin-1-one] (ODQ), which partially prevented the inhibition. [SNP] &gt; 50 microM strongly inhibited glutamate release, and this was not reversed by either inhibitor. Furthermore, [SNP] &lt; or = 50 microM enhanced cGMP formation, and the observed effects were not related to either decreased Ca2+ entry or ATP/ADP levels. Our results indicate that NO/PKG is the signaling pathway underlying the inhibition of glutamate release at low concentrations of NO, and imply that other NO-dependent, but PKG-independent, mechanisms are activated and have complementary roles at higher NO concentrations.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive motor neuron loss and astrogliosis. We studied the immunohistochemical expression of S-100beta, a calcium-binding protein with both neurotrophic and neurotoxic activities, in the spinal cord of patients with ALS. Adjacent sections were processed with an in situ end-labeling technique for the demonstration of apoptosis-related DNA fragmentation. In controls, low expression of S-100beta was found in astrocytes but not motor neurons. Compared to controls, S-100beta was overexpressed in ALS. Most stained cells were reactive astrocytes, but a minority of motor neurons was also labeled. Neuronal labeling was unrelated to the presence of signs of atrophy/degeneration. S-100beta expression was also unrelated to neuronal or glial apoptosis. S-100beta upregulation in ALS spinal cord suggests that the protein might be involved in cellular defense mechanisms against oxidative stress.
Presenilin mutations give rise to familial Alzheimer's disease and result in elevated production of amyloid beta peptide. Recent evidence that presenilins act in developmental signalling pathways may be the key to understanding how senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and apoptosis are all biochemically linked.
A series of esters of 1,4-disubstituted tetrahydropyridine carboxylic acids (I) has been synthesized and characterized as potential m1 selective muscarinic receptor antagonists. The affinity of these compounds for the five human muscarinic receptor subtypes (Hm1-Hm5) was determined by the displacement of [3H]-NMS binding using membranes from transfected Chinese hamster ovarian cells. One of the most potent and selective compounds of this series is an analogue of I [11, R1 = (CH2)5CH3], which has an IC50 value of 27.3 nM at the m1 receptor and possesses 100-fold (m2), 48-fold (m3), 74-fold (m4), and 19-fold (m5) selectivities at the other receptors. Thus, this analogue appears to be more selective on the basis of binding than the prototypical m1 antagonist, pirenzepine. Functional data, such as the inhibition of carbachol-stimulated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis, on selected analogues confirmed the muscarinic antagonistic properties of this chemical series.
Respiratory chain dysfunction has been identified in several neurodegenerative disorders. In Friedreich's ataxia (FA) and Huntington's disease (HD), where the respective mutations are in nuclear genes encoding non-respiratory chain mitochondrial proteins, the defects in oxidative phosphorylation are clearly secondary. In Parkinson's disease (PD) the situation is less clear, with some evidence for a primary role of mitochondrial DNA in at least a proportion of patients. The pattern of the respiratory chain defect may provide some clue to its cause; in PD there appears to be a selective complex I deficiency; in HD and FA the deficiencies are most severe in complex II/III with a less severe defect in complex IV. Aconitase activity in HD and FA is severely decreased in brain and muscle, respectively, but appears to be normal in PD brain. Free radical generation is thought to be of importance in both HD and FA, via excitotoxicity in HD and abnormal iron handling in FA. The oxidative damage observed in PD may be secondary to the mitochondrial defect. Whatever the cause(s) and sequence of events, respiratory chain deficiencies appear to play an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. The mitochondrial abnormalities induced may converge on the function of the mitochondrion in apoptosis. This mode of cell death is thought to play an important role in neurodegenerative diseases and it is tempting to speculate that the observed mitochondrial defects in PD, HD and FA result directly in apoptotic cell death, or in the lowering of a cell's threshold to undergo apoptosis. Clarifying the role of mitochondria in pathogenesis may provide opportunities for the development of treatments designed to reverse or prevent neurodegeneration.
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) has traditionally been considered a disease causing severe and permanent visual loss in young adult males. In nearly all families with LHON it is associated with one of three pathogenic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations, at bp 11778, 3460 or 14484. The availability of mtDNA confirmation of a diagnosis of LHON has demonstrated that LHON occurs with a wider range of age at onset and more commonly in females than previously recognised. In addition, analysis of patients grouped according to mtDNA mutation has demonstrated differences both in the clinical features of visual failure and in recurrence risks to relatives associated with each of the pathogenic mtDNA mutations. Whilst pathogenic mtDNA mutations are required for the development of LHON, other factors must be reponsible for the variable penetrance and male predominance of this condition. Available data on a number of hypotheses including the role of an additional X-linked visual loss susceptibility locus, impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain activity, mtDNA heteroplasmy, environmental factors and autoimmunity are discussed. Subacute visual failure is seen in association with all three pathogenic LHON mutations. However, the clinical and experimental data reviewed suggest differences in the phenotype associated with each of the three mutations which may reflect variation in the disease mechanisms resulting in this common end-point.
Mitochondria play a central role in cellular energy provision. The organelles contain their own genome with a modified genetic code. The mammalian mitochondrial genome is transmitted exclusively through the female germ line. The human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is a double-stranded, circular molecule of 16569 bp and contains 37 genes coding for two rRNAs, 22 tRNAs and 13 polypeptides. The mtDNA-encoded polypeptides are all subunits of enzyme complexes of the oxidative phosphorylation system. Mitochondria are not self-supporting entities but rely heavily for their functions on imported nuclear gene products. The basic mechanisms of mitochondrial gene expression have been solved. Cis-acting mtDNA sequences have been characterised by sequence comparisons, mapping studies and mutation analysis both in vitro and in patients harbouring mtDNA mutations. Characterisation of trans-acting factors has proven more difficult but several key enzymes involved in mtDNA replication, transcription and protein synthesis have now been biochemically identified and some have been cloned. These studies revealed that, although some factors may have an additional function elsewhere in the cell, most are unique to mitochondria. It is expected that cell cultures of patients with mitochondrial diseases will increasingly be used to address fundamental questions about mtDNA expression.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is an essential enzyme that catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of many neuroendocrine peptides. The bifunctional PAM protein contains an NH2-terminal monooxygenase (PHM) domain followed by a lyase (PAL) domain and a transmembrane domain. The cytosolic tail of PAM interacts with proteins that can affect cytoskeletal organization. A reverse tetracycline-regulated inducible expression system was used to construct an AtT-20 corticotrope cell line capable of inducible PAM-1 expression. Upon induction, cells displayed a time- and dose-dependent increase in enzyme activity, PAM mRNA, and protein. Induction of increased PAM-1 expression produced graded changes in PAM-1 metabolism. Increased expression of PAM-1 also caused decreased immunofluorescent staining for ACTH, a product of proopiomelanocortin (POMC), and prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) in granules at the tips of processes. Expression of PAM-1 resulted in decreased ACTH and PHM secretion in response to secretagogue stimulation, and decreased cleavage of PC1, POMC, and PAM. Increased expression of a soluble form of PAM did not alter POMC and PC1 localization and metabolism. Using the inducible cell line model, we show that expression of integral membrane PAM alters the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. Altered cytoskeletal organization may then influence the trafficking and cleavage of lumenal proteins and eliminate the ability of AtT-20 cells to secrete ACTH in response to a secretagogue.
We have investigated the axonal transport of neurofilament protein in cultured neurons by constricting single axons with fine glass fibers. We observed a rapid accumulation of anterogradely and retrogradely transported membranous organelles on both sides of the constrictions and a more gradual accumulation of neurofilament protein proximal to the constrictions. Neurofilament protein accumulation was dependent on the presence of metabolic substrates and was blocked by iodoacetate, which is an inhibitor of glycolysis. These data indicate that neurofilament protein moves anterogradely in these axons by a mechanism that is directly or indirectly dependent on nucleoside triphosphates. The average transport rate was estimated to be at least 130 micrometer/h (3.1 mm/d), and approximately 90% of the accumulated neurofilament protein remained in the axon after detergent extraction, suggesting that it was present in a polymerized form. Electron microscopy demonstrated that there were an abnormally large number of neurofilament polymers proximal to the constrictions. These data suggest that the neurofilament proteins were transported either as assembled polymers or in a nonpolymeric form that assembled locally at the site of accumulation. This study represents the first demonstration of the axonal transport of neurofilament protein in cultured neurons.
In the present study we show that, in contrast to the rat, injection of cholera toxin B-subunit (CTB) into the intact sciatic nerve of Macaca mulatta monkey gives rise to labelling of a sparse network of fibers in laminae I-II of spinal cord and of some mainly small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Twenty days after sciatic nerve cut, the percentage of CTB-positive lumbar 5 (L5) DRG neuron profiles increased from 11% to 73% of all profiles. In the spinal cord, a marked increase in CTB labelling was seen in laminae I, II, and the dorsal part of lamina III. In the rat L5 DRGs, 18 days after sciatic nerve cut, the percentage of CTB- and CTB conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labelled neuron profiles increased from 45% to 81%, and from 54% to 87% of all neuron profiles, respectively. Cell size measurements in the rat showed that most of the CTB-positive neuron profiles were small in size after axotomy, whereas most were large in intact DRGs. In the rat spinal dorsal horn, a dense network of CTB-positive fibers covered the whole dorsal horn on the axotomized side, whereas CTB-labelled fibers were mainly seen in laminae III and deeper laminae on the contralateral side. A marked increase in CTB-positive fibers was also seen in the gracile nucleus. The present study shows that in both monkey and rat DRGs, a subpopulation of mainly small neurons acquires the capacity to take up CTB/CTB-HRP after axotomy, a capacity normally not associated with these DRG neurons. These neurons may transganglionically transport CTB and CTB-HRP. Thus, after peripheral axotomy, CTB and CTB-HRP are markers not only for large but also for small DRG neurons and, thus, possibly also for both myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferents in the spinal dorsal horn. These findings may lead to a reevaluation of the concept of sprouting, considered to take place in the dorsal horn after peripheral nerve injury.
Adult rats received intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of either phosphate buffer (PBS) or 192 IgG-saporin (Toxin), 3.6 micrograms rat-1, a cholinergic immunotoxin. Six to eight weeks later, the animals received a continuous intravenous (i.v.) infusion of either physostigmine (4.2 micrograms kg-1 min-1) or saline, followed by measurement of cerebral cortical blood flow (CBF) with the autoradiographic Iodo-14C-antipyrine methodology in four groups of animals: Toxin i.c.v.+saline i.v. (n=9), Toxin i.c.v.+physostigmine i.v. (n=6), PBS i.c.v.+saline i.v. (n=6) and PBS i.c.v. +physostigmine i.v. (n=6). Choline acetyltransferase activity (ChAT) was assessed with Fonnum's method in samples of cortical tissue adjacent to the sites of CBF measurement. ChAT decreased in all regions of the Toxin groups when compared to PBS (% decrease: hippocampus=93%, neocortex=80-84%, entorhinal-piriform cortex=42%, amygdala=28%). CBF decreased globally in Toxin+SAL, most severely in posterior parietal and temporal regions (24-40% decrease from PBS+saline). Physostigmine enhanced CBF predominantly in these same areas both in PBS and Toxin animals although to a lesser extent in the latter. Our results demonstrate the importance of cholinergic mechanisms in the control of CBF. The similarity between the topography of CBF decrease following administration of the immunotoxin to that observed in Alzheimer's disease suggests that the CBF pattern observed in this disease may be the result of cholinergic deafferentation.
Previously, we reported on an association of the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) gene with delusional symptomatology of major psychoses. However, despite the strength of the association, it only accounted for 2% of the variance, indicating that contributions from other genes were probable. In the present study, we investigated the original cohort of subjects to evaluate the gene for the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor alpha-1 subunit (GABRA1). The possible association of GABRA1 with the psychopathology of major psychoses was tested both alone and in interaction with DRD4. Four hundred and sixty-one inpatients affected by major psychoses were assessed by the operational criteria checklist for psychotic illness (OPCRIT) and were also typed for the DRD4 and GABRA1 variants using PCR techniques. Mania, depression, delusion, and disorganization were the four symptomatologic factors used as phenotype definitions. GABRA1 variants were not associated with these symptomatologic factors, and consideration of possible stratification effects such as sex and psychiatric diagnosis also did not reveal any association. GABRA1 variants did not significantly influence the association of DRD4 with delusional symptoms. No interaction was observed on the other symptom factors. The GABA(A) alpha-1 subunit gene does not, therefore, interact with DRD4 in the symptomatology of major psychoses.
Complex segregation analysis was applied to a sample of 107 Italian families with probands with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), using regressive logistic models to test for possible models of genetic transmission. We used two different phenotypic definitions of affection: 1) OCD; and 2) OCD plus Tourette's syndrome/chronic motor tics (CMT). Because of the potential relationship between OCD, Tourette's syndrome (TS), and other tic disorders, we considered these diagnoses to be determined by the same liability in subsequent steps of the analysis. For the 107 OCD families, the best fit was a dominant model of transmission (with a higher penetrance for females). When the phenotype boundaries were widened (OCD + CMT + TS), an unrestricted model of transmission became the best fit. We concluded that additional data are needed to support the hypothesis that Tourette's syndrome and OCD share a common etiology: on the basis of clinical and epidemiological considerations, the OCD phenotype probably presents a higher level of heterogeneity than the TS phenotype, and it could be regulated through different etiologic pathways.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) contains a conserved death domain module similar to that of the cytotoxic receptors Fas and TNFR-1. Here, we describe the selection of peptide ligands from a combinatorial library using a variation of the selectively-infective phage (SIP) method directed to the death domain of p75(NTR). The binding sites on the death domain of p75(NTR) were identified for a 15 amino acid residue peptide by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The selected peptides may be useful for probing the function of the p75(NTR) death domain and aid in defining its downstream signalling mechanism.
We have cloned and functionally characterised the mouse orthologue of the P2X4 receptor, mP2X4, and a splice variant of this receptor, mP2X4a. mP2X4 is 388 amino acids in length and shares 94% and 87% identity with the rat and human P2X4 receptors, respectively, while mP2X4a is 361 amino acids in length and lacks a 27-amino acid region in the extracellular domain corresponding to exon 6 of the known P2X receptor gene structures. When expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, mP2X4 produces a rapid inward current in response to ATP with an EC50 of 1.68+/-0.2 microM, consistent with the affinity of the rat and human P2X4 receptors for ATP. This agonist response is potentiated by the P2X receptor antagonists suramin, Reactive blue 2 and, over a limited concentration range, by PPADS. Although mP2X4a forms a poorly functional homomeric receptor, it appears able to interact with the full-length mP2X4 subunit to result in a functional channel with a reduced affinity for ATP. These results suggest a possible role for splice variants of P2X receptors in the formation of functional heteromeric ion channels.
The effects of clozapine on dopamine neurons projecting to the medial-prefrontal cortex, nuclei accumbens and caudatus were compared. Clozapine (1.25 mg/kg i.v.) maximally stimulated the firing rate and burst activity of dopamine neurons projecting to the medialprefrontal cortex. Much higher doses (5 and 10 mg/kg i.v.) were needed to stimulate mesoaccumbens and nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. The results suggest that the activation of mesocortical dopamine neurons is responsible for clozapine-induced dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex.
In the human alpha7 nicotinic receptor, valine-274 in the pore-lining transmembrane-2 region was mutated to threonine to produce the variant human alpha7V274T, which was evaluated electrophysiologically following expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Inward current rectification was strong in human alpha7V274T as in the human alpha7 wild type nicotinic receptor. However, human alpha7V274T was 100-fold more sensitive to the nicotinic receptor agonists acetylcholine, (-)-nicotine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium. Choline also activated human alpha7V274T (EC50 = 12 microM) and was 82-fold more potent than at human alpha7 wild type nicotinic receptor. (-)-Cotinine, (2,4)-dimethoxybenzylidene anabaseine (GTS-21) and 2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolidinylmethoxy)pyridine (ABT-089), weak partial agonists at human alpha7 wild type, were much stronger agonists at human alpha7V274T with EC50 values of 70 microM, 4 microM and 28 microM and fractional activation values of 93%, 96% and 40%, respectively. However, (-)-lobeline, a human alpha7 wild type nicotinic receptor antagonist, and dihydro-beta-erythroidine, which activates chick mutagenized alpha7 nicotinic receptors, had only weak agonist-like activity at human alpha7V274T (&lt; or = 4% of the maximal acetylcholine response). Methyllycaconitine, mecamylamine, d-tubocurarine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine retained antagonist activity and, indeed, appeared to be at least as potent at human alpha7V274T as at human alpha7 wild type. These results support and extend the concept that human nicotinic receptor pharmacology can be profoundly altered by single amino acid changes in the pore-lining segment.
Phorbol esters reduce depolarization-evoked Ca2+ influx in adrenal chromaffin cells, suggesting that voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCCs) are inhibited by protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation. We now address the possibility that L- and P/Q-type Ca2+ channel subtypes might be differentially involved in phorbol ester action. In bovine chromaffin cells, short-term (10 min) incubations with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) inhibited early high K+-evoked rises in cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and the early component of the depolarization-evoked Mn2+ quenching of fura-2 fluorescence in a dose-dependent manner (IC50: 18 and 7 nM; maximal inhibitions: 45 and 48%, respectively). The protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine (100 nM) reverted the inhibitory action of PMA. PMA (0.1-1 microM) inhibited the early and late phases of the ionomycin (2 microM)-evoked [Ca2+]i transients by 14-23%. Omega-agatoxin IVA, a blocker of P/Q-type Ca2+ channels, inhibited high K+-evoked [Ca2+]i rises in a dose-dependent fashion (IC50 = 50 nM). In contrast, 0.1 microM omega-conotoxin GVIA, a blocker of N-type channels, was without effect. A sizeable (&lt; 45%) component of early Ca2+ influx persisted in the combined presence of omega-agatoxin IVA (100 nM) and nitrendipine (1 microM). Simultaneous exposure to omega-agatoxin IVA and PMA inhibited both the early [Ca2+]i transients and Mn2+ quenching to a much greater extent than each drug separately. Inhibition of the [Ca2+]i transients by nitrendipine and PMA did not significantly exceed that produced by PMA alone. It is concluded that phorbol ester-mediated activation of protein kinase C inhibits preferentially L-type VSCCs over P/Q type channels in adrenal chromaffin cells. However, the possibility cannot be ruled out that dihydropyridine-resistant, non-P/Q type channels might also be negatively regulated by protein kinase C. This may represent an important pathway for the specific control of VSCCs by protein kinase C-linked receptors, not only in paraneurones but presumably also in neurones and other excitable cells.
Proteoglycans contain a polypeptide core and an oligosaccharide chain composed of aminohexoses and uronic acid. The glycan chain is attached to the polypeptide in a bond to serine hydroxyl. The glycan chains may contain up to 200 disaccharide units and the proteoglycan molecular mass ranges from a few thousands to millions. Their physiological functions are related to barriers limiting diffusion across the membranes, articular lubrification, blood coagulation and cellular adhesion. The tissue proteoglycans can be extracted with 4 M guanidine hydrochloride and purified with chromatographic techniques. The soluble proteoglycans can be precipitated with cetylpyridinium chloride, purified by chromatography or by dialysis. All proteoglycan species are amenable to electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels, and after blotting on polyvinylidene fluoride membranes, they can be stained for glycans. Proteoglycan analyses have shown their value in clinical mucopolysaccharidosis diagnostics, in occupational toxicology and in coagulation studies. Experimental applications include cell adhesion studies in tumor biology, regeneration in neurosciences or maturation of skin and kidneys.
We found a low-molecular-mass, fluorescent dye, Calcein blue am ester (CB), that labels terminal Schwann cells at neuromuscular junctions in vivo without damaging them. This dye was used to follow terminal Schwann cells at neuromuscular junctions in the mouse sternomastoid muscle over periods of days to months. Terminal Schwann cell bodies and processes were stable in their spatial distribution over these intervals, with processes that in most junctions were precisely aligned with motor nerve terminal branches. Three days after nerve cut, the extensive processes elaborated by terminal Schwann cells in denervated muscle were labeled by CB. The number and length of CB-labeled terminal Schwann cell processes decreased between 3 days and 1 month after denervation, suggesting that terminal Schwann cell processes are only transiently maintained in the absence of innervation. During reinnervation after nerve crush, however, terminal Schwann cell processes were extended in advance of axon sprouts, and these processes persisted until reinnervation was completed. By viewing the same junctions twice during reinnervation, we directly observed that axon sprouts used existing Schwann cell processes and chains of cell bodies as substrates for outgrowth. Thus, CB can be used to monitor the dynamic behavior of terminal Schwann cells, whose interactions with motor axons and their terminals are important for junction homeostasis and repair.
We investigated the effects of NMDA and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor blockade in the rostral part of dorsomedial (dmPFC) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) on spatial working memory (SWM) (delayed non-matching to position task (DNMTP)). The NMDA antagonist, CPP (0.01, 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 microg/hemisphere) and the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine (10 microg/hemisphere) were locally infused into the brain of male Wistar rats. In the mPFC CPP 0.1 microg disrupted SWM delay-dependently and CPP 0.3 microg caused a delay-independent performance deficit. Scopolamine disrupted non-cognitive performance, but did not affect SWM accuracy. In the dlPFC, scopolamine or lower doses of CPP did not affect SWM accuracy, but CPP 0.3 microg disrupted non-cognitive performance. We concluded that the NMDA receptors in the dmPFC regulate SWM processes, whereas the muscarinic receptors in the dmPFC mediate non-cognitive performance in the DNMTP task.
We investigated the sensitivity to cell death of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). PBMCs from MS patients, following PHA stimulation, were less sensitive to cell death than those from healthy donors (mean +/- s.e.m., 22.5 +/- 1.9 in MS patients vs 36.5 +/- 2.8 in healthy controls; p = 0.0003). However, when Fas-agonist antibody was added, the increase in respect to apoptosis induced by mitogen alone was even higher in MS patients than in controls. In addition, PHA-activated PBMCs from MS patients showed higher surface expression of Fas than controls, while Bcl-2 expression was decreased. This finding raised the question of whether an impaired generation of apoptotic signals may be contributing to the immune component of MS.
The possibility that cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) can inhibit ingestive behavior by acting on the liver was investigated. Male rats were trained to ingest an intraorally infused 1 M solution of sucrose and then injected with 10 microg CCK-8/kg. Intraperitoneal or hepatic portal vein, but not jugular vein, injection suppressed intake of the sucrose solution. Intraperitoneal injection was more potent than hepatic portal vein injection. Inhibition by hepatic portal vein injection was blocked by i.p. injection of 80 microg/kg of the CCK-A receptor antagonist L-364,718 or by hepatic vagotomy. The results support the hypothesis that CCK-8 can inhibit ingestive behavior via a hormonal action on the liver.
Aiming to ablate sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) innervating a defined target, we injected saporin conjugated to cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) unilaterally into the superior cervical ganglion of rats. In spinal cord segments T1-T3, the numbers of cholinergic neurons in the intermediolateral cell column ipsilateral and contralateral to the injected ganglion were significantly different by 3 days post-injection. By day 14, 77% of ipsilateral cholinergic neurons had disappeared. A higher percentage of neurons were killed in T1-T2 than in T3. Comparing SPN counts from CTB-saporin injected rats and counts from rats receiving unconjugated CTB into the superior cervical ganglion indicated that 84% of SPN supplying the ganglion had died by 14 days. Retrogradely transported CTB-saporin kills sympathetic preganglionic neurons and may also eliminate other types of neurons that transport CTB.
Nocistatin is a recently characterized neuropeptide derived from the preprohormone containing nociceptin (Orphanin FQ, OFQ). Nocistatin was reported to antagonize OFQ induced allodynia, hyperalgesia and prostaglandin E2-elicited pain responses. The aim of the present study was to determine whether nocistatin, injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), would reverse the anti-morphine effect of OFQ in rats using the tail-flick latency (TFL) as the nociceptive index. I.c.v. injection of nocistatin at doses of 0.005, 0.05, 0.5, 5, 50, and 500 ng produced no significant changes in the basal TFL, nor did it affect morphine analgesia. However, it significantly reversed the antagonistic effect of OFQ on morphine analgesia when co-injected i.c.v. at doses of 0.05, 0.5, 5, 50 and 500 ng per rat with OFQ. The dose-response curve was bell-shaped and the most effective dose was 0.5 ng. The results suggest that nocistatin can reverse the anti-morphine effect of OFQ in rat brain.
Peripheral nerve injury is associated with local inflammation and neuropathic pain. In this study we investigated the local expression of the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) following a chronic constriction injury (CCI) to the sciatic nerve, a rat model of neuropathic pain. Western blot analysis and immunohistochemical co-localization methods were used to identify temporal and spatial expression of iNOS and its cells of origin. Changes in mRNA were analyzed by RT-PCR and iNOS specific primers. We report that CCI injury induced local iNOS expression in both macrophages and Schwann cells within and distal to the injury site. The local increase in iNOS mRNA expression paralleled both the temporal and spatial protein expression. This study supports the hypothesis that CCI is associated with a local inflammatory reaction mediated at least in part by iNOS. Local activation of the iNOS-NO system may play an important role in the pathogenesis of peripheral nerve injury and neuropathic pain.
The Wobbler mouse is a useful small animal model for the study of human motoneuron diseases. Besides showing the loss of motoneurons when the symptoms are expressed around the age of 3 weeks, we have also demonstrated the presumed 'sprouting' of neuronal processes in the cervical spinal ventral horn which contain immunoreactive (IR) serotonin (5-HT), substance P (SP) and methionine and leucine enkephalins (ME, LE), as well as thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). This occurs during the symptomatic period when IR-5-HT, ME and LE sprout at Stage 1, around the age of 3 weeks, whereas IR-SP sprouts only at a late stage (stage 4) of the disease (at age 3 months). The present investigation shows that the presumed sprouting occurs even before the appearance of symptoms and prior to significant motoneuron losses. IR-5-HT containing neuronal processes sprout by postnatal day 7, whereas IR-SP, -ME, -LE, and -TRH processes sprout by day 14. Hypothetically the early sprouts may contribute to the loss of motoneurons. They also respond to ciliary and brain derives neurotrophic factors cotreatment. IR-SP neuronal processes, although they sprout by day 14, show normal fiber density by the time symptoms appear (stage 1, age 21 days). However the SP sprouting is biphasic and a significant increase in number also occurs at an advanced stage of the disease (stage 4, age 3 months).
We have isolated two alpha-tubulin cDNAs from the leech, Hirudo medicinalis. Both encode putative proteins of 451 amino-acids which differ from each other at only two positions. Southern blotting suggests that there are only two alpha-tubulin genes in the leech. The genes contain two introns and, because of the extremely high homology of the nucleotide sequence from the second intron to the end of the genes, we have inferred that a gene conversion event about 9.5 million years ago has homogenised the Hirudo alpha-tubulin sequences. Using in situ hybridisation to tissue sections, we have shown that the two genes are probably expressed in all neurons of the leech ganglia and that their spatial distribution remains unchanged during neuronal regeneration. The deduced amino-acid sequences of the leech alpha-tubulins show that they have greatest similarity to those from a platyhelminth, echiuran and mollusc with rather less to arthropod alpha-tubulins. The protein sequences of the leech alpha-tubulins have been compared with representatives of those from across all phyla to determine if any specific feature labels certain isotypes of tubulin for neuronal expression.
Transient periods of synchronization of oscillating neuronal discharges in the frequency range 30-80 Hz (gamma oscillations) have been proposed to act as an integrative mechanism that may bring a widely distributed set of neurons together into a coherent ensemble that underlies a cognitive act. Results of several experiments in animals provide support for this idea. In humans, gamma oscillations have been described both on the scalp (measured by electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography) and in intracortical recordings, but no direct participation of synchrony in a cognitive task has been demonstrated so far. Here we record electrical brain activity from subjects who are viewing ambiguous visual stimuli (perceived either as faces or as meaningless shapes). We show for the first time, to our knowledge, that only face perception induces a long-distance pattern of synchronization, corresponding to the moment of perception itself and to the ensuing motor response. A period of strong desynchronization marks the transition between the moment of perception and the motor response. We suggest that this desynchronization reflects a process of active uncoupling of the underlying neural ensembles that is necessary to proceed from one cognitive state to another.
The precise orchestration of synaptic differentiation is critical for efficient information exchange in the nervous system. The nerve-muscle synapse forms in response to agrin, which is secreted from the motor nerve terminal and induces the clustering of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) and other elements of the postsynaptic apparatus on the subjacent muscle cell surface. In view of the highly restricted spatial localization and the plasticity of neuromuscular junctions, it seems likely that synapse formation and maintenance are regulated by additional, as-yet-unidentified factors. Here, we tested whether neurotrophins modulate the agrin-induced differentiation of postsynaptic specializations. We show that both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) inhibit agrin-induced AChR clustering on cultured myotubes. Nerve growth factor and NT-3 are without effect. Muscle cells express full-length TrkB, the cognate receptor for BDNF and NT-4. Direct activation of this receptor by anti-TrkB antibodies mimicked the BDNF/NT-4 inhibition of agrin-induced AChR clustering. This BDNF/NT-4 inhibition is likely to be an intrinsic mechanism for regulating AChR clustering, because neutralization of endogenous TrkB ligands resulted in elevated levels of AChR clustering even in the absence of added agrin. Finally, high concentrations of agrin can occlude the BDNF/NT-4 inhibition of AChR clustering. These results indicate that an interplay between agrin and neurotrophins can regulate the formation of postsynaptic specializations. They also suggest a mechanism for the suppression of postsynaptic specializations at nonjunctional regions.
Although investigations in computational neuroscience have been extensive, the opportunity (that has made such a marked difference in physical sciences) to test detailed and subtle quantitative consequences of a theory against experimental results is rare. In this paper, we outline a testable consequence of two contrasting theories of synaptic plasticity applied to the disconnection in visual cortex of the closed eye in monocular deprivation. This disconnection is sometimes thought to be the consequence of a process that stems from a competition of inputs for a limited resource such as neurotrophin. Such a process leads to what we call spatial competition, or heterosynaptic synaptic modification. A contrasting view-exemplified by the Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) theory-is that patterns of input activity compete in the temporal domain. This temporal competition is homosynaptic and does not require a conserved resource. The two mechanisms, homosynaptic and heterosynaptic, are the distinguishing characteristics of two general classes of learning rules we explore by using a realistic environment composed of natural scenes. These alternative views lead to opposite dependence on the level of presynaptic activity of the rate of disconnection of the closed eye in monocular deprivation. This strong and testable consequence sets the stage for a critical distinguishing experiment. This experiment has been done and supports the second view. These results have important implications for the processes of learning and memory storage in neocortex.


In order to study factors that psychodynamic therapists considered to be important for recommendation of treatment, psychiatric diagnoses (DSM-III-R Axes I and II and the GAF) as well as character traits assessed by the Karolinska Psychodynamic Profile (KAPP) were retrospectively assessed in interview case-notes of patients applying for psychodynamic psychotherapy. Recommendation of psychotherapy was predicted by the absence of a personality disorder and high GAF scores, but not by the presence of a psychiatric syndrome. The KAPP differentiated between patients with and without disorders on Axis II, but not on Axis I. Patients who were recommended psychodynamic psychotherapy were healthier on all central KAPP variables compared to those who were recommended other treatments, and they were also characterized by predominantly neurotic personality organization, with inhibition as the most prominent defence.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is characterized by numerous nervous system anomalies with the developing hippocampus being highly vulnerable. Other conditions can result from maternal ethanol consumption including oxidative stress. Critical antioxidants, such as vitamin E, can be decreased and antioxidative defenses altered. Gestational day 18 rat hippocampal cultures were exposed to ethanol ranging from 400 to 2400 mg/dl (16 h). MTT assays assessed neurotoxicity. Viability was decreased dose dependently. Supplementation with vitamin E or beta-carotene afforded neuroprotection against all ethanol concentrations. Vitamin E completely ameliorated neuronal loss following 400 and 800 mg/dl ethanol. Vitamin E increased survival to 95%, 79%, 66%, and 75% during 1600, 1800, and 2000 and 2400 mg/dl ethanol compared to nonethanol treatment. Vitamin E increased viability by 38%, 23%, 12%, and 29% at 1600, 1800, 2000, and 2400 mg/dl compared to non-vitamin E-supplemented, ethanol treatment. beta-Carotene completely ameliorated cell loss from 400 mg/dl ethanol and increased survival by 18% at 1600 mg/dl and 12% at 2000 mg/dl. This study demonstrates in vitro antioxidative neuroprotection against developmental ethanol exposure and suggests that nutritional therapies incorporating antioxidants may help protect against deleterious fetal effects from maternal alcohol abuse.

We report here original data on the biological basis of prolonged neuromuscular paralysis caused by the toxic phospholipase A2 beta-bungarotoxin. Electron microscopy and immunocytochemical labeling with anti-synaptophysin and anti-neurofilament have been used to show that the early onset of paralysis is associated with the depletion of synaptic vesicles from the motor nerve terminals of skeletal muscle and that this is followed by the destruction of the motor nerve terminal and the degeneration of the cytoskeleton of the intramuscular axons. The postjunctional architecture of the junctions were unaffected and the binding of fluorescein-isothiocyanate-conjugated alpha-bungarotoxin to acetylcholine receptor was not apparently affected by exposure to beta-bungarotoxin. The re-innervation of the muscle fiber was associated by extensive pre- and post-terminal sprouting at 3 to 5 days but was stable by 7 days. Extensive collateral innervation of adjacent muscle fibers was a significant feature of the re-innervated neuromuscular junctions. These findings suggest that the prolonged and severe paralysis seen in victims of envenoming bites by kraits (elapid snakes of the genus Bungarus) and other related snakes of the family Elapidae is caused by the depletion of synaptic vesicles from motor nerve terminals and the degeneration of the motor nerve terminal and intramuscular axons.
Understanding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease is of widespread interest because it is an increasingly prevalent disorder that is progressive, fatal, and currently untreatable. The dementia of Alzheimer's disease is caused by neuronal cell death. We demonstrate for the first time that blood vessels isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients can directly kill neurons in vitro. Either direct co-culture of Alzheimer's disease microvessels with neurons or incubation of cultured neurons with conditioned medium from microvessels results in neuronal cell death. In contrast, vessels from elderly nondemented donors are significantly (P&lt;0.001) less lethal and brain vessels from younger donors are not neurotoxic. Neuronal killing by either direct co-culture with Alzheimer's disease microvessels or conditioned medium is dose- and time-dependent. Neuronal death can occur by either apoptotic or necrotic mechanisms. The microvessel factor is neurospecific, killing primary cortical neurons, cerebellar granule neurons, and differentiated PC-12 cells, but not non-neuronal cell types or undifferentiated PC-12 cells. Appearance of the neurotoxic factor is decreased by blocking microvessel protein synthesis with cycloheximide. The neurotoxic factor is soluble and likely a protein, because its activity is heat labile and trypsin sensitive. These findings implicate a novel mechanism of vascular-mediated neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease.
We previously reported that exposure of aquatic-phase Ambystoma tigrinum to a solution containing 50 mM K+ (K+ adaptation) caused a nearly 10-fold increase in the number of detectable maxi K+ channels on the apical membrane of their initial collecting tubules. In apparent contradiction to the notion that maxi K+ channels contribute to K+ secretion, these channels were not routinely active at the resting membrane potential (0 mV voltage clamp). To test the possibility that hyperkalemia yields maxi K+ channels that are secreting K+ (i.e., active at 0 mV), we patch-clamped the apical membranes of initial collecting tubules under conditions of elevated basolateral K+ (15 mM). Seven patches containing maxi K+ channels were studied. Six of the seven patches showed maxi K+ channel activity when voltage was clamped at 0 mV. Open probability and unitary current averaged 0.059 +/- 0.016 and 1.65 +/- 0.50 pA, respectively. This activity, together with the high density of channels observed (1.06 channels/micrometer2), indicates that after K+ adaptation, maxi K+ channels contribute to the ability of the late distal nephron of amphibians to secrete K+.
Most fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) recorded from guinea pig ileum myenteric plexus are mediated by acetylcholine acting at nicotinic receptors and ATP acting at P2X receptors. These studies examine length and polarity of projection of neurons releasing mediators of fEPSPs. Under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia, animals were sham treated or myenteric pathways were interrupted. After severed axons degenerated, fEPSPs were recorded at the operated site using conventional, intracellular electrophysiological methods and were classified as nicotinic or mixed on the basis of sensitivity to hexamethonium. Cholinergic and noncholinergic fEPSPs were recorded from small, operated segments, suggesting that some neurons have projections between adjacent ganglia. The mean amplitudes of nicotinic and mixed fEPSPs were reduced after circumferential and descending pathways degenerated. The proportion of nicotinic vs. mixed fEPSPs recorded from tissues lacking descending projections was greater than that recorded from sham-treated tissues, suggesting that fibers releasing noncholinergic mediators project aborally. Descending projections communicate with neurons in ganglia at least three rows aboral to their origin. The data suggest that fast noncholinergic neurotransmission could contribute to hexamethonium-resistant descending inhibition during the peristaltic reflex.
The calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV) occurs at high concentrations in fast-contracting vertebrate muscle fibers. Its putative role in facilitating the rapid relaxation of mammalian fast-twitch muscle fibers by acting as a temporary buffer for Ca2+ is still controversial. We generated knockout mice for PV (PV -/-) and compared the Ca2+ transients and the dynamics of contraction of their muscles with those from heterozygous (PV +/-) and wild-type (WT) mice. In the muscles of PV-deficient mice, the decay of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) after 20-ms stimulation was slower compared with WT mice and led to a prolongation of the time required to attain peak twitch tension and to an extension of the half-relaxation time. The integral [Ca2+]i in muscle fibers of PV -/- mice was higher and consequently the force generated during a single twitch was approximately 40% greater than in PV +/- and WT animals. Acceleration of the contraction-relaxation cycle of fast-twitch muscle fibers by PV may confer an advantage in the performance of rapid, phasic movements.
Mechanosensitive (MS) channels, ones whose open probability varies with membrane tension in patch recordings, are diverse and ubiquitous, yet many are remarkably insensitive to mechanical stimuli in situ. Failure to elicit mechanocurrents from cells with abundant MS channels suggests that, in situ, the channels are protected from mechanical stimuli. To establish what conditions affect MS channel gating, we monitored Lymnaea neuron stretch-activated K (SAK) channels in cell-attached patches after diverse treatments. Mechanosensitivity was gauged by rapidity of onset and extent of channel activation during a step pressure applied to a &quot;naive&quot; patch. The following treatments enhanced mechanosensitivity: actin depolymerization (cytochalasin B), N-ethylmaleimide, an inhibitor of ATPases including myosin, elevated Ca (using A-23187), and osmotic swelling (acutely and after 24 h). Osmotic shrinking decreased mechanosensitivity. A unifying interpretation is that traumatized cortical cytoskeleton cannot prevent transmission of mechanical stimuli to plasma membrane channels. Mechanoprotection and capricious mechanosensitivity are impediments to cloning efforts with MS channels. We demonstrate a potpourri of endogenous MS currents from L-M(TK-) fibroblasts; others had reported these cells to be MS current null and hence to be suitable for expressing putative MS channels.




The present research examined trends in the prominence of 4 widely recognized schools in scientific psychology: psychoanalysis, behaviorism, cognitive psychology, and neuroscience. The results, which replicated across 3 measures of prominence, showed the following trends: (a) psychoanalytic research has been virtually ignored by mainstream scientific psychology over the past several decades; (b) behavioral psychology has declined in prominence and gave way to the ascension of cognitive psychology during the 1970s; (c) cognitive psychology has sustained a steady upward trajectory and continues to be the most prominent school; and (d) neuroscience has seen only a modest increase in prominence in mainstream psychology, despite evidence for its conspicuous growth in general. The authors use these findings as a springboard for discussing different views of scientific prominence and conclude that psychologists should evaluate trends in the field empirically, not intuitively.
To purify and characterize low-abundance proteins in complex biological mixtures, we used a novel strategy that combined preparative two-dimensional liquid-phase electrophoresis (2D-LPE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Preparative 2D-LPE is based on the same isoelectric focusing and gel electrophoresis principles as the widely used analytical 2D gel electrophoresis, except that analytes remain in solution throughout separation. This novel approach shows many improvements compared to analytical 2D gel electrophoresis for the separation of proteins in biological fluids. For example, larger volumes/amounts of samples can be loaded, yielding sufficient amounts of low-abundance proteins for further characterization. Since proteins remain in liquid phase during the entire procedure, extra steps such as electroelution, extraction, or transfer to membranes from the gels prior to mass spectrometric analysis are obviated. We report the usefulness of 2D-LPE combined with MALDI-TOF MS for the purification and characterization of cystatin C and beta-2 microglobulin in human cerebrospinal fluid. This method should be applicable to a wide range of biological fluids, such as cerebrospinal fluid, serum, tissue extracts, cell media, whole cells, and bacterial lysates.
No immunodominant T-cell epitopes have yet been reported in the human acetylcholine receptor (AChR), the target of the pathogenic autoantibodies in myasthenia gravis (MG). We have selected and characterized T cells from MG patients by restimulation in culture with recombinant human AChR to alpha, gamma and epsilon subunits; the gamma and epsilon distinguish the fetal and adult AChR isoforms, respectively. We obtained clones specific for the epsilon, rather than the alpha or gamma, subunit in 3 of the first 4 early-onset MG cases tested. They all responded to peptide epsilon201-219 and to low concentrations of adult but not fetal AChR. Moreover, although using different T-cell receptor genes, they were all restricted to HLA-DR52a (DRB3*0101), a member of the strongly predisposing HLA-A1-B8-DR3 haplotype. This apparently immunodominant epsilon201-219 epitope (plus DR52a) was also recognized by clones from an elderly patient whose MG had recently been provoked by the drug D-penicillamine. In all 4 cases, however, the serum antibodies reacted better with fetal than adult AChR and may thus be end products of determinant spreading initiated by adult AChR-specific T cell responses. Furthermore, as these T cells had a pathogenic Th1 phenotype, with the potential to induce complement-activating antibodies, they should be important targets for selective immunotherapy.
To study the potential aftereffects of virtual environments (VE), tests of visually guided behavior and felt limb position (pointing with eyes open and closed) along with self-reports of motion sickness-like discomfort were administered before and after 30 min exposure of 34 subjects. When post- discomfort was compared to a pre-baseline, the participants reported more sickness afterward (p &lt; 0.03). The change in felt limb position resulted in subjects pointing higher (p &lt; 0.038) and slightly to the left, although the latter difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.08). When findings from a second study using a different VE system were compared, they essentially replicated the results of the first study with higher sickness afterward (p &lt; 0.001) and post- pointing errors were also up (p &lt; 0.001) and to the left (p &lt; 0.001). While alternative explanations (e.g. learning, fatigue, boredom, habituation, etc.) of these outcomes cannot be ruled out, the consistency of the post- effects on felt limb position changes in the two VE implies that these recalibrations may linger once interaction with the VE has concluded, rendering users potentially physiologically maladapted for the real world when they return. This suggests there may be safety concerns following VE exposures until pre-exposure functioning has been regained. The results of this study emphasize the need for developing and using objective measures of post-VE exposure aftereffects in order to systematically determine under what conditions these effects may occur.

The pyramidal control of the heart rate (HR) and the arterial pressure (AP) was investigated in the cat. Experiments were conducted in order to determine relative contribution of vagal and sympathetic components to this control. In eighteen anesthetized and curarized cats, electrical stimulations were applied to the pyramidal tract (PT), followed by pharmacological blockade of the sympathetic cardiac control or by bivagotomy. HR and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were recorded in response to pyramidal stimulations before and after bulbar transections sparing only the PT, beta 1-blockade by atenolol administration and/or bilateral vagotomy. Results showed that the stimulation of the PT elicits significant cardiac accelerations and MAP increases in all animals. Furthermore, bulbar transections allowed to conclude that pyramidal influences acted at bulbar level and not on spinal cardiovascular neurons. After beta 1-blockade by atenolol, HR increases were reduced by about 70% and those of MAP by about 30%; after bilateral vagotomy, cardioaccelerations were reduced by about 30% but no significant reductions of MAP were observed; finally, beta 1-blockade combined with vagal section suppressed cardioaccelerations and significantly reduced the MAP increases. These results suggest the existence of a direct cortical control, via the pyramidal tract, to cardiovascular centers of the medulla, probably mediated by pyramidal collaterals. This control appears to be organized following a reciprocal autonomic pattern where the suppression of the vagal inhibition is associated with a concomitant sympathetic excitation. The present work also provides data in favour of a central command coupling somatic programs and cardiac adjustments during motor acts.


The activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in rat masticatory motoneurones were measured. Anterior digastric (jaw-opening) and masseter (jaw-closing) motoneurones were retrogradely labelled with the fluorescent tracers nuclear yellow and bisbenzimide, respectively. The animals were pretreated with an irreversible AChE inhibitor, diisopropyl fluorophosphate, for the measurement of AChE activities. After transcardial perfusion, serial frozen sections, 20-microm thick, of the brainstem were prepared and processed for AChE histochemical analysis. Sections of 30-microm thickness were also prepared and processed for ChAT immunohistochemical analysis using anti-ChAT antibodies and the peroxidase-antiperoxidase complex. The AChE and ChAT activities in motoneurones identified by their fluorescence were determined by measuring their absorbance in the cytoplasm at 470 and 450 nm, respectively. Each of the enzymatic activities was significantly higher in the anterior digastric than in masseter motoneurones (p &lt; 0.001, student t-test).
Animal studies have shown that prenatal exposure to the anticonvulsant drugs phenobarbital and phenytoin alters steroid hormone levels which consequently leads to disturbed sexual differentiation. In this study, possible sequelae of prenatal exposure to these anticonvulsants on gender development in humans were investigated. A follow-up study was carried out in phenobarbital- and phenytoin-exposed subjects and control subjects matched for age, sex, and the mothers' ages. Subjects were born in the Academic Medical Center between 1957 and 1972. Out of 243 exposed and 222 control subjects who were asked to volunteer, 147 exposed subjects (72 male, 75 female) and equal numbers of their matched control subjects participated in the follow-up study. They were interviewed and were asked to fill out questionnaires on gender role behavior, gender development, and sexual orientation. As a group, exposed and control subjects did not differ with respect to gender role behavior, although higher numbers of prenatally anticonvulsant-exposed subjects reported current or past cross-gender behavior and/or gender dysphoria. Three prenatally anticonvulsant-exposed subjects were transsexuals and had undergone sex reassignment surgery, a remarkably high rate given the rarity of transsexualism. In addition, two exposed males had exclusively homosexual experiences, whereas none of the control males reported exclusive homosexual behavior. The groups did not differ in attainment of pubertal psychosexual milestones.
We have observed marked interindividual differences in release rates of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) among healthy subjects. The objective of the current study was to test the hypothesis that there is an association between a genetic variation at the t-PA locus and the in vivo release rate of t-PA. Fifty-one healthy males were studied at rest in the morning and 27 of these were also subjected to a mental stress test. Net release rates of total t-PA across the forearm vascular bed were calculated as the product of the venoarterial concentration gradient and forearm plasma flow. Zygosity for an Alu-repeat polymorphism in intron 8 of the t-PA gene was determined by a polymerase chain reaction. Basal t-PA release rates differed markedly by genotype (ANOVA, P&lt;0.05); subjects homozygous for the insertion had a significantly higher release rate (mean 10.9 ng. min-1. L-1, n=19) than both heterozygotes (4.5 ng. min-1. L-1, n=26) and subjects homozygous for the deletion (0.9 ng. min-1. L-1, n=6). After 2 minutes of mental stress release rates had increased approximately 2-fold in all groups. Arterial and venous plasma levels of t-PA were unrelated to genotype. In conclusion, the current results provide the first evidence of an association between a common genetic variation at the t-PA locus and interindividual differences in net release rates of t-PA in vivo. The relationship is not reflected by circulating steady-state plasma levels and can thus not be disclosed by conventional venous plasma sampling.

A series of transitions in chick memory formation, with sharp standard timings, which were revealed by amnestic agents, coincide with a series of brief windows of enhanced recall ('retrieval events'), repeating with periods of 16 min (left hemisphere) and 25 min (right). Their timings were recently confirmed by: (1) the demonstration of a brief dip in recall 5 min after each left hemisphere event in the period 0-100 min, (2) spontaneous use of the eye providing direct input to the hemisphere undergoing an event, and (3) good performance in a delayed match-to-sample task after 100 min, only at times of near, or exact coincidence (400 min) with right and left events. The exact coincidence is accompanied by a late episode of consolidation, as is a transition in memory formation in the zebra finch with precisely the same timing. Linkages between right and left versions of a single experience appear to be established as a result of near coincidences of events. The greater involvement of the left hemisphere in initiating such interactions appears to be responsible for a wide range of asymmetries described for interocular transfer and unilateral insult.
Using retrograde labelling with the fluorescent tracer rhodamine B isocyanate (RITC), we have examined the organisation of the thalamofugal and tectofugal visual projections to the forebrain of the young chick. In addition, we have investigated the influence of light exposure prior to hatching on the development of the tectofugal visual projections. Our results for the thalamofugal projections confirm those found previously; viz., that there are more projections from the left side of the thalamus to the right hyperstriatum of the forebrain than from the right side of the thalamus to the left hyperstriatum in males and females. The organisation of the tectofugal visual projections to the rotundal nuclei was more symmetrical (males only examined) although there was a trend towards a greater number of projections from the left optic tectum to its ipsilateral nucleus rotundus than from the right optic tectum to its ipsilateral nucleus rotundus. There are numerous projections from the optic tecta to their contralateral rotundal nuclei but, in contrast to reports for the pigeon, no marked asymmetry was present in these. The ratio of contralateral to ipsilateral projections revealed significant asymmetry for projections from the ventral regions of the optic tecta and symmetry from the dorsal regions. Thus both visual pathways of the chick have asymmetrical organisation but the asymmetry is much greater in the thalamofugal pathway. The slight asymmetry in the tectofugal projections may be determined by exposing the embryo to light just before hatching, as known to be the case for thalamofugal projections.

Birds and primates are vertebrates that possess the most advanced, efficient visual systems. Although lineages leading to these two classes were separated about 300 million years ago, there are striking similarities in their underlying neural mechanisms for visual processing. This paper discusses such similarities with special emphasis on the visual circuits in the avian telencephalon. These similarities include: (1) the existence of two parallel visual pathways and their distinct telencephalic targets, (2) anatomical and functional segregation within the visual pathways, (3) laminar organization of the telencephalic targets of the pathways (e.g. striate cortex in primates), and (4) possible interactions between multiple visual areas. Additional extensive analyses are necessary to determine whether these similarities are due to inheritance from a common ancestral stock or the consequences of convergent evolution based on adaptive response to similar selective pressures. Nevertheless, such a comparison is important to identify the general and specific principles of visual processing in amniotes (reptiles, birds, and mammals). Furthermore, these principles in turn will provide a critical foundation for understanding the evolution of the brain in amniotes.
A survey of avian brain-behavior conference reports of the last 25 years reveals that neither the avian species studied nor the types of scientific questions asked have changed very much since the first such conference report in 1974. The birds studied tend, for the most part, to be pigeons, chickens, quail, and canaries. Because of the growing interest in avian vocalization and its neural control, one recent conference featured studies of canaries, zebra finches, and budgerigars. The topics of investigation at these conferences largely have involved sensory systems, mostly sensory and sensorimotor mechanisms with a heavy emphasis on vision and audition, as well as studies of learning and memory. Future research should expand the range of orders and species of birds studied so as to shed light on evolutionary trends within Aves as a whole. The scope of behavioral questions asked also should be broadened to include topics of neuroethological interest.
The authors have previously demonstrated that Purkinje cell-degeneration (pcd) mutant mice are impaired in eyeblink conditioning (L. Chen et al., 1996a). The present study addresses the following 3 questions: (a) whether pcd mice perceive the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli as well as the wild-type mice, (b) whether pcd mice have a normal sensitization level, and (c) whether the residual learning in pcd mice is cerebellum-dependent. Results indicated that the pcd mice exhibited normal tone-induced responses in the cochlear nucleus and normal sensitivity to heat-induced pain. They showed a similar level of sensitization as the wild-type mice and were completely unable to learn conditioned eyeblinks after bilateral lesions aimed at the anterior interpositus nucleus. Thus, pcd mice are partially impaired in eyeblink conditioning because of a deficiency in learning mechanisms, and the residual learning in the pcd mice is mediated by the cerebellar nuclei.
In rats, conditioned odor aversion (COA) occurs only if the time interval separating the odor from the subsequent intoxication is very short suggesting that the memory trace of the odor is subject to rapid decay. Recent results from our laboratory have found that lesion of the entorhinal cortex (EC), and activation of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) rendered COA tolerant to long interstimulus interval. The present study examined whether the odor memory trace depends on the interaction between the EC and the BLA. Rats lesioned in the EC received infusions of muscimol (a GABA(A) receptor agonist) into the BLA immediately after the odor presentation during acquisition of COA. Injection of muscimol into BLA prevented tolerance of COA to long interstimulus interval induced by EC lesions. This suggests that EC modulates the short-term memory trace of the odor by controlling the GABAergic activity of the BLA during acquisition of COA.
The present study characterized the discriminative-stimulus effects of triazolam and midazolam in rhesus monkeys. Six monkeys discriminated 0.1 mg/kg of triazolam from vehicle under a fixed-ratio 5 (FR 5) schedule of stimulus-shock termination (SST). Four monkeys subsequently discriminated 0.56 mg/kg of midazolam from vehicle under the same schedule of reinforcement. Benzodiazepine (BDZ) agonists midazolam and diazepam, and the barbiturate pentobarbital, substituted for triazolam, and the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist ketamine did not. Triazolam, diazepam, lorazepam, flunitrazepam, as well as the barbiturates amobarbital and pentobarbital, substituted for midazolam, and ketamine did not. The BDZ antagonist flumazenil antagonized both the triazolam and midazolam discriminative stimuli. Bretazenil, a low-efficacy BDZ agonist, did not substitute for the midazolam discriminative stimulus in three of the monkeys and shifted the midazolam dose-effect curve to the right; in a fourth monkey, bretazenil substituted for midazolam and shifted the midazolam dose-effect curve to the left. Schild analyses with flumazenil or bretazenil, in combination with midazolam, yielded slopes that deviated significantly from unity. While clearly supporting the notion that BDZ agonists produce stimulus effects by acting at the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABA(A)) receptor complex, these data also suggest that the discriminative-stimulus effects of midazolam might be mediated by more than one BDZ receptor subtype.
The purification and characterization of a novel phosphodiesterase (PDE) is presented. The activity was detected in the extracellular medium of Tetrahymena thermophila cultures, by the release of p-nitrophenol from p-nitrophenylphosphocholine (PNPPC) with an acidic pH optimum. In cell homogenates, it is sedimentable, shows a latency similar to that of acid phosphatase and is co-secreted with this enzyme, indicating that it is a lysosomal hydrolase. PNPPC-PDE was purified to homogeneity from the extracellular medium, yielding a single band of 58 kD on SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It catalyzed the release of glycerol from glycerophosphocholine (GPC) and GPC competitively inhibits degradation of PNPPC. We present further evidence indicating that the natural substrate for PNPPC-PDE is GPC. Thus, Tetrahymena becomes the first eukaryote in which a lysosomal GPC-PDE is observed. This finding provides a new pathway for the complete breakdown of phosphatidylcholine in a lysosomal medium.
The benefit of genomics lies in the speeding up of research efforts in other fields of biology, including neurobiology. Through accelerated progress in positional cloning and genetic mapping, genomics has forced us to confront at a much faster pace the difficult problem of defining gene function. Elucidation of the function of identified disease genes and other genes expressed in the Central nervous system has to await conceptual developments in other fields.
Exogenous gangliosides readily associate with the cell membranes and produce marked effects on cell growth and differentiation. We have studied the effect of bovine brain gangliosides (BBG) on the membrane dynamics of intact cells. The structural and dynamic changes in the cell membrane were monitored by the fluorescence probes DPH, TMA-DPH and laurdan. Incorporation of BBG into the cell membrane decreased the fluorescence intensity, lifetime and the steady state anisotropy of TMA-DPH. Analysis of the time resolved anisotropy decay by wobbling in the cone model revealed that BBG decreased the order parameter, and increased the cone angle without altering the rotational relaxation rate. The fluorescence intensity and lifetime of DPH were unaffected by BBG incorporation, however, a modest increase was observed in the steady state anisotropy. BBG incorporation reduced the total fluorescence intensity of laurdan with pronounced quenching of the 440-nm band. The wavelength sensitivity of generalized polarization of laurdan manifested an ordered liquid crystalline environment of the probe in the cell membrane. BBG incorporation reduced the GP values and augmented the liquid crystalline behavior of the cell membrane. BBG incorporation also influenced the permeability of cell membranes to cations. An influx of Na+ and Ca2+ and an efflux of K+ was observed. The data demonstrate that incorporation of gangliosides into the cell membrane substantially enhances the disorder and hydration of the lipid bilayer region near the exoplasmic surface. The inner core region near the center of the bilayer becomes slightly more ordered and remains highly hydrophobic. Such changes in the structure and dynamics of the membrane could play an important role in modulation of transmembrane signaling events by the gangliosides.
Sodium channels in the somata and dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons undergo a form of long-lasting, cumulative inactivation that is involved in regulating back-propagating action potential amplitude and can influence dendritic excitation. Using cell-attached patch-pipette recordings in the somata and apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons, we determined the properties of slow inactivation on response to trains of brief depolarizations. We find that the amount of slow inactivation gradually increases as a function of distance from the soma. Slow inactivation is also frequency and voltage dependent. Higher frequency depolarizations increase both the amount of slow inactivation and its rate of recovery. Hyperpolarized resting potentials and larger command potentials accelerate recovery from slow inactivation. We compare this form of slow inactivation to that reported in other cell types, using longer depolarizations, and construct a simplified biophysical model to examine the possible gating mechanisms underlying slow inactivation. Our results suggest that sodium channels can enter slow inactivation rapidly from the open state during brief depolarizations or slowly from a fast inactivation state during longer depolarizations. Because of these properties of slow inactivation, sodium channels will modulate neuronal excitability in a way that depends in a complicated manner on the resting potential and previous history of action potential firing.
The aims of this prospective study were to investigate levels of anxiety and depression in patients with a solitary intracranial neoplasm before and after surgery, and to determine if relationships exist between high levels of anxiety or depression and the hemispheric location of the tumour, the tumour type or patient gender. Patients aged between 17 and 79 years with a solitary intracranial neoplasm completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) before and after biopsy or resective tumour surgery. A control group of non-brain-damaged subjects also completed the HAD before and after lumbar spinal surgery. Of the 109 patients with a brain tumour 30 and 16% demonstrated the likely presence of anxiety and depression, respectively, according to HAD scoring criteria. A greater proportion of females with a left hemisphere tumour reported higher levels of emotional disturbance than any other group of patients; relationships between dysphasia and levels of anxiety or depression were not significant. Patients with a meningioma had higher levels of anxiety and depression as measured by the HAD than those with any other tumour types. Levels of both anxiety and depression were significantly lower after tumour surgery according to the HAD. There were no significant differences in HAD scores between (a) left and right hemispheric tumour groups, and (b) the tumour and control (n = 20) groups. This study has found that anxiety and depression as measured by the HAD are relatively uncommon in patients with an intracranial neoplasm, and that levels of mood disturbance do not differ significantly from those in patients undergoing lumbar spinal surgery. Levels of anxiety and depression become lower after surgery in patients with a brain tumour. Patterns of anxiety and depression in patients with a brain tumour appear to differ from those reported in stroke.

The modulatory effects of extracellular H+ and Zn2+ were tested against ATP-responses at rat P2X4 (rP2X4) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes under voltage-clamp conditions. ATP (0.1-100 microM, at pH 7.5), evoked inward currents via rP2X4 receptors (EC50 value, 4.1+/-0.98 microM; nH, 1.2+/-0.1). ATP potency was reduced 2 fold, at pH 6.5, without altering maximal activity. ATP potency was reduced by a further 4 fold, at pH 5.5, and the maximal activity of ATP was also reduced. Alkaline conditions (pH 8.0) had no effect on ATP-responses. Zn2+ (100 nM - 10 microM) potentiated ATP-responses at the rP2X4 receptor by 2 fold, whereas higher concentrations (30 microM - 1 mM) inhibited ATP-responses. Zn2+ potentiation was due to an increase in ATP potency, whereas its inhibitory action was due to a reduction in ATP efficacy. Zn2+ modulation of ATP-responses was pH-dependent. At pH 6.5, the bell-shaped curve for Zn2+ was shifted to the right by 1 log unit. At pH 5.5, Zn2+ potentiation was abolished and its inhibitory effect reduced considerably. Suramin (50 microM) also potentiated ATP-responses at rP2X4 receptors. Neither H+ (pH 6.5 and 5.5), Zn2+ (10-100 microM) or a combination of both failed to reveal an inhibitory action of suramin at rP2X4 receptors. In conclusion, H+ and Zn2+ exerted opposite effects on the rP2X4 receptor by lowering and raising agonist potency, respectively. H+ (&gt; or = 3 microM) and Zn2+ (&gt; or = 30 microM) also reduces agonist efficacy by lowering the number of rP2X4 receptors available for activation. The striking differences between the modulatory actions of H+ and Zn2+ at rP2X4 and rP2X2 receptors are discussed.
Previous studies have shown that GABA(B) receptors facilitate cyclic AMP formation in brain slices likely through an indirect mechanism involving intracellular second messengers. In the present study, we have investigated whether a positive coupling of GABA(B) receptors to adenylyl cyclase could be detected in a cell-free preparation of rat olfactory bulb, a brain region where other Gi/Go-coupled neurotransmitter receptors have been found to stimulate the cyclase activity. The GABA(B) receptor agonist (-)-baclofen significantly increased basal adenylyl cyclase activity in membranes of the granule cell and external plexiform layers, but not in the olfactory nerve-glomerular layer. The adenylyl cyclase stimulation was therefore examined in granule cell layer membranes. The (-)-baclofen stimulation (pD2=4.53) was mimicked by 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid (pD2=4.60) and GABA (pD2=3.56), but not by (+)-baclofen, 3-aminopropylphosphonic acid, muscimol and isoguvacine. The stimulatory effect was counteracted by the GABA(B) receptor antagonists CGP 35348 (pA2=4.31), CGP 55845 A (pA2=7.0) and 2-hydroxysaclofen (pKi=4.22). Phaclofen (1 mM) was inactive. The (-)-baclofen stimulation was not affected by quinacrine, indomethacin, nordihydroguaiaretic acid and staurosporine, but was completely prevented by pertussis toxin and significantly reduced by the alpha subunit of transducin, a betagamma scavenger. The betagamma subunits of transducin stimulated the cyclase activity and this effect was not additive with that produced by (-)-baclofen. In the external plexiform and granule cell layers, but not in the olfactory nerve-glomerular layer, (-)-baclofen enhanced the adenylyl cyclase stimulation elicited by the neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) 38. Conversely, the adenylyl cyclase activity stimulated by either forskolin or Ca2+/calmodulin-(Ca2+/CaM) was inhibited by (-)-baclofen in all the olfactory bulb layers examined. These data demonstrate that in specific layers of rat olfactory bulb activation of GABA(B) receptors enhances basal and neurotransmitter-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities by a mechanism involving betagamma subunits of Gi/Go. This positive coupling is associated with a widespread inhibitory effect on forskolin- and Ca2+/CaM-stimulated cyclic AMP formation.
Atypical neuroleptics produce fewer extrapyramidal side-effects (EPS) than typical neuroleptics. The pharmacological profile of atypical neuroleptics is that they have equivalent or higher antagonist affinity for 5-HT2 than for dopamine D2 receptors. Our aim was to identify which 5-HT2 receptor contributed to the atypical profile. Catalepsy was defined as rats remaining immobile over a horizontal metal bar for at least 30 s, 90 min after dosing. Radioligand binding assays were carried out with homogenates of human recombinant 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B and 5-HT2C receptors expressed in Human Embryo Kidney (HEK293) cells. Haloperidol (1.13 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced catalepsy in all experiments. The selective 5-HT2C/2B receptor antagonist, SB-228357 (0.32-10 mg kg(-1) p.o.) significantly reversed haloperidol-induced catalepsy whereas the 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B receptor antagonists, MDL-100907 (0.003-0.1 mg kg(-1) p.o.) and SB-215505 (0.1-3.2 mg kg(-1) p.o.) respectively did not reverse haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The data suggest a role for 5-HT2C receptors in the anticataleptic action of SB-228357.
EEG and behavioural evidence suggests that air-borne chemicals can affect the nervous system without being consciously detected. EEG and behaviour, however, do not specify which brain structures are involved in chemical sensing that occurs below a threshold of conscious detection. Here we used functional MRI to localize brain activation induced by high and low concentrations of the air-borne compound oestra-1,3,5(10),16-tetraen-3yl acetate. Following presentations of both concentrations, eight of eight subjects reported verbally that they could not detect any odour (P = 0.004). Forced choice detection performed during the presentations revealed above-chance detection of the high concentration, but no better than chance detection of the low concentration compound. Both concentrations induced significant brain activation, primarily in the anterior medial thalamus and inferior frontal gyrus. Activation in the inferior frontal gyrus during the high concentration condition was significantly greater in the right than in the left hemisphere (P = 0.03). A trend towards greater thalamic activation was observed for the high concentration than the low concentration compound (P = 0.08). These findings localize human brain activation that was induced by an undetectable air-borne chemical (the low concentration compound).
The putative proactive influence of graded surgical stressors including intraventricular cannulation, sham surgery and no surgery on footshock-associated variations of locomotor activity, rearing and anxiogenic behaviour in the light-dark paradigm was evaluated among CD-1 mice. Neither sham surgery nor cannulation of the lateral ventricle altered baseline measures of locomotor activity or rearing relative to the performance of nonoperated control animals. Cannulation exacerbated the depressant influence of acute footshock on locomotor activity, while sham surgery mitigated the disruptive effect of the stressor on locomotor activity during the initial 15-min period of the test session. Footshock suppressed the vertical activity scores of mice regardless of surgical history. Only intraventricular cannulation reduced the baseline time in light scores of mice in the light-dark paradigm with repeated testing relative to animals in the sham surgery and no-surgery conditions. Baseline transition scores were not differentially affected by surgical history. Typically, transition scores were reduced on day 2 relative to day 1, but additional performance decrements were precluded on day 3. Footshock interacted with the surgical stressor of intraventricular cannulation in exaggerating reduced time in light relative to the performance of mice in the remaining surgical conditions. Transition frequency was not differentially influenced by the nature of the surgical stressor and subsequent exposure to footshock. The implications of these data for stressor-induced pathology are discussed.

Previous macroscopic and light microscopic observations established that the organophosphate soman, an irreversible inhibitor of cholinesterases, produces seizure-related opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to proteins. In Wistar rats, this BBB alteration was found to be reversible. This alteration was greatest during the first hour of seizures, and was topographically limited to sensitive areas such as the thalamus. In contrast, the hippocampus remained free of any vascular leakage. The present study is an attempt to elucidate, in rat thalamus, the subcellular mechanisms involved in soman-induced BBB alteration. A combination of three ultrastructural approaches was used: examination of ultra-thin sections, freeze-fracture, and post-embedding protein A-gold immunocytochemistry of the endogenous, normally exclusively blood-borne, albumin. Our findings show that soman-induced seizure activity produced no discernible structural change in the endothelial tight junctions, whereas it unambiguously increased the number of endothelial vesicles. Finally, immunolabelled albumin clearly crossed the endothelium, but was not systematically found inside the endothelial vesicles. Altogether, the present ultrastructural study confirms that soman can alter the integrity of the BBB, and demonstrates that the blood-to-brain passage of proteins does not mainly derive from the opening of tight junctions. Although transcytosis is clearly increased through the cerebral endothelium, there is little evidence that blood-borne proteins penetrate the brain in this way. The actual mechanisms of transport thus remain to be clarified.
The sympathetic skin responses following both electrical nerve (eSSRs) and magnetic (mSSRs) brain stimulations have been investigated in 19 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with no evidence of a peripheral neuropathy or dysautonomia and compared to those obtained in 10 age-matched healthy subjects. SSR was recorded from the right hand and foot, controlateral to the stimulated side. The main findings were amplitude loss and disappearance of the eSSR in 12/19 (63.2%) and 11/19 (57.9%) patients, occurring more frequently than the mSSR; 7/19 (36.8%) and 5/19 (26.3%) were recorded from the hand and foot, respectively. The SSR to electrical stimulation was significantly reduced in the upper and lower extremities (p &lt; 0.0001) compared to control results, whereas latencies were normal to both stimulation modalities. Only in two cases the responses were absent from the foot, one following electrical stimulation and the other after magnetic stimulation. No correlation was found between the SSR and metabolic indexes of diabetes mellitus or conduction velocity studies. On the basis of these data an early impairment of afferent pathways may be postulated.

On carbachol (CCh; 10-30 microM) pre-contracted circular muscle strips of the Agama lizard oesophagus, electrical field stimulation evoked frequency-dependent relaxations in the presence of guanethidine (1 microM) and indomethacin (1 microM). These non-adrenergic inhibitory responses were concentration-dependently inhibited by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) within a concentration range of 30-300 microM but not D-NAME (up to 300 microM), although a component remained at 4-16 Hz even with 300 microM L-NAME. The inhibition by L-NAME (300 microM) was completely prevented when L-arginine (L-Arg; 15 mM) but not D-Arg (up to 15 mM) was applied simultaneously with L-NAME (300 microM). Increasing the L-NAME concentration to 1 mM had no additional inhibitory effect. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) concentration-dependently relaxed pre-contracted oesophageal strips, L-NAME (up to 300 microM) had no effect. Neither adenosine 5'-triphosphate (up to 0.1 mM) nor vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (up to 0.1 microM) caused the pre-contracted oesophagus to relax. This study has shown that the NANC inhibitory response of the Agama lizard oesophagus circular muscle largely involves the L-Arg-NOS pathway as seen by the effect of L-NAME, L-Arg and SNP. The identity of the L-NAME-resistant component(s) and the lack of effect of tetrodotoxin (up to 3 microM) and omega-conotoxin GVIA (up to 0.1 microM) in relation to the nature of the inhibitory response are discussed.
In part I of this series of articles (Dryden et al. 1998) the authors detailed the background to a project offering hand and foot massage incorporating reflexology techniques. The following paper reports back on the findings and evaluation. Over a 4-month period a total of 61 recorded treatments were given to 18 in-patients. Each session was to last approximately 30 minutes and included recordings of physiological data as well as pre- and post comments from the patient. The six practitioners, who were already working within the ward setting in various capacities, were asked to record reflective comments after each treatment. This paper will conclude by discussing future recommendations. Part III of this series (CTNM 5: 2, 1999) will focus on a subgroup of patients within the study highlighting the experiences of both practitioners and patients.

The early specification of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons during vertebrate CNS development relies on signals produced by a small number of organizing centers. Recent studies have characterized these early organizing centers, the manner in which they may be established, the inductive signals they produce, and candidate signaling systems that control the later development of the dopaminergic system.
Over the past year, evidence has accrued that adult CNS stem cells are a widespread progenitor cell type. These cells may normally replace neurons and/or glia in the adult brain and spinal cord. Advances have been made in understanding the signals that regulate stem cell proliferation and differentiation. A deeper understanding of the structure of germinal zones has helped us move towards identifying stem cells in vivo. Recent studies suggest that the fate of stem cell progeny in vivo may be linked to the complexity of the animal's environment.
Experimental studies over the past year have shown that neural activity has a range of effects on the development of neural pathways. Although activity appears unimportant for establishing many aspects of the gross morphology and topology of the brain, there are many cases where the presence of neural activity is essential for the formation of a mature system of neural connections; in some instances, the pattern of neural activity actually orchestrates the final arrangement of neural connections.
Autonomic manifestations of vestibular dysfunction and motion sickness are well established in the clinical literature. Recent studies of 'vestibular autonomic regulation' have focused predominantly on autonomic responses to stimulation of the vestibular sense organs in the inner ear. These studies have shown that autonomic responses to vestibular stimulation are regionally selective and have defined a 'vestibulosympathetic reflex' in animal experiments. Outside the realm of experimental preparations, however, the importance of vestibular inputs in autonomic regulation is unclear because controls for secondary factors, such as affective/emotional responses and cardiovascular responses elicited by muscle contraction and regional blood pooling, have been inadequate. Anatomic and physiologic evidence of an extensive convergence of vestibular and autonomic information in the brainstem suggests though that there may be an integrated representation of gravitoinertial acceleration from vestibular, somatic, and visceral receptors for somatic and visceral motor control. In the case of vestibular dysfunction or motion sickness, the unpleasant visceral manifestations (e.g. epigastric discomfort, nausea or vomiting) may contribute to conditioned situational avoidance and the development of agoraphobia.
The seven major classes of cells of the vertebrate neural retina are generated from a pool of multipotent progenitor cells. Recent studies suggest a model of retinal development in which both the progenitor cells and the environment change over time (Cepko, C. L., Austin, C. P., Yang, X., Alexiades, M. and Ezzeddine, D. (1996). Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93, 589-595). We have utilized a reaggregate culture system to test this model. A labeled population of progenitors from the embryonic rat retina were cultured with an excess of postnatal retinal cells and then assayed for their cell fate choices. We found that the postnatal environment had at least two signals that affected the embryonic cells' choice of fate; one signal inhibited the production of amacrine cells and a second affected the production of cone cells. No increase in cell types generated postnatally was observed. The source of the inhibitor of the amacrine cell fate appeared to be previously generated amacrine cells, suggesting that amacrine cell number is controlled by feedback inhibition. The progenitor cell lost its ability to be inhibited for production of an amacrine cell as it entered M phase of the cell cycle. We suggest that postmitotic cells influence progenitor cell fate decisions, but that they do so in a manner restricted by the intrinsic biases of progenitor cells.

Many peptide hormones in a variety of species are produced from larger precursors by limited proteolysis at basic amino acid-containing sites. The marine mollusc Aplysia has homologs of mammalian peptide-processing enzymes, including furin, prohormone convertase 1 (PC1), PC2, and carboxypeptidase E (CPE). A novel neuronal Aplysia enzyme was recently identified that was most closely related to carboxypeptidase D (CPD; Fan and Nagle, DNA Cell Biol. 15, 937-945, 1996), a second carboxypeptidase thought to be present in the secretory pathway and to contribute to peptide hormone processing. We have identified and cloned multiple overlapping bag-cell neuron cDNAs that encode two proteins that are members of the CPD family. Sequence analyses demonstrate that the longer CPD protein (1446 residues) contains an N-terminal signal peptide and four carboxypeptidase-like domains; the third and fourth domains are not predicted to form active enzymes, as several critical residues are absent. The shorter CPD protein is predicted to contain two active carboxypeptidase-like domains. Northern blot analysis identified a major Aplysia CPD mRNA (5.3 kb) and several smaller minor transcripts in central nervous system tissue. The CPD was purified from Aplysia ovotestis using a method previously developed for mammalian CPD. The purified Aplysia CPD binds antisera raised against regions of the protein encoded by the Aplysia cDNA clone, as well as an antiserum raised against duck CPD. The enzymatic properties of purified Aplysia CPD are generally similar to those of mammalian CPD. Aplysia CPD is a candidate prohormone-processing enzyme that may play a role in the processing of Aplysia prohormones in the secretory pathway.
Clinical trials with tizanidine when administered alone have shown that 5-chloro-4-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-2,1,3-benzothiodiazole (tizanidine) is safe and effective for spasticity control. However, given its mechanism of action and requirement for titration, clinical experience suggests that tizanidine is likely to be used in combination with other antispastic agents with different mechanisms of action, such as baclofen. The objective of this study was to examine the pharmacokinetics of both tizanidine and baclofen under steady-state conditions when administered alone or concomitantly. This was a randomized, three-period, multiple-dose, Latin Square design study consisting of tizanidine HCl, 4 mg t.i.d. for seven consecutive doses; baclofen, 10 mg t.i.d. for seven consecutive doses; and both regimens simultaneously for seven consecutive doses. Drug administration was performed every 8 h, three times daily. Fifteen normal men served as study subjects. A priori, a clinically significant difference was set as 30%. Concentrations of tizanidine and baclofen were nearly identical during the single and concomitant dosing periods. All of the calculated steady-state pharmacokinetic parameter changes for baclofen, tizanidine, and its major metabolites were within the 30% criterion. Small differences in renal clearance were observed when the two drugs were coadministered, but these changes are unlikely to be clinically important. Thus, it is unlikely that coadministration of tizanidine and baclofen during dose-titration of the former will result in a pharmacokinetic interaction.
Sleep is important for health and quality of life at all ages, and poor sleep interacts with many medical conditions. Somatic and psychiatric diseases, and unfavourable habits and life-style factors, increase the propensity to insomnia in older persons. As health deteriorates with age, sleep becomes poorer. Heart disease and stroke, cancer, painful conditions, breathing disorders and nocturnal polyuria syndrome often disturb sleep. Dementia and depression, which are often associated with sleep disturbances, are also more prevalent in the elderly. Moreover, true age-related sleep deterioration occurs after the age of 75 years. Attempts to improve sleep should first and foremost be focused on elimination of somatic and psychiatric symptoms as far as possible, and on modification of lifestyle factors that may affect sleep quality. For short term treatment, hypnotics are appropriate; for longer periods, nonpharmacological methods, for example light therapy or behavioural modification techniques, should be considered, as many hypnotic drugs are less suitable for long term use. However, there are situations when sleep medication must continue for long periods, especially in elderly patients with severe diseases and poor quality of life. In these patients, careful individualisation of therapy is appropriate.

In this report, we have examined the effects of lithium on testicular morphology in a male subtropical wild avian species, the roseringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri). Adult male birds were collected during the months of February-March, a time when the testicular gametogenic activity in these seasonally breeding birds is at its peak. They were injected, intramuscularly, twice daily (07:00 and 19:00 h) with lithium chloride (Sigma Chemical Company) at a dosage of 0.5 mEq/Kg body weight either for 5 or 10 days. A significant decrease in both the absolute and relative testicular weights was evident in the lithium-treated birds as compared to those of the saline-injected control animals. Light microscopic studies of the testis in the lithium-treated animals showed a wide range of degenerative changes. These included a) a significant reduction in the diameter of seminiferous tubules; b) necrosis and exfoliation of most of the germ cells in the seminiferous tubular lumen with the exception of the spermatogonia; and c) a significant reduction in the number of mature spermatozoa in the tubular lumen. These degenerative changes were dependent on the duration of lithium treatment and were evident when the plasma lithium concentrations were well below the human therapeutic range. Leydig cell morphology was not affected by lithium however. Our results provide the first experimental evidence of lithium's adverse reproductive function in an avian species. These data provide further support to the view that lithium adversely affects the male reproductive system and that these effects extend beyond mammalian species.
Various aspects of the complex spatio-temporal patterning of hypothalamic signaling that leads to the development of synchronized nocturnal feeding in the rat are critically examined. Undoubtedly, as depicted in Fig. 7, a distinct ARN in the hypothalamus is involved in the control of nocturnal appetite. At least four basic elements operate within this ARN. These are: 1) A discrete appetite-driving or orexigenic network of NPY, NE, GABA, GAL, EOP, and orexin transduces and releases appetite-stimulating signals. 2) Similarly, anorexigenic signal-producing pathways (e.g., CRH, GLP-1, alpha MSH, and CART) orchestrate neural events for dissipation of appetite and to terminate feeding, possibly by interrupting NPY efflux and action at a postsynaptic level within the hypothalamus. It is possible that some of these may represent the physiologically relevant &quot;off&quot; switches under the influence of GABA alone, or AgrP alone, or in combination with NPY released from the NPY-, GABA-, and AgrP-coproducing neurons. 3) Recent evidence shows that neural elements in the VMN-DMN complex tonically restrain the orexigenic signals during the intermeal interval; the restraint is greatly aided by leptin's action via diminution of orexigenic (NPY) and augmentation of anorexigenic (GLP-1, alpha MSH, and CART) signals. Since interruption of neurotransmission in the VMN resulted in hyperphagia and development of leptin resistance, it seems likely that the VMN is an effector site for the restraint exercised by leptin. The daily rhythms in leptin synthesis and release are temporally dissociable because the onset of daily rise in leptin gene expression in adipocytes precedes that in leptin secretion. Nevertheless, these rhythms are in phase with daily ingestive behavior because the peak in circulating leptin levels occurs during the middle of the feeding period. These observations, coupled with the fact that circulating levels of leptin are directly related to adiposity, pose a new challenge for elucidating the precise role of leptin in daily patterning of feeding in the rat. 4) A neural timing mechanism also operates upstream from the ARN in the daily management of energy homeostasis. Although the precise anatomical boundaries are not clearly defined, this device is likely to be composed of a group of neurons that integrate incoming internal and external information for the timely onset of the drive to eat. Evidently, this network operates independently in primates, but it is entrained to the circadian time keeper in the SCN of rodents. Apart from its role in the onset of drive to eat, the circadian patterns of gene expression of NPY, GAL, and POMC denote independent control of the timing device on the synthesis and availability for release of orexigenic signals. The VMN-DMN-PVN complex is apparently an integrated constituent of the timing mechanism in this context, because lesions in each of these sites result in loss of regulated feeding. The accumulated evidence points to the PVN and surrounding neural sites within this framework as the primary sites of release and action of various orexigenic and anorexigenic signals. A novel finding is the identification of the interconnected wiring of the DMN-mPVN axis that may mediate leptin restraint on NPY-induced feeding. The chemical phenotypes of leptin and NPY target neurons in this axis remain to be identified. These multiple orexigenic and anorexigenic pathways in the hypothalamic ARN appear to represent redundancy, a characteristic of regulated biological systems to provide a &quot;fail-safe&quot; neural mechanism to meet an organism's constant energy needs for growth and maintenance. Within this formulation, the coexisting orexigenic signals (NPY, NE, GAL, GABA, and AgrP) represent either another level of redundancy or it is possible that these signals operate within the ARN as reinforcing agents to varying degrees under different circumstances. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) produced in neurons in the arcuate nucleus and brain stem and released in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and surrounding areas is involved in stimulation of feeding in rats. We recently reported that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is coexpressed in a subpopulation of NPY neurons in the arcuate nucleus. To determine whether GABA is colocalized in NPY terminals in the PVN, the site of NPY action, light and electron microscopic double staining for NPY and GABA using pre- and postembedding immunolabeling was performed on rat brain sections. GABA was detected in NPY-immunopositive axons and axon terminals within both the parvocellular and magnocellular divisions of the PVN. These morphological findings suggested a NPY-GABA interaction in the hypothalamic control of feeding. Therefore, the effects of muscimol (MUS), a GABA(A) receptor agonist, on NPY-induced food intake were examined in sated rats. When injected intracerebroventricularly, both NPY and MUS elicited dose-dependent feeding responses that were blocked by the administration of 1229U91 (a putative Y1 receptor antagonist) or bicuculline (a GABA(A) receptor antagonist), respectively. Coadministration of NPY and MUS intracerebroventricularly amplified the feeding response over that evoked by NPY or MUS alone. Similarly, microinjection of either NPY or MUS into the PVN stimulated food intake in a dose-related fashion, and coinjection elicited a significantly higher response than that evoked by either individual treatment. These results suggest that GABA and NPY may coact through distinct receptors and second messenger systems in the PVN to augment food intake.

Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy is a neuromuscular disorder that has three characteristics: (a) early contracture of the elbows, Achilles tendons and postcervical muscles; (b) slowly progressive wasting and weakness of skeletal muscle; and (c) cardiomyopathy with severe conduction block. The responsible gene for the X-linked recessive form of this disease encodes an inner nuclear membrane protein named emerin. Although emerin is absent in tissues from patients with this disorder, it remains obscure why the loss of this widely expressed protein affects selectively skeletal muscle, heart and joints. As the first step to address this question, we examined the molecular regions of emerin that are essential for nuclear membrane targeting and stability of the protein. We found that the C-terminal hydrophobic region was necessary, but not sufficient, for nuclear membrane anchoring and stability of the protein. In the absence of this transmembrane domain, the upstream nucleoplasmic domain showed no firm association with the nuclear rim, but showed the tendency to accumulate at the nucleolus-like structures. Furthermore, proper targeting of emerin to the nuclear membrane required the latter half of the nucleoplasmic domain. These characteristics are distinct from those of lamina-associated polypeptide 2. Our findings indicate that emerin has distinct interactions with the inner nuclear membrane components that may be required for the stability and function of rigorously moving nuclei in tissues such as skeletal muscle, heart and joints.
Intergenerational instability is one of the most important features of the disease-associated trinucleotide expansions, leading to variation in size of the repeat among and within families, which manifests as variable age at onset and severity, and is probably the basis for the occurrence of anticipation. Several factors are known to affect the degree of instability, namely the type of repeated sequence, its initial size, the presence or absence of interruptions in the repetitive tract and the gender of the transmitting parent. A recent study demonstrated the effect of an intragenic polymorphism (C987GG/G987GG) in the Machado-Joseph disease causative gene, immediately downstream of the CAG repeat, on the intergenerational instability of the expanded repeat. Surprisingly, there was an effect not only of the specific allele in cis to the disease chromosome, but also of the allele on the normal chromosome, suggesting the existence of an interaction between the normal and expanded alleles that affects the fidelity of replication of the (CAG)n tract. This effect could be a direct effect of the polymorphism studied or, alternatively, this polymorphism could be in disequilibrium with some other flanking sequence which affects the instability of the repetitive (CAG)n tract. In order to confirm the previous results in a different population and to distinguish between a direct and indirect effect of the CGG/GGG polymorphism, we typed 70 parent-progeny pairs for which the variation in the (CAG)n length in the MJD1 gene was known, for three intragenic polymorphisms: C987GG/G987GG and two additional, newly described ones, TAA1118/TAC1118 and A669TG/G669TG. We also typed a control population of 125 individuals for the A669TG/G669TG, C987GG/G987GG and TAA1118/TAC1118 polymorphisms, in an attempt to identify any association between haplotype and (CAG)n length in normal chromosomes, suggestive of an instability-predisposing effect of the repeat-flanking sequences, which could have led to the origin of the MJD mutation in the human population. We confirmed the effect of the C987GG/G987GG polymorphism on intergenerational instability when present in trans. Our results suggest that this effect is restricted to a small region of the gene, immediately downstream of the CAG repeat, which includes this particular nucleotide substitution and the stop codon of the MJD1 cDNA, and is not a more widespread chromosomal effect. The lack of a significant association of any specific intragenic haplotype with larger CAG repeats in normal chromosomes, together with the absence of an effect of the intragenic haplotype in cis on the intergenerational instability of the expanded (CAG)n in MJD families does not indicate the existence of an instability-predisposing haplotype.
T cell clonal recognition of peptide ligands is highly diverse. To investigate how peptide mixtures with diverse sequences affect polyclonal responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), we synthesized Xn (n = 9-19) peptides that consist of 9 to 19 residues with random sequences. We found that: (1) in antagonism assays, Xn peptides inhibit polyclonal responses of PBMC induced by purified protein derivative (PPD) and crude mite extracts as well as mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR), in which intermediate-length peptides (n = 13 or 15) show the largest inhibitory effects; and (2) a high-affinity HLA-DR4-binding peptide is devoid of inhibitory activity against MLR to DR4, indicating that these effects are not caused by inhibition of peptide binding to HLA. Furthermore, X15 did not abrogate PBMC proliferation induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate + ionomycin, or anergize PBMC by preculture. All these observations indicate that TCR antagonism does exist at peripheral T cell levels in humans, and that Xn peptides, depending on peptide length, are capable of antagonizing T cell polyclonal responses. Indeed, even with cloned T cells, certain non-agonistic peptides shorter (but not too short) than the wild type in their C termini, function as TCR antagonists, findings which corroborate the observation that X13-15 antagonizes T cell responses more efficiently than does X17-19 or X9-11.
The role of the alpha2C-adrenoceptor subtype in mediating the beneficial effect of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists on spatial working memory was studied in adult mice with targeted inactivation of the alpha2C-receptor gene (KO) and their wild-type controls (WT). A delayed alternation task was run in a T-maze with mixed delays varying from 20 s to 120 s. Dexmedetomidine, a specific but subtype nonselective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, dose-dependently decreased the total number of errors. The effect was strongest at the dose of 5 microg/kg (s.c.), and was observed similarly in KO and WT mice. KO mice performed inferior to WT mice due to a higher number of perseverative errors. Dexmedetomidine slowed initiation of the motor response in the start phase at lower doses in WT mice than in KO mice but no such difference was observed in the return phase of the task, suggesting involvement of alpha2C-adrenoceptors in the cognitive aspect of response preparation or in response sequence initiation. According to these findings, enhancement of spatial working memory is best achieved with alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists which have neither agonistic nor antagonistic effects at the alpha2C-adrenoceptor subtype.
The small cardioactive peptides (SCPs) are an important group of neural cotransmitters in molluscs where they are known to play both central and peripheral modulatory roles in the control of feeding behaviour. Here we show that in the snail Lymnaea the SCP gene exists in one interrupted copy that produces a single species of transcript which encodes a prepropeptide containing two structurally related SCPs SGYLAFPRMamide (SCP(A)) and pQNYLAFPRMamide (SCP(B)). In situ hybridization was used to localize expression specifically to the soma of several types of motoneurons in the feeding system of Lymnaea, including the giant B2 foregut motoneurons. The peptide content of individual B2 cell bodies was analysed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry and the structures of the SCPs predicted from the cloned gene were confirmed in these cells by post-source decay fragmentation analysis. Identical stimulatory activity for the two SCP peptides was demonstrated by their application to the isolated foregut, suggesting that their co-release from the B2 cells may play an important part in the co-modulation of gut motility, together with acetylcholine and the myomodulin family of peptides.
Several lines of evidence indicate that placebos produce analgesia through the activation of endogenous opioid systems. Recently, we showed that placebos may also produce respiratory depressant responses, a typical side-effect of narcotics, when a subject had a prior experience of respiratory depression in the course of narcotic treatment. In the present study, we report that the placebo respiratory depression can be induced after repeated administrations of the partial opioid agonist buprenorphine. The placebo respiratory depressant effect that resulted from the buprenorphine conditioning was completely blocked by a dose of 10 mg of naloxone, indicating that it was mediated by endogenous opioids. These findings show that placebos act, via the activation of opioid receptors, not only on pain mechanisms but on the respiratory centres as well, thus mimicking a typical side-effect of narcotics. In addition, the experimental procedure we used did not produce any expectation of respiratory depression and, similarly, the subjects did not notice any sign of respiratory discomfort. Thus, the placebo respiratory depression elicited in the present study cannot be explained on the basis of cognitive or motivational mechanisms. Rather, it appears to be a sequence effect due to learning, thus suggesting a conditioning mechanism mediated by endogenous opioids.
Retinoic acid (RA), a retinoid metabolite, acts as a gene regulator via ligand-activated transcription factors, known as retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs), both existing in three different subtypes, alpha, beta and gamma. In the intracellular regulation of retinoids, four binding proteins have been implicated: cellular retinol binding protein (CRBP) types I and II and cellular retinoic acid binding protein (CRABP) types I and II. We have used in situ hybridization to localize mRNA species encoding CRBP- and CRABP I and II as well as all the different nuclear receptors in the developing and adult rat and mouse central nervous system (CNS), an assay to investigate the possible presence of RA, and immunohistochemistry to also analyse CRBP I- and CRABP immunoreactivity (IR). RXRbeta is found in most areas while RARalpha and -beta and RXRalpha and -gamma show much more restricted patterns of expression. RARalpha is found in cortex and hippocampus and RARbeta and RXRgamma are both highly expressed in the dopamine-innervated areas caudate/putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. RARgamma could not be detected in any part of the CNS. Using an in vitro reporter assay, we found high levels of RA in the developing striatum. The caudate/putamen of the developing brain showed strong CRBP I-IR in a compartmentalized manner, while at the same time containing many evenly distributed CRABP I-IR neurons. The CRBP I- and CRABP I-IR patterns were closely paralleled by the presence of the corresponding transcripts. The specific expression pattern of retinoid-binding proteins and nuclear retinoid receptors as well as the presence of RA in striatum suggests that retinoids are important in many brain structures and emphasizes a role for retinoids in gene regulatory events in postnatal and adult striatum.
Whole-cell ruptured-patch and perforated-patch recordings were used in principal neurons of the rat substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) to study the effect of catecholamines both on the hyperpolarization-activated cationic (Ih) and the inwardly rectifying potassium (I(Kir)) currents. In internal potassium, a 2 min bath application of noradrenaline (NA; 50 microM) or dopamine (DA; 50 microM) both inhibited Ih and induced an outward current associated with an increase in I(Kir) conductance. These two effects recovered poorly after wash-out. Protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C (PKC) and phosphatases 1 and 2A inhibitors did not modify the NA and DA effects on the amplitude of Ih and I(Kir) currents. They also had no effect on the recovery of the catecholamine responses. In perforated-patch experiments, NA and DA also induced an inhibition of Ih and revealed an outward current associated with an increase in conductance. However, both effects recovered in less than 5 min following the wash-out. These results indicate that neither PKA, PKC, nor phosphatases 1 or 2A were required in the NA and DA modulation of these two currents and that an intracellular factor, that could be either washed-out or inversely up-regulated in the ruptured-patch configuration, was implicated in the recovery of both effects. In the presence of external barium (300 microM) or internal caesium which both blocked the outward current and the increase in conductance, neither NA nor DA affected Ih, suggesting that the effect on Ih observed is secondary to the activation of the I(Kir) channels. Increasing chloride conductance of the cell by activation of GABA(A) receptors also induced an inhibition of Ih. All together these results suggest that the NA or DA induced inhibition of Ih could result from an occlusion of Ih by a space-clamp effect.
Parkinsonism is a feature of a number of neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. The results of post-mortem studies point to dysfunction of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system in patients with parkinsonism. Nowadays, by using single-photon emission tomography (SPET) and positron emission tomography (PET) it is possible to visualise both the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and the striatal dopamine D2 receptors in vivo. Consequently, SPET and PET imaging of elements of the dopaminergic system can play an important role in the diagnosis of several parkinsonian syndromes. This review concentrates on findings of SPET and PET studies of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system in various parkinsonian syndromes.
The nature of dorsal root reflexes (DRRs) and their possible role in peripheral inflammation and the consequent hyperalgesia are reviewed. The history of DRRs and the relationship of DRRs to primary afferent depolarization and presynaptic inhibition in pathways formed by both large and fine afferents are discussed. Emphasis is placed on the mechanisms underlying primary afferent depolarization, including the anatomical arrangement of the synapses involved, how depolarization can result in inhibition by decreasing transmitter release, the role of excitatory amino acids and GABA, the manner in which the equilibrium potential for chloride ions is determined in primary afferent fibers, and forms of presynaptic inhibition that do not utilize GABA(A) receptors. There is then a discussion of neurogenic inflammation, including the role of the release of neuropeptides such as substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from sensory nerve endings. Evidence is reviewed that links DRRs to a substantial part of the swelling of the knee joint in acute experimental arthritis and to the flare reaction in the skin following intradermal injection of capsaicin. Possible mechanisms by which the level of DRR activity might be enhanced following inflammation are suggested. The consequences of this increase in DRRs may include exacerbation of hyperalgesia as well as of peripheral inflammation. The conversion of an inhibitory process, presynaptic inhibition, to an excitatory one by DRRs can thus lead to pathological consequences.
These experiments tested the hypothesis that the ability to change sensorimotor set quickly for automatic responses depends on the time interval between successive surface perturbations. Sensorimotor set refers to the influence of prior experience or context on the state of the sensorimotor system. Sensorimotor set for postural responses was influenced by first giving subjects a block of identical backward translations of the support surface, causing forward sway and automatic gastrocnemius responses. The ability to change set quickly was inferred by measuring the suppression of the stretched antagonist gastrocnemius responses to toes-up rotations causing backward sway, following the translations. Responses were examined under short (10-14 s) and long (19-24 s) inter-trial intervals in young healthy subjects. The results showed that subjects in the long-interval group changed set immediately by suppressing gastrocnemius to 51% of translation responses within the first rotation and continued to suppress them over succeeding rotations. In contrast, subjects in the short-interval group did not change set immediately, but required two or more rotations to suppress gastrocnemius responses. By the last rotation, the short-interval group suppressed gastrocnemius responses to 33%, similar to the long-interval group of 29%. Associated surface plantarflexor torque resulting from these responses showed similar results. When rotation and translation perturbations alternated, however, the short-interval group was not able to suppress gastrocnemius responses to rotations as much as the long-interval group, although they did suppress more than in the first rotation trial after a series of translations. Set for automatic responses appears to linger, from one trial to the next. Specifically, sensorimotor set is more difficult to change when surface perturbations are given in close succession, making it appear as if set has become progressively stronger. A strong set does not mean that responses become larger over consecutive trials. Rather, it is inferred by the extent of difficulty in changing a response when it is appropriate to do so. These results suggest that the ability to change sensorimotor set quickly is sensitive to whether the change is required after a long or a short series of a prior different response, which in turn depends on the time interval between successive trials. Different rate of gastrocnemius suppression to toes-up rotation of the support surface have been reported in previous studies. This may be partially explained by different inter-trial time intervals demonstrated in this study.
Prior work from mammals suggests that load experienced by extensor muscles of the hindlimbs (i.e. Duysens and Pearson 1980; Pearson and Collins 1993; Fouad and Pearson 1997) or cutaneous afferents from the plantar surface of the foot (Duysens and Pearson 1976; Guertin et al. 1995) enhances activity in extensor muscles during the stance phase, and delays the onset of flexor activity associated with the swing phase. The presumed functional significance of this phenomenon is that extensor activity of the supporting limb during walking can: (a) reinforce the supporting function in proportion to the load experienced, and (b) prolong the stance phase until unloading of the limb has occurred. Whether a similar functional role exists for load-sensitive afferents during walking in the human is unknown. In this study, the effect of adding or removing a substantial load (30% of body weight) at the centre of mass was studied in healthy adult human subjects. Loads were applied near the centre of mass to avoid the need for postural adjustments which might confound the interpretation of the results. Subjects walked on a treadmill with either: (a) a sustained increase or decrease in load, or (b) a sudden unexpected increase or decrease in load. In general, subjects responded to the changes in load by changing the amplitude of the extensor electromyographic (EMG) bursts. For example, with sudden unexpected additions in load, the average increase in amplitude was 40% for the soleus across the stance phase, and 134% for the quadriceps during the early part of the stance phase. Extensor EMGs increased with both sustained and sudden increases in load. Extensor EMG durations also increased (average increase in duration of 4% for soleus with sudden loading, and 7% for sustained loading). Cycle duration hardly changed (average increase of 0.5% with both sudden and sustained loading). These results differ from those of infants subjected to a similar perturbation during supported walking. A large change in timing (i.e. an increase in the duration of the stance phase by 30% and the step cycle by 28%) was seen in the infants, with no change in the amplitude of the EMG burst (Yang et al. 1998). These results suggest that the central nervous system can control the timing and amplitude of extensor EMG activity in response to loading independently. Maturation of the two components most likely occurs independently. In the adult, independent control of the two components may provide greater flexibility of the response.
To have a proper spatial visual perception, vertebrate retinal ganglion cells connect to their brain targets in a highly ordered fashion. The molecular bases for such topographic retinotectal connection in mammals still remain largely unknown. Using the gene knock-out approach in mice, we report here a key role for the GAP-43 growth cone protein in the development of the visual system. In mice bearing a targeted disruption of GAP-43 exon 1, a high proportion of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons was found to grow abnormally into the ipsilateral optic tract and into the hypothalamus. After leaving the optic chiasm during development, the GAP-43-deficient RGC axons generally follow the optic tracts but are unable to form proper terminal zones in the lateral geniculate nucleus. Moreover, in the superior colliculus, RGC axons lacking GAP-43 are intermingled. These results suggest an essential role for GAP-43 in development of the topographic retinotectal connection.
Abnormal involuntary movements, or dyskinesias, plague current symptomatic approaches to the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The neural mechanisms underlying the generation of dyskinesia following repeated l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) or dopamine agonist administration in Parkinson's disease remain unknown. However, de novo administration of bromocriptine or lisuride to either l-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned primates or patients can alleviate parkinsonian symptoms without the development of dyskinesia. In this study, we have investigated behavioral responses and alterations in the expression of opioid neuropeptide precursors preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A, encoding methionine- and leucine-enkephalin) and preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B), the precursor encoding dynorphins (dynorphin A1-17 and B1-13, leucine-enkephalin, and alpha-neoendorphin) in striatal output pathways of the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. Expression was assessed following repeated L-DOPA, bromocriptine, or lisuride administration. Given the functional organization of basal ganglia circuitry into anatomically discrete parallel circuits, we investigated alterations in peptide expression with reference to the detailed topography of the striatum. Following repeated L-DOPA administration (6.5 mg/kg, b.d., 21 days) in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat a rotational response was observed. This became markedly enhanced with repeated treatment. We have previously characterized the pharmacology of this enhanced response and have suggested that it is a useful model for the elucidation of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying L-DOPA- and dopamine agonist-induced dyskinesia. In contrast to l-DOPA, de novo administration of bromocriptine (1 or 5 mg/kg, b.d., 21 days) or lisuride (0.01 or 0.1 mg/kg, b.d., 21 days) did not lead to an enhanced behavioral response. In vehicle-treated, 6-OHDA-lesioned animals, PPE-A expression was elevated rostrally and dorsally, while PPE-B expression was reduced in the striatum at all rostrocaudal levels. Repeated l-DOPA administration was accompanied by elevations in striatal PPE-B mRNA levels and a further elevation, above lesion-induced levels, in PPE-A expression. This further elevation was restricted to the dorsolateral striatum. However, following repeated bromocriptine or lisuride administration no increase in PPE-B expression was observed and the lesion-induced increase in PPE-A expression was normalized to prelesion levels. Increased PPE-A and PPE-B levels may, through decreasing GABA and glutamate release, respectively, in output nuclei of the basal ganglia, play a role in the development of L-DOPA- and dopamine-agonist induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease. These studies suggest that anti-parkinsonian treatments which are not associated with an elevation in PPE-B and/or normalize elevated PPE-A precursor expression, such as NMDA-receptor antagonists or long-acting dopamine D2 receptor agonists, e.g., cabergoline or ropinirole, may reduce dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
Intrastriatal transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalon (VM) is currently explored as a potential clinical therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD). Although providing substantial benefit for the patient, behavioral recovery so far obtained with intrastriatal VM grafts is not complete. Using the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion model of PD, we show here that near-complete restoration of the striatal dopamine (DA) innervation can be achieved by multiple intrastriatal microtransplants of fetal DA cells; nevertheless, complete recovery in complex sensorimotor behaviors was not obtained in these animals. In line with the current model of basal ganglia function, this suggests that the lesion-induced overactivity of the basal ganglia output structures, i.e., the substantia nigra (SN) and the entopeduncular nucleus, may not be completely reversed by intrastriatal VM grafts. In the present study, we have transplanted fetal VM tissue or fetal striatal tissue, as a source of DA and GABA neurons, respectively, into the SN of DA-depleted rats. Intranigral VM grafts induced behavioral recovery in some sensorimotor behaviors (forelimb akinesia and balance tests), but the effect did not exceed the recovery observed after intrastriatal VM grafts. Intranigral grafts of striatal tissue induced a pattern of functional recovery which was distinctly different from that observed after intranigral VM grafts, and recovery in coordinated forelimb use in the paw-reaching test was even more pronounced than after intrastriatal transplantation of VM cells. Combined transplantation of DA neurons into the striatum and GABA-rich striatal neurons into the SN induced additive effects of behavioral recovery observed in the forelimb akinesia test. We propose that intranigral striatal transplants, by a GABA-mediated inhibitory action, can reduce the overactivity of the host SN projection neurons and can induce significant recovery in complex motor behavior in the rat PD model and that such grafts may be used to increase the overall functional efficacy of intrastriatal VM grafts.
The role of plasmalogens in iron-induced lipid peroxidation was investigated in two liposomal systems. The first consisted of total brain phospholipids with and without plasmalogens, and the second of phosphatidylethanolamine/phosphatidylcholine liposomes with either diacyl- or alkenylacyl-phosphatidylethanolamine. By measuring thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, oxygen consumption, fatty acids and aldehydes, we show that plasmalogens effectively protect polyunsaturated fatty acids from oxidative damage, and that the vinyl ether function of plasmalogens is consumed simultaneously. Furthermore, the lack of lag phase, the increased antioxidant efficiency with time, and the experiments with lipid- and water-soluble azo compounds, indicate that plasmalogens probably interfere with the propagation rather than the initiation of lipid peroxidation, and that the antioxidative effect cannot be related to iron chelation.
The Drosophila hook gene encodes a novel component of the endocytic compartment. Previously identified hook alleles, which still expressed truncated Hook proteins, affected the accumulation of internalized transmembrane ligands into multivesicular bodies (MVBs). To determine the hook null phenotype, we isolated nine new hook alleles on the basis of their characteristic hooked-bristle phenotype. At least one of these alleles, hk11, is a complete loss-of-function allele. Flies carrying the hk11 allele are viable and fertile but neither transmembrane ligands nor soluble ligands accumulate in MVBs. This effect on endocytosed ligands can be mimicked by the expression of Hook proteins truncated for the N- and C-terminal domains flanking the central coiled-coil region. The importance of all three domains for Hook function was confirmed by their conservation between two Drosophila and two human Hook proteins.
A coculture method is described for ensheathing glial cells from adult rat olfactory nerve, serving as a substrate for the regrowth of neurites from adult rat retinal ganglion cells. Immunocytochemically identified phenotypes present in primary cultures of olfactory nerve cells are described, and their ability to promote neurite outgrowth is compared with neonatal astrocytes and Schwann cells, with other nonglial cells, and with laminin. Ensheathing cell cultures were more effective than any other substrate tested and also directed the orientation of regrowing neurites. In comparison with cultured Schwann cells, which released neurotrophic factors into the culture medium, there was no evidence of a similar activity in ensheathing cell cultures. Combinations of ensheathing cell-conditioned medium and substrates of laminin, merosin, or 3T3 cells also failed to show the release of factors enhancing either survival or neurite outgrowth from retinal ganglion cells. Evidence is presented for a partial inhibition of neurite outgrowth in the presence of calcium channel antagonists or an intracellular calcium-chelating reagent. This provides evidence for a contribution from an intracellular calcium signaling mechanism, possibly implicating ensheathing cell adhesion molecules in promoting neurite outgrowth.
To explore the role of androgens in early development on adult hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function in males, we administered flutamide or vehicle injections: (1) to pregnant dams on embryonic days 15-20; (2) to neonatal pups on days 0-5; or (3) to adults on days 55-60. At approximately 70 days of age, trunk blood was collected to determine corticosterone levels (1) upon removal from the home cage, (2) immediately after 30 min of restraint stress, or (3) 60 min after return to home cage following the stressor. Flutamide treatment resulted in higher basal levels of testosterone and stress levels of corticosterone compared to vehicle treatment, and there was no interaction of treatment with age at time of treatment. This suggests that testosterone is less effective at inhibiting HPA function in flutamide-treated males. In addition, prenatally treated males had higher stress levels of corticosterone than neonatally and adult-treated males, regardless of the type of treatment. There were no differences in CBG levels among the groups. The results suggest that, in males, flutamide treatment has a long-lasting effect on HPA function. These results are consistent with our previous research on neonatally gonadectomized males and the hypothesis of organizational effects of sex hormones on HPA function.
The natural onset of maternal behavior in the rat is hormonally mediated. Estrogen, progesterone, and prolactin administered to ovariectomized females in amounts and sequences that produce circulating levels similar to those found during pregnancy stimulate the onset of maternal behavior. In fact, maternal behavior can be stimulated by estrogen alone, administered either peripherally or by implant in the central nervous system. The lateral habenula (Lhb), which is a necessary component in the neural circuit that supports maternal behavior, contains a subset of neurons with estrogen receptors. The present study investigated whether estradiol implants directly in the Lhb are sufficient to stimulate maternal behavior. Female rats, hysterectomized and ovariectomized on day 16 of pregnancy, received estrogen implants in the Lhb or, as a positive control, in the medial preoptic area (MPOA). An additional control group received cholesterol implants in the Lhb. All females were tested for pup retrieval, nest building, crouching behavior, locomotor activity, and carrying behavior. Estradiol implants into the Lhb did not stimulate the onset of maternal behavior. Females with estrogen implants in the Lhb scored significantly lower in pup retrieval and crouching behavior compared to females with implants in the MPOA and were not significantly different from females with cholesterol implants in the Lhb. There were also no significant differences in overall activity or carrying behavior among the groups.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive motor neuron degeneration resulting in paralysis and death, usually within 3 years of onset. Pathological and animal studies implicate neurofilament involvement in ALS, but whether this is primary or secondary is not clear. The heavy neurofilament subunit (NFH) tail is composed of a repeating amino acid motif, usually X-lysine-serine-proline-Y-lysine (XKSPYK), where X is a single amino acid and Y is one to three amino acids. There are two common polymorphic variants of 44 or 45 repeats. The tail probably regulates axonal calibre, with interfilament spacing determined by phosphorylation of the KSP motifs. A previous study suggested an association between sporadic cases of ALS and NFH tail deletions, but two subsequent studies have found none. We have analysed samples from two different populations (UK 207, Scandinavia 323) with age-matched controls for each group (UK 219, Scandinavia 228) and have found four novel NFH tail deletions, each involving a whole motif. These were found in three patients with sporadic ALS and a family with autosomal dominant ALS, although another was also found in two young controls. In all cases motif deletions were only associated with disease when paired with the long NFH allele. The deletions all occurred within a small region of the NFH tail. This has allowed us to propose a structural organization of the tail as well as allowing observed deletions both from this study and previous reports to be organized into logical groups. These results strongly suggest that NFH motif deletions can be a primary event in ALS but that they are not common.
The use of psychotropic agents (particularly serotonin active drugs) for the treatment of patients suffering from social phobia is reviewed in this report. Several important caveats should be kept in mind when reading this paper. First, the etiology of social phobia is not known; what we currently call social phobia is probably a heterogeneous collection of anxiety syndromes with the common symptomatic theme of interpersonal sensitivity. Second, the mechanism of action of psychotropic medications is not known; drugs which bind at serotonin receptors may, in fact, mediate clinical improvement via an entirely different mechanism. Third, while several agents appear clinically helpful for the treatment of patients suffering from social phobia, there is no drug currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for this indication.
Longitudinal intrafascicular electrodes (LIFE's) are fine electrodes threaded into the extracellular space between axons in peripheral nerves or spinal roots. We are developing these electrodes for application in functional electrical stimulation and in basic physiology. An area of concern in chronic recording application of LIFE's is the possibility of electromyogram and other external noise sources masking the recorded neural signals. We characterized neural signals recorded by LIFE's and confirmed by three independent methods that increasing interelectrode spacing for bipolar LIFE's increases signal amplitude. The spectrum of neural signal from bipolar and monopolar LIFE lies between 300 Hz and 10 kHz. The amplitude of the spectrum increases with increasing interelectrode spacing, although the distribution is not affected. Single unit analysis of LIFE recordings show that they record selectively from units closest to the electrode active site. Units with conduction velocities ranging from 50-120 m/s were identified. Extraneural noise, as stimulus artifact or electromyogram, is much reduced with bipolar LIFE recording, as compared to monopolar recordings. Relative improvement in neural signal to extraneural noise increases with interelectrode spacing up to about 2 mm. Since there is no further improvement beyond 2 mm, we conclude that the preferred interelectrode spacing for bipolar LIFE's is 2 mm.
In the present work the cytosolic, membrane-bound and the total activities of brain sialidases were measured in fetal axonal growth cone particles and in various brain regions during brain development. The developmental profile showed an important activity in the prenatal and perinatal periods as well as in specific differentiating structures like the axonal growth cones from the fetal brain. Interestingly membrane-bound activity was higher than the cytosolic activity, starting from 50-60% at birth and increasing thereafter. Cytosolic activity was almost at adult levels at birth and did not show a further significant increase thereafter. Our results strongly suggest the commitment of membrane-bound sialidase activity in early neurodifferentiating phenomena like axogenesis, probably regulating the turnover of glycoconjugates like gangliosides at the presynaptic period, since high activity was observed in neuroblast's derived membranes and in the perinatal period.

Human neuroblastoma is one of the most common solid tumors in infants and children and represents about 10% of all childhood cancers. Nearly 70% of the patients present with disseminated disease and the long-term prognosis remains poor for this group despite advances in diagnosis and therapy. In this study, we discovered that an endogenous opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, inhibited the growth of human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH in vitro; in view of this pentapeptide's action it has been termed opioid growth factor (OGF). OGF was found to be constitutively expressed and tonically capable of suppressing cell replication, and its effects were opioid receptor mediated. Growth inhibition was dose-related, reversible, not cytotoxic, and independent of serum. Immunocytochemical studies detected both OGF and its related receptor, zeta, in the cytoplasm of log-phase cells. Pharmacological binding assays revealed specific and saturable binding with a one-site model of kinetics; this high-affinity opioid receptor was identified as zeta. These data suggest that a native opioid peptide, OGF, interacts with a novel opioid receptor, zeta, to arrest the growth of human neuroblastoma.
Skin biopsy represents an attractive technique to evaluate the extensive innervation of human epidermis, as demonstrated by the immunoreactivity of the intra-epidermal nerve fibers to the marker protein gene product 9.5. Intra-epidermal nerve fibers can be reliably quantified, and their density correlates with both the presence and the severity of sensory neuropathy. The first description of nerve fibers within human epidermis was published by Paul Langerhans. However, the limitations imposed by the relatively insensitive staining methods led several investigators working during the following century to deny or minimize their existence. The author reviews the assumptions and the striking discrepancies emerging from the wide literature on cutaneous sensory terminations since the late nineteenth century and highlights the new developments emerging from the most recent works.
We describe a case of Wilson's disease with late psychiatric onset. Major depressive disorder was the first clinical manifestation at the age of 38 years. After pharmacotherapy with antidepressive agents, a manic episode was observed. Extrapyramidal hand tremor and micrography were the first neurological signs. Emotional lability occurred during worsening of extrapyramidal signs. Diagnosis was based on urinary and serum copper levels, ceruloplasmin serum level, Kayser-Fleischer ring, and liver biopsy that detected cirrhosis. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed basal ganglia hyperintensity on T1-weighted images, and hypodensity in the central part and hyperintensity in the peripheral part of the lentiform nucleus on T2-weighted images. Hyperintensity on T2-weighted images was also observed in the dorsal part of the midbrain. 123I-iodobenzamide single photon emission computed tomography (IBZM-SPECT) detected a normal distribution of the drug in the brain, with better signal in the right side and deficit of D2-dopaminergic receptors in the basal ganglia. Abnormal manganese erythrocyte level was observed. Treatment was based on penicillamine, zinc salts, low-copper diet, antidepressant agents, interpersonal psychotherapy and neurorehabilitation.
A rapid and economical method for the purification of phospholipase A1 (PLA1) from the extracellular medium of the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila is presented. Essentially, the procedure, here designated as purification by selective interaction (PSI), entails the incubation of media containing PLA1 with liposomes made of soy bean phospholipids. The PLA1-lipid complexes are precipitated by the addition of CaCl2 and collected by centrifugation. Elution of the PLA1 is effected by treating the complexes with 40% dimethylformamide, a reversible inhibitor of this enzyme, which is easily removed by dialysis. In combination with DEAE cellulose ion exchange chromatography, PSI yielded homogeneous PLA1 preparations with a 14% recovery and a 416-fold increase in specific activity. This procedure, which can be completed within 1 day, may prove useful for the isolation of phospholipases from other sources. This practical method for the purification of a microbial PLA1 opens the way to large-scale production of these types of enzyme, which are not as yet commercially available.
In certain conditions, renal prostaglandins (PGs) are important determinants of kidney function. Under these &quot;renal PG-dependent states,&quot; pharmacological inhibition of vasodilatory PG may result in excessive renal vasoconstriction and adversely affect kidney function. The purposes of this study were to determine whether acetaminophen (Acet), a weak PG-synthesis inhibitor, influences kidney function in the renal PG-dependent state of anesthesia and sodium depletion. Comparisons were made with ibuprofen (Ibu). Measurements of PGE2 excretion were used to assess renal PG synthesis. Acet (15 mg/kg) and Ibu (10 mg/kg) both decreased renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate by approximately 20-30% in normal, anesthetized, sodium-replete dogs. Although Acet produced similar changes in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in the low-sodium dogs, Ibu caused a significantly greater renal vasoconstriction (64 +/- 10%) in these animals. Both Acet and Ibu inhibited urinary PGE2 excretion in sodium-replete and low-sodium dogs. Ibu tended to have a greater and more prolonged effect than did Acet. These results suggest that Acet alters PGE2 excretion and kidney function under renal PG-dependent conditions; the effects, however, are less severe than those seen with Ibu.
This study aimed to explore the boundaries between PDD and related disorders and to develop classificatory algorithms for what is currently called Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (PDDNOS). Data collected by means of a standard coding system for the DSM-IV field trial for autistic disorder were used. Information on diagnostic criteria for autistic disorder as listed in ICD-10 and DSM-IV was compared between subjects functioning at least in the mildly retarded range and clinically classified as autistic disorder (n = 205), PDDNOS (n = 80) and other non-PDD disorders (n = 174). Only a limited number of items from the ICD-10 and DSM-IV systems for autistic disorder significantly discriminated the PDDNOS group from other disorders. A scoring rule based on a short set of 7 ICD-10/DSM-IV criteria with a cutoff of 3 items and 1 social interaction item set as mandatory had the best balance between high sensitivity and high specificity in discriminating PDDNOS from non-PDD disorders. These rules yielded a somewhat better prediction than most effective rules based on the full set of 12 criteria for autistic disorder with a cutoff of 4 items and 1 social item as mandatory. Generally accepted and well-validated criteria to identify individuals with PDDNOS should facilitate both research and clinical services.
The yeast UBC9 and hus5 gene products have been identified as putative E2 members of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (UBC) family and have been shown to play an essential role in cell cycle progression. We have identified a Drosophila Ubc9/Hus5 homologue (termed dUBC9) in an attempt to identify proteins that interact with the amino-terminal transcriptional repression domain of the Groucho corepressor by use of the yeast two-hybrid system. The predicted dUBC9 protein consists of 159 amino acids and shows 85, 68, and 54% amino acid sequence identities with human UBC9 homologue, Schizosaccharomyces pombe Hus5, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ubc9 proteins, respectively. Expression of dUBC9 cDNA complements a temperature-sensitive ubc9-1 mutation of S. cerevisiae to fully restore normal growth, indicating that the dUBC9 protein can act as a substitute for the yeast Ubc9 protein. The dUBC9 transcripts were about 1.2 kb and were detected at all stages of Drosophila development and in ovaries and Schneider cells. However, an increased level was observed in early embryos and ovaries. The dUBC9 gene is present as a single copy in the genome and localized in segment 21C-D on the left arm of the second chromosome.
Transplantation of the fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in arrhythmic SCN-lesioned rats can reinstate circadian drinking rhythms in 40% to 50% of the cases. In the current article, it was investigated whether the failure in the other rats could be due to the absence of a circadian rhythm in the grafted SCN, using a circadian vasopressin (VP) rhythm in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as the indicator for a rhythmic SCN. CSF was sampled in continuous darkness from-intact control rats and SCN-lesioned and -grafted rats. VP could be detected in all samples, with concentrations of 15 to 30 pg/ml in the control rats and 5 to 15 pg/ml in the grafted rats. A circadian VP rhythm with a two- to threefold difference between peak and nadir values was found in all 7 control rats but in only 4 of 13 experimental rats, despite the presence of a VP-positive SCN in all grafts. A circadian VP rhythm was present in 2 drinking rhythm-recovered rats (6 of 13) and in 2 nonrecovery rats. Apparently, in these latter rats, the failure of the grafted SCN to restore a circadian drinking rhythm cannot be attributed to a lack of rhythmicity in the SCN itself. Thus, the presence of a rhythmic grafted SCN, as is deduced from a circadian CSF VP rhythm, appears not to be sufficient for restoration of a circadian drinking rhythm in SCN-lesioned arrhythmic rats.
Neuropeptide somatostatin (SRIF) has been shown to modulate interleukin-2 (IL-2) secretion by mitogen-activated T cells. In this study, we further analyzed the transduction pathways underlying SRIF actions on human Jurkat T cells and compared SRIF signaling between nonactivated and mitogen-activated cells. SRIF effects on adenylyl cyclase activity in the absence and presence of mitogens were addressed by using three different analogs: SRIF14, SRIF28, and SMS 201-995. In semipurified membrane preparations obtained from nonactivated cells, all analogs inhibited adenylyl cyclase. However, in membrane preparations obtained from mitogen-activated cells, the maximal inhibition of adenylyl cyclase mediated by SRIF14 and SRIF28 equaled only one third of that measured in the absence of mitogens, whereas SMS 201-995 was completely inactive. To assess the relevant mechanisms associated with different effects of SRIF on adenylyl cyclase activity in nonactivated and mitogen-activated T cells, we performed binding assays by using iodinated SRIF as a radioligand. These experiments suggested that both the number of receptors and their affinities were almost identical in either nonactivated or activated cells. RT-PCR analysis of the pattern of SRIF receptor expression showed that nonactivated as well as activated Jurkat cells expressed only mRNA corresponding to the sst3 receptor subtype. Altogether, these data point to a functional activation-associated uncoupling of sst3 receptors from adenylyl cyclase in human T cells, indicating a T-cell activation-induced alteration in the sst3 receptor transduction pathway.
A brief period of sublethal cerebral ischemia, followed by several days of recovery, renders the brain resistant to a subsequent lethal ischemic insult, a phenomenon termed ischemic preconditioning or tolerance. Ischemic tolerance was established in the rat two-vessel occlusion model of ischemia, induced by occlusion of both carotid arteries in combination with hypotension. Ischemic preconditioning (3 minutes) provided maximal neuroprotection when induced 2 days prior to a lethal ischemic insult of 9-minute duration. Neuroprotection persisted for at least 8 weeks. Since neurotransmission has been implicated in ischemic cell death, the effect of ischemic preconditioning on tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins and on the levels of glutamate receptor subunits in hippocampus and neocortex was studied. Regional levels of tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins in general and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR2 in particular are markedly enhanced after ischemia in nonconditioned brains, in both the synaptosomal fraction and the whole-tissue homogenate of rat neocortex and hippocampus, but recover to control levels only in the preconditioned brain. Ischemic preconditioning selectively induces a decrease in the levels of the NR2A and NR2B subunits and a modest decrease in the levels of NR1 subunit proteins in the synaptosomal fraction of the neocortex but not hippocampus after the second lethal ischemia. It was concluded that ischemic preconditioning prevents a persistent change in cell signaling as evidenced by the tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins after the second lethal ischemic insult, which may abrogate the activation of detrimental cellular processes leading to cell death.
In a study of a total high-school population, 2300 students aged 16-17 years were screened for depression (BDI, CES-DC). Those with a self-evaluation indicating depression, together with controls matched for sex, age, and class were interviewed (DICA-R-A). The 177 pairs, where both individuals were interviewed and the control had no lifetime diagnosis of depression, were analysed in the form of paired differences for psychosocial factors and compared within diagnostic groups. The psychosocial factors were measured with the ISSI subscales and six attitude questions about family climate (KSP). Adolescents with an episode of major depression during part of the last year did not differ from their controls. Those with long-lasting depressive symptoms, i.e. dysthymia with or without episodes of major depression, had a more limited social interaction and were not satisfied with it. They also evaluated their family climate and attachment network as being more inadequate than did their controls. Depressed adolescents with comorbid conduct disorder had a more negative evaluation of availability and adequacy of both social interaction and attachment network than their controls. This group had a very negative view of their family climate. Since this is a case-control study conclusions cannot be drawn about cause and effect.
The two-way interplay between research and clinical practice in relation to autism is reviewed with respect to: (1) diagnosis and syndrome delineation; (2) the nature of the disorder: (3) intervention studies; and (4) aetiology, as manifest during four time periods; (a) the 1950s and 1960s; (b) the 1970s into the mid 1980s; (c) the late 1980s and early 1990s; and (d) the late 1990s. It is concluded that clinical practice has changed out of all recognition during the last 50 years and that research findings have been crucial in bringing about that change. It has not, however, been a one-way traffic. Many key advances were prompted by astute clinical observations and some extravagant research claims were given a more balanced perspective through the light of clinical experience. Crucial research and clinical tasks remain but the means to meet them are there if the opportunities are taken and attention is paid to the lessons of the past.
This article addresses the confusion in neuropsychological literature on visuospatial function and then proposes an analytic framework towards resolution in the visuospatial domain. Three bodies of literature on visuospatial processing are summarized, and from each is derived an analytic dimension for visuospatial investigation. They are: (1) the frame of space (e.g., egocentric), (2) the definition of spatial operations in cognitive terms, and (3) spatial processing in terms of neural hierarchy and respective neural centers. It is proposed that these dimensions can constitute a working model to clarify the complexity of visuospatial function.

A new neurotransmitter system is a family of 3 related peptides known as neurokinins. The best known of these is substance P. The others are known simply as neurokinin A and neurokinin B. The specific receptor subtypes that correspond to these 3 neurokinins are neurokinin 1 receptors for substance P, neurokinin 2 receptors for neurokinin A, and neurokinin 3 receptors for neurokinin B. These neurotransmitters appear to play a key role in the regulation of emotions, and antagonists of their receptors may be novel psychotropic drugs of the future.
In a line of transgenic mice (HpY-1), the pattern of expression of an olfactory marker protein (OMP)-lacZ fusion gene was analyzed in the cerebellum, where, in adult mice, OMP-lacZ was expressed primarily in Purkinje cells (PCs) of the posterior lobe. The transgene-expressing PCs were organized in parasagittal bands, with a boundary of expression roughly corresponding to the primary fissure that separates the cerebellum into anterior and posterior compartments. The regional expression of the lacZ gene was also analyzed during embryonic and postnatal development of the cerebellum. Within the cerebellum-isthmus region, transgene expression first was detected at embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5) in a cluster of postmitotic cells. By E14.5, lacZ was also expressed by a subpopulation of migrating PCs in the postisthmal and lateral cerebellar primordium, and, by E16.5, transgene-positive PCs formed caudally four sagittal bands symmetric to the medial embryonic fissure. The caudal pattern was retained in postnatal cerebella, where, by postnatal day 0 (P0), transgene-positive PCs in vermal lobules VIII and IX appeared to be organized in two prominent parasagittal compartments on either side of a negative midline band. In early postnatal animals, the transgene was expressed transiently in the anterior lobe vermis. Hence, from P5 onward, transgene expression appeared mostly restricted to the posterior lobe, where it followed a caudal-to-rostral gradient. In the paraflocculus, transgene-expressing PCs were confined to the rostrodorsal portion. The results indicate that the anterior and posterior cerebellar lobes are regulated by distinct ontogenetic programs, and PCs of functionally distinct cerebellar regions express the transgene differentially. Furthermore, the data suggest that ectopic expression of OMP-lacZ in the cerebellum is under the control of regulatory elements that provide positional information for the regional specification of PC subsets.
The functional development of the auditory system across metamorphosis was examined by recording neural activity from the torus semicircularis of larval and postmetamorphic bullfrog froglets in response to amplitude-modulated sound. Multiunit activity in the torus semicircularis during early larval stages showed significant phase-locking to the envelopes of amplitude-modulated noise bursts, up to modulation rates as high as 250 Hz. Beginning at metamorphic climax and continuing into the froglet period, phase locking was restricted to the more limited frequency range characteristic of adult frogs. The onset of operation of the tympanic pathway does not reinstate the highly synchronous neural activity characteristic of the operation of the fenestral pathway. Modulation transfer functions based on spike count did not show tuning for modulation rate in early stage tadpoles, but a greater variety of shapes of these functions emerged as development proceeded. Most of the different kinds of modulation transfer functions seen in adult frogs were also observed in froglets, but band-pass functions were not as sharply peaked. These data suggest that different neural codes for processing of the periodicity of complex signals operate in early stage tadpoles than in postmetamorphic froglets.
Memory, the ability to store and retrieve information, is essential for learning in children. Modern neurobiology research is revealing some of the fundamental steps that encode memories within networks of neuronal synaptic connections in the brain. Somewhat different networks store verbal declarative memories and habit or procedural memories. Several biochemical steps convert short-term memories into permanent memories. These changes include activation of neurotransmitter and growth factor receptors, intracellular protein kinases, and nuclear transcription factors that stimulate gene expression of memory proteins. The proteins strengthen synaptic connections and stabilize long-term memories. Genetic defects in those pathways appear to be responsible for several human retardation and learning disability syndromes, including Coffin-Lowry syndrome and neurofibromatosis.
The earliest contact between antigen and the innate immune system is thought to direct the subsequent antigen-specific T cell response. We hypothesized that cells of the innate immune system, such as natural killer (NK) cells, NK1.1(+) T cells (NKT cells), and gamma/delta T cells, may regulate the development of allergic airway disease. We demonstrate here that depletion of NK1.1(+) cells (NK cells and NKT cells) before immunization inhibits pulmonary eosinophil and CD3(+) T cell infiltration as well as increased levels of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, and IL-12 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in a murine model of allergic asthma. Moreover, systemic allergen-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)E and IgG2a levels and the number of IL-4 and interferon gamma-producing splenic cells were diminished in mice depleted of NK1.1(+) cells before the priming regime. Depletion of NK1.1(+) cells during the challenge period only did not influence pulmonary eosinophilic inflammation. CD1d1 mutant mice, deficient in NKT cells but with normal NK cells, developed lung tissue eosinophilia and allergen-specific IgE levels not different from those observed in wild-type mice. Mice deficient in gamma/delta T cells showed a mild attenuation of lung tissue eosinophilia in this model. Taken together, these findings suggest a critical role of NK cells, but not of NKT cells, for the development of allergen-induced airway inflammation, and that this effect of NK cells is exerted during the immunization. If translatable to humans, these data suggest that NK cells may be critically important for deciding whether allergic eosinophilic airway disease will develop. These observations are also compatible with a pathogenic role for the increased NK cell activity observed in human asthma.

We had previously shown NADPH diaphorase activity in fixed tissue slices of the insular cortex of the Syrian golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus). The objective of this work was to determine the chemical identity of agents responsible for the observed NADPH diaphorase activities. Three different enzymatic NADPH diaphorase activities were distinguished in the insular cortex. (a) The activity seen in endothelial cells was not characterized histochemically, but it co-localized with eNOS-like immunoreactivity. (b) The neuronal Type I activity showed little sensitivity to 10(-5) M dicoumarol, could use either alpha- or beta-NADPH with almost equal facility, and co-localized with nNOS-like immunoreactivity. This activity was primarily attributable to nNOS. (c) The neuronal Type II activity was greatly attenuated by 10(-5) M dicoumarol, had a strong preference for beta-NADPH (rather than alpha-NADPH), and did not co-localize with any NOS-like immunoreactivity. These characteristics also apply to the NADPH diaphorase activity observed in the diffuse blue band in Layers II and III of agranular and dysgranular insular cortex and in the meshwork of cortical fibers. This staining was due primarily to a dicoumarol-sensitive dehydrogenase(s), either an isozyme of DT diaphorase (EC 1.6.99.2), or NADPH dehydrogenase (quinone) (EC 1.6. 99.6), or to a novel dicoumarol-sensitive NADPH dehydrogenase.
Although clonal expansion of autoimmune T cells has been reported in multiple sclerosis (MS), very limited information is available on specificities, clonal size, or activation state of the expanded clones. Here we address the issue of clonal expansion by using a novel technique demonstrating clonotypes defined by single-strand conformation polymorphism of TCR beta-chain cDNAs. Examination of activated T cells (CD3+CD25+) isolated from the peripheral blood of MS revealed limited numbers (20 approximately 82) of expanded clones defined by single-strand conformation polymorphism clonotype. To estimate the Ag specificities of dominant clonotypes in the activated T cells, these samples were examined in parallel with Th1 T cell clones specific for myelin basic protein or proteolipid protein (PLP) derived from the same patients. Analysis of two patients demonstrated that the dominant clonotypes would contain those specific for myelin basic protein or PLP. Although the majority of the clonotypes could be detected only transiently, a PLP95-116-specific clonotype was found to persist for over 1 yr. Thus, single-strand conformation polymorphism clonotype analysis allows us to monitor the kinetics of given T cell clones in vivo and could provide useful information for designing clonotype (Id)-specific manipulation of human diseases such as MS.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of the brain characterized by the extracellular deposition of amyloid in senile plaques and along the walls of the cerebral vasculature. The principal constituent of amyloid deposit is amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) derived from its larger precursor protein, amyloid precursor protein (APP). The overexpression of APP is known to be a risk factor for Abeta deposit in AD and in Down syndrome (DS). The inhibition of APP expression has been thought to be beneficial to patients with AD and DS. In this study, we investigated the effects of antisense oligonucleotide (AO) on the overexpression of APP induced by IL-1beta and NGF. Using phosphorothioate-oligonucleotides against initiation codon significantly reduced the protein levels of APP induced by NGF and IL-1beta to basal level in PC12 cell culture systems. These results showed that these antisense oligonucleotides may have a potential to be a therapeutic agent for some patients with AD and DS.
Differential display of mRNA was used to identify concordant changes in gene expression induced by two mood-stabilizing agents, lithium and valproate (VPA). Both treatments, on chronic administration, increased mRNA levels of the transcription factor polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein (PEBP) 2beta in frontal cortex (FCx). Both treatments also increased the DNA binding activity of PEBP2 alphabeta and robustly increased the levels of bcl-2 (known to be transcriptionally regulated by PEBP2) in FCx. Immunohistochemical studies revealed a marked increase in the number of bcl-2-immunoreactive cells in layers 2 and 3 of FCx. These novel findings represent the first report of medication-induced increases in CNS bcl-2 levels and may have implications not only for mood disorders, but also for long-term treatment of various neurodegenerative disorders.
Studies on iron uptake into the brain have traditionally focused on transport by transferrin. However, transferrin receptors are not found in all brain regions and are especially low in white matter tracts where high iron concentrations have been reported. Several lines of research suggest that a receptor for ferritin, the intracellular storage protein for iron, may exist. We present, herein, evidence for ferritin binding sites in the brains of adult mice. Autoradiographic studies using 125I-recombinant human ferritin demonstrate that ferritin binding sites in brain are predominantly in white matter. Saturation binding analyses revealed a single class of binding sites with a dissociation constant (K(D)) of 4.65 x 10(-9) M and a binding site density (Bmax of 17.9 fmol bound/microg of protein. Binding of radiolabeled ferritin can be competitively displaced by an excess of ferritin but not transferrin. Ferritin has previously been shown to affect cellular proliferation, protect cells from oxidative damage, and deliver iron. The significance of a cellular ferritin receptor is that ferritin is capable of delivering 2,000 times more iron per mole of protein than transferrin. The distribution of ferritin binding sites in brain vis--vis transferrin receptor distribution suggests distinct methods for iron delivery between gray and white matter.
We have isolated and characterized overlapping cDNAs encoding a novel, voltage-gated Ca2+ channel alpha1 subunit, alpha1H, from a human medullary thyroid carcinoma cell line. The alpha1H subunit is structurally similar to previously described alpha1 subunits. Northern blot analysis indicates that alpha1H mRNA is expressed throughout the brain, primarily in the amygdala, caudate nucleus, and putamen, as well as in several nonneuronal tissues, with relatively high levels in the liver, kidney, and heart. Ba2+ currents recorded from human embryonic kidney 293 cells transiently expressing alpha1H activated at relatively hyperpolarized potentials (-50 mV), rapidly inactivated (tau = 17 ms), and slowly deactivated. Similar results were observed in Xenopus oocytes expressing alpha1H. Single-channel measurements in human embryonic kidney 293 cells revealed a single-channel conductance of approximately 9 pS. These channels are blocked by Ni2+ (IC50 = 6.6 microM) and the T-type channel antagonists mibefradil (approximately 50% block at 1 microM) and amiloride (IC50 = 167 microM). Thus, alpha1H-containing channels exhibit biophysical and pharmacological properties characteristic of low voltage-activated, or T-type, Ca2+ channels.
We recently demonstrated that pretreatment with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) exacerbates experimental parkinsonism induced by methamphetamine. The mechanism responsible for this effect remains to be elucidated. In this study, we investigated whether the exacerbation of chronic dopamine loss in DSP-4-pretreated animals is due to an impairment in the recovery of dopamine levels once the neurotoxic insult is generated or to an increased efficacy of the effects induced by methamphetamine. We administered different doses of methamphetamine either to DSP-4-pretreated or to intact Swiss-Webster mice and evaluated the methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine loss at early and prolonged intervals. As a further step, we evaluated the striatal pharmacokinetics of methamphetamine, together with its early biochemical effects. We found that previous damage to norepinephrine terminals produced by DSP-4 did not modify the recovery of striatal dopamine levels occurring during several weeks after methamphetamine. By contrast, pretreatment with DSP-4 exacerbated early biochemical effects of methamphetamine, which were already detectable 1 h after methamphetamine administration. In addition, in norepinephrine-depleted animals, the clearance of striatal methamphetamine is prolonged, although the striatal concentration peak observed at 1 h is unmodified. These findings, together with the lack of a methamphetamine enhancement when DSP-4 was injected 12 h after methamphetamine administration, suggest that in norepinephrine-depleted animals, a more pronounced acute neuronal sensitivity to methamphetamine occurs.
The hph-1 mouse is characterized by low levels of GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) and tetrahydrobiopterin. A quantitative double-label in situ hybridization technique was used to examine CNS GTPCH mRNA expression within serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine neurons of male and female wild-type and hph-1 mice. In wild-type male and female animals the highest levels of GTPCH mRNA expression were observed within serotonin neurons, followed by norepinephrine and then dopamine neurons. Wild-type female animals were found to express lower levels of GTPCH mRNA in each cell type when compared with levels seen in wild-type males. GTPCH mRNA abundance in all three cell types was lower in hph-1 male than in wild-type male mice, with the greatest reduction in serotonin neurons. GTPCH mRNA levels were also lower in hph-1 female than in wild-type female mice, again with the greatest reduction occurring in serotonin neurons. Comparison of hph-1 male and hph-1 female mice revealed that the sex-linked difference in GTPCH mRNA expression observed in wild-type neurons was only present within female dopamine neurons. Overall, these results indicate that not only are basal levels of GTPCH mRNA expression heterogeneous across wild-type murine monoamine cell types but that gene expression is also modified in a sex-linked and cell-specific fashion by the hph-1 gene locus. The hph-1 mutation does not lie within the GTPCH mRNA coding region. The 5' flanking region of the GTPCH gene was cloned and sequenced and shown to be identical for both wild-type and hph-1 genomic DNA. Transient transfection assays performed in PC12 cells demonstrated that this 5' flanking region was sufficient to initiate transcription of a luciferase reporter gene. Although the hph-1 mutation does not lie within the 5' flanking region of the GTPCH gene, this region of the gene can function as a core promoter and is thus crucial to the control of GTPCH gene expression.
Several lines of evidence support the role of oxidative stress, including increased lipid peroxidation, in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Lipid peroxidation generates various reactive aldehydes, such as 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), which have been detected immunochemically in AD, particularly in neurofibrillary tangles, one of the major diagnostic lesions in AD brains. A recent study demonstrated that acrolein, the most reactive among the alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde products of lipid peroxidation, could be rapidly incorporated into proteins, generating a carbonyl derivative, a marker of oxidative stress to proteins. The current studies used an antibody raised against acrolein-modified keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) to test whether acrolein modification of proteins occurs in AD. Double immunofluorescence revealed strong acrolein-KLH immunoreactivity in more than half of all paired helical filament (PHF)-1-labeled neurofibrillary tangles in AD cases. Acrolein-KLH immunoreactivity was also evident in a few neurons lacking PHF-1-positive neurofibrillary tangles. Light acrolein-KLH immunoreactivity occurred in dystrophic neurites surrounding the amyloid-beta core, which itself lacked acrolein-KLH staining. The pattern of acrolein-KLH immunostaining was similar to that of HNE. Control brains did not contain any acrolein-KLH-immunoreactive structures. The current results suggest that protein-bound acrolein is a powerful marker of oxidative damage to protein and support the hypothesis that lipid peroxidation and oxidative damage to protein may play a crucial role in the formation of neurofibrillary tangles and to neuronal death in AD.
Tetrahydrobiopterin, the coenzyme required for hydroxylation of phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, regulates its own synthesis through feedback inhibition of GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) mediated by a regulatory subunit, the GTP cyclohydrolase feedback regulatory protein (GFRP). In the liver, L-phenylalanine specifically stimulates tetrahydrobiopterin synthesis by displacing tetrahydrobiopterin from the GTPCH-GFRP complex. To explore the role of this regulatory system in rat brain, we examined the localization of GFRP mRNA using double-label in situ hybridization. GFRP mRNA expression was abundant in serotonin neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus but was undetectable in dopamine neurons of the midbrain or norepinephrine neurons of the locus coeruleus. Simultaneous nuclease protection assays for GFRP and GTPCH mRNAs showed that GFRP mRNA is most abundant within the brainstem and that the ratio of GFRP to GTPCH mRNA is much higher than in the ventral midbrain. Two species of GFRP mRNA differing by approximately 20 nucleotides in length were detected in brainstem but not in other tissues, with the longer, more abundant form being common to other brain regions. It is interesting that the pineal and adrenal glands did not contain detectable levels of GFRP mRNA, although GTPCH mRNA was abundant in both. Primary neuronal cultures were used to examine the role of GFRP-mediated regulation of GTPCH on tetrahydrobiopterin synthesis within brainstem serotonin neurons and midbrain dopamine neurons. L-Phenylalanine increased tetrahydrobiopterin levels in serotonin neurons to a maximum of twofold in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas D-phenylalanine and L-tryptophan were without effect. In contrast, tetrahydrobiopterin levels within cultured dopamine neurons were not altered by L-phenylalanine. The time course of this effect was very rapid, with a maximal response observed within 60 min. Inhibitors of tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis prevented the L-phenylalanine-induced increase in tetrahydrobiopterin levels. 7,8-Dihydroneopterin, a reduced pteridine capable of inhibiting GTPCH in a GFRP-dependent manner, decreased tetrahydrobiopterin levels in cultures of both serotonin and dopamine neurons. This inhibition was reversed by L-phenylalanine in serotonin but not in dopamine neurons. Our data suggest that GTPCH activity within serotonin neurons is under a tonic inhibitory tone mediated by GFRP and that tetrahydrobiopterin levels are maintained by the balance of intracellular concentrations of tetrahydrobiopterin and L-phenylalanine. In contrast, although tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis within dopamine neurons is also feedback-regulated, L-phenylalanine plays no role, and therefore tetrahydrobiopterin may have a direct effect on GTPCH activity.
Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) is an integral membrane protein with a short cytoplasmic domain of 47 amino acids. It is hoped that identification of proteins that interact with the cytoplasmic domain will provide new insights into the physiological function of APP and, in turn, into the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. To identify proteins that interact with the cytoplasmic domain of APP, we employed affinity chromatography using an immobilized synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 645-694 of APP695 and identified a protein of approximately 130 kDa in rat brain cytosol. Amino acid sequencing of the protein revealed the protein to be a rat homologue of monkey UV-DDB (UV-damaged DNA-binding protein, calculated molecular mass of 127 kDa). UV-DDB/p127 co-immunoprecipitated with APP using an anti-APP antibody from PC12 cell lysates. APP also co-immunoprecipitated with UV-DDB/p127 using an anti-UV-DDB/p127 antibody. These results indicate that UV-DDB/p127, which is present in the cytosolic fraction, forms a complex with APP through its cytoplasmic domain. In vitro binding experiments using a glutathione S-transferase-APP cytoplasmic domain fusion protein and several mutants indicated that the YENPTY motif within the APP cytoplasmic domain, which is important in the internalization of APP and amyloid beta protein secretion, may be involved in the interaction between UV-DDB/p127 and APP.
Multiple lines of evidence suggest that increased production and/or deposition of the beta-amyloid peptide, derived from the amyloid precursor protein, contributes to Alzheimer's disease. A growing list of neurotransmitters, growth factors, cytokines, and hormones have been shown to regulate amyloid precursor protein processing. Although traditionally thought to be mediated by activation of protein kinase C, recent data have implicated other signaling mechanisms in the regulation of this process. Moreover, novel mechanisms of regulation involving cholesterol-, apolipoprotein E-, and stress-activated pathways have been identified. As the phenotypic changes associated with Alzheimer's disease encompass many of these signaling systems, it is relevant to determine how altered cell signaling may be contributing to increasing brain amyloid burden. We review the myriad ways in which first messengers regulate amyloid precursor protein catabolism as well as the signal transduction cascades that give rise to these effects.
We have compared the distribution of unipolar brush cells (UBCs) in the cerebellum of Brazilian opossum (Monodelphis domestica), mouse, guinea pig, rabbit, cat, and Rhesus monkey, using an antiserum to calretinin which is present in those cells. The morphology and calretinin staining intensity of the UBCs remains constant across species. As a general trend, in all species studied, UBCs are particularly enriched in the vestibulocerebellum. Interspecies differences, however, were noted in the distribution of UBCs across other regions of the cerebellar cortex. A major variation involves the extent of the UBC-rich region of the ventral portion of the paraflocculus. The distribution of UBCs in non-vestibular vermal folia also varies substantially. UBCs are deployed in more or less distinct parasagittal zones in the vermis of the opossum, rabbit, cat, and macaque. The density of UBCs decreases progressively from medial to lateral portions of the same folium and is lowest in the lateral, posterior portions of the cerebellar hemispheres (crus II) and in the dorsal portion of the paraflocculus. In cat and macaque, the decrease in the density of UBCs across the intermediate cortex is more gradual than in the other species. The data indicate that the UBCs play a more prominent role in the modulation of sensorimotor transformations in carnivores and primates than in smaller mammals and should not be considered a vestigial form of neuron. In addition to the UBCs, calretinin antibody distinctly stains the following neurons in different species: granule cells and parallel fibers in all species except rabbit and cat; Golgi cells, especially in rat and macaque; Lugaro-like cells, especially in mouse, rat, and macaque; basket cells in macaque; subsets of mossy fibers in all species; and subsets of climbing fibers in all species but guinea pig. Usually, the distribution of UBCs is related to that of calretinin stained granule cells and mossy fibers.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that cGMP acts as a progesterone substitute to facilitate lordosis in oestrogen-primed rats. Female Sprague-Dawley rats underwent stereotaxic surgery to place a 26-gauge guide cannula into the third ventricle. Bilateral ovariectomy was done at the same time as stereotaxic surgery. Five days later ovariectomized rats were primed with 2 microg estradiol benzoate 24 and 48 h prior to behaviour testing. Some animals were further injected with 200 microg progesterone 4 h before behaviour testing. A nitric oxide synthase inhibitor infused into the third ventricle before progesterone administration significantly reduced lordosis performance. 8-Bromo-cGMP, a cell permeable cGMP analogue, or saline vehicle was infused into the third ventricle of hormone-primed animals approximately 4 h prior to the first of 3-h behaviour tests. This cGMP analogue facilitated lordosis behaviour. We next used KT5823, a highly specific inhibitor of protein kinase G (PKG), to test the hypothesis that cGMP action is mediated by this kinase. In this experiment, KT5823 was infused 15 min before progesterone. KT5823 significantly decreased lordosis behaviour. RU486, a progesterone receptor antagonist, was used to assess whether the stimulatory effects of cGMP are mediated through the progesterone receptor. Oestrogen-primed animals were injected with 5 mg of RU486 or vehicle 60 min before infusion with 8-bromo-cGMP. RU486 significantly attenuated cGMP-facilitated lordosis behaviour. These data show that cGMP facilitates lordosis through activation of PKG and the progesterone receptor.
Delta opioid receptors (DOR) are G-protein coupled 7-transmembrane receptors (GPCR), expressed by thymic and splenic T cells, that modulate interleukin (IL)-2 production and proliferation in response to concanavalin A or crosslinking the TCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are involved in mediating intracellular responses to TCR crosslinking. In addition, MAPKs can be activated by signaling cascades that are initiated by the release of G-proteins from GPCRs. To determine whether DORs expressed by T cells signal through the MAPKs, extracellular-regulated kinases (ERKs) 1 and 2, two delta opioid peptides, deltorphin and [D-Ala2,D-Leu5]-enkephalin (DADLE), were studied in Jurkat cells that had been stably transfected with DOR (DOR-Ju.1). These peptides rapidly and dose-dependently induced ERK phosphorylation; pretreatment with naltrindole (NTI), a selective DOR antagonist, abolished this. Pertussis toxin (PTX) also inhibited phosphorylation, indicating the involvement of the Gi/o proteins. Herbimycin A, a protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor, reduced the DADLE-induced ERK phosphorylation by 68%. ERK phosphorylation was inhibited by Bisindolylmaleimide 1 (GF109203X), an inhibitor of PKC, and by pretreatment with PMA prior to DADLE. A GTP/GDP exchange assay was used to assess the potential role of Ras in the pathway leading to ERK phosphorylation; DADLE failed to stimulate GTP/GDP exchange in comparison to PMA. Additional studies showed that DADLE stimulated an increase in cfos mRNA; this was reduced by the inhibitor of MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK), PD98059. Therefore, in DOR-Ju.1 cells, DOR agonists stimulate ERK phosphorylation in a Ras independent and PKC-dependent manner; PTKs appear to be involved. MAPKs mediate the increase in cfos mRNA induced by DOR agonists.
A family is described with presumed autosomal recessive inheritance in which three siblings developed a progressive neuropathy that combined limb weakness and severe distal sensory loss leading to prominent mutilating changes. Electrophysiological and nerve biopsy findings indicated an axonopathy. The disorder is therefore classifiable as type II hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN II). The clinical features differ from those reported in previously described cases of autosomal recessive HMSN II. This disorder may therefore represent a new variant.

Alzheimer's disease is one of the most common causes of mental deterioration in elderly people, accounting for around 50%-60% of the overall cases of dementia among persons over 65 years of age. The past two decades have witnessed a considerable research effort directed towards discovering the cause of Alzheimer's disease with the ultimate hope of developing safe and effective pharmacological treatments. This article examines the existing scientific applicability of the original cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease by describing the biochemical and histopathological changes of neurotransmitter markers that occur in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease both at postmortem and neurosurgical cerebral biopsy and the behavioural consequences of cholinomimetic drugs and cholinergic lesions. Such studies have resulted in the discovery of an association between a decline in learning and memory, and a deficit in excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmission, together with important roles for the cholinergic system in attentional processing and as a modulator of EAA neurotransmission. Accordingly, although there is presently no &quot;cure&quot; for Alzheimer's disease, a large number of potential therapeutic interventions have emerged that are designed to correct loss of presynaptic cholinergic function. A few of these compounds have confirmed efficacy in delaying the deterioration of symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, a valuable treatment target considering the progressive nature of the disease. Indeed, three compounds have received European approval for the treatment of the cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, first tacrine and more recently, donepezil and rivastigmine, all of which are cholinesterase inhibitors.
It is known that the pleiotropic cytokine transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) has a regulatory role in the process of tissue repair and remodelling following injury. As reports on these molecules in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesion with different lesional activity are rare, we studied the cellular localization of TGF-beta1, -beta2, and -beta3 isoforms, and TGF-beta receptor type I (TGF-betaR-I) and TGF-betaR-II expression by immunohistochemistry on postmortem brain tissue from MS and normal control cases. To validate the TGF-beta staining results we demonstrated that cultured human adult astrocytes that produce biological active TGF-beta2, and to a lesser extent TGF-beta1, were immunoreactive for all 3 TGF-beta isoforms. Moreover, at mRNA level TGF-beta1 was detected in MS and normal control brain tissue. In normal control brain tissue, TGF-beta isoforms were expressed in ramified microglia and TGF-beta2, and -beta3 on neuronal cells in the gray matter TGF-betaR-I and TGF-betaR-II expression was found on endothelial cells, astrocytes, microglia, and neurons. In active demyelinating MS lesions a strong to intense immunoreactivity was detected for all 3 TGF-beta isoforms in perivascular and parenchymal (foamy) macrophages and in hypertrophic astrocytes. Strong immunoreactivity for TGF-betaR-I and TGF-betaR-II was found on macrophages in both parenchymal and perivascular areas and on hypertrophic astrocytes and endothelial cells in active demyelinating MS lesions. In chronic active and inactive MS lesions, all 3 TGF-beta isoforms and their receptors were strongly expressed in hypertrophic astrocytes. Our findings strongly suggest that the expression of the various TGF-beta isoforms and their receptor types found in MS lesions with different cellular activity participate in reactive processes leading to the formation of chronic MS lesions.
Premotor and primary motor cortical neuronal firing was studied in two monkeys during an instructed delay, pursuit tracking task. The task included a premovement &quot;cue period,&quot; during which the target was presented at the periphery of the workspace and moved to the center of the workspace along one of eight directions at one of four constant speeds. The &quot;track period&quot; consisted of a visually guided, error-constrained arm movement during which the animal tracked the target as it moved from the central start box along a line to the opposite periphery of the workspace. Behaviorally, the animals tracked the required directions and speeds with highly constrained trajectories. The eye movements consisted of saccades to the target at the onset of the cue period, followed by smooth pursuit intermingled with saccades throughout the cue and track periods. Initially, an analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to test for direction and period effects in the firing. Subsequently, a linear regression analysis was used to fit the average firing from the cue and track periods to a cosine model. Directional tuning as determined by a significant fit to the cosine model was a prominent feature of the discharge during both the cue and track periods. However, the directional tuning of the firing of a single cell was not always constant across the cue and track periods. Approximately one-half of the neurons had differences in their preferred directions (PDs) of &gt;45 degrees between cue and track periods. The PD in the cue or track period was not dependent on the target speed. A second linear regression analysis based on calculation of the preferred direction in 20-ms bins (i.e., the PD trajectory) was used to examine on a finer time scale the temporal evolution of this change in directional tuning. The PD trajectories in the cue period were not straight but instead rotated over the workspace to align with the track period PD. Both clockwise and counterclockwise rotations occurred. The PD trajectories were relatively straight during most of the track period. The rotation and eventual convergence of the PD trajectories in the cue period to the preferred direction of the track period may reflect the transformation of visual information into motor commands. The widely dispersed PD trajectories in the cue period would allow targets to be detected over a wide spatial aperture. The convergence of the PD trajectories occurring at the cue-track transition may serve as a &quot;Go&quot; signal to move that was not explicitly supplied by the paradigm. Furthermore, the rotation and convergence of the PD trajectories may provide a mechanism for nonstandard mapping. Standard mapping refers to a sensorimotor transformation in which the stimulus is the object of the reach. Nonstandard mapping is the mapping of an arbitrary stimulus into an arbitrary movement. The shifts in the PD may allow relevant visual information from any direction to be transformed into an appropriate movement direction, providing a neural substrate for nonstandard stimulus-response mappings.
By using the whole cell patch recording technique in vitro, we examined the voltage-dependent firing patterns of 69 interneurons in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). When held at a hyperpolarized membrane potential, all interneurons responded with a burst of action potentials. In 48 interneurons, larger current pulses produced a bursting oscillation. When relatively depolarized, some interneurons produced a tonic train of action potentials in response to a depolarizing current pulse. However, most interneurons produced only oscillations, regardless of polarization level. The oscillation was insensitive to the bath application of a combination of blockers to excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission, including 30 microM 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, 100 microM (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, 20 microM bicuculline, and 2 mM saclofen, suggesting an intrinsic event. The frequency of the oscillation in interneurons was dependent on the intensity of the injection current. Increasing current intensity increased the oscillation frequency. The maximal frequency of the oscillation was 5-15 Hz for most cells, with some ambiguity caused by the difficulty of precisely defining a transition from oscillatory to regular firing behavior. In contrast, the interneuron oscillation was little affected by preceding depolarizing and hyperpolarizing pulses. In addition to being elicited by depolarizing current injections, the oscillation could also be initiated by electrical stimulation of the optic tract when the interneurons were held at a depolarized membrane potential. This suggests that interneurons may be recruited into thalamic oscillations by synaptic inputs. These results indicate that interneurons may play a larger role in thalamic oscillations than was previously thought.
Escape swimming in the notaspid opisthobranch Pleurobranchaea is an episode of alternating dorsal and ventral body flexions that overrides all other behaviors. We have explored the structure of the central pattern generator (CPG) in the cerebropleural ganglion as part of a study of neural network interactions underlying decision making in normal behavior. The CPG comprises at least eight bilaterally paired interneurons, each of which contributes and is phase-locked to the swim rhythm. Dorsal flexion is mediated by hemiganglion ensembles of four serotonin-immunoreactive neurons, the As1, As2, As3, and As4, and an electrically coupled pair, the A1 and A10 cells. When stimulated, A10 commands fictive swimming in the isolated CNS and actual swimming behavior in whole animals. As1-4 provide prolonged, neuromodulatory excitation enhancing dorsal flexion bursts and swim cycle number. Ventral flexion is mediated by the A3 cell and a ventral swim interneuron, IVS, the soma of which is yet unlocated. Initiation of a swim episode begins with persistent firing in A10, followed by recruitment of As1-4 and A1 into dorsal flexion. Recurrent excitation within the As1-4 ensemble and with A1/A10 may reinforce coactivity. Synchrony among swim interneuron partners and bilateral coordination is promoted by electrical coupling among the A1/A10 and As4 pairs, and among unilateral As2-4, and reciprocal chemical excitation between contralateral As1-4 groups. The switch from dorsal to ventral flexion coincides with delayed recruitment of A3, which is coupled electrically to A1, and with recurrent inhibition from A3/IVS to A1/A10. The alternating phase relation may be reinforced by reciprocal inhibition between As1-4 and IVS. Pleurobranchaea's swim resembles that of the nudibranch Tritonia; we find that the CPGs are similar in many details, suggesting that the behavior and network are primitive characters derived from a common pleurobranchid ancestor.
We examined the hypothesis that voltage-dependent properties of dendrites allow for the accurate transfer of synaptic information to the soma independent of synapse location. This hypothesis is motivated by experimental evidence that dendrites contain a complex array of voltage-gated channels. How these channels affect synaptic integration is unknown. One hypothesized role for dendritic voltage-gated channels is to counteract passive cable properties, rendering all synapses electrotonically equidistant from the soma. With dendrites modeled as passive cables, the effect a synapse exerts at the soma depends on dendritic location (referred to as location-dependent variability of the synaptic input). In this theoretical study we used a simplified three-compartment model of a neuron to determine the dendritic voltage-dependent properties required for accurate transfer of synaptic information to the soma independent of synapse location. A dendrite that eliminates location-dependent variability requires three components: 1) a steady-state, voltage-dependent inward current that together with the passive leak current provides a net outward current and a zero slope conductance at depolarized potentials, 2) a fast, transient, inward current that compensates for dendritic membrane capacitance, and 3) both alpha amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid- and N-methyl-D-aspartate-like synaptic conductances that together permit synapses to behave as ideal current sources. These components are consistent with the known properties of dendrites. In addition, these results indicate that a dendrite designed to eliminate location-dependent variability also actively back-propagates somatic action potentials.
We have identified a pineal night-specific ATPase (PINA), a novel splice variant of the ATP7B gene disrupted in Wilson disease (WD). PINA expression exhibits a dramatic diurnal rhythm in both pineal gland and retina with 100-fold greater expression at night than at day. PINA is expressed in pinealocytes and a subset of photoreceptors in adult rats and is transiently expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium and the ciliary body during retinal development. Nocturnal pineal expression of PINA is under the control of a suprachiasmatic nucleus clock mediated by superior cervical ganglion innervation of the pineal. In vitro, PINA expression in pineal cells can be stimulated by agents activating the cAMP signal transduction pathway. PINA is able to restore copper transport activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae deficient in the homologous copper-transporting ATPase CCC2, suggesting that this protein may function as a copper transporter in rat pinealocytes. These studies suggest a potential role of rhythmic copper metabolism in pineal and/or retina circadian function.
Microglial interaction with amyloid fibrils in the brains of Alzheimer's and prion disease patients results in the inflammatory activation of these cells. We observed that primary microglial cultures and the THP-1 monocytic cell line are stimulated by fibrillar beta-amyloid and prion peptides to activate identical tyrosine kinase-dependent inflammatory signal transduction cascades. The tyrosine kinases Lyn and Syk are activated by the fibrillar peptides and initiate a signaling cascade resulting in a transient release of intracellular calcium that results in the activation of classical PKC and the recently described calcium-sensitive tyrosine kinase PYK2. Activation of the MAP kinases ERK1 and ERK2 follows as a subsequent downstream signaling event. We demonstrate that PYK2 is positioned downstream of Lyn, Syk, and PKC. PKC is a necessary intermediate required for ERK activation. Importantly, the signaling response elicited by beta-amyloid and prion fibrils leads to the production of neurotoxic products. We have demonstrated in a tissue culture model that conditioned media from beta-amyloid- and prion-stimulated microglia or from THP-1 monocytes are neurotoxic to mouse cortical neurons. This toxicity can be ameliorated by treating THP-1 cells with specific enzyme inhibitors that target various components of the signal transduction pathway linked to the inflammatory responses.
The effects of membrane-permeant Ca2+ chelators on field EPSPs (fEPSPs) were measured in the hippocampal CA1 region of brain slices from young (2-4 months) and old (24-27 months) Fischer 344 rats. BAPTA-AM depressed fEPSPs in young slices by up to 70% but enhanced fEPSPs by 30% in aged slices. EGTA-AM, with slower binding kinetics, did not affect fEPSPs from young slices but enhanced fEPSPs in aged slices. BAPTA derivatives with calcium dissociation constants (Kd) of 0.2-3.5 microM reduced or enhanced fEPSPs in young and aged slices, respectively, but 5',5'-dinitro BAPTA-AM (Kd of approximately 7000 microM) had no effect. Frequency facilitation of the fEPSPs occurred in young, but not in aged, slices, except when BAPTA-AM or EGTA-AM was perfused onto aged slices. The differential effects of BAPTA-AM in young and old slices were eliminated by perfusing with a low Ca2+-high Mg2+ saline or with the calcium blocker Co2+. These data suggest that intracellular Ca2+ regulation is altered and raised in aged neurons. Cell-permeant calcium buffers may be able to &quot;ameliorate&quot; deficits in synaptic transmission in the aged brain.
The generation of nitric oxide (NO) aggravates neuronal injury. (6R)-5,6,7,8-Tetrahydro-L-biopterin (BH4) is an essential cofactor in the synthesis of NO by nitric oxide synthase (NOS). We attempted to attenuate neuron degeneration by blocking the synthesis of the cofactor BH4 using N-acetyl-3-O-methyldopamine (NAMDA). In vitro data demonstrate that NAMDA inhibited GTP cyclohydrolase I, the rate-limiting enzyme for BH4 biosynthesis, and reduced nitrite accumulation, an oxidative metabolite of NO, without directly inhibiting NOS activity. Animals exposed to transient forebrain ischemia and treated with NAMDA demonstrated marked reductions in ischemia-induced BH4 levels, NADPH-diaphorase activity, and caspase-3 gene expression in the CA1 hippocampus. Moreover, delayed neuronal injury in the CA1 hippocampal region was significantly attenuated by NAMDA. For the first time, these data demonstrate that a cofactor, BH4, plays a significant role in the generation of ischemic neuronal death, and that blockade of BH4 biosynthesis may provide novel strategies for neuroprotection.
The ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer Elvax has been used as a vehicle to deliver bioactive substances to discrete areas of the nervous system. Here we report a novel use of Elvax to chronically block retinal activity. Small pieces of Elvax containing the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) were surgically implanted into the vitreous humor of ferret eyes. Observations of the light-induced pupillary reflex combined with electrophysiological assays of vitreous humor confirmed that these implants completely blocked retinal activity for up to 25 days without apparent retinal damage. The advantages of this procedure over previous methods requiring multiple daily injections of TTX, and alternative experimental applications are discussed.
Using a specific rat monoclonal anti-idiotypic antibody we have examined the subcellular distribution of -opioid receptors in various neuronal subtypes of the rat spinal cord. The immunofluorescence was detected with a confocal microscope and in some cases serial images were processed for a three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction of the neurons. Immunolabelling was found to be distributed throughout the spinal cord grey matter specially in the most superficial layers of the dorsal horn, around the central canal and in the region of motoneurons of the ventral horn. The 3-D reconstruction made on large neurons of lamina IX in the ventral horn and on neurons of lamina X around the central canal allowed the visualization of 5 -opioid receptors in the cytoplasm of the soma and proximal neurites of immunofluorescent neurons. Some immunolabelled receptors were also detected at the level of the plasma membrane of the cell bodies and in the nuclear matrix. Interestingly, a particular arrangement of delta-opioid receptors organized along parallel alignments was observed on the plasma membrane of some neurons. This study emphasizes the potential usefulness of a 3-D reconstruction in the study of the spatial arrangement of cellular components.
The need for organ transplants has increased 200% over the past decade, while the number of organ donors has remained relatively constant. The family's refusal to consent to organ donation has been cited as one of the key factors in the shortage of organs. Lack of understanding about brain death and organ donation have been identified as reasons for refusal to consent. Families of potential organ donors are receiving inadequate information to make informed choices about organ donation, and their emotional needs are not consistently met. Neuroscience nurses can improve consent rates for organ donation by effectively addressing the needs of the potential donor family and offering them the option to donate their loved one's organs.
The distribution of GAP1(IP4BP), a GTPase-activating protein showing high affinity and stereospecificity for inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4), was investigated by Western blot and immunohistochemistry of rodent brain with polyclonal antibodies generated against the carboxy-terminus of the cloned protein. GAP1(IP4BP)-like immunoreactivity was found throughout the brain, most notably in the pyriform cortex, neocortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellar cortex. However, the most striking immunolabeling was consistently localized to area CA1 of the hippocampus and the central, medial, and intercalated nuclei of the amygdala. Western blot analysis of the corresponding brain regions corroborated these immunohistochemical observations. The regionally specific expression of GAP1(IP4BP) provides the prerequisite neuroanatomical substrate toward elucidating the functional role of InsP4 and GAP1(IP4BP) in the central nervous system.

It is hypothesized that in MS and HTLV-1, chemokine and chemokine receptor expression are important mechanisms by which T cells migrate to sites of inflammation. Preliminary evidence supports the roles of several chemokines, including MIP 1beta, in mediating the enhanced migration capacity of MS derived PBLs. In addition, the ligand CCR-5 seems to be up regulated on PBLs from some MS patients. Analysis of T cell clones does not reveal a definite correlation between cytokine phenotype and chemokine receptor profile. The chemokines and chemokine receptor family are likely to be important molecules in chronic progressive neurological diseases, in which immune cells invade the central nervous system.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) considered to be an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). The detailed mechanism that specifies accumulation of inflammatory cells within the CNS in these conditions remains a subject of active investigation. Chemokines including IP-10, GRO-alpha, MCP-1 are produced in EAE tissues selectively by parenchymal astrocytes, but the regulatory stimuli that govern this expression remain undetermined. The unexpected occurrence of increased EAE susceptibility in Balb/c GKO mice (lacking IFN-gamma) offered an opportunity to examine the spectrum of chemokine expression during immune-mediated inflammation in the absence of a single regulatory cytokine. We found that chemokines MCP-1 and GRO-alpha were upregulated in the CNS of mice with EAE despite the GKO genotype. IP-10, which is highly expressed in the CNS of mice with an intact IFN-gamma gene and EAE, was strikingly absent. In vitro experiments confirmed that IFNgamma selectively stimulates astrocytes for IP-10 expression. These results indicate that IP-10 is dependent upon IFN-gamma for its upregulation during this model disease, and document directly that astrocyte expression of chemokines during EAE is governed by pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Age-related changes in the capacity, rate, and modulation of dopamine (DA) uptake within the striatum and the nucleus accumbens core of Fischer 344 rats were investigated using in vivo electrochemical recordings coupled with local drug application techniques. Equimolar amounts of DA were pressure ejected into the striatum and the nucleus accumbens of 6-, 12-, 18-, and 24-month old rats. The DA ejections produced larger DA signal amplitudes in the older rats, suggesting age-related differences in the capacity to clear extracellular DA. Within the striatum, the capacity and rate of DA uptake were reduced by 50% in the aged groups (18 and 24 months) compared with the younger rats (6 and 12 months). In the nucleus accumbens, significant reductions in DA uptake capacity and rate were observed in the 24-month group. In both brain regions and in all age groups studied, the rate of DA uptake was found to be concentration-dependent until a maximal rate was reached. The maximum rate of DA transport was significantly reduced in both the striatum and the nucleus accumbens of aged rats (18 and 24 months versus 6 and 12 months). The ability of nomifensine, an inhibitor of the DA transporter, to modulate DA signal amplitudes in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens was also decreased with age (24 months versus 6 months). Taken together, these findings demonstrate substantial age-related deficits in DA uptake processes within the striatum and the nucleus accumbens, consistent with the hypothesis that DA uptake may be slowed in aged animals to compensate for reductions in DA release.
Noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine are psychotomimetics and disrupt prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in schizophrenia. Systemically administered competitive NMDA receptor antagonists do not disrupt PPI in rats, leading to speculation that these compounds might have use as neuroprotective agents without the risk of psychotomimetic side effects. The effects on sensorimotor gating and locomotor activity of competitive NMDA receptor antagonists that either penetrate (SDZ 220-581 and SDZ EAB-515) or poorly penetrate [SDZ EAA-494 (D-CPPene)] the blood-brain barrier were compared. Rats were treated with either SDZ 220-581 (0, 2.5, or 5.0 mg/kg) or SDZ EAB-515 (0, 3.0, 10.0, or 30.0 mg/kg) and tested for PPI and locomotor activity. Different rats were tested for PPI after either systemic (0, 0.5, 1.0, or 5.0 mg/kg) or intra-amygdala (0 or 1.0 microg/microl) administration of D-CPPene. Finally, rats were pretreated with clozapine (0 or 5.0 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0 or 0.1 mg/kg), together with SDZ 220-581 (0 or 2.5 mg/kg), and tested. SDZ 220-581 and SDZ EAB-515 decreased PPI without affecting startle magnitude. Reduced PPI was noted after central but not systemic administration of D-CPPene. The gating deficits produced by SDZ 220-581 were blocked by clozapine or haloperidol. Movement pattern analysis indicated that locomotor activity was increased by SDZ 220-581 and SDZ EAB-515 in a phencyclidine-like manner. These results indicate that competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, if they gain sufficient access to the brain, produce a behavioral profile that resembles that of the psychotomimetic noncompetitive antagonists.
We investigated in rat hippocampus neurons whether 4-(aminobutyl)guanidine (agmatine), formed by decarboxylation of L-arginine by arginine decarboxylase and metabolized to urea and putrescine, can modulate the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channels. In cultured hippocampal neurons studied by whole-cell patch clamp, extracellular-applied agmatine produced a voltage- and concentration-dependent block of NMDA but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid nor kainate currents. Analysis of the voltage dependence of the block suggests that agmatine binds at a site located within the NMDA channel pore with a dissociation constant of 952 microM at 0 mV and an electric distance of 0.62. We also tested effects of several agmatine analogs. Arcaine (1,4-butyldiguanidine) also produced a similar voltage-dependent block of the NMDA current, whereas putrescine (1, 4-butyldiamine) had little effect, suggesting that the guanidine group of agmatine is the active moiety when blocking the NMDA channel. Moreover, spermine (an endogenous polyamine) potentiated the NMDA current even in the presence of blocker agmatine or arcaine, suggesting that the guanidine-containing compounds agmatine and arcaine interact with the NMDA channel at a binding site different from that of spermine. Our results indicate that in hippocampal neurons agmatine selectively modulates the NMDA subclass of glutamate receptor channels mediated by the interaction between the guanidine group and the channel pore. The results support other data that agmatine may function as an endogenous neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in brain.
1. The voltage dependence and kinetic properties of stage 40 ciliary ganglion calcium currents were determined using short (10 ms) voltage steps. These properties aided the interpretation of the action potential-evoked calcium current described below, and the comparison of our data with those observed in other preparations. 2. Three different natural action potential waveforms were modelled by a series of ramps to generate voltage clamp commands. Calcium currents evoked by these model action potentials were compared before and after alterations in the repolarization phase of each action potential. 3. Abrupt step repolarizations from various time points were used to estimate the time course of calcium current activation during each action potential. Calcium current evoked by fast action potentials (duration at half-amplitude, 0.5 or 1.0 ms) did not reach maximal activation until the action potential had repolarized by 40-50 %. In contrast, calcium current evoked by a slow action potential (duration at half-amplitude, 2.2 ms) was maximally activated near the peak of the action potential. 4. Slowing the rate of repolarization of the action potential (broadening) from different times was used to examine effects on peak and total calcium influx. With all three waveforms tested, broadening consistently increased total calcium influx (integral). However, peak calcium current was either increased or decreased depending on the duration of the control action potential tested and the specific timing of the initiation of broadening the repolarization phase. 5. The opposite effects on peak calcium current observed with action potential broadening beginning at different time points in repolarization may provide a mechanism for the variable effects of potassium channel blockers on transmitter release magnitude.

The aims of this paper are (i) to consider how best to examine effects of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid nutritional supplementation or deficiency on infant neurobehavioral development, after controlling for other factors that might influence outcome, including maternal demographic, intellectual, and personality characteristics, and (ii) to present new findings on the relation between visual acuity and processing speed and the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure and visual acuity on infant information processing. The following topics are also addressed: (i) breastfeeding and intelligence, (ii) criteria for the selection and control of potential confounding variables, and (iii) new infant information processing measures.
Short-echo gradient-enhanced nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was utilized to identify mobile lipids in perfused neonate and juvenile rat brain slices. Lipid signals were present at low levels within 1 hr of tissue preparation and increased with time under standard perfusion conditions and in the presence of high phosphocreatine and low lactate levels. Both one- and two-dimensional NMR spectra demonstrate peaks consistent with the generation of free fatty acids or neutral lipids following tissue trauma. The present work demonstrates that injury-induced mobile lipids may make appreciable contributions to regions of brain tissue spectra that have recently been assigned to lactate or polypeptides alone.
The hemodynamic response to functional activation can be regarded as the convolution of the neuronal response with an unknown kernel. As such, it introduces an intrinsic blurring that limits the attainable temporal resolution of functional magnetic resonance (fMR) techniques. This study demonstrates that by measurement of displacements in activation onsets between different types of trial, it is nevertheless possible to obtain a subsecond temporal accuracy in fMR. A single trial stimulation paradigm was adopted: a simple search task embedded in a longer period of visual flicker stimulation that produced reliable activations in the primary visual cortex and supplementary motor area. Data were acquired from both of these regions using double voxel functional spectroscopy.
The mouse gene Punc encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface proteins. It is highly expressed in the developing embryo in nervous system and limb buds. At mid-gestation, however, expression levels of Punc decrease sharply. To allow investigation of such a regulatory mechanism, the genomic locus encompassing the Punc gene was cloned, characterized, and mapped. Fluorescent in situ hybridization was used to determine the chromosomal location of the Punc gene of mouse and human. Mouse Punc maps to Chromosome (Chr) 9 in the region D-E1, whereas the human PUNC gene is localized to Chr 15 at 15q22.3-23, a region known to be syntenic to mouse 9D-E1. The human PUNC gene therefore maps close to a genetic locus that is linked to Bardet-Biedl Syndrome, an autosomal recessive human disorder. Confirmation for the location of human PUNC was obtained through sequence relationships between mouse Punc cDNA, human PUNC cDNA, genomic sequence upstream of the murine Punc gene, and human STS markers that had been previously mapped on Chr 15. The STS sequence WI-14920 is in fact derived from the 3'-untranslated region of the human PUNC gene. WI-14920 had been placed at 228cR from the top of the Chr 15 linkage group, which provided positional information for the human PUNC gene at high resolution. Thus, this study identifies PUNC as the gene corresponding to a previously anonymous marker and serves as a basis to investigate its role in genetic disorders.
This study evaluates the expression of the chemorepellent semaphorin III (D)/collapsin-1 (sema III) following lesions to the rat CNS. Scar tissue, formed after penetrating injuries to the lateral olfactory tract (LOT), cortex, perforant pathway, and spinal cord, contained numerous spindle-shaped cells expressing high levels of sema III mRNA. The properties of these cells were investigated in detail in the lesioned LOT. Most sema III mRNA-positive cells were located in the core of the scar and expressed proteins characteristic for fibroblast-like cells. Neuropilin-1, a sema III receptor, was expressed in injured neurons with projections to the lesion site, in a subpopulation of scar-associated cells and in blood vessels around the scar. In contrast to lesions made in the mature CNS, LOT transection in neonates did not induce sema III mRNA expression within cells in the lesion and was followed by vigorous axonal regeneration. The concomitant expression of sema III and its receptor neuropilin-1 in the scar suggests that sema III/neuropilin-1-mediated mechanisms are involved in CNS scar formation. The expression of the secreted chemorepellent sema III following CNS injury provides the first evidence that chemorepulsive semaphorins may contribute to the inhibitory effects exerted by scars on the outgrowth of injured CNS neurites. The vigorous regrowth of injured axons in the absence of sema III following early neonatal lesions is consistent with this notion. The inactivation of sema III in scar tissue by either antibody perturbation or by genetic or pharmacological intervention could be a powerful means to promote long-distance regeneration in the adult CNS.
Carbohydrates that terminate in beta-linked N-acetylgalactosamine (betaGalNAc) residues are concentrated in the postsynaptic apparatus of the skeletal neuromuscular junction and have been implicated in the differentiation of the postsynaptic membrane. We now report that distinct synapse-specific betaGalNAc-containing carbohydrates are associated with motor nerve terminals. Two monoclonal antibodies that recognize distinct betaGalNAc-containing epitopes, CT1 and CT2, both stain synaptic sites on skeletal muscle fibers. However, CT1 selectively stains nerve terminal, whereas CT2 selectively stains the postsynaptic apparatus. Likewise, CT1 and CT2 selectively stain motoneuron-like and muscle cell lines, respectively. Using the cell lines, we identify distinct CT1- and CT2-reactive glycolipids and glycoproteins. Finally, we show that GalNAc modulates the adhesion of motoneuron-like cells to recombinant fragments of a synaptic cleft component, laminin beta2. Together, these results show that pre- as well as postsynaptic membranes bear and are affected by distinct but related synapse-specific carbohydrates.
Binding of idazoxan (IDA) to imidazoline receptors of the I2 subtype in astrocytes influences astroglial gene expression as evidenced by increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and mRNA. To determine whether IDA affected glial inflammatory gene expression, we tested the effects of IDA on astroglial nitric oxide synthase type-2 (NOS-2) expression. NOS-2 was induced in primary rat astrocytes and C6 glioma cells by incubation with 1 microgram/ml lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus three cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interferon-gamma) or three cytokines alone. Cells were incubated with 1-100 microM IDA, and at 24 h NOS-2 expression assessed. In astrocytes and C6 cells, preincubation with IDA dose-dependently inhibited nitrite accumulation (IC50 approximately 25 microM), accompanied by a reduction in NOS-2 protein levels and L-citrulline synthesis activity in cell lysates. IDA also inhibited nitrite production in LPS stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. In astrocytes, but not C6 cells, longer preincubation times with IDA yielded significantly greater suppression, and maximal suppression (&gt;90%) was achieved after a 8 h preincubation in 100 microM IDA. The degree of inhibition was diminished whether IDA was added after LPS plus cytokine mixture. In contrast to NE, continuous incubation with IDA was required to achieve suppression. IDA reduced induction of NOS-2 protein levels, steady state NOS-2 mRNA levels, and activity of a NOS-2 promoter construct stably transfected in C6 cells. These results show that IDA inhibits NOS-2 activity and protein expression in glial cells and macrophages, and suggest that this occurs by decreasing transcription from the NOS-2 promoter.
In nerve conduction studies, it may be difficult to distinguish conduction block from increased temporal dispersion. We assessed whether a better distinction is possible by warming, because this increases the number of blocked nerve fibers and decreases temporal dispersion. We investigated 11 patients with conduction block in the median or ulnar nerve. Motor conduction was studied at 25 degrees C and at 40 degrees C. The amplitude reduction and area reduction were significantly greater at 40 degrees C than at 25 degrees C. Significantly more nerve segments fulfilled criteria for conduction block at 40 degrees C than at 25 degrees C. The duration prolongation was slightly smaller at 40 degrees C. These results indicate that, in demyelinating neuropathies, an increase in temperature increases the number of blocked nerve fibers and decreases temporal dispersion. Conduction block may therefore be missed when the investigated limb is too cold. Based on our study, we also propose a criterion for conduction block that is based on the influence of temperature.
Spoken language, in contrast to written text, provides prosodic information such as rhythm, pauses, accents, amplitude and pitch variations. However, little is known about when and how these features are used by the listener to interpret the speech signal. Here we use event-related brain potentials (ERP) to demonstrate that intonational phrasing guides the initial analysis of sentence structure. Our finding of a positive shift in the ERP at intonational phrase boundaries suggests a specific on-line brain response to prosodic processing. Additional ERP components indicate that a false prosodic boundary is sufficient to mislead the listener's sentence processor. Thus, the application of ERP measures is a promising approach for revealing the time course and neural basis of prosodic information processing.
Morphine produces analgesia by activating mu opioid receptors encoded by the MOR-1 gene. Although morphine-6 beta-glucuronide (M6G), heroin and 6-acetylmorphine also are considered mu opioids, recent evidence suggests that they act through a distinct receptor mechanism. We examined this question in knockout mice containing disruptions of either the first or second coding exon of MOR-1. Mice homozygous for either MOR-1 mutation were insensitive to morphine. Heroin, 6-acetylmorphine and M6G still elicited analgesia in the exon-1 MOR-1 mutant, which also showed specific M6G binding, whereas M6G and 6-acetylmorphine were inactive in the exon-2 MOR-1 mutant. These results provide genetic evidence for a unique receptor site for M6G and heroin analgesia.
Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in neocortical pyramidal neurons are increased in duration and amplitude at depolarized membrane potentials. This effect was not due to changes in the time course of the underlying synaptic current. The role of postsynaptic voltage-activated channels was investigated by mimicking the voltage change that occurs during an IPSP with current injections. The peak and integral of these 'simulated' IPSPs increased during depolarization of the membrane potential in a tetrodotoxin-sensitive manner. This amplification presumably occurs as the hyperpolarization associated with IPSPs turns off sodium channels that are tonically active at depolarized membrane potentials. IPSP amplification increased the ability of IPSPs to inhibit action potential firing and promoted IPSP-induced action potential synchronization.
Several second-messenger-regulated protein kinases have been implicated in the regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channel function. Yet the role of calcium and cyclic-nucleotide-independent kinases, such as casein kinase II (CKII), has remained unexplored. Here we identify CKII as an endogenous Ser/Thr protein kinase that potently regulates NMDA channel function and mediates intracellular actions of spermine on the channel. The activity of NMDA channels in cell-attached and inside-out recordings was enhanced by CKII or spermine and was decreased by selective inhibition of CKII. In hippocampal slices, inhibitors of CKII reduced synaptic transmission mediated by NMDA but not AMPA receptors. The dependence of NMDA receptor channel activity on tonically active CKII thus permits changes in intracellular spermine levels or phosphatase activities to effectively control channel function.
Symmetrically connected recurrent networks have recently been used as models of a host of neural computations. However, biological neural networks have asymmetrical connections, at the very least because of the separation between excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the brain. We study characteristic differences between asymmetrical networks and their symmetrical counterparts in cases for which they act as selective amplifiers for particular classes of input patterns. We show that the dramatically different dynamical behaviours to which they have access, often make the asymmetrical networks computationally superior. We illustrate our results in networks that selectively amplify oriented bars and smooth contours in visual inputs.
Mutations in two related genes, presenilin 1 and presenilin 2 (PS1 and PS2), cause a subset of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). PS1 is expressed in a variety of neuronal and peripheral tissues, including neuronal populations known to be at risk in Alzheimer's disease such as CA1 hippocampal neurons. To examine whether FAD-linked mutations in PS1 directly influence the physiology of learning and memory, we measured the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse in hippocampal slices. Basal synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP) were examined in neurons of transgenic mice expressing wild-type human PS1 (WtTg) and FAD-linked A246E PS1 variant (MTg) and in neurons of nontransgenic littermates (NTg). Several measures of basal synaptic transmission were unaltered in WtTg and MTg compared to NTg mice, including maximum fEPSP slope, maximum fEPSP amplitude, maximum fiber volley amplitude, and the function relating fiber volley amplitude to fEPSP slope, an index of basal synaptic strength. In addition, paired-pulse facilitation was not changed. However, upon theta burst stimulation or high-frequency stimulation, input-specific LTP in MTg animals had a larger initial amplitude and was more persistent than that in WtTg or NTg animals. These data suggest that the FAD-linked A246E variant of PS1 leads to higher degree of LTP induction in mice.
Altered glycosylation is a common feature in tumors of various kind and particular interest has been focused on the expression of tumor-associated gangliosides. We have previously identified some human glioma-associated gangliosides and in this study yet another, not previously described, ganglioside has been isolated. The ganglioside was prepared from human glioma tissue taken at autopsy. The new ganglioside bound cholera-toxin B-subunit and its structure was confirmed by fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry to be NeuN-GM1 (II3NeuNH2-GgOse4Cer). In the dissected tumor specimen, the concentration of NeuN-GM1 was 0.1 micromol/g wet weight and accounted for approximately 20% of the monosialoganglioside fraction. Normal human brain tissue specimens (n = 10) did not contain detectable (&gt;0.5 nmol/g wet weight of tissue) amounts of NeuN-GM1, indicating that this ganglioside might be associated with human glioma. However, none of the 17 other tumour specimens reveal any detectable amounts of this ganglioside. In conclusion, NeuN GM1 is a glioma-associated ganglioside but its exceptional expression limits its relevance as a molecule involved in general tumor biology.
Previous studies on the origin of myelin phosphoinositides involved in signaling mechanisms indicated axon to myelin transfer of phosphatidylinositol followed by myelin-localized incorporation of axon-derived phosphate groups into phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. This is in agreement with other studies showing the presence of phosphorylating activity in myelin that converts phosphatidylinositol into the mono-and diphospho derivatives. It was also found that the second messenger, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, is hydrolyzed to inositol 1,4-bisphosphate by a myelin-localized enzyme. The present study was undertaken to determine the locus of the remaining reactions leading to formation of free inositol and completion of the cycle by resynthesis of phosphatidylinositol. The latter reaction was found to occur preferentially in isolated axons, and to a limited extent if at all in myelin. On the other hand, hydrolytic reactions which sequentially convert inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to inositol 1,4-bisphosphate, inositol 1-phosphate, and free inositol were found to occur more prominently in myelin. Thus, restoration of phosphoinositides following signal-induced breakdown of PIP2 in myelin is seen as requiring metabolic interplay between myelin and axon.
D2 dopamine receptors are of interest in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. For group comparisons of neuroreceptor distribution measured by PET on a pixel-by-pixel basis, an anatomic standardization technique is required. The aim of the present study is to build a database of normal D2 dopamine receptor distribution using [11C]raclopride and an anatomic standardization technique. In each subject, two PET measurements were performed with rapid bolus injection and with continuous infusion of [11C]raclopride. The radioactivity of the PET images were integrated in the time interval. Integrated images were normalized by the radioactivity of the cerebellum, providing a measure of the binding potential (BP) in each pixel. Each PET image was transformed into a standard brain anatomy using a Computerized Brain Atlas system. From the standardized PET images, the sample mean and the SD of the BP were calculated in each pixel. On the anatomically standardized average images for the both rapid bolus injection and continuous infusion, high BP was observed in the putamen and the caudate nucleus, whereas low BP was observed in the cerebral cortices. The BP for the thalamus and the substantia nigra were slightly higher than those for the cerebral cortices. This regional distribution is in good agreement with the distribution of D2 dopamine receptors known from in vitro studies. The anatomic standardization technique permits to build a database of the normal D2 dopamine receptor distribution in the living human brain. This technique can be applied for group comparisons on a pixel-by-pixel basis.





Brains of thirteen patients with Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) were evaluated regarding the expression of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2), an enzyme involved in the synthetic pathway of prostaglandins and thromboxanes, as well as neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). The neuronal induction of COX2 was demonstrated with immunohistochemistry and Western blotting confirmed the up-regulation. Preceded by COX2 immunoreactivity, NFT-containing neurons appeared in the majority of FCMD patients without beta-amyloid deposition or senile plaques. The hippocampus did not demonstrate neurodegeneration, while, in other areas, neurons with NFT spread in a similar manner to Alzheimer's disease. NFT-bearing neurons were concomitantly shown to be immunoreactive to COX2. The precedent induction of COX2, therefore, may be related to the formation of NFT in this genetic disorder.
To clarify disturbances in higher brain functions including cognition and learning disorders in preterm-born children, we investigated the functional development of the cerebral hemisphere, using parvalbumin (PA) immunohistochemistry in human subjects aged from 21 GW to 11 years of age. PA-immunoreactive neurons first appeared in the RNT at 24 GW, spread to the globus pallidus, and then to the VPoL and VPoM. At 38 GW, PA-immunoreactive neurons first appeared in layer 4 of the primary somatosensory cortex and auditory cortex, and comprised a dense band in layers 4 to 5 at 1 month of age. The developmental changes and course of PA expression in the early developmental stage corresponded to development of the thalamocortical connection and then to the functional development of cortical neurons. In preterm cases, PA expression was decreased in the cerebral cortices that corresponded to widespread or diffuse type PVL, but was increased in those with focal type PVL. These results indicate that accelerated expression of PA was induced by extra-uterine stimuli and a reduction of PA reflects the impairment of thalamocortical neurons.
We localized the neuroanatomical correlates for control of saccadic eye movements and for finger movements using a combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) approach. Two participants underwent TMS while performing an endogenous saccade task. The motor hand area was localized by TMS and the region anterior to it was mapped to identify the borders of a region where TMS produced delays in generating contralateral saccades. MRI scans were then obtained with fiducial markers placed over the motor hand area and 2 cm anterior to it, the common cortical region that produced saccadic delays in these two subjects. It was also shown that the structural anatomy of the hand area, physiologically defined by visible contractions of the contralateral hand following TMS, corresponded to the knob-like structure recently reported [18, 19]. These results demonstrate that TMS can be a precise, non-invasive tool for neuroanatomical mapping of cortical structures when combined with structural images of the brain.
We review past results and present novel data to illustrate different ways in which TMS can be used to study neural plasticity. Procedural learning during the serial reaction time task (SRTT) is used as a model of neural plasticity to illustrate the applications of TMS. These different applications of TMS represent principles of use that we believe are applicable to studies of cognitive neuroscience in general and exemplify the great potential of TMS in the study of brain and behavior. We review the use of TMS for (1) cortical output mapping using focal, single-pulse TMS; (2) identification of the mechanisms underlying neuroplasticity using paired-pulse TMS techniques; (3) enhancement of the information of other neuroimaging techniques by transient disruption of cortical function using repetitive TMS; and finally (4) modulation of cortical function with repetitive TMS to influence behavior and guide plasticity.
The potential uses for Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) in the study of learning and memory range from a method to map the topography and intensity of motor output maps during visuomotor learning to inducing reversible lesions that allow for the precise temporal and spatial dissection of the brain processes underlying learning and remembering. Single-pulse TMS appears to be adequate to examine motor output maps but repetitive TMS (rTMS) appears necessary to affect most cognitive processes in measurable ways. The results we have reviewed in this article indicate that rTMS may have a potential clinical application in patients with epilepsy in whom it is important to identify the lateralization of verbal memory. Single-pulse TMS can help identify changes in motor output maps during training, that may indicate improved or diminished learning and memory processes following a stroke or other neurological insult. Other evidence indicates that rTMS may even have the capability of facilitating various aspects of memory performance. From a research perspective. rTMS has demonstrated site- and time-specific effects primarily in interfering with explicit retrieval of episodic information from long-term memory. rTMS may also be able to modulate retrieval from semantic memory as evidenced by response-time and accuracy changes after rTMS. All these findings suggest that the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the study of learning and memory will increase in the future and that it is already a valuable tool in the cognitive neuroscientists' belt.
The present study compares the effects of two alpha 2-agonists, clonidine (0.5, 2, and 5 micrograms/kg, p.o.) and guanfacine (7 and 29 micrograms/kg, p.o.) in young healthy volunteers on their performance in visual paired associates learning (PAL) and delayed matching to sample (DMTS) visual short-term recognition memory tests. In the PAL test, clonidine 2 and guanfacine 29 micrograms/kg improved the subjects' performance. In the DMTS test, clonidine at 5 micrograms/kg delay-dependently impaired performance accuracy, and at 2 and 5 micrograms/kg it also slowed responses. Guanfacine had no effect on DMTS test performance. Clonidine 5 and guanfacine 29 micrograms/kg equally increased subjective feelings of sedation and reduced blood pressure. The results suggest that both clonidine and guanfacine facilitated PAL learning by improving &quot;frontal strategies,&quot; but only clonidine disrupted &quot;mneomonic processing&quot; decreasing DMTS accuracy. The greater selectivity of guanfacine for alpha 2A-adrenoceptor subtype may explain the different profile of action of the drugs.
Rapid advances in modern gene seeking techniques and the sequence data evolving from related genome research should provide both new targets for drug discovery and new insights into risk factors for many neurological and psychiatric disorders. Coupled with the high speed synthetic capabilities available in many companies, high-throughput screening is identifying potential novel drug candidates at extraordinary rates. This enables the drug discoverer to be more precise in the biological specificity of drugs taken to human trials thereby reducing the potential side-effect profile of clinical candidates. The ability to create large libraries of compounds also allows researchers to focus on metabolism and pharmacokinetics at an earlier stage in the drug development process to minimize drug-drug interactions via common sites of metabolism and optimize duration of action for particular indications. An emerging bottleneck in psychopharmacological drug discovery is the relative paucity of preclinical behavioral models predictive of clinical efficacy and the need to carry out early clinical trials to demonstrate therapeutic utility. However, through the use of recently developed chip technology, coupled with data bases of information about single nucleotide polymorphisms in potential candidate genes or risk factors for psychiatric disorders, it should be possible in the near future to stratify clinical populations genetically for inclusion in specific drug treatment trials. The ultimate goal of this research is to obtain homogeneous populations for trials and to predict risk before the phenotype of the disorder is manifest.

The expression and significance of three types of Fos-like immunoreactive (Li) cells were investigated after gamma knife irradiation of the forebrain in the rat. Three months after the irradiation, the brain sections were immunostained with an antiserum against Fos protein. It was shown that the Fos-like immunoreactivity (LI) appeared in some of the neurons, glial cells and endothelial cells in the target area, the white matter surrounding the lateral ventricle, the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus. Three characteristic types of Fos-Li cells were identified in these regions. (1). Only the nuclei of the cells were Fos-ir, (2). Only the cytoplasm was immunostained, and (3). Both the nuclei and the cytoplasm showed Fos-LI. It is suggested that type 1 are the normal responsive cells, type 2 are seriously injured cells, so that the Fos translocation mechanism is damaged, and type 3 represents the intermediate form.

Neuroleptic-induced akathisia should be definitely diagnosed as acute, tardive, withdrawal, and chronic. The diagnostic assessment must be identified from the subjective report and objective features. Various assessments of measuring akathisia can be clinically used by instrumental methods and rating scales. The pharmacological basis of neuroleptic-induced akathisia is the inhibition of the dopamine receptors in the brain. The pathogenesis of neuroleptic-induced akathisia may involve GABAergic hypoactivity, noradrenergic hyperactivity, and serotonergic dysfunction in CNS. Iron deficiency and hyperglycemia may be risk factors of neuroleptic induced akathisia in relation to the dopamine function in the brain. Neurological disorders may be associated with the development of a syndrome resembling drug-induced akathisia. The lesion of the thalamic nuclei would originally produce the syndrome. The difference between acute and tardive akathisia on the strategy of the drug treatment should be sufficiently comprehended. In particular, the long-term use of anticholinergic drugs and benzodiazepines should not be prevailed.
The selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist NAD-299 ([R]-3-N,N-dicyclobutylamino-8-fluoro-3,4- dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran-5-carboxamide) was labeled with the positron-emitting radionuclide carbon-11. The radioligand was synthesized from NAD-195 ([R]-3-N,N-dicyclobutylamino-8-fluoro-5-trifluoromethylsulfonyl oxy-3,4- dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran) in two radiochemical steps. A palladium-catalyzed reaction of NAD-195 and [11C]cyanide was followed by hydrolysis of the carbon-11-labeled nitrile intermediate with basic hydrogen peroxide. The total radiochemical yield, based on [11C]CO2 and corrected for decay, was 20-40%. The specific radioactivity was 24 GBq/mumol (900 Ci/mmol) at end of synthesis, with a radiochemical purity better than 99% and a total synthesis time of 40-45 min. Autoradiographic examination of [11C]NAD-299 binding in human brain postmortem demonstrated high binding in hippocampus, raphe nuclei, and neocortex. The binding in the hippocampus was higher than in the neocortex. Within the hippocampus, the densest binding was observed in the CA1 region. [11C]NAD-299 binding was inhibited by addition of the 5-HT1A receptor ligands WAY-100635, pindolol, (+/-)-8-OH-DPAT, 5-HT, and buspirone, leaving a low background of nonspecific binding. The results indicate that [11C]NAD-299 binds specifically to 5-HT1A receptors in the human brain in vitro and is a potential radioligand for positron emission tomography (PET) examination of 5-HT1A receptors in vivo.
The mechanisms underlying the relief of neuropathic pain of peripheral origin by spinal cord stimulation (SCS) are poorly understood. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of SCS on evoked and spontaneous discharges in dorsal horn neurons in intact and in nerve-injured rats subjected to partial sciatic nerve ligation according to Seltzer et al. (1990). Tactile sensitivity in the hind paw was assessed in behavioral tests using von Frey filaments. The presence of 'allodynia' was defined as a withdrawal response to a filament of 10 g or less. Under halothane/oxygen anesthesia the effects of SCS (50 Hz, 0.2 ms, 80-620 microA, 5 min.) on mechanically evoked (brush and innocuous press on the hind paw) responses and spontaneous discharges were investigated in wide-dynamic range (WDR) neurons in three groups of animals: (1) rats that displayed 'allodynia' after nerve ligation (2) rats without signs of 'allodynia' after surgery and (3) control, intact rats. A significantly increased frequency of spontaneous discharge and of responsiveness to brush and press was found in the group of allodynic, as compared with non-allodynic and control rats. The majority (63%) of the investigated neurons in these animals displayed afterdischarge in response to press stimulation. SCS induced a significant depression of both the principal response and the afterdischarge in allodynic rats: the discharge during brush stimulation was reduced to 86 +/- 8.2% and during press to 77.4 +/- 4.5% as compared with the prestimulation value. These depressive effects on evoked responses in allodynic rats outlasted SCS by 10.5 +/- 1.7 min during which time the responses gradually recovered. The frequency of spontaneous discharge was markedly decreased in approximately one third of the neurons, whereas in another third it was increased. In non-allodynic and control rats, SCS had no significant depressive effects on the evoked responses and spontaneous discharge. The results suggest that SCS may provide a suppressive action on dorsal horn neuronal hyperexcitability associated with signs of peripheral neuropathy. The suppressive effect of SCS on tactile allodynia, as previously observed in behavioral experiments, presumably corresponds to a normalization of the excitability of WDR cells in response to innocuous stimuli.
A progressive sensorineural hearing loss in childhood, with an extremely variable prevalence (from 4% to 30%), has been reported in the literature. This wide range of reported figures could depend on the different criteria used for identifying the deterioration, the groups, and the examined age ranges. The most frequent etiology of progressive sensorineural hearing loss in childhood includes hereditary causes, both syndromic and nonsyndromic, and developmental and infectious causes, whereas metabolic, toxic, autoimmune, traumatic, and vascular etiologies are less common; however, the origin of the hearing impairment often remains unknown. The population for this study consisted of 178 children with bilateral sensorineural hearing loss who were examined between 1971 and 1993 using audiologic tests. Syndromal genetic hearing loss was excluded from the study. A progressive loss of acuity was found in 11 subjects, with a prevalence of 6.2%. The etiology was hereditary deafness in five patients, congenital infection in one, and congenital inner ear anomaly in another patient; in the last four children the etiology was unknown. Onset of deterioration was after 4 years of age in 73% of the patients. The progressive evolution was binaural in almost all patients (10 of 11) and asymmetric in most, with a tendency to a greater deterioration at the frequencies initially least affected.
The relationship between attention and the programming of motor responses was investigated, using a paradigm in which the onsets of targets for movements were preceded by peripheral attentional cues. Simple (button release) and reaching manual responses were compared under conditions in which the subjects either made saccades toward the target location or refrained from making eye movements. The timing of the movement onset was used as the dependent measure for both simple and reaching manual responses. Eye movement latencies were also measured. A follow-up experiment measured the effect of the same peripheral cuing procedure on purely visual processes, using signal detection measures of visual sensitivity and response bias. The results of the first experiment showed that reaction time (RT) increased with the distance between the cued and the target locations. Stronger distance effects were observed when goal-directed responses were required, which suggests enhanced attentional localization of target positions under these conditions. The requirement to generate an eye movement response was found to delay simple manual RTs. However, mean reaching RTs were unaffected by the eye movement condition. Distance gradients on eye movement latencies were relatively shallow, as compared with those on goal-directed manual responses. The second experiment showed that the peripheral cue had only a very small effect on visual detection sensitivity in the absence of directed motor responses. It is concluded that cue-target distance effects with peripheral cues are modulated by the motor-programming requirements of the task. The effect of the peripheral cue on eye movement latencies was qualitatively different from that observed on manual RTs, indicating the existence of separate neural representations underlying both response types. At the same time, the interactions between response modalities are consistent with a supramodal representation of attentional space, within which different motor programs may interact.
The replicate lines of selectively bred FAST and SLOW mice differ in locomotor response to 2 g/kg ethanol (EtOH). FAST mice show enhanced locomotion; SLOW mice exhibit no change or locomotor depression. Little is known about the responses of FAST and SLOW mice to EtOH during development. We assessed the locomotor responses of FAST and SLOW mice at postnatal days (P) 10, 15, 30, and 60. A genetically correlated response, EtOH-induced hypothermia, was also investigated. Although all animals demonstrated their respective selection phenotypes in adulthood, developing FAST mice exhibited ethanol stimulation by P15 (replicate 1) or P30 (replicate 2). At these ages, responses of FAST mice differed from those of SLOW. The stimulant response in FAST mice was adult-like at P30. EtOH-induced hypothermia was seen in SLOW mice by P15. These data suggest that sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant effects of EtOH changes during postnatal development, and may mirror developmental profiles for certain neurotransmitter systems.
Antiseizure effects of progesterone (P) and its metabolite, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha, 5alpha-THP) were investigated following continuous vs. discontinuous P exposure. In Experiments 1, 32 cycling Long-Evans rats were administered kainic acid (32 mg/kg SC), ictal behavior was examined, and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Proestrus/estrus rats showed less ictal activity and had elevated 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels prior to kainic acid compared to diestrus/metestrus subjects. In Experiment 2, 49 ovariectomized (ovx) rats were SC injected with estradiol benzoate (EB; 10 microg) and P (500 microg), to mimic estrus, or sesame oil vehicle (0.2 cc); all subjects were administered kainic acid. Rats tested with EB+P showed a reduced mean duration of full seizures and increased 3alpha,5alpha-THP, whereas those tested 24 h following EB+P had more tonic clonic seizures and lower 3alpha,5alpha-THP concentrations, comparable to ovx control animals. In Experiment 3, 49 ovx rats were stereotaxically implanted with bipolar electrodes into the perforant pathway. Prior to perforant pathway stimulation, rats received cholesterol or EB+P capsules for 1 month, continuously or intermittently. Irrespective of continuous or intermittent EB+P, the presence of progestins at the time of perforant pathway stimulation reduced partial seizure activity. Continuous EB+P capsules resulted in increased 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels compared to all other conditions, and less damage in the hilus of the hippocampus, compared to intermittent EB+P. These data confirm that P and 3alpha,5alpha-THP have antiseizure effects, and further suggest that repeated cycles of endogenous or exogenous P and/or 3alpha,5alpha-THP withdrawal influences seizure threshold and/or hippocampal integrity.
Recent studies suggest that Cerebrolysin improves behavioral performance by affecting synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. The main objective of this study was to determine if Cerebrolysin administration ameliorates the neurodegenerative and performance deficits in aged apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient mice. ApoE-deficient mice treated with Cerebrolysin showed a significant improved performance in the Morris water maze, compared to saline-treated apoE-deficient mice. Although the improved performance in the Cerebrolysin-treated apoE-deficient mice was associated with restoration of the neuronal structure, the poor learning ability of saline-treated apoE-deficient mice was related to the a disrupted synaptodendritic structure. This study supports the contention that Cerebrolysin might have a neurotrophic effect in vivo.
Calcium plays a pivotal role in mediating many important biological functions. The intracellular calcium concentration is tightly regulated by a variety of systems and mechanisms. Calcium is sequestered by various organelles such as mitochondria and/or endoplasmic reticulum and extruded across the plasma membrane by energy-dependent transport systems. Different Ca2+-binding proteins are also involved in these processes. Alterations in calcium homeostasis might be critically implicated in brain aging and in the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In fact, one of the postulated mechanisms of beta-amyloid toxicity seems to involve a Ca2+ dysregulation accompanied with enhanced vulnerability to excitotoxic stimuli. Although brain characteristic lesions-plaques and tangles-constitute the hallmarks of AD, accumulated evidence suggests the systemic feature of this disease. Therefore peripheral cell lines may represent a useful approach to explore the cellular pathophysiology of AD, including calcium alterations and associated phenomena.
The dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) is a distinct auditory neuronal group located ventral to the inferior colliculus (IC). It receives excitatory and inhibitory afferent inputs from various structures of the auditory lower brainstem and sends GABAergic inhibitory efferents mainly to the contralateral DNLL and the bilateral IC. The synaptic excitation in DNLL neurons consists of two components, an early fast depolarization and a later long lasting one. Glutamate is the probable excitatory neurotransmitter for DNLL neurons. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors mediate the early part of the excitation while N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediate the long lasting component. The long lasting NMDA receptor-mediated component in the DNLL may contribute to a prolonged inhibition in the IC. The DNLL is thought to be a structure for processing binaural information. Most DNLL neurons in rat and bat are sensitive to interaural intensity differences (IIDs). They are excited by stimulation of the contralateral ear and inhibited by stimulation of the ipsilateral ear, showing an excitatory/inhibitory (EI) binaural response pattern. The EI pattern can be attributed to synaptic inputs that originate from various structures in the lower auditory brainstem and impinge on the DNLL neurons. In cat some DNLL neurons are sensitive to IIDs and some are sensitive to interaural time differences. In addition, DNLL neurons exhibit different temporal response patterns to contralateral tonal stimulation and respond to amplitude modulated tones, implying that DNLL may contribute to processing temporally complex acoustic information. DNLL neurons shape binaural responses in the contralateral inferior colliculus and auditory cortex through their inhibitory brainstem projections and contribute to the accuracy with which animals localize sounds in space.
Methods have been developed to investigate recurrent inhibition (RI) in humans. A conditioning reflex discharge is used to evoke in motoneurones (MNs) supplying homonymous and synergistic muscles, an inhibition the characteristics of which are consistent with RI: it appears and increases with the conditioning motor discharge, has a short latency and a long duration, and is enhanced by an agonist of acetylcholine. As in the cat, homonymous RI exists in all explored motor nuclei of the limbs except those of the digits and the pattern of distribution of heteronymous RI closely matches that of monosynaptic Ia excitation. However, striking inter-species differences exist concerning the distribution of heteronymous RI since it is much more widely extended in the human lower limb than in the cat hindlimb, whereas it is more restricted in the upper limb than in the cat forelimb. Changes in transmission in the recurrent pathway have been investigated during various voluntary or postural contractions involving different (homonymous, synergistic, antagonistic) muscles and it has been found that the activation of Renshaw cells (RCs) by the voluntary motor discharge via recurrent collaterals was powerfully controlled by descending tracts: for example, during homonymous contraction, RI evoked by a given conditioning reflex discharge is much smaller during strong than during weak contraction, which suggests that the descending control of RCs might contribute to the regulation of muscle force. The finding that RC inhibition is more marked during phasic than during tonic contraction of similar force of the homonymous muscle is discussed in relation with the projections of RCs to Ia interneurones mediating reciprocal inhibition. Only in patients with progressive paraparesis is there evidence for decreased RI at rest which may contribute to the exaggeration of the passively-induced stretch reflex underlying spasticity. However, despite the seemingly normal RI at rest in most patients, the control of RCs during voluntary movements is disturbed in these patients, which probably contributes to their motor disability.
Complex interactions exist between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the serotonergic system, and it has been suggested that these interactions may be fundamental to the pathophysiology and treatment of depressive illnesses. It has previously been found that chronic administration of corticosterone leads to adrenal suppression and an attenuation of somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor function. Adrenalectomy (ADX) has been shown to cause an increase in postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor numbers and possibly function. However, other reports have suggested that ADX does not alter somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor mRNA or binding, though little is known of the effect of ADX on the function of somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptors. This study investigated the effect of markedly reducing corticosterone levels by ADX on 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT)-induced hypothermia in mice, an in vivo model of somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor function. The degree of 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia did not differ between control, sham, and ADX animals 14 days post operatively. Although repeated administration of corticosterone attenuates somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor function, these data demonstrate that lowering of corticosteroid levels by ADX have no effect. This suggests that the effects of repeated corticosterone administration is not mediated by a secondary adrenal suppression. The difference in the effects of ADX on somatodendritic as opposed to postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors may reflect the differential expression of corticosteroid receptor subtypes at postsynaptic and somatodendritic sites.
The cholinergic agonist nicotine facilitates visuospatial attention shifting, but the role of muscarinic cholinergic drugs in this behavior is unclear. In order to establish the generality of cholinergic action in attention shifting, we administered the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine to two rhesus monkeys trained to perform a cued target detection (Posner) task. In this task, monkeys signaled the detection of a peripheral visual target by releasing a switch and their reaction times were measured. The location of the target's appearance was preceded by a cue that was either valid (target and cue in the same spatial location), invalid (target and cue to opposite hemifields), spatially uninformative (cues in both hemifields, target to one hemifield), or omitted altogether. Scopolamine produced a dose-dependent increase in all reaction times and a decrease in accuracy. The slowing was most prominent for valid cues in either visual field. However, slowing did not occur in trials whose cues lacked spatial information, or in tasks in which attention was directed to events at the fixation point, whether or not peripheral distractors were present. These results provide additional support for the hypothesis that acetylcholine plays a key role in reflexive attention shifting to peripheral visual targets.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) circuits may play a role in cognitive performance, particularly in learning and memory. Cognitive impairment is often seen in depressed patients, in whom 5-HT turnover in the brain is thought to be lowered. A possible human pharmacological model to study the involvement of the serotonergic system in cognitive impairment is to reduce central 5-HT synthesis through L-tryptophan depletion in healthy subjects. In this study, the cognitive effects of tryptophan depletion were assessed and whether genetically or developmentally determined vulnerability factors were predictive of the cognitive impairment induced by tryptophan depletion. Sixteen healthy volunteers with a positive family history of depression and 11 without were given 100 g of an amino acid mixture with or without tryptophan, according to a double-blind, cross-over design. Tryptophan depletion specifically impaired long-term memory performance in all subjects: delayed recall performance, recognition sensitivity, and recognition reaction times were significantly impaired after tryptophan depletion relative to placebo. Short-term memory and perceptual and psychomotor functions were unchanged. There were no differences between groups with a positive and a negative family history for depression. On the basis of these results, it is concluded that tryptophan depletion specifically impairs long-term memory formation, presumably as a result of an acute decrease in 5-HT turnover in the brain.
Many laboratories have reported that coadministration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists with psychomotor stimulants prevents the development of behavioral sensitization and therefore concluded that NMDA receptor transmission is necessary for sensitization. According to an alternative &quot;state-dependency&quot; interpretation, NMDA receptor antagonists do not prevent sensitization. Rather, they become a conditioned stimulus for the sensitized response, i.e., it is only elicited in response to combined administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist and the stimulant. This hypothesis is supported by progressive augmentation of the locomotor response to the drug combination during the induction phase, and expression of sensitization when challenged with the combination but not the stimulant alone. To test this hypothesis, rats were treated during a 6-day induction phase with amphetamine (Amph) alone or in combination with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS 19755 (10 mg/kg) or the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.05, 0.1 and 0.25 mg/kg). When CGS 19755 was coadministered with Amph, there was no progressive augmentation of response to the drug combination. When challenged with Amph alone, rats did not exhibit the biphasic pattern of locomotor activity characteristic of Amph sensitization. No sensitization of stereotyped behaviors was evident, although the ambulatory response was greater than that exhibited by naive rats. Results with MK-801 were complex, but progressive augmentation of response to the drug combination appeared to in part reflect sensitization to MK-801 and could be dissociated from the ability of MK-801 to prevent the development of sensitization as assessed by response to challenge with Amph alone. Many of these findings are inconsistent with predictions of the &quot;state-dependency&quot; hypothesis. Moreover, the ability of NMDA receptor antagonists to prevent biochemical and electrophysiological correlates of sensitization is difficult to reconcile with the idea that sensitization develops in the presence of NMDA receptor blockade but cannot be expressed. Together, these findings suggest that the ability of NMDA receptor antagonists to prevent Amph sensitization reflects a requirement for NMDA receptor transmission during its induction.

Non-epileptic attack disorder (NEAD) represents a well-recognized clinical problem with a reported incidence among individuals with a diagnosis of intractable epilepsy as high as 36%. A failure to identify this disorder may lead to certain risks for the patient including polypharmacy, anticonvulsant toxicity, hazardous intervention, social and economic demands and a lack of recognition or neglect of any underlying psychological distress. This review provides a description of NEAD in an historic and societal context and discusses the variety of terminology which has been applied to this psychophysiological phenomenon. Epidemiology and associated methodological limitations; and diagnostic and classification issues related to NEAD in comparison to epilepsy are considered. The problems of failure to recognize NEAD in comparison to epilepsy are considered. The problems of failure to recognize NEAD are outlined, and theoretical and empirical aetiological issues are discussed.

As part of the psychiatric assessment after a suicide attempt contact with a significant other could be of importance in order to obtain an additional view of the patient's situation, and thereby possibly broadening the basis of the assessment. The aims of this study were to investigate whether information from a significant other would be helpful in the psychiatric assessment of the patient, and also in assessing the well-being of significant others and their need for support. For the purposes of the study, the significant other (SO) who had been recommended by the patient was contacted directly after the suicide attempt. Almost all the patients (95%) agreed to a social worker contacting an SO, and all the contacted SOs (n = 81) agreed to take part in the study. A semi-structured interview was performed by telephone or in person on the same occasion as we interviewed the patient or as soon as possible afterwards. The study found that the SOs provided valuable additional information regarding the patient's situation. When comparing the outcomes of the interviews with the SOs and those of the patients, problem areas such as loneliness and lack of self-confidence were mentioned more often by SOs. Also, more patients were reported to be repeaters by SOs, and suicidal signals from the patient had been apprehended by 41% of them. Fifty-seven percent of the SOs who had given psychological and/or practical support to the patient stated it was a burden to them, particularly if the patient had psychiatric disorders other than adjustment disorders. It was also found that more than half of the SOs wanted individual counselling and/or counselling together with the patient. This study stresses the value of co-operation with the SOs after a suicide attempt, both in the immediate assessment of the patient and in the planning of treatment strategies.





Recent brain imaging studies suggest that schizophrenia may be related to abnormally high amphetamine-induced dopamine release. It is known that repeated use of amphetamine may cause paranoid psychosis and persisting stereotypies. The biochemical background for these signs and symptoms has not been clarified. In this study, positron emission tomography and [11C]raclopride were used to determine central D2-dopamine receptor density (Bmax) and apparent affinity (K(D)app) in Cynomolgus monkeys before and after 14 days of treatment with d-amphetamine sulphate (2 mg/kg/day; s.c.). One day after withdrawal from amphetamine, K(D)app was increased, suggesting [11C]raclopride competition with elevated concentration of dopamine. At 7 and 14 days after withdrawal, there was a 19-26% decrease in Bmax but no change in K(D)app as compared to baseline. Although this study was performed on two monkeys only, there was thus no support for the view that chronic intermittent hyperactivity of the dopamine system may be related to an upregulation of striatal D2-dopamine receptors. Repeated administration of amphetamine may, rather, cause a long-lasting downregulation of the D2-receptor density, which may be a neurochemical correlate to the abnormal movements, anhedonia, anxiety, and depression seen in psychostimulant abusers.
A neurophysiologic test battery (consisting of a 24-hour, seven-channel electroencephalogram [EEG], EEG spectral analysis, multiple sleep latency test, visual evoked potentials, critical flicker fusion, and visual contrast sensitivity) was administered twice to 16 patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) in a double-blind, randomized, crossover study comparing two daily doses of sodium valproate (VPA), 1000 mg and 2000 mg. Clinical observation time was 6 months for each dose. Mean total VPA concentration during low-dose treatment was 470.4 mmol/L and during high-dose treatment was 700.0 mmol/L. Ten patients had seizures during low-dose treatment, but only three of these showed spike-wave activity on EEGs. During high-dose treatment, nine patients had seizures; five of these had spike-wave activity. EEG power spectrum did not change between doses. The other tests also showed no change between doses. Our results suggested that EEG and our selection of other neurophysiologic tests were of limited value for monitoring seizure frequency and clinical effects of VPA.


Advances in molecular genetics and technology have led to the dawn of a new era for neuroscience: manipulation of single genes now makes it possible to dissect the complexities of neurobiological phenotypes and to understand many of the intricacies of brain and behaviour, even in mammals. The phenotypical analysis of these mutant animals is complicated because the potential outcome of gene manipulation is difficult to predict. While behavioural analysis should form an integral part of any multidisciplinary research programme investigating the phenotypical effects of single genes on hippocampal function, it is crucial that the behavioural tests are designed and conducted appropriately. Approaches that take species-specific behavioural characteristics into account and use ethological methods could be the most useful for interpreting these behavioural findings and understanding the biological mechanisms of brain function.
Cholinergic neurons originating in the basal forebrain innervate all cortical areas and participate in the gating of cortical information processing. Aberrations in the excitability of cortical cholinergic inputs fundamentally alter the processing of sensory stimuli and higher processes, thereby advancing the development of major neuropsychiatric disorders. Cortical cholinergic deafferentation has been considered to be a major neuropathological variable that contributes to the development of age- and dementia-associated impairments in cognition. Conversely, it has been suggested that increases in the excitability of cortical cholinergic inputs mediate the abnormal cognitive processes that escalate into psychotic symptoms and contribute to addictive-drug-seeking behavior, anxiety and phobia. Abnormal regulation of the excitability of cortical cholinergic afferents represents a 'final common pathway' that mediates the manifestation of major neuropsychiatric disorders.
Turning off a fixation point prior to or coincident with the appearance of a visual target reduces the latency of saccades to that target. We investigated this 'gap effect' when subjects fixated a central point or the center of a square formed by four points that were 4, 2 or 1 degree eccentric from the square's center. The fixation anchor vanished 200 ms prior to the appearance of a saccadic target in a Gap condition, coincident with the target's appearance in a 0-Gap condition, or remained on in an Overlap condition. Saccadic reaction time was reduced in the Gap relative to 0-Gap condition irrespective of the type of fixation anchor. However, saccadic reaction time was not reduced in the 0-Gap relative to Overlap condition when the points forming the square had eccentricities of 2 or 4 degrees. Results are interpreted in terms of a partial mediation of the gap effect by fixation cells in the rostral pole of the superior colliculus.

Vestibular compensation is a central nervous system process resulting in recovery of functional movement and control following a unilateral vestibular lesion. Small pressure injections of phosphorothioate 20mer oligonucleotides were used to probe the role of the Fos transcription protein during vestibular compensation in the gerbil brainstem. During isoflurane gas anesthesia, antisense probes against the c-fos mRNA sequence were injected into the medial vestibular and prepositus nuclei unilaterally prior to a unilateral surgical labyrinthectomy. Anionic dyes, which did not interact with the oligonucleotides, were used to mark the injection site and help determine the extent of diffusion. The antiFos oligonucleotide injections reduced Fos expression at the injection site in neurons which normally express Fos after the lesion, and also affected circling behavior induced by hemilabyrinthectomy. With both ipsilateral and contralateral medial vestibular and prepositus nuclei injections, less ipsilateral and more contralateral circling was noted in animals injected with antiFos injections as compared to non-injected controls. The degree of change in these behaviors was dependent upon the side of the injection. Histologically, antiFos injections reduced the number of Fos immunolabeled neurons around the injection site, and increased Fos expression contralaterally. The correlation of the number of neurons with Fos expression to turning behavior was stronger for contralateral versus ipsilateral turns, and for neurons in the caudal and ipsilateral sub-regions of the medial vestibular and prepositus nuclei. The results are discussed in terms of neuronal firing activity versus translational activity based on the asymmetrical expression of the Fos inducible transcription factor in the medial vestibular and prepositus nuclei. Although ubiquitous in the brain, transcription factors like Fos can serve localized and specific roles in sensory-specific adaptive stimuli. Antisense injections can be an effective procedure for localized intervention into complex physiological functions, e.g. vestibular compensation.
Gonadotropin-releasing-hormone immunopositive (GnRH+) neurons were identified in juvenile and adult male Syrian hamsters. There were significantly fewer GnRH+ cells in the diagonal band of Broca/organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (DBB/OVLT) and medial septum (MS) in adults as compared to juvenile males, while no cell number difference was found in the preoptic area (POA). The decrease in cell number likely reflects reduced somal stores of GnRH in DBB/OVLT and MS, suggesting that these subpopulations promote increased GnRH release during pubertal maturation in male hamsters.
We tested the hypothesis that the post-hypoxia frequency decline of phrenic nerve activity following brief, isocapnic hypoxic episodes in rats is diminished by prior hypoxic episodes and alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonism. Anesthetized (urethane), artificially ventilated (FIO2=0.50) and vagotomized rats were presented with two or three, 5 min episodes of isocapnic hypoxia (FIO2 approximately 0.11), separated by 30 min of control, hyperoxic conditions. Phrenic nerve discharge, end-tidal CO2, and arterial blood gases were measured before during and after hypoxia. The average maximum frequency decline, measured 5 min after the first hypoxic episode, was 26+/-7 bursts/min below pre-hypoxic baseline values (a 70+/-16% decrease). By 30 min post-hypoxia, frequency had returned to baseline. Two groups of rats were then administered either: (1) saline (sham) or (2) the alpha2-receptor antagonist, RX821002 HCl (2-[2-(2-Methoxy-1,4-benzodioxanyl)] imidazoline hydrochloride; 0.25 mg/kg, i.v.). Isocapnic hypoxia was repeated 10 min later. In sham rats, the post-hypoxia frequency decline (PHFD) was significantly attenuated relative to the initial (control) response. However, PHFD was attenuated significantly more in RX821002-treated vs. sham rats (-3+/-3 bursts/min vs. -12+/-4 bursts/min @ 5 min post hypoxia for RX821002 and sham-treated, respectively; p&lt;0.05). We conclude that the magnitude of PHFD is dependent on the prior history of hypoxia and that alpha2 adrenoreceptor activation plays a role in its underlying mechanism.
The developing nervous system is extremely sensitive to ethanol, and exposure often produces a condition known as the fetal alcohol syndrome. Although mechanisms underlying developmental ethanol toxicity have long been sought, they remain poorly understood. In this study, we examined the ability of the cell death repressor gene bcl-2 to protect against ethanol neurotoxicity. Transgenic mice overexpressing bcl-2 in neurons were exposed to ethanol vapor on postnatal days 4 and 5, which is the peak period of vulnerability of cerebellar Purkinje cells to ethanol. While exposure of wild-type animals to ethanol resulted in significant loss of Purkinje cells by P5, similar exposure of homozygous and heterozygous transgenics had no effect on the number of these neurons. This study suggests that bcl-2 can protect neurons from ethanol neurotoxicity and that modulation of cell death effector or repressor gene products may play a significant role in developmental ethanol neurotoxicity.
The present study examined the efficacy of single and combined treatment with an anticholinesterase, tetrahydroaminoacridine (i.p.), and a glycine-B site partial agonist, D-cycloserine (i.p.; a positive allosteric modulator of NMDA receptors), in alleviating the deficit in water maze spatial navigation induced by electrolytic lesion of the medial septum or lidocaine infusion into the dorsal hippocampi. In medial septum-lesioned rats, a combination of tetrahydroaminoacridine 3 mg kg(-1) and D-cycloserine 10 mg kg(-1) facilitated acquisition of the water maze test more effectively than either of the drugs alone. Single or combined treatment with tetrahydroaminoacridine 3 mg kg(-1) and D-cycloserine 10 mg kg(-1) had no effect on the water maze deficit induced by hippocampal lidocaine infusion. These results suggest that combined treatment with tetrahydroaminoacridine and D-cycloserine can effectively stimulate water maze spatial navigation, and that functioning of the hippocampus is a prerequisite for this effect.
We have isolated a cDNA (bv7-3) encoding a member of the Na+,Cl(-)-dependent transporter family and its short splicing variant (bv7-3s) by screening a bovine retina cDNA library. Sequence analysis revealed that bv7-3 encodes a protein of 729 amino acids and is a bovine homologue of the rat orphan transporter v7-3-2. bv7-3s contains 265 amino acids, sharing 252 N-terminal amino acids with bv7-3. Both mRNAs for bv7-3 and bv7-3s were detected in nervous system by Northern blot analysis. In immunofluorescence analysis in transfected HEK 293T cells, myc-tagged bv7-3 was mainly detected on the plasma membrane, whereas myc-tagged bv7-3s showed a pattern of intracellular membrane staining.
The production and regulated secretion of bioactive peptides require a series of lumenal enzymes to convert inactive precursors into bioactive peptides plus several cytosolic proteins to govern granule formation, maturation, translocation, and exocytosis. Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an enzyme essential for biosynthesis of many peptides, is an integral membrane protein with trafficking information in both its lumenal and cytosolic domains. Kalirin, a PAM cytosolic domain interactor protein with spectrin-like repeats and GDP/GTP exchange factor activity for Rac1, is expressed with PAM in neurons but is not expressed in the anterior pituitary or AtT-20 corticotrope cells. Expression of Kalirin alters the cytoskeletal organization of Chinese hamster ovary and AtT-20 cells expressing membrane PAM. Expression of membrane PAM also alters cytoskeletal organization, demonstrating the presence of endogenous proteins that can mediate this effect. Significant amounts of both PAM and Kalirin fractionate with cytoskeletal elements. Since cytoskeletal organization is critical for exocytosis, constitutive-like and regulated secretions were evaluated. Whereas the constitutive-like secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is increased by expression of membrane PAM, regulated secretion is eliminated. Expression of Kalirin in AtT-20 cells expressing membrane PAM restores stimulated secretion of ACTH. Thus, Kalirin or its homologue may be essential for regulated secretion, and the PAM-Kalirin interaction may coordinate intragranular with cytosolic events.
Judgement of the emotional tone of a spoken utterance is influenced by a simultaneously presented face expression. The time course of this integration was investigated by measuring the mismatch negativity (MMN). In one condition, the standard stimulus was an angry voice fragment combined with a (congruous) angry face expression. In the deviant pair, the voice expression was kept the same and only the face expression changed to an (incongruous) sad face. The pairs with a deviant visual item evoked a negative electric brain response showing the characteristics of the MMN, which is usually evoked only by auditory deviations. Similar results were obtained by employing incongruous standard and congruous deviant pairs. These findings provide compelling evidence of an early integration of face with voice information in the processing of affect.
Brief monocular deprivation during early postnatal development can lead to a depression of synaptic transmission that renders visual cortical neurons unresponsive to subsequent visual stimulation through the deprived eye. The Bienenstock-Cooper-Munro (BCM) theory proposes that homosynaptic mechanisms of long-term depression (LTD) account for the deprivation effects. Homosynaptic depression, by definition, occurs only at active synapses. Thus, in contrast to the commonly held view that the synaptic depression caused by monocular deprivation is simply a result of retinal inactivity, this theoretical framework indicates that the synaptic depression may actually be driven by the residual activity in the visually deprived retina. Here we examine the validity of this idea by comparing the consequences of brief monocular deprivation by lid suture with those of monocular inactivation by intra-ocular treatment with tetrodotoxin. Lid suture leaves the retina spontaneously active, whereas tetrodotoxin eliminates all activity. In agreement with the BCM theory, our results show that monocular lid suture causes a significantly greater depression of deprived-eye responses in kitten visual cortex than does treatment with tetrodotoxin. These findings have important implications for mechanisms of experience-dependent plasticity in the neocortex.
The forced expression of the catalytic subunit of human telomerase, hTERT, produces telomerase activity, allows telomere maintenance, and extends the cellular life span of IMR90 human lung fibroblasts. The mutation D869A abolishes both the catalytic activity of hTERT and its ability to extend cellular life span, demonstrating that the immortalizing capabilities of the enzyme are dependent on active catalysis. A second mutant of hTERT was examined that contains three copies of an HA epitope inserted at the C-terminus. This mutant produced telomerase activity in fibroblasts that was virtually indistinguishable from that of wild type telomerase when assayed in vitro. However, the forced expression of this mutant failed to maintain telomeres or extend cellular life span. Our results show that the catalytic activity of hTERT is required for cellular immortalization but that the presence of active telomerase does not necessarily imply telomere maintenance and immortality.

Blood flow to the rat choroid plexus has minimal variability when plasma angiotensin II (AII) concentration is changed within a broad range of levels. We tested the hypothesis that a complex interplay of the vasoconstrictor and vasodilator AII actions in choroidal tissue results in small net changes in choroidal blood flow. Blood flow was measured with 123I- or 125I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine. AII was infused intravenously (i.v.) at 30 (moderate dose) and 300 ng kg-1 min-1 (high dose), which respectively decreased (15%) and did not change choroidal blood flow. To determine whether AII regulates choroidal blood flow by interacting with the sympathetic nervous system, rats were given phentolamine (1 mg kg-1, i.v.). This alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist by itself did not alter blood flow; however, it attenuated the blood flow-lowering effect of moderate AII dose. Phentolamine also unmasked the vasodilator AII actions at high peptide concentration. beta-Adrenoceptor blockade, with propranolol (1 mg kg-1, i.v.), reduced blood flow (18-20%) and increased vascular resistance (23-26%). During beta-adrenoceptor blockade, a further decrease in blood flow (15-21%) and increase in vascular resistance (23%) was noted when high AII dose was administered. The direct vasoconstrictor effect of AII at moderate dose on choroidal vasculature was examined in rats subjected to chronic bilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy. In these animals, AII decreased blood flow (24%) and increased vascular resistance (24%). To find out whether the hemodynamic AII actions in choroidal tissue are mediated by nitric oxide (NO), Nomega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) was used. l-NAME (0.1 mg kg-1, i.v.) by itself did not alter blood flow; however, in l-NAME-treated rats high AII dose lowered blood flow (25-32%) and increased vascular resistance (30-43%). We conclude that the vasoconstrictor AII actions involve a direct peptide effect on the choroidal vascular bed, and the AII-mediated potentiation of sympathetic activity, which results in the activation of alpha-adrenoceptors. The AII-mediated stimulation of sympathetic nerves also results in the beta-adrenoceptor-dependent relaxation of choroidal blood vessels. In addition, choroidal vasodilatory actions of AII are NO-mediated.
In New Zealand white rabbits, cholera-toxin HRP was injected into the carotid sinus nerve just proximal to the carotid sinus. After survival periods of 3-5 days the rabbits were anesthetized and the brain fixed with aldehyde solution. Transverse sections were cut on a sledge microtome and the sections reacted with the tetramethylbenzidine procedure. HRP-positive fibers entered the ipsilateral dorsolateral medulla at the level of the acoustic tubercle, joining the tractus solitarius. Positive fibres were found principally ipsilaterally in four regions of the medulla: in the caudal two thirds of the nucleus tractus solitarius, in its dorsolateral regions and, more caudally, in its commissural subdivision; in the dorsolateral aspect of the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve; in the region ventral and ventrolateral to the tractus solitarius (extending beyond the nucleus tractus solitarius); and in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata.
Twitcher (twi/twi) is a murine model of genetic demyelinating disease globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD). Available data suggest that demyelination in GLD is caused by degeneration or dysfunction of myelin-forming cells resulting from an accumulation of psychosine, a toxic substrate of galactosylceramidase and a potent inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC). We investigated proliferation and differentiation of twi/twi Schwann cells in response to forskolin, an adenylate cyclase activator. In twi/twi Schwann cells isolated at the postnatal day (P) 10 prior to the onset of demyelination, proliferation and an expression of the surface galactocerebroside (galC) in response to forskolin were similar to those of +/+ mice. However, in twi/twi Schwann cells isolated from demyelinating sciatic nerves at P20 or P30, fewer numbers of cells expressed surface galC compared to age matched control (+/+) Schwann cells. In all Schwann cells, surface galC expression was lost after 3 days in vitro (DIV). However, with an administration of 50 microM forskolin in the media containing 1% fetal bovine serum (FBS) on the 4 DIV, surface galC could be reexpressed in all +/+ and P10 twi/twi Schwann cells but not in P20 or P30 twi/twi cells. In the media containing 10% FBS, forskolin also stimulated proliferation of Schwann cells from P10 twi/twi, and P10 and P30+/+ mice but not those from P30 twi/twi mice. These results are consistent with a metabolic perturbation of twi/twi Schwann cells that may be reflecting cellular dysfunctions by inhibition of the PKC.
Interpretation of data from gene targeting studies can be confounded by the inherent traits of the background inbred strains used in the generation of transgenic and null mutant mice. We have therefore compared the behaviour and response to CNS injury of four inbred strains commonly used in molecular genetic studies to produce models of neurological disease. Adult, male 129/Ola, BALB/c, C57BL/6 and FVB/N mice (2-4 months) were initially subjected to behavioural tests that comprised a neurological examination, determination of motor function and cognitive testing in the Morris water maze. Also the response to CNS injury following an acute kainic acid (KA) challenge (30 mg kg-1, i.p.) was determined. The 129/Ola and BALB/c strains showed significant motor deficits when compared with the C57BL/6 and FVB/N strains. In contrast, only the FVB/N strain showed evidence of apparent cognitive impairments in the water maze as evidenced by increased pathlengths to locate the escape platforms and impaired performance in a probe trial. In addition, the FVB/N strain showed the most severe seizure response and mortality rate (62%) following administration of KA (30 mg kg-1, i.p.). These behavioural changes were also associated with a greater degree of cell body and synaptophysin loss in the pyramidal CA3 hippocampal cell layer and astrogliosis 72-h post-dose. These data suggest that the FVB/N strain may not be the most suitable background strain for the development of new transgenic mice for the study of genes implicated in the learning and memory process.
Dopamine receptor-coupled stimulation of inositol phosphate formation has been characterized extensively, but little is known about the diacylglycerol arm of this dual-signaling pathway. This study examined several parameters of cytidine diphosphate-diacylglycerol (CDP-DG) accumulation as an index of agonist-stimulated DG formation. Rat brain slices pre-labeled with 5-[3H]cytidine were incubated with various test agents in the presence of LiCl and accumulated CDP-DG analyzed. Dopamine and SKF38393 significantly and dose-dependently stimulated CDP-DG accumulation. SKF38393 responses were inhibited by neomycin and reversed by myo-inositol or by exclusion of LiCl. Compared to inositol phosphate formation in 2-[3H]inositol-prelabeled slices, the CDP-DG responses were proportionately greater, while the agonist EC50 values were similar between the two assays. The D1-receptor antagonist SCH23390 inhibited SKF38393-mediated responses at 0.1-10 microM concentrations, whereas greater concentrations reversed the inhibition. SKF38393 effects were completely blocked by the DG kinase inhibitor R59022, thus precluding any role for phospholipase-D or de novo phosphatidate synthesis in the dopaminergic response. D609 which inhibits phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase-C (PLC), potently inhibited both CDP-DG accumulation and inositol phosphate formation. These findings demonstrate that the selective D1-receptor antagonist SCH23390 is a partial agonist at the D1-like dopamine receptor that couples to phosphoinositide signaling, that dopaminergic facilitation of phosphoinositide signaling is independent of de novo phosphatidate synthesis, and that the widely used enzyme inhibitor, D-609, is probably not selective for phosphatidylcholine-specific PLC in brain slice preparations. The greater sensitivity of the CDP-DG measurement presents this assay as a reliable and possibly superior index of dopamine receptor-coupled PLC activation in intact tissues.
GABABR1 clones were isolated from a human cerebellum library. The human sequence is very similar to rat GABABR1 with the cDNAs sharing 91.3% sequence identity and the receptors sharing 98.6% amino acid sequence identity. Northern blotting has shown that the receptor is brain-specific with a widespread distribution throughout the brain but none detected in the spinal cord.
Hypothalamic neuropeptides play critical roles in the regulation of appetite and body weight. We recently reported that disruption of neural signaling in the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) by microinjection of the neurotoxin, colchicine (COL), produced transient hyperphagia with attendant body weight gain lasting for 4 days. The neural mechanism(s) underlying this temporary shift in energy homeostasis is still unknown. Galanin (GAL) is produced in several hypothalamic nuclei and since microinjection of GAL into these sites stimulates feeding, we tested the hypothesis that galaninergic signaling is upregulated in COL-treated rats. COL (4 microgram in 0.5 microliter saline) or saline alone was microinjected into the VMN of adult male rats and GAL mRNA was evaluated in the basal hypothalamus by ribonuclease protection assay on day 1, day 2 and day 4 after injection. Whereas in saline-treated rats body weight and GAL mRNA remained unaffected, they were significantly increased in COL-injected rats through the period of observation. To identify the specific neuronal subpopulations involved, GAL mRNA levels were analyzed in feeding-related hypothalamic nuclei using semiquantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry on day 4 after microinjection of COL or saline into the VMN. In COL-treated rats, GAL mRNA levels increased dramatically over controls in the supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus (PVN), dorsomedial nucleus (DMN), arcuate nucleus (ARC) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA); no significant change was observed in the central nucleus of amygdala. These results indicated that disruption of neurotransmission in the VMN upregulated GAL gene expression in those hypothalamic sites (PVN, DMN, LHA and ARC) that are implicated in regulation of feeding, and since GAL stimulates feeding, this neurochemical rearrangement may contribute to the over-eating in these animals. These results also suggest that, normally, neurons in the VMN may suppress GAL neurotransmission in feeding-regulating hypothalamic neural circuits.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a potent broad spectrum anticonvulsant with demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of Bipolar Affective Disorder, but the biochemical basis for VPA's antimanic or mood-stabilizing actions have not been fully elucidated. It has been demonstrated that VPA, at therapeutically relevant concentrations, increases AP-1 DNA binding activity in cultured cells in vitro. These findings raise the possibility that VPA may produce its mood-stabilizing effects by regulating the expression of subsets of genes via its effects on the AP-1 family of transcription factors. To determine if VPA does, in fact, enhance AP-1 mediated gene expression, the effects of VPA on the expression of a luciferase reporter gene were studied in transiently transfected rat C6 glioma and human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells using the pGL2-control vector. The luciferase gene in the vector is driven by an SV40 promoter which contains well characterized AP-1 sites. VPA produced a greater than doubling of luciferase activity in a time- and concentration-dependent manner in both cell lines. Furthermore, mutations of the AP-1 sites in the SV40 promoter markedly attenuated the VPA-induced increases in luciferase activity. These effects of VPA on AP-1 mediated gene expression are very similar to the effects observed with lithium, and suggest that the temporal regulation of AP-1 mediated gene expression in critical neuronal circuits may play a role in the long-term therapeutic efficacy of these agents.
The effects of adenosine receptor ligands and three novel pyrazolopyridine derivatives on guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding to rat cerebral cortical membranes were examined. [35S]GTPgammaS binding was stimulated in a concentration dependent manner by several adenosine receptor agonists. The adenosine A2a receptor selective agonist, 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680), was ineffective confirming specificity for adenosine A1 receptor activation. 2-Chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA; 10(-7) M)-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was inhibited by xanthine and pyrazolopyridine based adenosine receptor antagonists. The concentration-response curve for CCPA-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was shifted to the right with increasing concentrations of antagonist without significant changes in maximal response. Schild analyses determined pK(B) values of 8.97, 8.88, 8.21, 8.16, 7.79 and 7.65 for 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5a]pyridin-3-yl) acryloyl]-2-piperidine ethanol (FK453), 6-oxo-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5a]pyridin-3-yl)-1(6H)-pyridazinebutyric+ ++ acid (FK838), 9-chloro-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]triazolo-[1,5c]quinazolin-5-amine (CGS 15943), 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-methylxanthine (CPT) and (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1,5a]pyridin-3-yl) acryloyl]-piperidin-2-yl acetic acid (FK352), respectively. Schild slopes were close to unity, confirming that these novel pyrazolopyridine derivatives act as competitive antagonists at rat brain adenosine A1 receptors.
The purpose of the current study was to assess neuropeptidergic alterations during a phase of the drug addiction cycle associated with drug craving as compared to a time period when the drug had been recently self-administered. Male Wistar rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine, heroin or saline for 6 h for 5 consecutive days. Immediately following the last self-administration session ('acute drug on board' state), and just before the next scheduled session ('drug expecting' state), the animals were decapitated and the levels of dynorphin A and B, [Met5]- and [Leu5]-enkephalin and substance P were measured in different brain areas. During the 'acute drug on board' state, peptide levels in animals that self-administered heroin or cocaine were not significantly changed. In contrast, during the 'drug expecting' state, heroin-treated animals had increased levels of dynorphin A, dynorphin B and [Met5]-enkephalin in the caudal striatum as compared to the cocaine- and saline-treated animals, and the level of [Leu5]-enkephalin was increased as compared to the cocaine-treated group. In the septum, an increase of [Met5]-enkephalin and substance P was observed in the animals expecting heroin as compared to the saline- and/or cocaine-treated animals. In the caudal striatum, substance P levels were elevated in the heroin- and cocaine-expecting animals. In conclusion, heroin, as compared to cocaine, appears to have a more pronounced effect on dynorphin, enkephalin and substance P levels in the caudal striatum and septum, especially during periods when self-administration of the drug is expected.
The neural cell adhesion molecule, N-CAM, is expressed on the surface of astrocytes and neurons, and N-CAM homophilic binding has been shown to alter gene expression in both of these cell types. To determine mechanisms by which N-CAM regulates gene expression, we have analyzed DNA binding of and transcriptional activation by NF-kappaB after N-CAM binding to the cell surface. Addition of purified N-CAM, the recombinant third immunoglobulin domain of N-CAM, or N-CAM antibodies either to neonatal rat forebrain astrocytes or to cerebellar granule neurons increased NF-kappaB/DNA binding activity in nuclear extracts as measured by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Analysis using supershifting antibodies indicated that, in both cell types, p50 and p65 but not p52, c-Rel, or Rel B were contained in the NF-kappaB-binding complex. NF-kappaB-mediated transcription was increased after N-CAM binding to astrocytes and neurons as demonstrated by the activation of two different luciferase reporter constructs containing NF-kappaB-binding sites. N-CAM binding also resulted in degradation of IkappaB-alpha protein followed by an increase in the levels of IkappaB-alpha mRNA and protein. These results indicate that N-CAM homophilic binding at the cell membrane leads to increased NF-kappaB binding to DNA and transcriptional activation in both neurons and astrocytes. Activation of NF-kappaB, however, did not influence the previously reported ability of N-CAM to inhibit astrocyte proliferation. These observations together support the hypothesis that N-CAM binding activates multiple pathways leading to changes in gene expression in both astrocytes and neurons.
alpha1-Syntrophin is a member of the family of dystrophin-associated proteins and is strongly expressed in the sarcolemma and the neuromuscular junctions. All three syntrophin isoforms have a PDZ domain that appears to participate in protein-protein interactions at the plasma membrane. alpha1-Syntrophin has additionally been shown to associate with neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) through PDZ domains in vitro. These observations suggest that alpha1-syntrophin may work as a modular adaptor protein that can link nNOS or other signaling enzyme to the sarcolemmal dystrophin complex. In the sarcolemma, nNOS regulates the homeostasis of reactive free radical species and may contribute to the oxidative damage to muscle protein in muscle disease such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy. In this study, we generated alpha1-syntrophin knock-out mice to clarify the interaction between alpha1-syntrophin and nNOS in the skeletal muscle. We observed that nNOS, normally expressed in the sarcolemma, was largely absent from the sarcolemma, but considerably remained in the cytosol of the knock-out mice. Even though the distribution of nNOS was altered, the knock-out mice displayed no gross histological changes in the skeletal muscle. We also discovered that muscle contractile properties have not been influenced in the knock-out mice.
The beta-R1/I-TAC (interferon-inducible T-cell alpha-chemoattractant) gene encodes an alpha-chemokine that is a potent chemoattractant for activated T-cells. We previously reported that beta-R1 was selectively induced by interferon (IFN)-beta compared with IFN-alpha and that the canonical type I IFN transcription factor interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) was necessary but not sufficient for beta-R1 induction by IFN-beta. These findings suggested that beta-R1 induction by IFN-beta required an accessory component. To begin characterizing this signaling pathway, we examined the function of TYK2 protein in the IFN-beta-mediated induction of beta-R1. This study was motivated by the observation that beta-R1 could not be induced in TYK2-deficient U1 cells by IFN-beta (Rani, M. R. S., Foster, G. R., Leung, S., Leaman, D., Stark, G. R., and Ransohoff, R. M. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 22878-22884), an unexpected result because IFN-beta evokes substantial expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) in U1 cells through a TYK2-independent pathway. We now report beta-R1 expression patterns in U1 cells complemented with wild-type or mutant TYK2 proteins. Complementation with wild-type TYK2 rescued IFN-beta-inducible expression of beta-R1. Cells expressing kinase-deficient deletion or point mutants of TYK2 were refractory to induction of beta-R1 by IFN-beta despite robust expression of other ISGs. Transient transfection analysis of a beta-R1 promoter-reporter confirmed that transcriptional activation of beta-R1 by IFN-beta required competent TYK2 kinase. These studies indicate that the catalytic function of TYK2 is required for IFN-beta-mediated induction of beta-R1. Catalytic TYK2 is the first identified component in an accessory signaling pathway that supplements ISGF3/interferon-stimulated response element signaling for gene induction by type I IFNs.
The phosphorylation state of three identified neural-specific protein kinase C substrates (RC3, GAP-43/B-50, and MARCKS) was monitored in hippocampal slices of mice lacking the gamma-subtype of protein kinase C and wild-type controls by quantitative immunoprecipitation following 32Pi labeling. Depolarization with potassium, activation of glutamate receptors with glutamate, or direct stimulation of protein kinase C with a phorbol ester increased RC3 phosphorylation in wild-type animals but failed to affect RC3 phosphorylation in mice lacking the gamma-subtype of protein kinase C. Our results suggests the following biochemical pathway: activation of a postsynaptic (metabotropic) glutamate receptor stimulates the gamma-subtype of protein kinase C, which in turn phosphorylates RC3. The inability to increase RC3 phosphorylation in mice lacking the gamma-subtype of protein kinase C by membrane depolarization or glutamate receptor activation may contribute to the spatial learning deficits and impaired hippocampal LTP observed in these mice.
The sensorimotor cortex (SMC) establishes a functional connectivity with the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). These bulbar nuclei are known to contain catecholaminergic neurones involved in the cardiovascular control. The aim of the present study was to establish the proportion of catecholaminergic neurones activated by electrical stimulation of SMC. For this purpose, double immunocytochemical procedures were used to reveal the distribution of Fos protein and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The results showed that, in the NTS, 7% of the neurones immunoreactive for TH expressed Fos-protein, versus 34% in the RVLM. These data provide evidence that the SMC activated preferentially catecholaminergic neurones of the RVLM which are known to be involved in cardiovascular control via spinal preganglionic neurones.
An immunohistochemical study was undertaken to examine the changes of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the nucleus gracilis of rats following sciatic nerve transection. The results showed that BDNF-immunoreactivity (-ir) in the gracile nucleus was significantly increased after the nerve injury. The upregulation was apparent 24 h after nerve lesion, remaining robust up to 56 days postlesion. The increase in BDNF-ir was blocked by hemisection of the spinal cord, or by dorsal rhizotomy ipsilateral to the lesion. NPY-ir changes were similar to those of BDNF-ir, but the onset was delayed by 7 days. No NPY-ir was detected in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) from normal animals. Following sciatic nerve lesion, most of the NPY-immunoreactive neurones were found to be colocalized with BDNF-immunoreactive neurones. Neutralization of endogenous BDNF with its antiserum had no effects on NPY-ir in either the gracile nucleus or DRG. These results indicate that neurones contributing to the dorsal ascending sensory pathway upregulate the expression of both BDNF and NPY in response to sciatic nerve injury.
Inward Ca2+ current through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels was recorded from freshly dissociated crayfish X-organ (XO) neurones using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. Changing the holding potential from -50 to -90 mV had little effect on the characteristics of the current-voltage relationship: neither the time course nor the amplitude of the Ca2+ current was affected. Inactivation of the Ca2+ current was observed over a small voltage range, between -35 and -10 mV, with half-inactivation at -20 mV. The activation of the Ca2+ current was modelled using Hodgkin-Huxley kinetics. The time constant of activation, &amp;tgr; m, was 568+/-66 micros at -20 mV and decreased gradually to 171+/-23 micros at 40 mV (means +/- s.e.m., N=5). The steady-state activation, m(infinity), was fitted with a Boltzmann function, with a half-activation voltage of -7.45 mV and an apparent threshold at -40 mV. The instantaneous current-voltage relationship was adjusted using the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz constant-field equation, giving a permeation of 4.95x10(-5 )cm s-1. The inactivation of the Ca2+ current in XO neurones was dependent on previous entry of Ca2+. Using a double-pulse protocol, the inactivation was fitted to a U-shaped curve with a maximal inactivation of 35 % at 30 mV. The time course of the recovery from inactivation was fitted with an exponential function. The time constants were 17+/-2.6 ms for a prepulse of 10 ms and 31+/-3.2 ms for a prepulse of 20 ms. The permeability sequence of the Ca2+ channels was as follows: Ba2+&gt;Sr2+~Ca2+&gt;Mg2+. Other divalent cations blocked the Ca2+ current, and their effects were voltage-dependent; the potency of blockage was Cd2+~Zn2+&gt;Co2+~Ni2+. The peptide &amp;ohgr; -agatoxin-IVA, a selective toxin for P-type Ca2+ channels, blocked 85 % of the Ca2+ current in XO neurones at 200 nmol l-1, but the current was insensitive to dihydropyridines, phenylalkylamines, &amp;ohgr; -conotoxin-GVIA and &amp;ohgr; -conotoxin-MVIIC, which are blockers of L-, N- and Q-type Ca2+ channels, respectively. From the voltage- and Ca2+-dependent kinetics, the higher permeability to Ba2+ than to Ca2+ and the higher sensitivity of the current to Cd2+ than to Ni2+, we conclude that the Ca2+ current in XO neurones is generated by high-voltage-activated (HVA) channels. Furthermore, its blockage by &amp;ohgr; -agatoxin-IVA suggests that it is mainly generated through P-type Ca2+ channels.
The microtubule network is thought to be used for long-range transport of cellular components in animal cells whereas the actin network is proposed to be used for short-range transport, although the mechanism(s) by which this transport is coordinated is poorly understood. For example, in sea urchins long-range Ca2+-regulated transport of exocytotic vesicles requires a microtubule-based motor, whereas an actin-based motor is used for short-range transport. In neurons, microtubule-based kinesin motor proteins are used for long-range vesicular transport but microtubules do not extend into the neuronal termini, where actin filaments form the cytoskeletal framework, and kinesins are rapidly degraded upon their arrival in neuronal termini, indicating that vesicles may have to be transferred from microtubules to actin tracks to reach their final destination. Here we show that an actin-based vesicle-transport motor, MyoVA, can interact directly with a microtubule-based transport motor, KhcU. As would be expected if these complexes were functional, they also contain kinesin light chains and the localization of MyoVA and KhcU overlaps in the cell. These results indicate that cellular transport is, in part, coordinated through the direct interaction of different motor molecules.
This study investigated the intraarterial delivery of genetically engineered replication-deficient adenovirus vectors (AVs) and cationic liposome-plasmid DNA complexes (lipoDNA) to experimental brain tumors. Adenovirus or lipoDNA was injected into the internal carotid artery (ICA) of F344 rats harboring intracerebral 9L gliosarcomas, using bradykinin (BK) to selectively permeabilize the blood-tumor barrier (BTB). Brain and internal organs of the animals were collected 48 hr after vector injection and stained for expression of the marker gene product, beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal). Intracarotid delivery of AV to 9L rat gliosarcoma without BTB disruption resulted in transgene expression in 3-10% of tumor cells distributed throughout the tumor. Virus-mediated expression of beta-gal gene products in this tumor model was particularly high in small foci (&lt; or = 0.5 mm), which had invaded the normal brain tissue surrounding the main tumor mass. In these foci more than 50% of tumor cells were transduced. BK infusion increased the amount of transgene-expressing cells in larger tumor foci to 15-30%. In the brain parenchyma only a few endothelial cells expressed beta-gal owing to AV-mediated gene transfer. Intracarotid delivery of lipoDNA bearing a cytoplasmic expression cassette rendered more than 30% of the tumor cells positive for the marker gene without BTB disruption. The pattern of distribution was in general homogeneous throughout the tumor. BK infusion was able to increase further the number of transduced tumor cells to more than 50%. Although lipoDNA-mediated gene transfer showed increased efficacy as compared with AV-mediated gene transfer, it had less specificity since a larger number of endothelial and glial cells also expressed the transgene. AV and lipoDNA injections, in the absence and presence of BK, also resulted in transduction of peripheral organs. AV showed its known predilection for liver and lung. In the case of lipoDNA, parenchymal organs such as liver, lung, testes, lymphatic nodes, and especially spleen, were transduced. These findings indicate that intracarotid application of AV and lipoDNA vectors can effectively transduce tumor cells in the brain, and that BTB modulation by BK infusion can further increase the number of transgene-expressing tumor cells.
High levels of D-serine occur in mammalian brain, where it appears to be an endogenous ligand of the glycine site of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In glial cultures of rat cerebral cortex, D-serine is enriched in type II astrocytes and is released upon stimulation with agonists of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors. The high levels of D-serine in discrete areas of rat brain imply the existence of a biosynthetic pathway. We have purified from rat brain a soluble enzyme that catalyzes the direct racemization of L-serine to D-serine. Purified serine racemase has a molecular mass of 37 kDa and requires pyridoxal 5'-phosphate for its activity. The enzyme is highly selective toward L-serine, failing to racemize any other amino acid tested. Properties such as pH optimum, Km values, and the requirement for pyridoxal phosphate resemble those of bacterial racemases, suggesting that the biosynthetic pathway for D-amino acids is conserved from bacteria to mammalian brain.
The excessive generation and accumulation of 40- and 42-aa beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta40/Abeta42) in selectively vulnerable brain regions is a major neuropathological feature of Alzheimer's disease. Abeta, derived by proteolytic cleavage from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP), is normally secreted. However, recent evidence suggests that significant levels of Abeta also may remain inside cells. Here, we have investigated the subcellular compartments within which distinct amyloid species are generated and the compartments from which they are secreted. Three experimental approaches were used: (i) immunofluorescence performed in intact cortical neurons; (ii) sucrose gradient fractionation performed with mouse neuroblastoma cells stably expressing wild-type betaAPP695 (N2a695); and (iii) cell-free reconstitution of Abeta generation and trafficking from N2a695 cells. These studies demonstrate that: (i) Abeta40 (Abeta1-40 plus Abetax-40, where x is an NH2-terminal truncation) is generated exclusively within the trans-Golgi Network (TGN) and packaged into post-TGN secretory vesicles; (ii) Abetax-42 is made and retained within the endoplasmic reticulum in an insoluble state; (iii) Abeta42 (Abeta1-42 plus Abetax-42) is made in the TGN and packaged into secretory vesicles; and (iv) the amyloid peptides formed in the TGN consist of two pools (a soluble population extractable with detergents and a detergent-insoluble form). The identification of the organelles in which distinct forms of Abeta are generated and from which they are secreted should facilitate the identification of the proteolytic enzymes responsible for their formation.
We report a unique isoform of PLCbeta4 in rat, PLCbeta4c, that has an additional 37-nucleotide exon inserted between nucleotides 3459-3460 of the previously published PLCbeta4a coding sequence. This insertion results in replacement of 22 amino acid residues at the carboxyl terminal tail of PLCbeta4a with 41 unique residues. A human EST for PLCbeta4 also contains this exon and this exon was mapped to within a 5.5 kb intron of the human PLCbeta4 gene. PLCbeta4c is the third PLCbeta4 isoform to be identified which has a unique carboxyl-terminal tail. PLCbeta4b differs from PLCbeta4a by truncation 162 amino acid residues from the carboxyl terminus which are replaced with 10 distinct amino acid residues. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments show that both PLCbeta4a and PLCbeta4c mRNA are expressed throughout the rat brain and that PLCbeta4c mRNA is highly expressed in the eye and cerebellum. RNase protection assays demonstrate that both PLCbeta4a and PLCbeta4c transcripts are abundant in the cerebellum. The different carboxyl terminal tails of PLCbeta4 isoforms may allow for differential targeting and subcellular localization, contributing to regulation of PLC beta4-mediated signal transduction.
There is increasing evidence suggesting that beta-amyloid (Abeta) has a direct influence on cholinergic activity. In particular, Abeta has been shown to induce the expression of acetylcholinesterase in the brains of CT-100-expressing transgenic mice and in cell culture experiments. These data indicate a link exists between Abeta production and acetylcholinesterase expression in the human CNS. To test this hypothesis, Abeta levels and cholinesterase activity were measured in 110 human CSF samples. Abeta levels were found to have a significant and positive correlation with cholinesterase activity. This correlation was particularly strong in individuals &gt; 50 years of age. These data support the hypothesis that Abeta can effect cholinergic activity and that this effect may be enhanced in the elderly.
Numerous lines of evidence suggest that some of the neurotoxicity associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is due to proteolytic fragments of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Most research has focused on the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). However, the possible role of other cleaved products of APP is less clear. We have previously shown that a recombinant carboxy-terminal 105 amino acid fragment (CT 105) of APP induced strong non-selective inward currents and also showed neurotoxicity in PC 12 cells and primary cortical neurons and blocked later phase of long term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampus in vivo. In this study, we investigated the effects of CT 105 on Na+-Ca2+ exchanger activity in SK-N-SH human neuroblastoma, in the presence of ouabain and monensin, which are considered to drive Na+-Ca2+ exchanger in the reverse mode. CT 105 inhibited the activity of this exchanger in SK-N-SH cells by approximately 50%.
Behavioral sensitization to chronic amphetamine develops in parallel with an enhancement of amphetamine-stimulated efflux of acetylcholine (ACh) in striatum. The present study investigated the role of NMDA receptors in the latter phenomenon. Rats were treated with either saline (1.0 ml/kg, i.p.) or amphetamine (4.0 mg/kg, i.p., b.i.d.) for 12 days followed by a withdrawal period of 2-3 weeks. In vivo microdialysis was employed to measure striatal ACh efflux. Amphetamine challenge (4.0 mg/kg, i.p.) evoked a significant increase in striatal ACh efflux in rats withdrawn from chronic amphetamine while having no significant effect on ACh efflux in saline-pretreated rats. Inclusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist (+/-)-2-amino-5-phoshonopentanoic acid (APV; 100 microM) in the perfusion solution blocked the amphetamine-induced increase in striatal ACh efflux observed in amphetamine-pretreated rats. In saline-pretreated animals, the presence of APV had no apparent effect on the profile of striatal ACh efflux following amphetamine challenge. Thus, the stimulatory effect of amphetamine challenge on striatal ACh efflux that selectively is observed in animals withdrawn from chronic amphetamine is dependent upon NMDA receptor activation.
The in vivo metabolism of the newly identified endogenous ligand for the ORL1 receptor, the opioid-like peptide nociceptin (orphanin FQ) in rat hippocampus was studied using size-exclusion chromatography linked to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. The results show that nociceptin is metabolized step-wise in vivo into fragments (1-13) and (14-17) as well as (1-9) and (10-13), respectively. Interestingly, the (1-13) and (1-9) fragments have the same C-terminus, Arg-Ala-Lys, suggesting that this is a motif recognized by an enzyme which fragments the peptide in two consecutive steps. Injection of the (1-13) fragment into rat hippocampus had no effect on spatial learning or motor function under conditions where nociceptin is active, showing that this metabolic conversion reduces affinity for the ORL-1-receptor.
To characterize the behavioral consequences of OMP gene deletion on odor processing we assessed the ability of OMP-null animals to acquire an air vs odor discrimination for five odorants, and determined whether OMP-null animals differed from controls in their threshold sensitivity to the odorant propanol. On average, control and OMP-null animals did not differ in the number of testing sessions needed to achieve criterion performance on each discrimination problem (2.04 vs 1.68, respectively; t=0.83, p=0.41). However, null animals were significantly less sensitive to the odorant propanol (3.01 x 10(-8) vs 1.06 x 10(-5), respectively; t=4.09, p=0.015). These in vivo behavioral results provide support for the hypothesis that OMP plays a modulatory role in the odor detection/signal transduction process.
We selectively imaged the neural correlates of tinnitus, by contrasting a condition with no phantom auditory sensation with a condition during which tinnitus is present, using a rare form of tinnitus elicited by eye movements. Using positron emission tomography (PET), we demonstrate that phantom auditory sensation increases regional cerebral blood flow bilaterally in temporo-parietal association auditory areas but not in the primary auditory cortex. These results confirm that conscious perception does not necessarily require activation in primary areas and suggest that the perceptual qualities of tinnitus, e.g. intensity, frequency and spatial localization, are represented in temporo-parietal regions. Activation in these regions is compatible with cortical processing of ascending auditory messages generated at subcortical levels.
The technique of intracranial microdialysis was used to investigate the effects of aging on the striatal dopaminergic system of the anesthetized Fischer 344 rat. Microdialysis probes were implanted into the striatum of young (2-8 months) and aged (24-28 months) urethane anesthetized rats. Striatal dialysate levels were analyzed for dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and serotonin (5-HT) by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. As compared to the young animals, basal extracellular levels of DA and DOPAC were significantly decreased in two groups of aged animals. Stimulation with excess potassium added through the microdialysis probe produced a robust overflow of DA in the young and aged rat striatum, but the evoked overflow of DA was not diminished in the aged rat striatum as compared to young animals. In contrast, d-amphetamine-evoked overflow of DA was again robust in young and aged animals, but was greatly decreased in the aged rat striatum as compared to the signals recorded in the young rats. Taken together with previous reports, these data support the hypothesis that a major change in the regulation of DA release that occurs in aging involves changes in the function of the neuronal uptake of DA, which may be a compensatory property of DA neurons in senescence.
The present study examined the effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the ventral subiculum (SUB) on the ability of rats to memorize a rewarded alternation test in a T-maze. Results indicated that rats with ibotenic acid lesions (IL) of the ventral subiculum were impaired in postoperative acquisition of the spatial discrimination task, making more errors than the vehicle treated and normal control rats. In addition, all rats, including the IL group of rats, were able to memorize an acquired spatial behaviour. These findings suggest that the SUB play an important role in spatial information processing in rats.
Focal cortical lesions are associated with a functional downregulation of the GABAergic system in perilesional tissue lasting (at least) several weeks. The molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are still poorly understood. Here we used RT-PCR to investigate whether mRNA-levels of two alpha-subunits of the GABAA-receptor (alpha1- and alpha2-subunits) change following ischemic cortical lesioning. The results show that 7 days after lesion induction mRNA-levels for both the alpha1- and alpha2-subunits are increased threefold in perilesional tissue ipsilateral, but not contralateral to the lesion. Taken together with the results of a previous immunohistochemical study in which a moderate decrease of the alpha1-subunit-protein and no change for the alpha2-subunit [T. Neumann-Haefelin, J.F. Staiger, C. Redecker, K. Zilles, J.M. Fritschy, H. Mohler, O.W. Witte, Immunohistochemical evidence for dysregulation of the GABAergic system ipsilateral to photochemically induced cortical infarcts in rats. Neuroscience (Oxford) 87 (4) (1998) 871-879] was observed, this is interpreted as a partial block of translation in the perilesional tissue surrounding cortical ischemic lesions.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) contain the major 'biological clock' in mammals that controls most circadian rhythms expressed by these animals. The functional importance of protein phosphorylation and intracellular Ca2+ in the mammalian circadian pacemaker is becoming increasingly apparent. Here we report the immunocytochemical localization of the four Ca2+-dependent protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms (alpha, betaI, betaII, gamma) within the SCN of the diurnal murid rodent, Arvicanthis niloticus, and the nocturnal golden hamster. In the SCN of A. niloticus, PKCalpha was the most abundant of the four isoforms. Cells containing PKCalpha were homogeneously distributed throughout the SCN. PKCbetaI cells were sparsely distributed in the perimeter of the SCN and were absent in its central area. PKCbetaII and -gamma were not found in the SCN of A. niloticus. In the SCN of the golden hamster, PKCalpha cells were most heavily concentrated in the dorsomedial region, though some were also present laterally and ventrally. The distribution of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) cells in the SCN overlapped with that of PKC in both species. Species differences in the location of the Ca2+-dependent PKC isoforms suggest differences in function such as the relaying of photic or non-photic information to the clock mechanism, or the synchronization of AVP neurons and their subsequent output signals.
The density of angiotensin II (Ang II) receptors was determined in three dopaminergic nerve terminal-rich brain regions (caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, and ventral pallidum) of mice that were given either water (control) or 20% w/v ethanol (EtOH) to drink for either 2-8 weeks (young) or 46 weeks (old). The receptors were labeled with 125I-sarcosine1, isoleucine8 angiotensin II (125I-SI Ang II) and measured by quantitative densitometric image analysis (receptor autoradiography) or by saturation binding assays on homogenates of these brain regions. The selective AT2 receptor subtype antagonist PD 123319 (10 microM) was used to inhibit 125I-SI Ang II binding to AT2 receptors to determine AT1 receptor density in brain sections. In young control mice the density of Ang II receptor binding sites in the caudate putamen was 407+/-26 fmol/g, in the nucleus accumbens the density was 346+/-27 fmol/g, and in the ventral pallidum the density was 317+/-27 fmol/g. Less than 5% of specific 125I-SI Ang II binding was displaced by PD 123319, suggesting that nearly all of the Ang II receptors in these brain regions were the AT1 subtype. The Bmax in homogenates of these three regions in young control mice was 11.0+/-2.1 fmol/mg protein. The KD was 0.49+/-0.13. Ang II receptors in old mouse brains were decreased, respectively, by 32%, 35% and 30% in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum (p&lt;0.001). Ang II receptors were slightly, but not significantly increased in both young and old EtOH-consuming mice.

The present study investigated the interaction between the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) allosteric modulator heptane-1,7-bis-(dimethyl-3'-phthalimidopropyl) ammonium bromide (C(7)/3-phth) and the orthosteric antagonist [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) at the five cloned human mAChRs expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Equilibrium binding studies, using two different concentrations of radioligand, showed the interaction between C(7)/3-phth and [3H]NMS to be characterized by different degrees of negative cooperativity, depending on the receptor subtype. The modulator exhibited the highest affinity (85 nM) for the unoccupied M2 receptor and the lowest affinity for the unoccupied M5 receptor, the latter being approximately 100-fold lower. In contrast, the highest degree of negative cooperativity was observed at the M5 receptor, whereas lowest negative cooperativity was found at the M1 and M4 receptors. Non-equilibrium dissociation kinetic studies also confirmed the allosteric properties of C(7)/3-phth at all five mAChRs and yielded independent estimates of the modulator affinity for the occupied receptor. The latter estimates showed good agreement with those calculated using parameter values determined from the equilibrium experiments. The present results extend previous findings that C(7)/3-phth is a potent allosteric modulator at mAChRs, particularly the M2 subtype, and also highlight the effects of cooperativity on apparent drug-receptor subtype selectivity.
Despite the known efficacy of antimuscarinic agents in treating dopamine-related movement disorders, their effects on dopamine cell activity have not been well studied. We investigated the effects of systemically administered benztropine, an antimuscarinic agent that also inhibits the dopamine transporter, on substantia nigra dopamine neuron electrophysiological activity. Benztropine caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the firing rate of dopamine neurons in control rats but exerted baseline-dependent changes in burst firing. In rats pre-treated with haloperidol, which prevents the effects of dopamine transporter inhibitors on dopamine cell activity, benztropine either increased or decreased firing rate; however, it consistently increased burst firing. Thus, the antimuscarinic and psychostimulant properties of benztropine have differential effects on dopamine neuron firing rate and burst firing. The increase in burst firing seen in the presence of haloperidol may mediate some of the therapeutic effects of benztropine in the treatment of antipsychotic drug-induced movement disorders.
Using transgenic embryos, we have identified two distinct CNS progenitor cell-specific enhancers, each requiring the cooperation of at least two independent regulatory sites, within the second intron of the rat nestin gene. One enhancer is active throughout the developing CNS, while the other is specifically active in the ventral midbrain. These experiments demonstrate that neural progenitor cells in the midbrain constitute a unique subpopulation based upon their ability to activate the midbrain regulatory element. Our finding of differential enhancer activity from a gene encoding a structural protein reveals a previously unrecognized diversity in neural progenitor cell populations.
The radial glial cells that span the retina, described by Mller in 1851, have a remarkable distribution of ion channels in adult amphibia that mediate extracellular K+ spatial buffering. 94% of the total membrane conductance of these cells resides in inward rectifier K+ channels in the endfoot processes apposed to the vitreous humour. We now report that this regional specialization is found in Mller cells isolated from adult (&gt;120 day old) bullfrogs but to a far less extent in those from 10-20 day old tadpoles (stages 34-36). Using the cell attached configuration of the patch-clamp technique, we found, in agreement with previous studies in salamanders, that the endfoot of adult cells had 19.2+/-2.4 (mean +/- S.E., n = 81) channels/patch, whereas the soma had 1.81+/-0.28 (n = 21) channels/patch. In the tadpole, the respective values were 4.29+/-0.26 (n = 79) for the endfoot and 2.26+/-0.24 (n = 27) for the soma. The slope conductance of the inward rectifier K+ channel in 115 mM K+, 19.2+/-0.25 pS (n = 205), channel kinetics and the resting membrane potential (-69+/-2.7 mV, n = 224) were similar at both the endfoot and soma of both adults and embryos. We conclude that during development, the K+ conductance of the Mller cell endfoot, but not of the soma, increases due to a selective clustering of inwardly rectifying K+ channels in that specific region of the cell membrane. The properties of the channels change little during the transformation from tadpole to adult bullfrog.
Early glial changes have consistently been reported in experimental thiamine deficiency (TD) (Tellez and Terry, Am. J. Pathol. 52:777-794, 1968.) and in Wernicke Encephalopathy in humans (Victor et al., F.A. Davis Co., Philadelphia, 1989.). However, the precise nature of these changes and their relationship to the phenomenon of selective neuronal cell loss in TD has not been elucidated. In the present studies, antibodies against GFAP and ED1 were used to evaluate astrocytic and microglial/macrophagic changes respectively in adjacent sections of the brains of thiamine-deficient rats at various stages (n = 6 per stage) during the progression of encephalopathy. Additionally, the integrity of the blood-brain barrier at the same stages was assessed using IgG immunohistochemistry. Counts of immuno-positive cells revealed significant increases of ED1-immunostaining in the inferior olive, medial geniculate nucleus, and medial thalamic nuclei on day 8 of the treatment paradigm, prior to any evidence of increased IgG immunostaining or significant neuronal cell loss. ED1 immunostaining increased over time, resulting in intense staining by the loss of righting reflex stage (day 13-15). Focal increases of IgG-immunoreactivity in inferior olive, medial dorsal thalamus, and medial geniculate nucleus were observed on day 10, followed by increased GFAP-immunostaining consistent with reactive gliosis. Early microglial activation leading to the release of cytotoxic substances including reactive oxygen species, glutamate and cytokines appears to be the initial cellular response to TD and could be responsible for the focal neuronal loss characteristic of this disorder.
Piperidines are a relatively novel class of calcium channel blockers which act at a unique receptor site associated with the calcium channel alpha1 subunit. Calcium channel blocking affinities ranging from subnanomolar to several hundred micromolar have been reported in the literature, suggesting that piperidine block is highly sensitive to the cellular environment experienced by the channel. Here, I have investigated some of the cytoplasmic determinants of haloperidol block of N-type calcium channels expressed in human embryonic kidney cells. In perforated patch clamp recordings, haloperidol blocks N-type calcium channels with an inhibition constant of 120 microM. Upon internal dialysis with chloride containing pipette solution, the blocking affinity increases by 40-fold. This effect could be attributed in part to the presence of internal chloride ions, as replacement of intracellular chloride with methanesulfonate reduced haloperidol blocking affinity by almost one order of magnitude. Tonic inhibition of N-type channels by Gbetagamma subunits further enhanced the blocking effects of haloperidol, suggesting the possibility of direct effects of Gbetagamma binding on the local environment of the piperidine receptor site. Overall, depending on the cytoplasmic environment experienced by the channel, the blocking affinity of N-type calcium channels for haloperidol may vary by more than two orders of magnitude. Thus, absolute blocking affinities at the piperidine receptor site must be interpreted cautiously and in the context of the particular experimental setting.
The expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mRNA and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA were studied in muscle biopsies from five patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), six patients with other neuromuscular diseases and eight healthy control persons. All five patients with ALS had higher GDNF mRNA expressions in their biopsies than the healthy control group (almost a three fold increase). Among the other patients only one, who had a rapidly progressing toxic polyneuropathy, showed a GDNF mRNA expression above those of the controls. The BDNF mRNA expressions in the biopsies from the ALS patients were in the same range as those from the healthy controls, although the mean value of the ALS patients was higher. The only biopsy that showed a markedly higher BDNF mRNA expression was taken from one patient with progressive muscular atrophy. These results suggest that increased GDNF mRNA expression in muscle is an unspecific response to ongoing denervation and that this response is maintained in ALS, at least temporarily. If increased GDNF mRNA in muscle proves to be a constant finding in ALS the rationale for the use of GDNF as a therapeutic agent in ALS must be questioned.
A novel LIM-homeodomain gene, Lhx9, was isolated by degenerate RT-PCR followed by mouse embryonic library screening. Lhx9 cDNA encodes a protein that is most closely related to Drosophila apterous and rodent Lhx2 proteins. The Lhx9 spatiotemporal pattern of expression during embryogenesis was similar but distinct from Lhx2. Highest expression levels were found in the diencephalon, telencephalic vesicles, and dorsal mesencephalon. Domains of expression respected the proposed neuromeric boundaries (). Lhx9 was also expressed in the spinal cord, forelimb and hindlimb mesenchyme, and urogenital system. Although Lhx9 expression was sustained in diencephalon and mesencephalon from embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) to postnatal stages, it was transient in the future cerebral cortex, where it was turned off between E14.5 and E16.5. Lhx9 expression was highest if not exclusively located (depending on the region of interest) in the intermediate and mantle zones, as opposed to the mitotic ventricular zone. Lhx9 protein was tested for interaction with the recently discovered cofactors of LIM-homeodomain proteins and was found to interact strongly both with CLIM1 and CLIM2. The expression pattern and structural characteristics of Lhx9 suggest that it encodes a transcription factor that might be involved in the control of cell differentiation of several neural cell types. Furthermore, Lhx9 protein could act in a combinatorial manner with other LIM-homeodomain factors expressed in overlapping pattern.
Activation of the arachidonic acid cascade is an essential step for the development of fever during brain inflammation. We investigated the brain sites where this activation takes place by use of a rat model of brain inflammation. Intracerebroventricular administration of lipopolysaccharide but not of its vehicle evoked fever. The fever was markedly suppressed when the rats had been pretreated with a cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitor. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical studies revealed that cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA and its protein were induced by lipopolysaccharide in blood vessels near the cerebral ventricles and in those in the subarachnoidal space. Double immunohistochemical staining revealed that these cyclooxygenase-2-positive cells were mostly endothelial cells. The time course of fever and that of cyclooxygenase-2 induction in the endothelial cells were in parallel. Cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA in a certain type of telencephalic neurons was also upregulated by the intracerebroventricular administration, but this neuronal response occurred both in vehicle-injected rats and in lipopolysaccharide-injected ones to the same extent. Therefore, the neuronal response was not essential to the development of fever. These results suggest that brain endothelial cells play a crucial role in the development of fever during brain inflammation by activating their arachidonic acid cascade.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) and presenilin-2 (PS2), the major genes of familial Alzheimer's disease, are homologous to sel-12, a Caenorhabditis elegans gene involved in cell fate decision during development. Recently, wild-type and mutant presenilins have been associated also with apoptotic cell death. By using stable transfection of antisense cDNAs, we studied the functions of PS1 and PS2 during neuronal differentiation in the NTera2 human teratocarcinoma (NT2) cell line. Expression of antisense PS1 resulted in a failure of the clones to differentiate into neurons after retinoic acid induction, whereas cells transfected with antisense PS2 differentiated normally. Concomitantly, antisense PS1 clones were associated with increased apoptosis both under basal conditions and during the early period of neuronal differentiation after retinoic acid treatment. Overexpression of bcl-2 in antisense PS1 clones reduced cell death and resulted in a recovery of neuronal differentiation. These studies suggest that PS1 plays a role in differentiation and cell death and that PS1 and PS2 have differing physiological roles in this experimental paradigm.
Effects of oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD) on subcellular elemental composition and water content were determined in nerve cell bodies from CA1 areas of rat hippocampal slices. Electron probe x-ray microanalysis was used to measure percentage water and concentrations of Na, P, K, Cl, Mg, and Ca in cytoplasm, nucleus, and mitochondria of cells exposed to normal and oxygen/glucose deficient medium. As an early (2 min) consequence of OGD, evoked synaptic potentials were lost, and K, Cl, P, and Mg concentrations decreased significantly in all morphological compartments. As exposure to in vitro OGD continued, a negative DC shift in interstitial voltage occurred ( approximately 5 min), whereas general elemental disruption worsened in cytoplasm and nucleus (5-42 min). Similar elemental changes were noted in mitochondria, except that Ca levels increased during the first 5 min of OGD and then decreased over the remaining experimental period (12-42 min). Compartmental water content decreased early (2 min), returned to control after 12 min of OGD, and then exceeded control levels at 42 min. After OGD (12 min), perfusion of hippocampal slices with control oxygenated solutions (reoxygenation) for 30 min did not restore synaptic function or improve disrupted elemental composition. Notably, reoxygenated CA1 cell compartments exhibited significantly elevated Ca levels relative to those associated with 42 min of OGD. When slices were incubated at 31 degreesC (hypothermia) during OGD/reoxygenation, neuronal dysfunction and elemental deregulation were minimal. Results show that in vitro OGD causes loss of transmembrane Na, K, and Ca gradients in CA1 neurons of hippocampal slices and that hypothermia can obtund this damaging process and preserve neuronal function.
The last two centuries, and the last fifty years in particular, have seen a dramatic increase in our understanding of the brain. More recently, philosophers have rekindled the debate about the nature of the mind and have begun to ask how and to what extent the features of the conscious mind, of the self, can be described in solely neurobiological terms. This essay describes a few ways in which neuroscientific research has changed the way philosophers think about the mind and also suggests some ways in which the methods and questions of philosophers might affect neuroscience.
1. The activation of the motor cortex from focal electrical stimulation of sites in the forelimb area of cerebellar nucleus interpositus anterior (NIA) was investigated in barbiturate-anaesthetized cats. Using a microelectrode, nuclear sites were identified by the cutaneous climbing fibre receptive fields of their afferent Purkinje cells. These cutaneous receptive fields can be identified by positive field potentials reflecting inhibition from Purkinje cells activated on natural stimulation of the skin. Thereafter, the sites were microstimulated and the evoked responses were systematically recorded over the cortical surface with a ball-tipped electrode. The topographical organization in the motor cortex of responses evoked by electrical stimulation of the forelimb skin was also analysed. 2. Generally, sites in the forelimb area of NIA projected to the lateral part of the anterior sigmoid gyrus (ASG). Sites in the hindlimb area of NIA also projected to lateral ASG and in addition to a more medial region. Sites in the face area of NIA, however, projected mainly to the middle part of the posterior sigmoid gyrus (PSG). 3. For sites in the forelimb area of NIA, the topographical organization and strength of the projections varied specifically with the cutaneous climbing fibre receptive field of the site. The largest cortical responses were evoked from sites with receptive fields on the distal or ventral skin of the forelimb. 4. Microelectrode recordings in the depth of the motor cortex revealed that responses evoked by cerebellar nuclear stimulation were due to an excitatory process in layer III. 5. Short latency surface responses evoked from the forelimb skin were found in the caudolateral part of the motor cortex. At gradually longer latencies, responses appeared in sequentially more rostromedial parts of the motor cortex. Since the responses displayed several temporal peaks that appeared in specific cortical regions for different areas of the forelimb skin, several somatotopic maps were seen. 6. The cerebellar and cutaneous projections activated mainly different cortical regions and had topographical organizations that apparently were constant between animals. Their patterns of activation may constitute a frame of reference for investigations of the functional organization of the motor cortex.
1. Previous anatomical studies indicate that the nucleus of the solitary tract, pars centralis (NSTc) contains the neurones which receive vagal afferent input from the oesophagus. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the NSTc circuits in the medulla that may be responsible for oesophageal control of gastric motility. 2. Moderate balloon distension of the oesophagus of the rat (14-18 mmHg) provoked a significant reduction in gastric motility and tone recorded with strain gauges. This receptive relaxation effect was eliminated by bilateral lesions centred on the NSTc. 3. NSTc cells activated by oesophageal distension were labelled extracellularly and juxtacellularly with neurobiotin. NSTc neurones send axonal projections throughout the entire rostral-caudal extent of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN). These NSTc-DMN connections were confirmed by retrograde transport of neurobiotin from DMN to NSTc. NSTc neurones were observed with dendrites arborizing within the ependymal lining of the fourth ventricles. Thus, NSTc neurones may be in position to monitor blood-borne or ventricular agents and to alter the function of gastric-vago-vagal reflexes in response to these stimuli. 4. Neurophysiological recordings identified two subpopulations of DMN neurones which may be either activated or inhibited by oesophageal distension. Neurones excited by oesophageal distension were located mainly lateral and caudal in the DMN; neurones inhibited by oesophageal stimulation were located in medial and rostral DMN. 5. Our neurobiotin tracing results verified earlier studies showing that the NSTc projects to the intermediate reticular nucleus and the compact division of the nucleus ambiguus. Additionally, we found that the NSTc may be involved in reciprocal connections with the anterior, rostrolateral NST. 6. These results suggest that the gastric relaxation evoked by oesophageal distension is critically dependent on intact brainstem vago-vagal circuits. The NSTc, the recipient of oesophageal afferent projections from the vagus nerve, sends axons to the entire DMN, the source of parasympathetic control of the stomach. DMN neurones respond differentially to oesophageal distension, reinforcing the view that oesophageal afferents may provoke gastric relaxation by activating a vagal inhibitory pathway while simultaneously inhibiting a vagal excitatory pathway.
The data reviewed here show that histamine, octopamine, and serotonin are abundant in the visual system of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. Anatomical and biochemical evidence, including new biochemical data presented here, indicates that histamine is a neurotransmitter in primary retinal afferents, and that it may be involved in visual information processing within the lateral eye. The presence of histamine in neurons of the central nervous system outside of the visual centers suggests that this amine also has functions unrelated to vision. However, the physiological actions of histamine in the Limulus nervous system are not yet known. Octopamine is present in and released from the axons of neurons that transmit circadian information from the brain to the eyes, and octopamine mimics the actions of circadian input on many retinal functions. In addition, octopamine probably has major functions in other parts of the nervous system as octopamine immunoreactive processes are widely distributed in the central nervous system and in peripheral motor nerves. Indeed, octopamine modulates functions of the heart and exoskeletal muscles as well as the eyes. A surprising finding is that although octopamine is a circulating neurohormone in Limulus, there is no structural evidence for its release into the hemolymph from central sites. The distribution of serotonin in Limulus brain suggests this amine modulates the central processing of visual information. Serotonin modulates cholinergic synapses in the central nervous system, but nothing further is known about its physiological actions.
A patient with juvenile Huntington's disease (HD) of probable maternal inheritance is reported. The expanded IT-15 allele was only detected with the use of modified PCR and Southern transfer techniques, which showed a CAG trinucleotide repeat expansion of approximately 250 repeats-the largest CAG expansion reported within the huntingtin gene. This case emphasizes the need for communication between the diagnostic laboratory and the clinician to define the molecular genetics of unusual cases.
The efficiency of antisense approaches to produce a selective regional inhibition of the expression of brain 5-HT1A receptors was tested in the rat. In vivo ICV injections of modified antisense oligodesoxynucleotides yielded at most an 18% specific decrease in 5-HT1A receptor expression in the hippocampus only, as measured by [3H]8-OH-DPAT autoradiographic labeling. In vitro, when 5-HT1A receptors were transiently expressed in LLC-PK1 cells, co-transfection with antisense RNA encoding plasmids resulted in a marked reduction (50-70%) in the density of 5-HT1A binding sites. In vivo stereotaxic injections of the same constructs into the hippocampus, but not in the raphe, which contains 5-HT1A autoreceptors, were shown to produce a approximately 20% reduction in local 5-HT1A receptor density. These data show that antisense strategies could be used to inhibit 5-HT1A receptors expression in the rat hippocampus, but with a limited efficacy.

The Scales of Cognitive Impairment Rated From Institutional Records (SCIRFIR), a battery based on commonly used dementia rating instruments, was tested on the records of 26 chronically institutionalized, elderly schizophrenia patients, for the purpose of retrospectively evaluating the long-term course of cognitive change in schizophrenia and relating it to available autopsy materials. The inter-rater reliability of the component scales was high (Intraclass Correlations = 0.78-0.96), the final item scores were comparable to ratings on living subjects, and Alzheimer-type neuropathological changes were associated with a markedly deteriorating course. The substantial potential of this method is discussed.
The non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (0.25 mg/kg), has previously been shown to block the development of tolerance to the sedative effects of diazepam (2 mg/kg). Since there is considerable evidence that different mechanisms underlie the development of tolerance to the sedative and anxiolytic effects of diazepam, the present experiment examined whether dizocilpine would block the development of tolerance to diazepam's anxiolytic effects. Rats tested after an acute dose of diazepam (2 mg/kg) showed an anxiolytic effect, measured by an increase in the time spent in social interaction, whereas those tested after 21 days of treatment had scores equal to the control group. This development of tolerance was not blocked by concomitant administration of dizocilpine (0.25 mg/kg). Thus, these results provide further evidence that the mechanism underlying tolerance to the anxiolytic effects of diazepam is different from that underlying tolerance to the sedative effects.
Activity-dependent extracellular pH shifts were studied in slices of the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) using double-barreled pH-sensitive microelectrodes. In 26 mM HCO3--buffered media, afferent activation (10 Hz, 5 s) elicited an early alkaline shift of 0.04+/-0.02 pH units associated with a later, slow acid shift of 0.05+/-0.03 pH units. Extracellular pH shifts in the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus were rare, and limited to acidifications of approximately 0.02 pH units. The alkaline shift in the dLGN increased in the presence of benzolamide (1-2 microM), an extracellular carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. The mean alkaline shift in benzolamide was 0.10+/-0.05 pH units. In 26 mM HEPES-buffered saline, the alkaline response averaged 0.09+/-0.03 pH units. The alkaline shifts persisted in 100 microM picrotoxin (PiTX) but were blocked by 25 microM CNQX/50 microM APV. If stimulation intensity was raised in the presence of CNQX/APV, a second alkalinization arose, presumably due to direct activation of dLGN neurons. The direct responses were amplified by benzolamide, and blocked by either 0 Ca2+/EGTA, Cd2+ or TTX. In 0 Ca2+, addition of 500 microM-5 mM Ba2+ restored the alkalosis. Alkaline shifts evoked with extracellular Ba2+ were larger and faster than those elicited by equimolar Ca2+. In summary, synchronous activation in the dLGN results in an extracellular H+ sink, via a Ca2+-dependent mechanism, similar to activity-dependent alkaline shifts in hippocampus.
Previous studies have led to the hypothesis that the ototoxicity produced by aminoglycoside antibiotics involves the excitotoxic activation of cochlear NMDA receptors. If this hypothesis is correct, then these antibiotics should also injure neurons within the brain. Because aminoglycosides do not readily penetrate the blood brain barrier, we examined the effects of the aminoglycoside neomycin following intrastriatal injection. Neomycin (10-250 nmol) produced dose-dependent striatal damage manifested as an increased gliosis as measured by: (1) [3H]PK-11195 binding, (2) staining for the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and (3) staining for OX-6, an MHC class II antigen expressed by microglia and macrophages. Co-injection of subthreshhold doses of NMDA potentiates the striatal damage produced by neomycin (10 nmol). Moreover, neomycin-induced striatal damage is attenuated by a combination of the NMDA antagonists ifenprodil and 5, 7-dichlorokynurenic acid. Intrastriatal administration of compounds structurally related to neomycin, but devoid of modulatory actions at NMDA receptors (paromamine and 2-deoxystreptamine), fail to produce neuronal damage. These data support the hypothesis that aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity is, in part, an excitotoxic process involving the activation of NMDA receptors. Moreover, aminoglycosides may damage the central nervous system in individuals with compromised blood brain barriers.
The distribution of the retrogradely-transganglionically transported lectin soybean agglutinin (SBA) and of SBA conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (SBA-HRP) has been examined in the L4-5 dorsal root ganglia, lumbar spinal cord and gracile nucleus at 2, 6 and 14 weeks after sciatic nerve transection and ligation. Cell size analysis showed there were no changes in the mean area of labelled DRG profiles after injury. In the spinal cord, terminal labelling was restricted to laminae I and II with no evidence of labelling in novel territories such as the deeper laminae after injury. At 2 weeks, the labelling on the injured side was similar in distribution and intensity to that of the contralateral, uninjured side. At 6-14 weeks the labelling on the injured side was significantly weaker as compared to the contralateral side, but not completely depleted. In the gracile nucleus, at all survival times, an increased distribution and amount of labelling was seen which may reflect sprouting of C and A-delta fibres. These results suggest that SBA is a useful tracer to study the effects of nerve injury on the central terminals of axotomised afferents terminating in laminae I-II and that C-fibres appear not to sprout outside their normal laminar distribution in the dorsal horn after injury.
Binding studies were used to assess the changes in affinity and/or number of M1 muscarinic receptors in hippocampi from juvenile rats chronically deprived of NGF. NGF deprivation was obtained by implanting into right ventricle at postnatal day 2 (P2) hybrydoma cells secreting high levels of monoclonal antibodies against NGF (alphaD11). Parenteral myeloma cells (P3U) were used as controls. Competition experiments were used to characterise the [3H]-PNZ binding sites in membrane preparations of hippocampi from rats sacrificed at P15. [3H]-PNZ bound M1 receptors both in P3U and alphaD11 group as shown by displacing potency order of antagonists: TLZ=4-DAMP&gt;PNZ&gt;p-F-HHSiD&gt;MTC. The deprivation of NGF for two weeks significantly increased the number of M1 receptors without changing the Ki values of antagonists with exception of methoctramine which showed an increase in affinity in alphaD11 group. Similar changes in binding parameters were already observed after the first week of anti-NGF treatment. In contrast, a treatment for a week with implant at postnatal day 15 failed to produce any changes in M1 binding parameters. These results provide further physiological evidence for developmentally regulated modulatory role of NGF in the cholinergic function in the hippocampus.
Mytilus edulis hemolymph contains mammalian-like proopiomelanocortin (POMC). The 20 kDa protein was purified by high pressure gel permeation chromatography, anti-adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-affinity column and reverse-phase HPLC. The amino acid sequence determination was by Edman degradation, enzymatic treatments and Western blot analysis. Of the six peptides found in this opioid precursor, methionine-enkephalin, gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH), alpha-MSH and ACTH exhibited 100, 80, 85 and 74% sequence identity, respectively, with the mammalian counterparts. beta-Endorphin and gamma-LPH exhibited only 25 and 10% sequence identity. Dibasic amino acid residues were found at the C-terminus of MSH and ACTH, indicating cleavage sites. The alpha-MSH is flanked at the C-terminus by Gly-Lys-Lys, representing an amidation signal. ACTH and CLIP (80% sequence identity) are also C-terminally flanked by dibasic amino acid residues. Furthermore, morphine, in a dose-dependent manner, increased the hemolymph levels of alpha-MSH and ACTH (1-39) in a naloxone and phosphoramidon antagonizable manner, indicating a neutral endopeptidase (24.11; NEP) mediated cleavage. Lipopolysaccharide (10 microg/animal) stimulated the processing of ACTH (1-39) yielding ACTH (1-24) in a cleavage that is independent of NEP, but dependent on aspartyl proteases, demonstrating differential enzymatic cleavage of ACTH (1-39). Taken together, POMC is present in invertebrates and its processing can be altered depending on the signal.
This study mapped the location of serotonin (5HT) 1A, 2A and 2C receptor mRNA expression in the female macaque hypothalamus and determined whether the expression was regulated by estrogen plus or minus progesterone treatment using in situ hybridization (ISH) and densitometric analysis of autoradiographic films. The experimental groups of pigtail macaques (Macaca nemestrina) were spayed controls (n=4), estrogen treated (28 days, n=4) and estrogen+progesterone-treated animals (14 days estrogen+14 days estrogen and progesterone, n=4). Monkey specific 5HT1A (432 bp), 2A (411 bp) and 2C (294 bp) receptor probes were generated with PCR. Moderate 5HT1A receptor hybridization signal was detected in the preoptic area and the ventromedial nuclei. Less intense 5HT1A receptor signal was detected in a contiguous area from the dorsomedial nuclei through the posterior hypothalamus and in the supramammillary area. There was no change in 5HT1A receptor hybridization signal in any area with ovarian steroid treatment. Dense 5HT2A receptor hybridization signal was morphologically confined to the paraventricular, supraoptic, and mammillary nuclei and the external capsule of the thalamus. Light 5HT2A mRNA signal was inconsistently observed in the ventromedial nuclei. There was no change in the 5HT2A receptor hybridization signal in any area with ovarian steroid treatment. The 5HT2C receptor mRNA was widely distributed in the macaque hypothalamus. The preoptic area and anterior hypothalamus were largely positive for 5HT2C mRNA with a more concentrated signal in a narrow periventricular area. Dense 5HT2C receptor signal was detected lateral to the ventromedial nuclei (capsule), in the tuberomammillary nuclei, arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial nuclei, infundibular area and choroid plexus. Moderate 5HT2C receptor signal was detected in the ventromedial nuclei, lateral hypothalamus and dorsal to posterior hypothalamus. There was a significant decrease in total 5HT2C mRNA hybridization signal with ovarian steroid treatment in the ventromedial nuclei, dorsal and posterior hypothalamus. In summary, macaque 5HT1A, 2A and 2C receptor mRNAs are located in distinct hypothalamic loci which play a role in a number of autonomic functions and behavior. Ovarian steroids decreased the expression of 5HT2C receptor mRNA in the ventromedial nuclei, dorsal and posterior hypothalamus. The expression of 5HT1A and 5HT2A receptor mRNA was not altered by treatment with ovarian steroids.
Spinal and cranial motoneurons express alpha- and beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) mRNAs constitutively at variable ratios, and these two mRNAs are differentially regulated following axotomy in spinal, facial, and hypoglossal motoneurons. The purpose of this study was to investigate the change in CGRP mRNA expression following nerve injury in oculomotor, trochlear, abducens, and trigeminal motor nuclei in which beta-CGRP mRNA is predominantly expressed under normal conditions. Using male Sprague-Dawley rats, either the left eyeball and the orbital contents including the bulbar muscles were removed, or the left masseter nerve was ligated and transected. The rats were allowed to survive for 1, 3, 7, 14, 28, 56 days following these procedures. The levels of mRNAs for alpha- and beta-CGRP and growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 were analyzed by in situ hybridization histochemistry using 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes. Following nerve injury, the expression of alpha-CGRP mRNA rapidly increased on the directly-injured side in all of these nuclei. Thereafter, it gradually decreased and returned to about the control level at postoperative day 56 within oculomotor, trochlear, and abducens motoneurons, but it sustained at a high level within trigeminal motoneurons. The expression of beta-CGRP was quite variable among these nuclei, and significant changes were also seen on the side contralateral to the directly-injured side. These data indicate that the up-regulation of alpha-CGRP mRNA may be a common response of cranial motor neurons following axotomy even if the constitutive expression of beta-CGRP mRNA exceeds that of alpha-CGRP mRNA in these neurons.
Although neurotrophic effects of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) are well established, the mechanism underlying these effects is unknown. To identify candidate components of the signaling system that may mediate these effects, in the present study rat spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia, sciatic nerve and soleus muscle were analysed for the expression of the neural MC3, MC4 and MC5 receptors and for the expression of the melanocortin precursor pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). In rat lumbar spinal cord, the MC4 receptor was the only MC receptor subtype for which mRNA was detectable using RNAse protection assays. In situ binding studies using 125I-NDP-MSH, a synthetic alpha-MSH analogue, demonstrated MC receptor protein in the rat spinal cord, predominantly localised in substantia gelatinosa and area X, surrounding the central canal. Furthermore, POMC mRNA was demonstrated in rat spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. These findings suggest a functional melanocortin system in the rat spinal cord, that might be involved in peripheral nerve repair. Regulation of POMC or MC receptor transcripts does not appear to be involved in the response to peripheral nerve crush in rats, since no change in mRNA expression patterns was detected after sciatic nerve crush, using quantitative RNAse protection assays. Nevertheless, subtle changes in melanocortin receptor binding did occur postsurgically in several regions of the spinal cord in both sham-operated and sciatic nerve-lesioned rats. The robust expression of MC receptor protein in spinal cord regions that are generally associated with nociception suggests a potentially broader involvement of endogenous melanocortins in spinal pathways which mediate the responses to peripheral injury, in addition to any direct melanocortin effects on sprouting and neurite outgrowth.
To learn more about the regulation of contraction of collagen matrices by fibroblasts, we compared the ability of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) to stimulate contraction of floating and stressed collagen matrices. In floating collagen matrices, PDGF and LPA stimulated contraction with similar kinetics, but appeared to utilize complementary signaling pathways since contraction obtained by the combination of growth factors exceeded that observed with saturating concentrations of either alone. The PDGF-simulated pathway was selectively inhibited by the protein kinase inhibitor KT5926. In stressed collagen matrices, PDGF and LPA stimulated contraction with different kinetics, with LPA acting rapidly and PDGF acting only after an approximately 1-h lag period. Pertussis toxin, known to block signaling through the Gi class of heterotrimeric G-proteins, inhibited LPA-stimulated contraction of floating but not stressed matrices, suggesting that LPA-stimulated contraction depends on receptors coupled to different G-proteins in floating and stressed matrices. On the other hand, the Rho inhibitor C3 exotransferase blocked contraction of both floating and stressed collagen matrices. These results suggest the possibility that distinct signaling mechanisms regulate contraction of floating and stressed collagen matrices.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is used to investigate the neural basis for tactile reading of Japanese phonograms (kana) with the left hands of six normal right-handed Japanese subjects. Both the tactile reading and recognition tasks activated the areas surrounding the left and right central sulci in all subjects. The region surrounding the left intraparietal sulcus was activated during the tactile reading task in all subjects, whereas the region was activated during the tactile recognition task in only two subjects. These results suggest the bilateral central sulcus areas participate in the manipulatory movement of the left hand and processing of the somatosensory information, and the left intraparietal sulcus area participates inevitably, in the tactile reading of Japanese phonograms. Our experiments support the essential role of the intraparietal sulcus area in the phonogram-reading process.

The mitochondrial transition pore (MTP) is implicated as a mediator of cell injury and death in many situations. The MTP opens in response to stimuli including reactive oxygen species and inhibition of the electron transport chain. Sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by oxidative stress and specifically involves a defect in complex I of the electron transport chain. To explore the possible involvement of the MTP in PD models, we tested the effects of the complex I inhibitor and apoptosis-inducing toxin N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) on cyclosporin A (CsA)-sensitive mitochondrial swelling and release of cytochrome c. In the presence of Ca2+ and Pi, MPP+ induced a permeability transition in both liver and brain mitochondria. MPP+ also caused release of cytochrome c from liver mitochondria. Rotenone, a classic non-competitive complex I inhibitor, completely inhibited MPP(+)-induced swelling and release of cytochrome c. The MPP(+)-induced permeability transition was synergistic with nitric oxide and the adenine nucleotide translocator inhibitor atractyloside, and additive with phenyl arsine oxide cross-linking of dithiol residues. MPP(+)-induced pore opening and cytochrome c release were blocked by CsA, the Ca2+ uniporter inhibitor ruthenium red, the hydrophobic disulfide reagent N-ethylmaleimide, butacaine, and the free radical scavenging enzymes catalase and superoxide dismutase. MPP+ neurotoxicity may derive from not only its inhibition of complex I and consequent ATP depletion, but also from its ability to open the MTP and to release mitochondrial factors including Ca2+ and cytochrome c known to be involved in apoptosis.
According to the modern affect theory, the human being is equipped from birth with a number of affect programmes which can be activated both by internal and external signals and by the memory. According to theory, facial expressions constitute an important component of the affect programme. Research findings suggest the human being to be biologically programmed both to send and receive communications via facial expressions. Emotional communication seems to occur at an unconscious level, and to precede conscious information processing. There is scientific evidence that the emotional components of information processing are faster and occur in phylogenetically older brain structures. The right hemisphere appears to be more closely related than the left hemisphere to the autonomic nervous system, and thus more intimately linked with the physiological and automatic components of the emotions. Modern psychodynamic theory, in which emotion and unconscious processes are seen as human driving forces, derives scientific support from emotion research based both upon experimental psychology and neuroscience.
The anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) in the passerine song system is essential for song learning but not for song production. Several lines of evidence suggest that area X, a major nucleus in the AFP, forms part of the avian striatum. A key feature of striatal projection neurons is that they use the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Some area X neurons express GABA-like immunoreactivity, but the neurotransmitter phenotype of the projection neurons is largely unknown. To determine whether area X projection neurons are GABAergic, we used immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy to examine whether these neurons in adult male zebra finches express the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). We observed numerous large and small GAD+ somata in area X, and dense GAD+ terminals, but no GAD+ somata in the target of area X, the medial nucleus of the dorsolateral thalamus (DLM). The density of GAD+ terminals in DLM was strongly reduced by ibotenic acid lesions of area X. After tracer injection into the DLM, all of the retrogradely labeled neurons in area X were GAD+. After tracer injection into area X, the vast majority of anterogradely labeled terminals in DLM were GAD+. We conclude that area X neurons projecting to DLM express GAD and are thus likely GABAergic. If this projection is indeed inhibitory, information processing in the AFP is substantially more complicated than previously realized. Moreover, because a GABAergic projection to a thalamic target is reminiscent of pallidal rather than of striatal circuitry, area X may contain both striatal and pallidal components.
The organization of somatosensory neocortex was investigated in three species of marsupials, the northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus), the striped possum (Dactylopsila trivirgata), and the short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica). In these species, multiunit microelectrode mapping techniques were used to determine the detailed organization of the primary somatosensory area (SI). In the striped possum and quoll, the topography of somatosensory regions rostral (R), and caudal (C) to SI were described as well. Lateral to SI, two fields were identified in the striped possum, the second somatosensory area (SII) and the parietal ventral area (PV); in the quoll, there appeared to be only one additional lateral field which we term SII/PV. Visual and auditory cortices adjacent to somatosensory cortex were also explored, but the details of organization of these regions were not ascertained. In these animals, electrophysiological recording results were related to cortical myeloarchitecture and/or cytochrome oxidase staining. In one additional species, the fat-tailed dunnart (Sminthopsis crassicaudata), an architectonic analysis alone was carried out, and compared with the cortical architecture and electrophysiological recording results in the other three species. We discuss our results on the internal organization of SI in relation to the morphological specializations that each animal possesses. In addition, we discuss the differences in the organization of SI, and how evolutionary processes and developmental and adult neocortical plasticity may contribute to the observed variations in SI.
It is common to think of gray matter as the site of integration in neural circuits and white matter as the wires that connect different groups of neurons. The dorsal column (DC) white matter, for example, is the spinal cord axonal pathway through which a topographic map of the body is conveyed to the somatosensory cortex. We now describe a network of neurons located along the midline of the DCs. The neurons are present in several mammals, including primates and birds, and have a profuse dendritic arbor that expresses both the neuron-specific marker, microtubule-associated protein-2, and the neurokinin-1 receptor, a target of the neuropeptide, substance P. Electron microscopy and double immunostaining for synaptophysin and a marker of gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic terminals documented a rich synaptic input to these neurons. Finally, injection of a gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor antagonist or of substance P into the cerebrospinal fluid of the rat spinal cord induced Fos expression and internalization of the neurokinin-1 receptor in these neurons, respectively, indicating that the DC neurons are under tonic inhibitory control and can respond to neurotransmitters that circulate in the cerebrospinal fluid.
Neurotrophic factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), are involved in acute modulation of synaptic plasticity. Different modes of action of BDNF have been described with time courses ranging from seconds to hours, but the sequence of cellular processes responsible for BDNF-dependent modulation of synaptic plasticity is unknown. We have used optical imaging of the styryl dye, FM1-43, which selectively labels synaptic vesicles, to investigate potential presynaptic effects of BDNF. Addition of BDNF to cultured cortical neurons for 3 h produced a significant enhancement of exocytosis upon modest depolarization. BDNF had no effect on exocytosis either immediately or after incubation for 30 min. BDNF-dependent enhancement of exocytosis was blocked by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, K252a, but not by K252b, consistent with signalling via the TrkB receptor. Having demonstrated that the BDNF-dependent enhancement of synaptic vesicle release was present only after 1 h, we investigated whether de novo gene transcription and/or protein synthesis were involved. Addition of the inhibitors of RNA synthesis, actinomycin D, or 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosyl benzimidazole (DRB), did not affect the enhancement of exocytosis produced by BDNF. However, the effect of BDNF was blocked by the inhibitors of translation, cycloheximide or anisomycin. Our results indicate a rapid BDNF-dependent enhancement of neurotransmitter release that requires translation but not transcription.
The neuroprotective effects of a novel synthetic compound, M50463, have been determined by using embryonic rat neocortical neurons in various culture conditions. M50463 was initially characterized as a potent specific ligand for a voltage-dependent sodium channel by radioligand binding studies. In fact, M50463 inhibited neuronal cell death induced by veratrine and inhibited an increase of the intracellular calcium level in neurons evoked by veratrine. In addition to such expected effects, M50463 had the ability to prevent glutamate neurotoxicity, to promote the neuronal survival in serum-deprived medium and to prevent nitric oxide-induced neurotoxicity. These results suggested that M50463 is not a simple sodium channel blocker, but a neuroprotective agent which has some crucial mechanism of action on neuronal death occurring in various situations, and it is a novel, innovative candidate for neuroprotective therapy for various neurodegenerative disorders.

Neurologic disease, already common in the United States, will become even more common in the future. But presently, neurology education at the undergraduate level and in primary care residencies is declining and does not adequately train physicians to manage neurologic illness. The authors maintain that this serious problem can be partially addressed by improving the neurology education of all primary care physicians and by allowing students access to neurology specialists. The education of medical students in the basic and clinical neurosciences must be integrated into a seamless curriculum over the four years of medical education. This education experience must be taught through a team approach and must be led by both a clinician and a basic scientist. All medical students must acquire the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary to perform an initial evaluation of the patient with a neurologic complaint. Finally, students must understand the role and recognize the importance of the neurologist and know when consultation is needed. This continuum of neurology education must be financially supported by the institution, and course leaders who show excellence in education must be rewarded with compensation and promotion.
We studied the effects of recombinant human interleukin-10 (IL-10) on invertebrate immunocytes and microglia. The present report demonstrates that the spontaneous activation of invertebrate immunocytes can be specifically inhibited by recombinant human IL-10. Induced immunocyte activation by fMLP can also be significantly diminished by IL-10. This inhibition becomes apparent over hours and causes ameboid cells to become round and nonmobile. Furthermore, Mytilus edulis pedal ganglia maintained in culture, over the course of 24 hours, emit microglia. IL-10 significantly reduces this microglial egress, an action that can be diminished by concomitant exposure of the excised ganglia to an antibody specific to IL-10 as well as IL-10. The anti-IL-10 alone is without effect. Active-ameboid microglia that egress become round and inactive following IL-10 exposure, an action prevented by anti-IL-10. Lastly, a substance immunoreactively similar to human IL-10 can be detected in pedal ganglia homogenates. Taken together, and since the immunocytes and microglia are responding to IL-10, it implies that an IL-10-like substance could be present in invertebrates. In conclusion, the study demonstrates that both invertebrate immunocytes and microglia respond to IL-10, suggesting an early evolution of this generally inhibitory cytokine.
In recent years significant progress has been made in the analysis of the cellular mechanisms underlying appetitive learning in two invertebrate species, the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis and the honeybee Apis mellifera. In Lymnaea, both chemical (taste) and tactile appetitive conditioning paradigms were used and cellular traces of behavioural classical conditioning were recorded at several specific sites in the nervous system. These sites included sensory pathways, central pattern generator and modulatory interneurones as well as motoneurones of the feeding network. In the honeybee, a chemical (odour) appetitive conditioning paradigm resulted in cellular changes at different sites in the nervous system. In both the pond snail and the honeybee the activation of identified modulatory interneurones could substitute for the use of the chemical unconditioned stimulus, making these paradigms even more amenable to more detailed cellular and molecular analysis.
The theory of dynamical systems allows one to describe the change in a system's macroscopic behavior as a bifurcation in the underlying dynamics. We show here, from the example of depressive syndrome, the existence of a correspondence between clinical and electro-physiological dimensions and the association between clinical remission and brain dynamics reorganization (i.e. bifurcation). On the basis of this experimental study, we discuss the interest of such results concerning the question of normality versus pathology in psychiatry and the relationship between mind and brain.
The highly ordered neuronal projections from the retina to the tectum mesencephali (optic tectum) in several vertebrate groups have been intensively studied. Several hypotheses so far have been proposed, suggesting mechanisms to explain the topographical and biochemical specificity of the retinotectal projections during ontogeny. In the present paper we compare the main hypotheses of retinotectal development with respect to the nature of specificity envisaged, the activity-dependence versus inheritance criterium and the strategy of argument, in casu the descriptive versus interferential type of argument. Matching of the current developmental hypotheses and mechanisms for elimination or persistence of contralateral, respectively ipsilateral connections, is attempted with respect to the known neuroanatomical connectivity data in the amphibian optic tectum and with respect to the symmetry relations between ipsilateral and contralateral connection patterns described in amphibians and other vertebrate groups. Local mechanisms influencing the survival potential of synaptic contacts between retinal afferents and tectal neurons are probably essential for generating global symmetry patterns. Finally, a global topological approach is discussed with respect to its applicability in the amphibian retinotectal projection system. Basic assumptions of topological modeling appear to rely on anatomical and functional properties of the visual system like left-right symmetry, dichotomy, (absence of) convergence and segregation of fibers and neurons into columnar information units. It is concluded however, that more neuroanatomical, physiological and ultrastructural data are needed to establish a formalized operation model of the amphibian retinotectal system.
The influence of four inhibitors of the high-affinity glutamate uptake system (DL-aspartic acid beta-hydroxymate, DL-AHM; L-aspartic acid beta-hydroxymate, L-AHM; threo-beta-methylaspartate, DLM; L-transpyrrolidine-2, 4-dicarboxylate, PDC) on potentials recorded from hippocampal slices was investigated. At low concentrations of DL-AHM, L-AHM and DLM (50-150 microM) the population spike was permanently amplified. NMDA receptor antagonists blocked this facilitatory effect of L-AHM, DL-AHM and DLM. At higher concentrations (400-700 microM) DL-AHM and DLM abolished the population spike, while L-AHM did not eliminate the population spike at any concentration tested. None of these uptake inhibitors influenced an antidromic potential recorded in Ca(2+)- free Ringer solution. PDC at lower concentrations (75 microM) did not affect the population spike and at higher concentrations (150 microM-500 microM) induced only a transient elevation in population spike. Our data demonstrate that modification of glutamate uptake may be an important factor in the regulation of synaptic efficiency of glutamergic pathways.
The differential diagnosis of a sellar lesion includes pituitary adenoma, cranio-pharyngioma, tumour cyst, benign cyst, and other less common lesions such as aneurysm, squamous cell carcinoma and metastases. Pure cystic lesions within the sella turcica are not uncommon and may appear clinically and radiologically as pituitary adenoma. Intrasellar cysts are broadly classified as neoplastic or non-neoplastic; the latter may be primary lesions of the pituitary fossa or they may arise from the parasellar region and invade into the sella. The lesions occupy space and may cause disturbance of pituitary function; if they extend into the suprasellar region they can affect visual fields and acuity. Non-neoplastic cystic lesions usually appear well defined radiologically and have distinct pathological features. Modern imaging modalities, such as computed axial tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, are important complementary tools of investigation for reaching a differential diagnosis, and for surgical planning. Most non-neoplastic sellar cysts can be approached through the trans-sphenoidal route, but large lesions with suprasellar extension may require transcranial surgery. We report the presentation and management of eight cases (four males, four females, all adult) of non-neoplastic cyst involving the sella turcica and the parasellar region. Investigations included computed tomography scan of the head for all and magnetic resonance imaging for six (75%) patients. Work-up included endocrinological and opthalmological evaluations. All presented with headache; six (75%) had visual acuity change, two (25%) had evidence of visual field defects, four (50%) had optic atrophy on fundoscopy, three (37.5%) had endocrine symptoms and hormone reduction was found in four (50%).
The authors studied the effect of a mild cortical contusion to the rat brain on behavioural and morphological outcome and the influence of NMDA-receptor blockade (MK-801, 0.5 mg/kg i.v. 30 min prior to trauma). Spontaneous motor activity was assessed 16-18 days post trauma. Saline treated traumatised rats showed a significant (p &lt; 0.01) hyperactive behaviour compared to animals without injury. MK-801 treated rats performed significantly better than the saline treated animals (p &lt; 0.05). For histopathological evaluation hippocampal hilar neurons were counted, cortical thickness under the impact was measured and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) immunoreactivity in the dentate hilus was quantified 1, 3 and 21 days post trauma. In traumatised rats scattered loss of nerve cells, oedema and minute haemorrhages were present at the site of the impact one and three days after injury. At day 21 there was a significant reduction of cortical thickness at the site of impact. One day after trauma there was a bilateral, significant loss of neurons and MAP2 immunostaining in the dentate hilus of the hippocampus. MK-801 pretreated rats showed similar morphological changes. The disturbed spontaneous motor behaviour may be caused by hippocampal damage and a reduction of somatosensory cortical neurons. NMDA-receptor blockade improved the outcome assessed by the functional tests but failed to influence the morphological changes, suggesting that this behavioural test is a more sensitive indicator of outcome after mild traumatic brain injury (TBI).



An emerging concept in neurobiology is that the adult brain retains a capacity for plasticity and functional reorganization throughout the life span. Experimental data from electrophysiological, morphological and behavioral studies have documented experience dependent plasticity in the intact and injured adult brain. Neuroimaging clinical studies indicate altered post stroke functional activation patterns, usually including activation of the intact hemisphere. However, there is some disagreement regarding their functional significance and longitudinal studies correlating outcome and activation pattern are needed to solve some controversies. Postoperative housing of rats in activity stimulating environment after ligation of the middle cerebral artery significantly enhances outcome. Gene expression for brain derived neurotrophic factor and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, two substances with potential role in brain plasticity, show different patterns in animals housed in standard and in enriched environment. The functional significance of altered gene expression needs to be evaluated.
The present study relates clinical and radiological data to histopathological diagnoses in the first 139 patients (children and adults) in the Gteborg Epilepsy Surgery series. Temporal lobe resections were most common (54.0%) followed by frontal lobe (18.0%) and multilobar resections (11.5%). All histopathological specimens were re-evaluated in connection with this study. Parenchymal malformations and atrophic-gliotic lesions were the most common histopathological findings. Microdysgenesis was more common than major malformations (24.5% versus 11.5%). When the MRI scans were blindly re-evaluated the MRI findings correlated with histopathological diagnosis in all of the vascular malformations, in 77.8% of the tumours, in 76.5% of the cases with hippocampal sclerosis but only in 28.6% of the major cortical development malformations. Hemispherectomies carried the best seizure outcome prognosis followed by temporal lobe resections (75.0% versus 57.3% seizure free 2 years after surgery). Vascular malformations carried the best, and microdysgenesis the worst prognosis (76.9% versus 39.4% seizure free).
Stiff-man syndrome (SMS) is characterized by fluctuating muscular rigidity and spasm. Recently, antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of y-amino butyric acid (GABA), have been detected in SMS patients. An autoimmune mechanism against GAD was thus proposed for the suppression of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons, resulting in rigidity and spasm. We conducted quantitative investigations on the ventral horn of the spinal cord and its GAD immunoreactivity, post mortem, in a SMS patient and four controls. In the spinal cord of the SMS patient, we found a 70%, 33% and 27% reduction (P &lt; 0.05) in the density of neurons with somal areas of 1000-1500 microm2, 500-1000 microm2, and 0-500 microm2, respectively. The density of neurons with a somal area greater than 1500 microm2 was not reduced, although some neurons in this class showed central chromatolytic changes. The affected muscles exhibited neurogenic atrophy. GAD-like immunoreactivity in the spinal gray matter was not significantly decreased. The density of Purkinje cells, known to contain high amounts of GAD, was not significantly reduced. While the co-occurrence of elevation of anti-GAD antibody in the serum and reduction in the density of small spinal neurons was confirmed, that of smaller alpha-motor neurons and gamma-motor neurons, the qualitative changes in larger alpha-motor neurons, and the preservation of spinal GAD-like immunoreactivity and non-spinal GAD-containing neurons suggest the involvement of factors other than autoimmune mechanisms through anti-GAD antibodies. More diverse mechanisms may be associated in the pathogenesis of SMS.

&quot;Normal&quot; human subjects were placed in a series of 5 static orientations with respect to gravity and were asked to view an optokinetic display moving at a constant angular velocity. The axis of rotation coincided with the subject's rostro-caudal axis and produced horizontal optokinetic nystagmus and afternystagmus. Wall (1) previously reported that these optokinetic afternystagmus responses were not well characterized by parametric fits to slow component velocity. The response for nose-up, however, was larger than for nose-down. This suggested that the horizontal eye movements measured during optokinetic stimulation might include an induced linear VOR component as presented in the body of this paper. To investigate this hypothesis, another analysis of these data has been made using cumulative slow component eye position. Some subjects' responses had reversals in afternystagmus direction. These reversals were &quot;filled in&quot; by a zero slow component velocity. This method of analysis gives a much more consistent result across subjects and shows that, on average, responses from the nose-down horizontal (prone) orientation are greatly reduced (p &lt; 0.05) compared to other horizontal and vertical orientations. Average responses are compared to responses predicted by a model previously used to predict successfully the responses to post-rotatory nystagmus after earth horizontal axis rotation. Ten of 11 subjects had larger responses in their supine than their prone orientation. Application of horizontal axis optokinetic afternystagmus for clinical otolith function testing, and implications for altered gravity experiments are discussed.
The spontaneous tone in isolated six-segment preparations of guinea-pig trachea was examined. In 12% oxygen (corresponding to normal systemic arterial oxygen pressure) the preparations developed a spontaneous tone with regular oscillations (6.6 min(-1)), usually grouped in so-called complexes (7.5 h(-1)). The average tone during an entire complex amounted to 12% of a maximum KCl-induced contraction. The complex tone was highly stable during observation periods of at least 4 h, and was reversibly transformed to the 'classical', smooth type when exposed to 94% oxygen. Stretch of preparations in low oxygen resulted in a fast, stable change of tone, while preparations in traditionally high oxygen reacted slower, and lost 40% of the active tension during the hour following stretch. Indomethacin (10 microM) did not eliminate the oscillating behaviour, but reduced the average size of the tone by 44%. Exposure to the C-fibre blocking agent capsaicin (50 microM) and the local anaesthetic lidocaine (1 mM) completely eliminated the oscillations and complexes, although the preparations retained a smooth tone. Atropine, propranolol and tetrodotoxin did not affect the complex tone. This study demonstrates for the first time that guinea-pig tracheal preparations that are exposed to near-physiological oxygen concentrations develop a new type of oscillating spontaneous tone, which is largely prostaglandin-independent, but appears to require transmitter release from sensory C-fibres. We argue that the complex tone is physiological, and that traditionally high oxygen (95%) probably results in non-physiological hyperoxic changes in this preparation.
Thin trabeculae were dissected from the right ventricle of guinea-pig heart and stimulated to contract isometrically at 0.5 Hz (26 degrees C). Rapid and transient changes of force were obtained by inducing three extra systoles (ES1-3) at 450-ms intervals. The two regular contractions (P1-2) following (ES1-3) were potentiated. Fura-2 salt was microinjected into the preparation to monitor intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i). Three distinct phases of [Ca2+]i were seen: (1) a rapid rising phase to about 200 nmol L(-1), (2) a slower rising phase to a peak at 400 nmol L(-1), and (3) a slow decline to about 50 nmol L(-1). During ES1, there was a discrepancy between force, which decreased, and peak [Ca2+]i, which increased to 600 nmol L(-1). It is likely that the increased [Ca2+]i during the extra systoles reflects increased sarcolemmal calcium inflow, causing post-extra-systolic potentiation. Ryanodine (1-2 microM) was added to inhibit the intracellular calcium release and thus reduce the intracellular [Ca2+]i gradients following excitation. Ryanodine inhibited phase 1 of [Ca2+]i and abolished post-extra-systolic potentiation. There was a close relationship between dF/dt and [Ca2+]i with ryanodine during control and ES1-3. It is likely that fura-2 reports a spatially averaged [Ca2+]i and that phase 1 of the signal therefore apparently underestimates activator calcium in the close vicinity of the contractile elements.
The crux when contemplating neurosurgery for otherwise intractable mental illness is whether there is a price which the patient may have to pay, in terms of adverse personality changes, for symptom relief. In the present study of 19 patients undergoing thermo-capsulotomy for intractable obsessional illness, personality characteristics were studied pre-operatively, and at 1-year and 8-year follow-up, using the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Small mean score changes toward normalization were apparent on all 15 KSP scales at the 1-year follow-up, and significant improvements in anxiety proneness were noted at the 8-year follow-up. One patient who sustained a surgical complication showed deviant postoperative scores on scales related to psychopathic traits. There were no such deviant scores for the remaining subjects. The incidence of adverse personality changes following capsulotomy is low and does not increase with time. This conclusion, based on groups of patients, does not of course preclude the possibility that adverse personality changes may occur in individual patients.
The effects of chronic administration of a CCK(B) antagonist, CAM1028, were examined on the development of tolerance to ethanol and the appearance of withdrawal signs. Ethanol was given chronically by liquid diet, and none of the dose schedules of CAM1028 affected the amount of ethanol taken in during the chronic treatment. Brain ethanol concentrations were not altered by the administration of CAM1028.The ataxic effects of ethanol were tested on a rotorod, 3 hours after cessation of the ethanol administration, and the last injections of CAM1028 were given 8 hours before withdrawal from the ethanol treatment. When administered at 0.03, 0.1 or 0.3 mg/kg, CAM1028 decreased the extent of tolerance development. Higher doses, 1 and 3 mg/kg, did not alter the tolerance development. Chronic administration of CAM1028 had a small effect in protecting against the effects of ethanol withdrawal that, in contrast to the effects on the tolerance, was seen only at the highest dose, 10 mg/kg, of CAM1028.
The mechanisms of the photoperiodic control of fish physiology (growth, reproduction) and behavior (locomotor activity) are far from being understood. We show here that 2-[125I]iodomelatonin binds specifically to membrane preparations from pike (Esox lucius, L.) pituitaries (KD: 556 pM; Bmax: 2.8 fmol/mg proteins). Radioautography indicated that the binding was restricted to a part of the pituitary only. Using polymerase chain reaction from pike genomic DNA we were able to isolate, subclone and sequence two fragments. The so-called P4 and P8 fragments displayed homology with, respectively, the Mel1a and Mel1b receptor subtypes. The P4 and P8, probes allowed detection of mRNAs corresponding to these receptors in different areas of the brain, including the pituitary. This is the first evidence that melatonin receptors and binding sites are expressed in the pituitary of a non-mammalian species. We suggest that in fish the melatonin-mediated photoperiodic control of neuroendocrine functions might involve a direct effect on the pituitary.
There is abundant evidence that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is involved in anxiety in both animals and humans but there is conflicting evidence for the precise role it plays. Acute tryptophan depletion provides a technique for investigating a global reduction in brain 5-HT function and we have investigated its effect on anxiety in drug-free panic disorder patients and normal volunteers. We found little effect on general levels of anxiety but it enhanced the effect of a panic challenge using 5% carbon dioxide (5%CO2) in panic disorder patients. The effect in normal volunteers was less clear with no overall effect following 5%CO2 challenge or the psychological challenge of a simulated public speaking task. These results are discussed in relation to the literature and are broadly supportive of the hypothesis that 5-HT acts to inhibit panic anxiety at the level of the periaqueductal grey but facilitates general and conditioned anxiety at the level of medial temporal lobe structures.
Tryptophan hydroxylase is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin. A variety of drugs are known to diminish the function of this enzyme, and possibly cause damage to serotonin neurons. These include the substituted amphetamines methamphetamine and 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine, as well as L-DOPA, the most common therapy for Parkinsons Disease. In view of the important role for dopamine in the effects of these drugs on tryptophan hydroxylase and on serotonin neurons, we tested whether dopamine could alter the activity of this important enzyme. We found that dopamine-derived quinones, but not dopamine, inactivate tryptophan hydroxylase and convert the protein to a redox-cycling quinoprotein. This posttranslational modification of tryptophan hydroxylase could play a role in the drug-induced reduction in serotonin synthesis.

Glial growth factor 2 (GGF2) is a neuronal signal that promotes the proliferation and survival of the oligodendrocyte, the myelinating cell of the central nervous system (CNS). This study has focused on recombinant human GGF2 (rhGGF2) and it's potential to affect clinical recovery and repair to damaged myelin in chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the mouse, a major animal model for the human demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis (MS). Mice with EAE were treated with rhGGF2 during both the acute and relapsing phases, and GGF2 treatment led to delayed signs, decreased severity and resulted in statistically significant reductions in relapse rate. Further, rhGGF2-treated groups displayed CNS lesions with more remyelination than in controls. This correlated with increased expression of myelin basic protein exon 2, a marker for remyelination, and with an increase of the regulatory cytokine, IL-10. Thus, a beneficial effect of a neurotrophic growth factor has been demonstrated upon the clinical, pathologic and molecular manifestations of autoimmune demyelination, an effect that was associated with increased expression of a Th2 cytokine. rhGGF2 treatment may represent a novel approach to the treatment of MS (Cannella et al., 1998).
The CGT enzyme is responsible for catalyzing the final step in GalC synthesis. The isolation of the CGT cDNA has allowed for the genetic analysis of galactolipid function by providing the opportunity to generate null mutants deficient in CGT enzymatic activity. The detailed analyses of CGT mutant mice demonstrate that the galactolipids are essential for the formation and maintenance of normal CNS myelin, but neither GalC or sulfatide appear to be required for the development of structurally normal PNS myelin. These studies also show that the differentiation of myelinating cells is not dependent on galactolipid function, in contrast to the conclusions drawn from prior antibody perturbation studies. The abnormal node of Ranvier formations present in the CNS likely explain the disrupted electrophysiological properties displayed by mutant spinal cord axons and the tremoring phenotype of these mice. The abnormal myelin structures present in the mutant animals are consistent with the possibility that the galactolipids play a role in regulating or mediating proper axo-glial interactions. The further detailed analysis of these animals should help refine our understanding of galactolipid function in the myelination process.
Systemic interleukin IL-1 beta, TNF alpha, and IL-2 profoundly influenced central monoamine activity, as well as behavioral outputs. The effects of the various cytokines were clearly distinguishable from one another, although synergistic effects were detected between several of these cytokines and between the actions of cytokines and stressors. Acutely applied IL-2 appeared to affect reward processes, but did not affect anxiety. When chronically administered, this cytokine markedly influenced working memory in a spatial learning test. In contrast to IL-2, both IL-1 beta and TNF alpha appeared to provoke an anxiogenic action, and provoked clear signs of illness. While these cytokines induced anorexia, they did not appear to affect reward processes. IL-1 beta and TNF alpha were found to act synergistically, and the TNF alpha provoked a sensitization with respect to the action of subsequent TNF alpha treatment. The findings indicated that cytokine treatments profoundly influence extrahypothalamic neurochemical functioning and may thus impact on behavioral outputs. Analyses of the behavioral and neurochemical changes elicited by cytokines, and particularly TNF alpha, need to consider not only the immediate impact of such treatments, but also the proactive effects that may be engendered.




Focal seizurelike events can be induced in experimental preparations by means of a number of distinct manipulations that differ in synaptic mechanisms. Nevertheless, the form of the seizurelike events can be explained with common principles, including long-lasting excitation of pyramidal cell dendrites and recurrent excitation between pyramidal cells that provides synchronization. One means of induction of seizurelike events, tetanic stimulation, induces a more physiologic type of activity before seizures are elicited, that is, gamma-frequency (&gt; 20 Hz) oscillations. Such oscillations, called 40-Hz oscillations, are believed to be important for cognition in vivo. Experimental gamma oscillations depend critically on synaptic inhibition between interneurons, from interneurons to pyramidal cells, and on a tonic drive to pyramidal cells and interneurons by metabotropic glutamate receptors. The function of gamma oscillations appears to be imposition of a precise temporal structure on the firing patterns of pyramidal cells while still allowing the pyramidal cells to influence each other and be influenced by afferents selectively. We suggest that a relative loss of synaptic inhibition, occurring by any of a number of mechanisms, prevents the occurrence of gamma activity, allows recurrent pyramidal cell-pyramidal cell excitation to predominate, and thereby allows neuronal networks to generate functionally disruptive seizures.


Single-gene models of epilepsy present valuable opportunities to isolate and experimentally reproduce gene mutations for human seizure disorders, to test molecular mechanisms of epileptogenesis, and to explore strategies to correct early hyperexcitability defects in the developing brain. Although not all inherited epilepsies are monogenic, analysis of epileptic phenotypes in spontaneous and transgenic mouse mutants is beginning to define the kinds of molecular defects favoring inherited aberrant synchronization in central neurons. The range of genes identified shows that rather than arising from a few superfamilies that regulate membrane excitability, the gene products are drawn from many categories involved in widely diverse functions of the cell. Although some primary defects directly alter membrane electrogenesis and neurotransmitter signaling at synapses, others are too far removed from these processes to allow one to visualize the steps by which they promote epileptogenesis. There is now clear evidence that several and probably most epilepsy genes entrain specific patterns of secondary cellular plasticity during brain development. It can be predicted that these downstream rearrangements may partially account for the delayed temporal onset and other progressive features of epilepsy syndromes. Experimental alterations that target the mutant gene product and patterns of secondary network plasticity provide a basis for future strategies to reverse the epileptogenic process.







In recent years there has been an increased recognition that hydrops fetalis may be an extreme presentation of many of the lysosomal storage disorders. Hydrops fetalis, the excessive accumulation of serous fluid in the subcutaneous tissues and serous cavities of the fetus, has many possible etiologies, providing a diagnostic challenge for the physician. Ten different lysosomal storage disorders have now been diagnosed in infants with hydrops fetalis, including mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) VII and IVA, type 2 Gaucher disease, sialidosis, GMI gangliosidosis, galactosialidosis, Niemann-Pick disease type C, disseminated lipogranulomatosis (Farber disease), infantile free sialic acid storage disease (ISSD), and mucolipidosis II (I-cell disease). Frequently, these inborn errors of metabolism are recognized only after the unfortunate recurrence of hydrops fetalis in several pregnancies of a family. Making the diagnosis relies on the physician having a high index of suspicion and ordering appropriate testing, which can often be performed prenatally. In several of these disorders, including MPS VII, infantile galactosialidosis, type 2 Gaucher disease, and ISSD, hydrops fetalis is a relatively common presentation. A greater physician awareness of hydrops fetalis as a presentation of lysosomal disease will facilitate establishing a diagnosis in cases that would have previously been considered idiopathic and will enable a better estimation of the incidence of this association. Lysosomal disorders are among the few causes of nonimmune hydrops fetalis in which an accurate recurrence risk can be ascertained. With an early and accurate diagnosis, genetic counseling and family planning can be offered in these difficult cases.
The studies discussed in this review demonstrate that phosphorylation is an important mechanism for the regulation of ligand-gated ion channels. Structurally, ligand-gated ion channels are heteromeric proteins comprised of homologous subunits. For both the AChR and the GABA(A) receptor, each subunit has a large extracellular N-terminal domain, four transmembrane domains, a large intracellular loop between transmembrane domains M3 and M4, and an extracellular C-terminal domain (Fig. 1B). All the phosphorylation sites on these receptors have been mapped to the major intracellular loop between M3 and M4 (Table 1). In contrast, glutamate receptors appear to have a very large extracellular N-terminal domain, one membrane hairpin loop, three transmembrane domains, a large extracellular loop between transmembrane domains M3 and M4, and an intracellular C-terminal domain (Fig. 1C). Most phosphorylation sites on glutamate receptors have been shown to be on the intracellular C-terminal domain, although some have been suggested to be on the putative extracellular loop between M3 and M4 (Table 1). A variety of extracellular factors and intracellular signal transduction cascades are involved in regulating phosphorylation of these ligand-gated ion channels (Fig. 2). Once again, the AChR at the neuromuscular junction is the most fully understood system. Phosphorylation of the AChR by PKA is stimulated synaptically by the neuropeptide CGRP and in an autocrine fashion by adenosine released from the muscle in response to acetylcholine. In addition, acetylcholine, via calcium influx through the AChR, appears to activate calcium-dependent kinases including PKC to stimulate serine phosphorylation of the receptor. Presently, agrin is the only extracellular factor known to stimulate phosphorylation of the AChR on tyrosine residues. For glutamate receptors, non-NMDA receptor phosphorylation by PKA is stimulated by dopamine, while NMDA receptor phosphorylation by PKA and PKC can be induced via the activation of beta-adrenergic receptors, and metabotropic glutamate or opioid receptors, respectively. In addition, Ca2+ influx through the NMDA receptor has been shown to activate PKC. CaMKII, and calcineurin, resulting in phosphorylation of AMPA receptors (by CaMKII) and inactivation of NMDA receptors (at least in part through calcineurin). In contrast to the AChR and glutamate receptors, no information is presently available regarding the identities of the extracellular factors and intracellular signal transduction cascades that regulate phosphorylation of the GABA(A) receptor. Surely, future studies will be aimed at further clarifying the molecular mechanisms by which the central receptors are regulated. The presently understood functional effects of ligand-gated ion channel phosphorylation are diverse. At the neuromuscular junction, a regulation of the AChR desensitization rate by both serine and tyrosine phosphorylation has been demonstrated. In addition, tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR or other synaptic components appears to play a role in AChR clustering during synaptogenesis. For the GABA(A) receptor, the data are complex. Both activation and inhibition of GABA(A) receptor currents as a result of PKA and PKC phosphorylation have been reported, while phosphorylation by PTK enhances function. The predominant effect of glutamate receptor phosphorylation by a variety of kinases is a potentiation of the peak current response. However, PKC also modulates clustering of NMDA receptors. This complexity in the regulation of ligand-gated ion channels by phosphorylation provides diverse mechanisms for mediating synaptic plasticity. In fact, accumulating evidence supports the involvement of protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of AMPA receptors in LTP and LTD respectively. There has been a dramatic increase in our understanding of the nature by which phosphorylation regulates ligand-gated ion channels. However, many questions remain unanswered. (AB
It has been suggested that up to 15% of patients with AIDS may develop HIV-associated dementia. The syndrome may be either abrupt or insidious and is characterized by poor prognosis. Increasing cognitive impairment will necessitate the patient receiving a substantial amount of care and support in the community in addition to medical treatment and periods of hospitalization. The impact of caregiver burden is reasonably well documented in Alzheimer's disease, but there is a dearth of literature relating to caregiving and HIV-associated dementia. The current investigation is an observational study based on a small group of individuals which evaluates the experiences of these particular individuals as they care for their partner, friend, or son with HIV-associated dementia. The caregivers experience the stresses described in the non-HIV dementia literature; however, the nature of HIV disease means that there are issues involved in caring for this patient group that distinguish it from other types of dementia care; these include difficulties relating to specific HIV medical problems and problems with service shortfalls. The caregiver is more likely to be a parent or partner than a child of the patient due to the early age onset seen in this disease compared with Alzheimer's disease. Caregivers express their need for information about dealing with the everyday physical, behavioral, and emotional challenges and about services and benefits available. The interviewees expressed concerns over a perceived lack of communication and information from professionals involved in the patient's care and in the provision of services. The study offers an insight into the relevant issues affecting such caregivers and suggests areas of unmet needs that might be addressed in future service provisions.


Exposure to stressful situations is among the most common human experiences. These types of situations can range from unexpected calamities to routine daily annoyances. In response to stressors, a series of behavioral, neurochemical, and immunological changes occur that ought to serve in an adaptive capacity. However, if those systems become overly taxed, the organism may become vulnerable to pathology. Likewise, the biological changes, if sufficiently sustained, may themselves adversely affect the organism's well-being. Several factors may dictate an individual's response to environmental stressors, including characteristics of the stressor (i.e., type of stressor and its controllability, predictability, and chronicity); biological factors (i.e., age, gender, and genetics); and the subject's previous stressor history and early life experiences. Research on the physiological and psychological responses to different types of stressful stimuli is presented, focusing particularly on processes that may be relevant to the development of alcohol use disorders. Stressful events may profoundly influence the use of alcohol or other drugs (AODs). For example, the resumption of AOD use after a lengthy period of abstinence may reflect a person's attempt to self-medicate to attenuate the adverse psychological consequences of stressors (e.g., anxiety). Alternatively, stress may increase the reinforcing effects of AODs.
Thirty-one renal transplant recipients, submitted to treatment with cyclosporin in association with other immunosuppressive agents, were also treated for 9 months with two hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, simvastatin (10 mg/day) or pravastatin (20 mg/day), for concomitant hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. Both drugs significantly decreased total cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels, but they did not modify whole-blood trough concentrations of polyclonal and monoclonal cyclosporin or polyclonal/monoclonal cyclosporin ratio. No alterations of the clinical and laboratory parameters investigated were found. The results of this study show the efficacy and safety of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipidemia in kidney transplant patients.
The pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), accompanied by infiltration of macrophages and T lymphocytes into the central nervous system (CNS). The migration of these cells into the CNS parenchyma may be partly regulated by chemokines. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the cellular localization of the potent monocyte- and T-cell-attracting chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 by immunohistochemistry on postmortem brain tissue from MS and normal control cases. Brain tissue samples of six MS patients and four patients without a history of brain disease were neuropathologically classified according to characteristic (immuno)histochemical staining patterns. Frozen tissue sections of active demyelinating MS lesions, chronic active demyelinating MS lesions, and normal control brain were immunohistochemically stained with a monoclonal antibody directed against MCP-1. In active demyelinating MS lesions as well as in chronic active MS lesions, reactive hypertrophic astrocytes were strongly immunoreactive for MCP-1, whereas perivascular and parenchymal foamy macrophages did not express MCP-1 protein. These results suggest a significant role for the beta-chemokine MCP-1, synthesized in vivo by reactive hypertrophic astrocytes, in the recruitment and activation of myelin-degrading macrophages and thereby contributing to the evolution of MS lesions.
Cardiac vagal afferents terminating in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) are believed to participate in stimulating neurohypophysial secretion of vasopressin as well as increased ingestion of water and NaCl solution in response to decreased blood volume. However, we recently reported that chronic lesions of NTS, which eliminate neural input from cardiac and arterial baroreceptors, do not impair hypovolemia-induced vasopressin secretion in rats. In the present investigation we sought to determine whether those sensory signals were necessary for hypovolemia-induced thirst and salt appetite. Rats with chronic lesions of the NTS increased consumption of water and NaCl solution normally when plasma volume was reduced isosmotically by subcutaneous injection of polyethylene glycol solution. These results were obtained whether rats were allowed to drink water or 0.15 M NaCl in one-bottle tests or water and 0.5 M NaCl in two-bottle tests. The induction of thirst and salt appetite by hypovolemia despite the apparent loss of neural input to the brain from cardiac volume-sensitive receptors indicates that other signals generated by plasma volume deficits can stimulate these behavioral responses in rats.
The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-generating choroid plexus (CP) has many V1 binding sites for arginine vasopressin (AVP). AVP decreases CSF formation rate and choroidal blood flow, but little is known about how AVP alters ion transport across the blood-CSF barrier. Adult rat lateral ventricle CP was loaded with 36Cl-, exposed to AVP for 20 min, and then placed in isotope-free artificial CSF to measure release of 36Cl-. Effect of AVP at 10(-12) to 10(-7) M on the Cl- efflux rate coefficient (in s-1) was quantified. Maximal inhibition (by 20%) of Cl- extrusion at 10(-9) M AVP was prevented by the V1 receptor antagonist [beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopentamethyleneproprionyl1,O-Me-Tyr2,Arg8]vasopressin. AVP also increased by more than twofold the number of dark and possibly dehydrated but otherwise morphologically normal choroid epithelial cells in adult CP. The V1 receptor antagonist prevented this AVP-induced increment in dark cell frequency. In infant rats (1 wk) with incomplete CSF secretory ability, 10(-9) M AVP altered neither Cl- efflux nor dark cell frequency. The ability of AVP to elicit functional and structural changes in adult, but not infant, CP epithelium is discussed in regard to ion transport, CSF secretion, intracranial pressure, and hydrocephalus.
The story of a friendly relationship between two great scientists, Gregorio Maran (G.M.) and Walter B. Cannon (W.B.C.), is reported. Both share a common interest for the biology of emotion. In the early twenties they had already made important contributions to the nature of the emotional processes. The meeting point was in the interpretation of the somato-visceral response elicited by the injection of adrenaline in humans (G.M.) and of the emergency reaction (W.B.C.). The relevant moment in their relationship was the utilization by W.B.C. of the G.M.'s results concerning the artificial induction of the visceral changes typical of strong emotions as the main argument against the James-Lange theory of emotion, as no specific emotion was generated by the adrenaline; instead, only &quot;as if&quot; subjective feelings were reported by patients. A clear distinction then was drawn by G.M. between perception of the vegetative changes and the physical emotion proper. Since then it was clearly defined the cognitive component as essential and primary as concerns to the nature of emotion. The visceral changes are not determinant of the emotional quality. Its role was restricted to the strength and duration of the emotional experience.
In the two last years my lectures were addressed to the biological bases of wakefulness and REM sleep. The present lecture is focused on slow wave sleep, which corresponds to stages 3 and 4 in humans. These two sleep stages both present high voltage slow waves in the EEG that belong to the delta band (less than 3 Hz). Slow wave sleep usually lasts between 70 and 90 minutes in normal individuals, and takes place during the first hours of the night, as though our organism was making sure we got this essential sleep. Slow wave sleep is: a) the first sleep stage to recuperate after sleep deprivation, b) the stage with the most constant length even in individuals who have very different sleep habits, and c) the sleep stage that remains constant during experiments of gradual sleep reduction for eight-hour sleepers. This sleep stage is the one in which growth hormone is released and it essential for physical and intellectual efficiency and normal behavior in young adult individuals. Slow wave sleep is remarkably reduced in old people. What brain structures are responsible for the bioelectric and behavioral events of the slow waves sleep? Both the cerebral cortex and thalamus are indispensable for the existence of the slow waves EEG characteristic to this stage. Other brain structures participate in slow wave sleep organization; these include the basal forebrain, the oral pontine reticular nucleus, the deep cerebellar nuclei and the solitary tract nucleus. In this presentation I consider the most relevant functions of these structures as well as their anatomical connections, mainly with the neuronal networks responsible for other stages of the sleep-wakefulness cycle.
The teaching of the psychological aspects of medical practice are confronted with three great difficulties: 1) Not to turn into an introduction of the teaching of psychiatry, without leaving aside the importance of psychiatric pathology in the general medical practice. 2) To provide medical-psychological scientific knowledge to be applied to everyday medical practice. 3) To base the teaching on scientific foundations of neuroscience and of psychological and social sciences. These aspects are considered in several consensus documents (World Psychiatric Association, International Federation of Societies for Medical Education, Spanish Society for Psychiatry, etc.) which have served as guide for the writing of this new text on medical psychology.
Multiple mechanisms contribute to the selective brain lesions observed in WKS and experimental thiamine deficiency. Recent evidence of early microglial activation and increased free radical production suggest that oxidative stress processes play an important early role in the brain damage associated with thiamine deficiency.




Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant inherited neurodegenerative disorder with relentless course and prototypical clinical symptoms. In 1993 HD was associated with an expanded CAG triplet repeat stretch on chromosome 4 in the coding region of its target protein, huntington. The length of the resulting polyglutamine++ extensions correlates with lower age of onset and a higher density of ubiquitin-positive neuronal intranuclear inclusions. Recently it has been proposed that mutant huntington induces progressive neuronal cell death by an apoptotic mechanism. There is strong evidence that disturbances in cellular energy homeostasis and oxidative damage contribute to neurodegeneration. This review will summarize and discuss the current concepts that point towards an involvement of free radical-induced oxidative stress, glutamate excitotoxicity and mitochondrial respiratory chain defects in pathogenesis of HD.
Synaptic degeneration and death of nerve cells are defining features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), the two most prevalent age-related neurodegenerative disorders. In AD, neurons in the hippocampus and basal forebrain (brain regions that subserve learning and memory functions) are selectively vulnerable. In PD dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra-striatum (brain regions that control body movements) selectively degenerate. Studies of postmortem brain tissue from AD and PD patients have provided evidence for increased levels of oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired glucose uptake in vulnerable neuronal populations. Studies of animal and cell culture models of AD and PD suggest that increased levels of oxidative stress (membrane lipid peroxidation, in particular) may disrupt neuronal energy metabolism and ion homeostasis, by impairing the function of membrane ion-motive ATPases and glucose and glutamate transporters. Such oxidative and metabolic compromise may there-by render neurons vulnerable to excitotoxicity and apoptosis. Studies of the pathogenic mechanisms of AD-linked mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins strongly support central roles for perturbed cellular calcium homeostasis and aberrant proteolytic processing of APP as pivotal events that lead to metabolic compromise in neurons. Specific molecular &quot;players&quot; in the neurodegenerative processes in AD and PD are being identified and include Par-4 and caspases (bad guys) and neurotrophic factors and stress proteins (good guys). Interestingly, while studies continue to elucidate cellular and molecular events occurring in the brain in AD and PD, recent data suggest that both AD and PD can manifest systemic alterations in energy metabolism (e.g., increased insulin resistance and dysregulation of glucose metabolism). Emerging evidence that dietary restriction can forestall the development of AD and PD is consistent with a major &quot;metabolic&quot; component to these disorders, and provides optimism that these devastating brain disorders of aging may be largely preventable.
In vivo brain imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in resting-state brain glucose metabolism and blood flow in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. During cognitive or psychophysical stimulation, blood flow and metabolism in the affected regions can increase to the same extent in mildly demented AD patients as in age-matched controls, suggesting that energy delivery is not rate limiting. Activation declines with dementia severity, and is markedly reduced in severely demented patients. These results suggest that there is an initial &quot;normal&quot; functionally-responsive stage in AD, followed by a late less responsive stage. Studies of biopsied and postmortem brain indicate that the initial stage is accompanied by selective and potentially reversible down-regulation of the brain enzymes, including cytochrome oxidase, which mediate mitochondrial oxidative-phosphorylation.
Oxidative stress and diminished metabolism occur in several neurodegenerative disorders. Brains from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients exhibit several indicators of oxidative stress and have reduced activities of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), a key mitochondrial enzyme. Whether these abnormalities are secondary to neurodegenerative processes or are inherent properties of the cells cannot be determined in autopsy brain. Studies in cultured fibroblasts suggest that AD-related differences in oxidative stress and KGDHC reflect inherent properties of AD cells. KGDHC is sensitive to oxidative stress whether the enzyme is studied in cells, in purified mitochondria, or as an isolated protein. Reductions of brain KGDHC in living rodents lead to oxidative stress and selective cell death. The results suggest that KGDHC participates in a deleterious cascade of events related to oxidative stress that are critical in selective neuronal loss in neurodegenerative diseases.
The bioenergetic properties of the in situ mitochondria play a central role in controlling the susceptibility of neurons to acute or chronic neurodegenerative stress. The mitochondrial membrane potential, delta psi m is the parameter that controls three interrelated mitochondrial functions of great relevance to neuronal survival: namely, ATP synthesis, Ca2+ accumulation, and superoxide generation. The in vitro model we study is the rat cerebellar granule cell in primary culture and its susceptibility to NMDA receptor-mediated necrosis, which is preceded by a delayed failure of cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis (&quot;delayed Ca2+ deregulation,&quot; DCD). DCD is not caused by a failure of mitochondrial ATP synthesis since it also occurs in cells maintained purely by glycolysis. The in situ mitochondria maintain a delta psi m sufficient for ATP synthesis throughout the exposure of the cells to glutamate until DCD occurs. Even at that stage it appears that mitochondrial depolarization may be an effect of DCD rather than a primary cause. This somewhat unorthodox view resolves a number of apparent paradoxes, such as observations of enhanced superoxide generation by in situ mitochondria during excitotoxic exposure, since isolated mitochondria generate superoxide only under conditions of high delta psi m. Mitochondrial depolarization by selective inhibitors that do not deplete cellular ATP is acutely neuroprotective.
Tissue destruction at the primary site of a spinal cord injury leads to persistent necrosis that progressively enlarges the lesion. Steroids attenuate this necrotizing process and promote tissue repair even though such anti-inflammatory drugs interfere with wound healing in non-CNS organs. To address this paradox, the spinal cord of rats and mice was crushed extradurally and the effects of the following anti-inflammatory agents studied by light microscopical image analysis: allopurinol, aminoguanidine, indomethacin, a bacterial lipopolysaccharide, naproxen, and pregnenolone. The contribution of Wallerian degeneration to progressive necrosis was studied in a mutant mouse strain (WldS) that is characterized by delayed Wallerian degeneration. In rats, the anti-inflammatory agents selectively attenuated progressive necrosis and encouraged wound healing. In mice, considerable tissue repair occurred without pharmacological intervention; this wound-healing process was delayed in the mutant WldS strain. Since spinal cord injury results in concomitant tissue necrosis and wound healing, a goal of neuroprotective therapy is to regulate the dynamic balance between these destructive and reparative processes.


Delayed resistance to ischemic injury can be induced by a variety of conditioning stimuli. This phenomenon, known as delayed ischemic tolerance, is initiated over several hours or a day, and can persist for up to a week or more. The present paper describes recent experiments in which transient hypothermia was used as a conditioning stimulus to induce ischemic tolerance. A brief period of hypothermia administered 6 to 48 hours prior to focal ischemia reduces subsequent cerebral infarction. Hypothermia-induced ischemic tolerance is reversed by 7 days postconditioning, and is blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin. Electrophysiological studies utilizing in vitro brain slices demonstrate that hypoxic damage to synaptic responses is reduced in slices prepared from hypothermia-preconditioned animals. Taken together, these findings indicate that transient hypothermia induces tolerance in the brain parenchyma, and that increased expression of one or more gene products contributes to this phenomenon. Inasmuch as hypothermia is already an approved clinical procedure for intraischemic and postischemic therapy, it is possible that hypothermia could provide a clinically useful conditioning stimulus for limiting injury elicited by anticipated periods of ischemia.
The physiological role of huntingtin and the mechanisms by which the expanded CAG repeat in ITI5 and its polyglutamine stretch in mutant huntingtin induce Huntington's disease (HD) are unknown. Several techniques have now demonstrated abnormal metabolism in HD brain; direct measurement of respiratory chain enzyme activities has shown severe deficiency of complex II/III and a milder defect of complex IV. We confirm that these abnormalities appear to be confined to the striatum within the HD brain. Analysis of complex II/III activity in HD fibroblasts was normal, despite expression of mutant huntingtin. Although glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (a huntingtin binding protein) activity was normal in all areas studied, aconitase activity was decreased to 8% in HD caudate, 27% in putamen, and 52% in cerebral cortex, but normal in HD cerebellum and fibroblasts. We have demonstrated that although complexes II and III are those parts of the respiratory chain most vulnerable to inhibition in the presence of a nitric oxide (NO*) generator, aconitase activity was even more sensitive to inhibition. The pattern of these enzyme deficiencies and their parallel to the anatomical distribution of HD pathology support an important role for NO* and excitotoxicity in HD pathogenesis. Furthermore, based on the biochemical defects we have described, we suggest that NO* generation produces a graded response, with aconitase inhibition followed by complex II/III inhibition and the initiation of a self-amplifying cycle of free radical generation and aconitase inhibition, which results in severe ATP depletion. We propose that these events are important in determining neuronal cell death and are critical steps in the pathogenesis of HD.


The development of the sympathetic nervous system can be divided into three overlapping stages. First, the precursors of sympathetic neurons arise from undifferentiated neural crest cells that migrate ventrally, aggregate adjacent to the dorsal aorta, and ultimately differentiate into catecholaminergic neurons. Second, cell number is refined during a period of cell death when neurotrophic factors determine the number of neuronal precursors and neurons that survive. The final stage of sympathetic development is the establishment and maturation of synaptic connections, which for sympathetic neurons can include alterations in neurotransmitter phenotype. Considerable progress has been made recently in elucidating the cellular and molecular mechanisms that direct each of these developmental decisions. We review the current understanding of each of these, focusing primarily on events in the peripheral nervous system of rodents.
The space around us is represented not once but many times in parietal cortex. These multiple representations encode locations and objects of interest in several egocentric reference frames. Stimulus representations are transformed from the coordinates of receptor surfaces, such as the retina or the cochlea, into the coordinates of effectors, such as the eye, head, or hand. The transformation is accomplished by dynamic updating of spatial representations in conjunction with voluntary movements. This direct sensory-to-motor coordinate transformation obviates the need for a single representation of space in environmental coordinates. In addition to representing object locations in motoric coordinates, parietal neurons exhibit strong modulation by attention. Both top-down and bottom-up mechanisms of attention contribute to the enhancement of visual responses. The saliance of a stimulus is the primary factor in determining the neural response to it. Although parietal neurons represent objects in motor coordinates, visual responses are independent of the intention to perform specific motor acts.
Over the past three decades, compelling evidence has emerged that the immune system can attack the nervous system with devastating consequences for human health. Either cell-mediated or humoral (antibody-mediated) autoimmune mechanisms may predominate in effecting a given disease, and either glia or neurons may fall under immune attack. A subset of these diseases has been particularly useful for understanding fundamental neuroscience as well as mechanisms of human disease. This subset involves humoral autoimmune attack on cell surface molecules subserving transmembrane signaling of excitable cells; special emphasis is placed here on proteins involved in synaptic transmission. We begin by reviewing the prototypic humoral autoimmune disease of synaptic transmission, myasthenia gravis. This provides a context for insights obtained from the study of diseases targeting molecules that regulate synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction and in the central nervous system. We also explore a disease where autoimmunity produces agonist antibodies acting at two distinct G-protein-coupled receptors. We conclude with an exploration of the vital issue of access of antibodies to targets within the central nervous system and the implications that such access may have in the pathogenesis of poorly understood idiopathic central nervous system diseases.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging is a new neuroimaging method for probing the intact, alert, human brain. With this tool, brain activity that has been hidden can now be measured. Recent advances in measuring and understanding human neural responses underlying motion, color, and pattern perception are reviewed. In individual human brain, we can now identify the positions of several retinotopically organized visual areas; measure retinotopic organization within these areas; identify the location of a motion-sensitive region in individual brains; measure responses associated with contrast, color, and motion; and measure effects of attentional modulation on visually evoked responses. By framing experiments and analyses as questions about visual computation, these neuroimaging measurements can be coupled closely with those from other basic vision-science methods.
Dr. Thomas PS Powell was one of the founders of modern neuroanatomy. His career spanned an era that saw techniques for analyzing connections in the central nervous system dramatically increase in number and resolving power. In tracing the history of his research, one can see how the introduction of each new technique provided an incremental step in analytical capacity although eventually revealing its own limitations. Also evident is the extent to which prejudices born in the days of applying earlier techniques could continue to influence the interpretation of results obtained with new ones. Powell's contributions to neuroscience were extremely wide-ranging, encompassing investigations of the circuitry of the basal ganglia, corticofugal connections, topographic maps in sensory systems, central olfactory pathways, corticocortical and commissural connections, and pathways for sensory convergence in the cerebral cortex. From these investigations, made with tract tracing techniques, much existing knowledge of forebrain organization is derived. He was also one of the earliest investigators to use electron microscopy in the investigation of the central nervous system, and his electron microscopic studies on the olfactory bulb, thalamus, cerebral cortex, and basal ganglia laid, to a large extent, the foundations for all modern research on the synaptic circuitry of these structures. He was given to synthesizing data across systems in order to arrive at common principles of brain organization. A number of these syntheses have been sources of great interest and, occasionally, controversy.
The pineal gland expresses a group of proteins essential for rhythmic melatonin production. This pineal-specific phenotype is the consequence of a temporally and specially controlled program of gene expression. Understanding of pineal circadian biology has been greatly facilitated in recent years by a number of molecular studies, including the cloning of N-acetyltransferase, the determination of the in vivo involvement of the cAMP-inducible early repressor in the regulation of N-acetyltransferase, and the identification of a pineal transcriptional regulatory element and its interaction with the cone-rod homeobox protein. Likewise, appreciation the physiological roles of melatonin has increased dramatically with the cloning and targeted knockout of melatonin receptors. With these molecular tools in hand, we can now address more specific questions about how and why melatonin is made in the pineal at night and about how it influences the rest of the body.
Synaptic transmission starts with the release of neurotransmitters by exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. As a relatively simple organelle with a limited number of components, synaptic vesicles are in principle accessible to complete structural and functional genetic analysis. At present, the majority of synaptic vesicle proteins has been characterized, and many have been genetically analyzed in mice, Drosophila, and Caenorhabditis elegans. These studies have shown that synaptic vesicles contain proteins with diverse structures and functions. Although the genetic studies are as yet unfinished, they promise to lead to a full description of synaptic vesicles as macromolecular machines involved in all aspects of presynaptic neurotransmitter release.
The discipline of neuroethology integrates perspectives from neuroscience, ethology, and evolutionary biology to investigate the mechanisms underlying the behavior of animals performing ecologically relevant tasks. One goal is to determine if common organizational principles are shared between nervous systems in diverse taxa. This chapter selectively reviews the evidence that particular brain regions subserve behaviors that require spatial learning in nature. Recent evidence suggests that the insect brain regions known as the mushroom bodies may function similarly to the avian and mammalian hippocampus. Volume changes in these brain regions during the life of an individual may reflect both developmental and phylogenetic trends. These patterns may reveal important structure-function relationships in the nervous system.
Prurigo nodularis is an inflammatory skin disease characterized by neurohyperplasia. Neurotrophins and their receptors play a critical role in nerve growth, differentiation, maturation and maintenance, including cutaneous nerve fiber growth and innervation. They may also be responsible for events related to the growth and differentiation control of keratinocytes. To explore the exact distribution of the p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75 NGFr) in the cutaneous nerve components, p75 NGFr immunofluorescence as well as ultrastructural immunohistochemical studies were performed on prurigo nodularis lesional skin and normal human skin samples. The immunofluorescence results revealed that nerve fibers and bundles were increased in number and size in lesional upper dermis with stronger p75 NGFr immunoreactivity than in the corresponding normal tissue. At the ultrastructural level, a lot of nerve fibers clustered together in the prurigo nodularis dermal tissue. The axons were enlarged and branched, but the axons themselves seldom showed any NGFr immunoreactivity. The Schwann cell bodies were extended and irregularly shaped, and tended to separate into many branches enveloping the axons. The Schwann cell membrane showed strong p75 NGFr immunoreactivity. The perineurium cells also revealed strong p75 NGFr immunoreactivity. The Schwann cells inside the perineurium were less p75 NGFr-immunoreactive than those outside the perineurium. The membrane of certain basal keratinocytes showed NGFr immunoreactivity as well. The present results indicate that overexpression of p75 NGFr in Schwann cells and perineurium cells could contribute to the neurohyperplasia in prurigo nodularis.
There has long been a popular conceptual linkage between human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) acquisition and substance abuse involving &quot;needles&quot;. Indeed, in vitro studies demonstrate that these substances promote the replication of HIV. Included in these in vitro studies is a linkage or association of tissue damage and viral load with the actions HIV envelope protein gp120 with substances of abuse. However, detailed epidemiological studies have not supported this association of substance abuse and HIV acquisition, viral load and exacerbated tissue damage. It is with this understanding that we undertake a reevaluation of the in vitro studies within the context of the microvascular immune environment. In this regard, a counter-intuitive hypothesis emerges, namely, that specific substances of abuse may afford a degree of protection from HIV infection. This new hypothesis involves the neural, immune, and vascular signaling molecule nitric oxide.

Ethanol exerts its behavioral effects largely by interacting with receptors to brain neurotransmitters. The molecular mechanisms involving these interactions are still not well known since an ideal model for their study is currently unavailable. In addition, responses to alcohol may vary due to factors such as genetic predisposition, ethanol concentration consumed, and stimuli such as stress, socialization, etc. The chronic consumption of alcohol, similar to that of other drugs such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates, is linked to GABAergic neurotransmission. GABA is the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. In a context of substance abuse, these three drugs first cause a gratifying effect, later tolerance and finally, physical and psychological dependence. If consumption is interrupted abruptly, a withdrawal syndrome occurs. The Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome (AWS) is a state of hyperexcitability characterized by anxiety, fear, muscular rigidity and tonic-clonic seizures with epileptiform-type characteristics. The epileptic seizures seen during AWS are often similar to those seen in experimental epilepsy models such as &quot;kindling&quot; or GABA Withdrawal Syndrome (GWS) models. A possible correlation between these models and AWS will allow for a better understanding of the cellular and molecular effects that alcohol exerts on the brain.


Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) utilizes a mouse biliary glycoprotein (Bgp) as a receptor. Co-cultivation of MHV-nonpermissive hamster BHK cells devoid of mouse Bgp with mouse DBT cells infected with MHV-A59 or JHMV induces syncytia formation on BHK cells (Bgp-independent fusion). This study shows the difference in Bgp-independent fusion activity among various MHV strains. Under a phase contrast microscopy, JHMV (cl-2, sp-4) induced the Bgp-independent syncytia on BHK cells similar to those observed on DBT cells, while such syncytia were not seen with the infection of other MHV strains (MHV-1, MHV-3, MHV-A59, MHV-S, srr7, srr11 and srr18). Tiny syncytia detectable only by immunofluorescence were produced with the latter MHV strains except for srr7 which failed to produce syncytia. MHVs except for srr7 grew in BHK cells after Bgp-independent infection. The Bgp-independent fusion by JHMV was inhibited either by anti-S1 or anti-S2 antibodies. These results showed that the JHMV spike protein had a remarkably high Bgp-independent fusion activity.

As a first step, the present experiment aimed at characterizing learning and memory capabilities, as well as some motor and sensorimotor faculties, in aged (24-26.5 months) Long-Evans female rats. As a second step, a psychopharmacological approach was undertaken in order to examine the sensitivity of aged rats to muscarinic blockade and to cholinomimetic treatments. Young adult (3-5.5 months) and aged rats were tested for beam-walking performance, locomotor activity in the home cage and an open field, and spatial learning/memory performance in a water maze and a radial maze. Spontaneous alternation rates were assessed in a T-maze. Statistical analysis discriminated between aged rats showing moderate impairment (AMI) and those showing severe impairment (ASI) in the water maze test. Beside their different degrees of impairment in the water maze, AMI and ASI rats were similarly (no significant difference) impaired in beam-walking capabilities, home cage activity and radial maze performance. In the spontaneous alternation task aged rats were not impaired and, in the open-field test, AMI rats were hypoactive, but not as much as ASI rats. Neither of the cognitive deficits was correlated with a locomotor or a sensorimotor variable, or with the body weight. When tested in the radial maze, a low dose of scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg i.p.) produced memory impairments which were significant in AMI and ASI rats, but not in young rats. Combined injections of scopolamine and physostigmine (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) or tacrine (THA, 3 mg/kg) showed physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg) to compensate for the scopolamine-induced impairments only in AMI rats. whereas THA was efficient in both AMI and ASI rats. The results indicate: (i) that rats with different degrees of spatial memory impairment in the water maze are similarly hypersensitive to muscarinic blockade when tested in a radial maze test; and (ii) that under the influence of a dose of scopolamine which is subamnesic in young rats, aged rats respond to anticholinesterase treatments according to the level of performance achieved in the water maze: moderately impaired rats are sensitive to both physostigmine and THA, whereas more severely impaired rats are sensitive only to THA.
Neurofilaments are the principal intermediate filament type expressed by neurons. They are formed by the co-assembly of three subunits: NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H. Peripherin is another intermediate filament protein expressed mostly in neurons of the peripheral nervous system. In contrast to neurofilaments, peripherin can self-assemble to establish an intermediate filament network in cultured cells. The co-expression of neurofilaments and peripherin is found mainly during development and regeneration. We used SW13 cells devoid of endogenous cytoplasmic intermediate filaments to assess the exact assembly characteristics of peripherin with each neurofilament subunit. Our results demonstrate that peripherin can assemble with NF-L. In contrast, the co-expression of peripherin with the large neurofilament subunits interferes with peripherin assembly. These results confirm the existence of interactions between peripherin and neurofilaments in physiological conditions. Moreover, they suggest that perturbations in the stoichiometry of neurofilaments can have an impact on peripherin assembly in vivo.
The central nervous system has a particularly high energy requirement, thus making it very susceptible to defects in mitochondrial function. A number of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD) and Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA), are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. The identification of a mitochondrial complex-I defect in PD provides a link between toxin models of the disease, and clues to the pathogenesis of idiopathic PD. We have undertaken genomic transplantation studies involving the transfer of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from PD patients with a complex-I defect to a novel nuclear background. Histochemical, immunohistochemical and functional analysis of the resulting cybrids all showed a pattern in the PD clones indicative of a mtDNA mutation. There is good evidence for the involvement of defective energy metabolism and excitotoxicity in the aetiology of HD. We, and others, have shown a severe deficiency of complex II/III confined to the striatum that mimics the toxin-induced animal models of HD. There is also a milder defect in complex IV in the caudate. The tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme aconitase is particularly sensitive to inhibition by peroxynitrite and superoxide radicals. We have found this enzyme to be severely decreased in HD caudate, putamen and cortex in a pattern that parallels the severity of neuronal loss seen. We propose a scheme for the role of nitric oxide, free radicals and excitotoxicity in the pathogenesis of HD. FRDA is caused by an expanded GAA repeat in intron 1 of the X25 gene encoding a protein called frataxin. Frataxin is widely expressed and is a mitochondrial protein, although its function is unknown. We have found abnormal magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the skeletal muscle of FRDA patients, which parallels our biochemical findings of reduced complexes I-III in patients' heart and skeletal muscle. There is also reduced aconitase activity in these areas. Increased iron deposition was seen in patients' tissues in a pattern consistent with a mitochondrial location. The mitochondrial iron accumulation, defective respiratory chain activity and aconitase dysfunction suggest that frataxin may be involved in mitochondrial iron regulation. There is also evidence that oxidative stress contributes to cellular toxicity.
Excitotoxicity is the process whereby a massive glutamate release in the central nervous system in response to ischaemia or related trauma leads to the delayed, predominantly necrotic death of neurons. Excitotoxicity is also implicated in a variety of slow neurodegenerative disorders. Mitochondria accumulate much of the post-ischaemic calcium entering the neurons via the chronically activated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. This calcium accumulation plays a key role in the subsequent death of the neuron. Cultured cerebellar granule cells demonstrate delayed calcium de-regulation (DCD) followed by necrosis upon exposure to glutamate. DCD is unaffected by the ATP synthase inhibitor oligomycin but is inhibited by the further addition of a respiratory chain inhibitor to depolarize the mitochondria and inhibit mitochondrial calcium accumulation without depleting ATP [Budd and Nicholls (1996) J. Neurochem. 67, 2282-2291]. Mitochondrial depolarization paradoxically decreases the cytoplasmic calcium elevation following glutamate addition, probably due to an enhanced calcium efflux from the cell. Cells undergo immediate calcium de-regulation in the presence of glutamate if the respiratory chain is inhibited; this is due to ATP depletion following ATP synthase reversal and can be reversed by oligomycin. In contrast, DCD is irreversible. Elevated cytoplasmic calcium is not excitotoxic as long as mitochondria are depolarized; alternative substrates do not rescue cells about to undergo DCD, suggesting that glycolytic failure is not involved. Mitochondria in situ remain sufficiently polarized during granule cell glutamate exposure to continue to generate ATP and show a classic mitochondrial state 3-state 4 hyperpolarization on inhibiting ATP synthesis; mitochondrial depolarization follows, and may be a consequence of rather than a cause of DCD. In addition, our studies show no evidence of the mitochondrial permeability transition prior to DCD. The mitochondrial generation of superoxide anions is enhanced during glutamate exposure and a working hypothesis is that DCD may be caused by oxidative damage to calcium extrusion pathways at the plasma membrane.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a degenerative neurological disorder. Recent studies have demonstrated reduced activity of complex I of the electron transport chain in brain and platelets from patients with PD. Platelet mitochondria from parkinsonian patients were found to have lower levels of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) than mitochondria from age/sex-matched controls. There was a strong correlation between the levels of CoQ10 and the activities of complexes I and II/III. Oral CoQ10 was found to protect the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in one-year-old mice treated with MPTP, a toxin injurious to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. We further found that oral CoQ10 was well absorbed in parkinsonian patients and caused a trend toward increased complex I activity. These data suggest that CoQ10 may play a role in cellular dysfunction found in PD and may be a potential protective agent for parkinsonian patients.

In the present study, we describe the structural and cytological changes observed in staggerer mutant olfactory bulbs, as compared to normal mice. On the basis of photonic and ultrastructural observations we tried to define the alterations induced by the mutation: i.e. a reduction of bulb size, a reduction in the volume of three out of the six architectonic layers (glomerular, external and internal plexiform), a reduction of glomeruli size, a loss of half the mitral cells and a slight decrease in juxtaglomerular interneuron number. In staggerer, an hypertrophy of glial ensheathing cell processes was especially evident at the level of each glomerulus, whereas the density of the astrocyte network was weaker in the granular layer and the nerve layer not apparently impaired. An immunofluorescent labelling study combined with confocal scanning microscopy was performed in order to identify the cellular type and the differentiation degree of the various elements. Antibodies anti-GFAP, a protein present in both ensheathing cells and astrocytes, and anti-OMP, the specific maturation protein of the nerve layer, were used for that purpose. Data confirmed the reality of the gliosis and the persistence of the sensory component in the mutant. All the structural alterations described in staggerer olfactory bulb were in close agreement with the functional troubles previously recorded. Our results are discussed in connection with the present knowledge on embryonal origin, fetal development and adult cellular renewal of the olfactory bulb.
In order to determine the effect of bacterial proteinases on activation of the protein C system, a negative regulator of blood coagulation, two arginine-specific cysteine proteinases (gingipains R) from Porphyromonas gingivalis, a causative bacterium of adult periodontitis, were examined. Each enzyme activated human protein C in a dose- and incubation time-dependent manner. Interestingly, the form of enzyme being composed of a non-covalent complex containing both catalytic and adhesion domains (RgpA) produced activated protein C 14-fold more efficiently than RgpB which contained the catalytic domain alone. The kcat/Km value of RgpA was 18-fold higher than that of RgpB and comparable to that of the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex, the physiological activator of protein C. RgpA catalyzed protein C activation was augmented 1.4-fold by phospholipids, ubiquitous cell membrane components. Furthermore, RgpA, but not RgpB, could activate protein C in plasma and this resulted in a decrease of the protein C concentration in plasma, which is often observed in patients with sepsis during the development of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). These data indicate that RgpA is a more potent activator of protein C than RgpB and suggest that only the former enzyme can cause protein C activation in vivo. The present study further suggests that bacterial proteinases may possibly contribute to the consumption of plasma protein C which predisposes to DIC and/or promotes a thrombotic tendency towards DIC in sepsis.
A major issue in cortical physiology and computational neuroscience is understanding the interaction between extrinsic signals from feedforward connections and intracortical signals from lateral connections. We propose here a computational model for motion perception based on the assumption that the local cortical circuits in the medio-temporal area (area MT) implement a Bayesian inference principle. This approach establishes a functional balance between feedforward and lateral, excitatory and inhibitory, inputs. The model reproduces most of the known properties of the neurons in area MT in response to moving stimuli. It accounts for important motion perception phenomena including motion transparency, spatial and temporal integration/segmentation. While integrating several properties of previously proposed models, it makes specific testable predictions concerning, in particular, temporal properties of neurons and the architecture of lateral connections in area MT. In addition, the proposed mechanism is consistent with the known properties of local cortical circuits in area V1. This suggests that Bayesian inference may be a general feature of information processing in cortical neuron populations.
Altered diurnal secretory patterns, i.e. altered phase and/or amplitude of melatonin have been reported in sleep and affective disorders. The alteration may depend on environmental factors which in vulnerable individuals may cause sleep and/or affective disorders. Early stress in conjunction with development of resistance to corticotropin-releasing hormone may be linked to the low melatonin syndrome in subgroups of depressed patients. Also the seasonal variation in melatonin as well as serotonin may be linked to the seasonal pattern seen in subgroups of affective disorders. Melatonin may be used as a combined marker for proneness to develop affective disorders especially in latent carriers of bipolar disorders.
Troponin C contains a 14-residue alpha-helix at the amino terminus, the N-helix, that calmodulin lacks. Deletion of the first 11-14 residues of troponin C alters function. In the present investigation a mutant lacking residues 1-7 of the N-helix has normal conformation, Ca2+ binding, and regulatory function. Thus, residues 8-14 of the N-helix are generally sufficient for troponin C function. In the x-ray structures of troponin C there is a salt bridge between Arg 11 in the N-helix and Glu 76 in the D-helix. Destroying the salt bridge by individually mutating the residues to Cys has no effect on function. However, mutation of both residues to Cys reduces troponin C's affinity for the troponin complex on the thin filament, reduces the stability of the N-domain in the absence of divalent cations, increases the Ca2+ affinity and reduces the cooperativity of the Ca2+Mg2+ sites in the C-domain, and alters the conformational change that takes place upon Ca2+ binding (but not Mg2+ binding) to the C-domain. Cross-linking with bis-(maleimidomethylether) partially restores function. The Ca2+-specific sites in the N-domain, those closest to the sites of the mutations, are unaffected in the assays employed. These results show that the N-helix is a critical structural element for interaction with and activation of the thin filament. Moreover, mutations in the N-helix affect the C-terminal domain, consistent with recent structural studies showing that the N-helix and C-terminal domain are physically close.

1. The effects of intravenous administration of endothelin (ET) receptor antagonists SB-209670 (0.001-10.0 mg kg(-1)), SB-217242, SB-234551 (0.01-10.0 mg kg(-1)) and BQ-788 (0.001-1.0 mg kg(-1)) were investigated on trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced neurovascular reflexes in the carotid vasculature of the anaesthetized cat. Comparisons were made with sumatriptan (0.003-3.0 mg kg(-1)) and alpha-CGRP8-37 (0.001-0.1 mg kg(-1)). 2. Trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation produced frequency related increases in carotid blood flow, reductions in carotid vascular resistance and non-frequency related increases in blood pressure. Guanethidine (3 mg kg(-1), i.v.) blocked trigeminal nerve ganglion-induced increases in blood pressure but had no effect on changes in carotid flow or resistance. Maximal reductions in carotid vascular resistance was observed at 10 Hz, and this frequency was selected to investigate the effects of drugs on trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced responses in guanethidine treated cats. 3. Saline, alpha-CGRP8-37 SB-209670 and BQ-788 had little or no effect on resting haemodynamic parameters. SB-217242 (10 mg kg(-1), n=3) produced a 56% reduction in arterial blood pressure whereas SB-233451 (10 mg kg(-1), n=3) produced a 30% reduction in carotid vascular resistance. Sumatriptan produced dose-related reductions in resting carotid flow and increases (max. 104% at 0.3 mg kg(-1), n = 5) in vascular resistance. 4. SB-209670 (n=6-7), SB-217242 (n=3) and BQ-788 (n=3) produced inhibition of trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced reductions in carotid vascular resistance. Saline, SB-234551, alpha-CGRP8-37 and sumatriptan had no effect. 5. These data demonstrate ET(B) receptor blockade attenuates the vasodilator effects of trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation in the carotid vascular bed of guanethidine pretreated anaesthetized cats.
1. We have studied the behavioural effects of intraplantar injections of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and related compounds in freely moving rats and investigated whether these nociceptive effects are augmented in the presence of inflammatory mediators. 2. We find that in normal animals ATP and analogues produce dose-dependent nocifensive behaviour (seen as bursts of elevation of the treated hindpaw), and localized thermal hyperalgesia. The rank order of potency was: alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate (alpha,beta-methylene ATP) &gt; 2-methylthioadenosine triphosphate (2-methylthio ATP) &gt; ATP. After neonatal treatment with capsaicin, to destroy small calibre primary sensory neurones, nocifensive behaviour was largely absent. 3. The effects of ATP analogues were assessed in three models of peripheral sensitization: 2 h after dilute intraplantar carrageenan (0.25% w v(-1)); 24 h after irradiation of the hindpaw with ultraviolet (U.V.) B; immediately following prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) treatment. In all models the effect of alpha,beta-methylene ATP was greatly augmented. After carrageenan, significant hindpaw-lifting behaviour activity was induced by injection of only 0.05 nmol of alpha,beta-methylene ATP, some 100 times less than necessary in normal skin. 4. Our data suggest that it is much more likely that endogenous levels of ATP will reach levels capable of exciting nociceptors in inflamed versus normal skin. Our data also suggest the involvement of P2X3 receptor subunits in ATP-induced nociception.
1. Proliferative effects of CCK peptides have been examined in rat anterior pituitary GH3 cells, which express CCK2 receptors. 2. CCK-8s, gastrin(1-17) and its glycine-extended precursor G(1-17)-Gly, previously reported to cause proliferation via putative novel sites on AR4-2J and Swiss 3T3 cells, elicited significant dose dependent increases of similar magnitude in [3H]thymidine incorporation over 3 days in serum-free medium of 39 +/- 10% (P &lt; 0.01, n = 20), 37 +/- 8% (P &lt; 0.01, n = 27) and 41 +/- 6% (P &lt; 0.01, n = 36) respectively. 3. CCK-8s and gastrin potentially stimulated mitogenesis (EC50 values 0.12 nM and 3.0 nM respectively), whilst G-Gly displayed similar efficacy but markedly lower potency. L-365,260 consistently blocked each peptide. The CCK2 receptor affinity of G-Gly in GH3 cells was 1.09 microM (1.01;1.17, n = 6) and 5.53 microM (3.71;5.99, n = 4) in guinea-pig cortex. 4. 1 microM G-Gly weakly stimulated Ca2+ increase, eliciting a 104 +/- 21% increase over basal Ca2+ levels, and was blocked by 1 microM L-365,260 whilst CCK-8s (100 nM) produced a much larger Ca2+ response (331 +/- 14%). 5. Insulin dose dependently enhanced proliferative effects of CCK-8s with a maximal leftwards shift of the CCK-8s curve at 100 ng ml(-1) (17 nM) (EC50 decreased 500 fold, from 0.1 nM to 0.2 pM; P &lt; 0.0001). 10 microg ml(-1) insulin was supramaximal reducing the EC50 to 5 pM (P = 0.027) whilst 1 ng ml(-1) insulin was ineffective. Insulin weakly displaced [125I]BHCCK binding to GH3 CCK2 receptors (IC50 3.6 microM). 6. Results are consistent with mediation of G-Gly effects via CCK2 receptors in GH3 cells and reinforce the role of CCK2 receptors in control of cell growth. Effects of insulin in enhancing CCK proliferative potency may suggest that CCK2 and insulin receptors converge on common intracellular targets and indicates that mitogenic stimuli are influenced by the combination of extracellular factors present.

Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic, has a broad receptor binding profile, which may account for its pharmacological effects in schizophrenia. In vitro receptor binding studies showed a high affinity for dopamine D2, D3, and D4 receptors; all 5-HT2 receptor subtypes and the 5-HT6 receptor; muscarinic receptors, especially the M1 subtype: and alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. In vivo studies showed that olanzapine had potent activity at D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, but much less activity at D1 and muscarinic receptors, and that it inhibited dopaminergic neurons in the A10 but not the A9 tract, suggesting that this agent will not cause extrapyramidal side-effects (EPS). Microdialysis studies showed that olanzapine increased the extracellular levels of norepinephrine and dopamine, but not 5-HT, in the prefrontal cortex, and increased extracellular dopamine levels in the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens, areas of the brain associated with schizophrenia. Studies of gene expression showed that olanzapine 10 mg/kg also increased Fos expression in the prefrontal cortex, the dorsolateral striatum, and the nucleus accumbens. These findings are consistent with the effectiveness of olanzapine on both negative and positive symptoms and suggest that, with careful dosing, olanzapine should not cause EPS.

Weakly electric fish are good model animals to study the evolution of interspecific and sexual differences in communication signals. This is because the neural circuits producing these signals are simple and conserved among related species while the signals are highly species-specific, sexually-dimorphic, and under hormonal control. Here we focus on two related species of weakly electric gymnotiform fish that emit a wave-type discharge. These species differ in the direction of the sexual dimorphism of their electric organ discharge (EOD) frequencies and their propensity to produce aggressive communication signals called 'chirps'. Brown ghost (Apteronotus leptorhynchus) males produce high frequency EODs while females produce low frequency EODs. When presented with an EOD mimic, males chirp frequently, while females seldom chirp. By contrast, black ghost (A. albifrons) males discharge at lower EOD frequencies than females, and there is no sex difference in chirping in this species. Accordingly, non-aromatizable androgens raise EOD frequency in brown ghosts, but lower it in black ghosts. Androgens induce chirping in female brown ghosts, but do not increase the propensity to chirp in female black ghosts. Thus, the difference in sexually-dimorphic communication signals between these two species can be explained by differences in their responses to sex steroids. Future studies will elucidate how the neural circuits generating these signals are differentially sensitive to steroids in these species.
Steroid hormones influence neuronal structure and function throughout the animal kingdom, via highly conserved receptor proteins. Insights into steroid effects on neurons and behavior have come from a range of vertebrate species including reptiles, amphibians, fish, birds, rodents and primates. In many instances, steroid hormones regulate the volume of particular regions of the nervous system by affecting both the number of constituent neurons and their size. A major determinant of neuronal number is the process of programmed cell death (PCD), which involves molecular machinery that is conserved across species. This article reviews steroid-mediated PCD and dendritic remodeling during metamorphosis of the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta. Metamorphosis is driven by a class of steroid hormones, the ecdysteroids. During the transformation from larva to pupa to adult moth, accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons of Manduca undergo dendritic regression and regrowth, and segment-specific PCD, in response to specific ecdysteroid cues. Experiments utilizing APRs in primary cell culture show that PCD is a direct response to ecdysteroids, regulated by the intrinsic segmental identity of individual APRs. As in other systems, activation of caspases (cysteine proteases) is involved in the execution phase of PCD. Other experiments demonstrate that the ecdysteroid-mediated regression of APRs' dendrites at pupation causes weakening of monosynaptic excitatory inputs from sensory neurons that trigger a larval withdrawal reflex. Thus, the steroid-mediated reduction in dendritic extent is linked to a specific electrophysiological and behavioral change during metamorphosis. The comparative approach, taking advantage of a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate species, holds the most promise for elucidating the full spectrum of steroid effects on neurons and behavior.
Sexual dimorphisms in the central nervous system exist in numerous vertebrate species, and in many cases these structural differences between males and females parallel differences in the display of reproductive behaviors. Often both the behavioral and anatomical differences are controlled by exposure to gonadal steroid hormones, either during ontogeny or in adulthood. This article reviews some of the evidence supporting the hypothesis that in mammals, testosterone or its metabolites regulate the structure and function of neural and muscle systems involved in the control of masculine sexual behaviors. It then describes data suggesting that the mechanisms regulating sexually dimorphic courtship systems in zebra finches and green anole lizards are not completely parallel to the mammalian systems. Finally, some directions for future study are suggested, with the hope that they will stimulate thought about the nature of comparisons made across vertebrate models when investigators are attempting to determine both which morphological sex differences are important to the control of the reproductive behaviors, and which mechanisms regulating both structure and function are widely employed or are unique.
The developmental expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in the cerebellum, medulla oblongata and pons was investigated in 26 normal human brains, ranging from 20 weeks of gestation (GW) to adulthood by means of an immunohistochemical method. Immunoreactivity to MCP-1 was observed in neurons of the cerebellum and brainstem, and was mainly distributed in the cytoplasm and dendrites. MCP-1-positive Purkinje cells appeared at 27 GW, reached a peak at 36 GW, and then decreased after 1 month of age, almost completely disappearing by 1-2 years of age. MCP-1-reactive neurons in the dentate nucleus and inferior olivary nucleus showed temporal increases similar to that of Purkinje cells. In the pons, however, MCP-1 reactivity was low in neurons of the pontine nuclei persisting from the fetal to the adult period, and was very low and short in the reticular formation and cranial nerve nuclei during the fetal and/or neonatal period. MCP-1 Western blotting of the cerebellar cortex confirmed the specificity of the immunohistochemistry. Our results suggest that MCP-1 may be related to the maturation of Purkinje cells, the dentate nucleus, the inferior olivary nucleus, and their network, promoting the growth of dendrites and synapses. Furthermore, MCP-1 may also be useful for the study of abnormal neuron development and ischemic damage.
Temporal synchronization in neuronal assemblies has been linked to the functional roles of perceptual binding, sensory-motor integration, attention, and information coding. We report new evidence for a common underlying mechanism that uses specific temporal patterns of synchronized neuronal activity as a basis for conveying information. The temporal patterns of stimulus-related synchronized neuronal discharges are structured to closely resemble specific members of the Symlet wavelet packet family employed in a computational framework. Together, these results suggest that temporal patterns of synchronized activity may act as a parallel, distributed code for information through a mechanism computationally equivalent to wavelet packet analysis.
A simple technique for the morphological characterization of pre-labelled neurons in fixed brain slices is described. Neurons are retrogradely-labeled with a carbocyanine dye and the tissue is fixed and sliced. Individual labeled cells from the interior of a slice are then visualized on an upright fluorescence microscope and impaled with a micropipet containing rhodamine or fluorescein-peroxidase conjugates. The cells are filled by iontophoresis, postfixed, and the peroxidase is oxidized into a permanent, opaque reaction product. The dendritic morphology of the neurons is then reconstructed under camera lucida and quantified.
The protocol presented here details a technique which enables the neurotrophins nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to be labelled using 125I and the bioactivity of these labelled proteins determined using an in vivo bioassay. We have found that the simplest and most effective method for 125I-labelling of neurotrophic factors is the IODO-GEN method. Following the iodination of neurotrophins it must be established that the labelling procedure has not affected the biological activity of the protein. Traditional methods of assaying the bioactivity of 125I-labelled neurotrophins have several disadvantages and a much easier protocol to use is the retrograde axonal transport of these proteins in sympathetic and sensory neurons of adult mice. High specific activity 125I-labelled neurotrophin, to which known amounts of unlabelled neurotrophin are added, is injected into the right anterior eye chamber of adult mice under anaesthetic and the animals are left to recover for 16 h, after which they are sacrificed and both superior cervical ganglia (SCG) and trigeminal ganglia (TGG) are removed. The accumulated radioactivity in each ganglion is determined using a gamma-counter and the amount of neurotrophin transported is calculated by subtracting the counts obtained on the non-injected side from those present on the injected side. By comparing the amount of protein injected with the amount transported, the specific activity of the bioactive labelled neurotrophin can be determined.
Vibrating blade microtomes are used extensively in biological research to section non-frozen tissue. There are a wide variety of commercial instruments available for this purpose, however, they are designed to cut thin sections primarily from a tissue block less than one centimeter in height. Herein is described a simple modification of a microscope frame that creates a vibrating blade microtome capable of producing a sequential series of sections through three centimeters of tissue. We illustrate the use of this device to identify and reconstruct a column of rat spinal motor neurons retrogradely labeled from a peripheral muscle.
The cortical network subserving language processing is likely to exhibit a high spatial and temporal complexity. Studies using brain imaging methods, like fMRI or PET, succeeded in identifying a number of brain structures that seem to contribute to the processing of syntactic structures, while their dynamic interaction remains unclear due to the low temporal resolution of the methods. On the other hand, ERP studies have revealed a great deal of the temporal dimension of language processing without being able to provide more than very coarse information on the localisation of the underlying generators. MEG has a temporal resolution similar to EEG combined with a better spatial resolution. In this paper, Brain Surface Current Density (BSCD) mapping in a standard brain model was used to identify statistically significant differences between the activity of certain brain regions due to syntactically correct and incorrect auditory language input. The results show that the activity in the first 600 ms after violation onset is mainly concentrated in the temporal cortex and the adjacent frontal and parietal areas of both hemispheres. The statistical analysis reveals significantly different activity mainly in both frontal and temporal cortices. For longer latencies above 250 ms, the differential activity is more prominent in the right hemisphere. These findings confirm other recent results that suggest right hemisphere involvement in auditory language processing. One interpretation might be that right hemisphere regions play an important role in repair and re-analysis processes in order to free the specialised left hemisphere language areas for processing further input.
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) has appeared as a new tool which is very powerful for cognitive neuroscience, offering the potential to look at the dynamics of cerebral processes underlying cognition, noninvasively and on an individual basis. Work remains to be done to optimize the technique and to better understand its basic mechanisms, but one may expect to build in a few years a functional list of the brain cortical networks of regions implicated in sensory-motor or cognitive processes. Still, the real understanding of brain function requires direct access to the functional unit made of the neuron, so that one may look at the transient temporal relationships that exist between largely distributed groups of hundreds or thousands of neurons. Furthermore, communication pathways between networks must be identified to establish connectivity maps at the individual scale, taking into account individual variability resulting from genetic factors and cerebral plasticity. In this respect, MRI of molecular diffusion is very sensitive to water molecular motion and, thus, to tissue dynamic microstructure, such as cell geometry. Preliminary data suggest that diffusion MRI visualizes dynamic tissue changes associated with large neuronal activation and space orientation of large bundles of myelinated axons in the white matter.
We explore the behavior of richly connected inhibitory neural networks under parameter changes that correspond to weakening of synaptic efficacies between network units, and show that transitions from irregular to periodic dynamics are common in such systems. The weakening of these connections leads to a reduction in the number of units that effectively drive the dynamics and thus to simpler behavior. We hypothesize that the multiple interconnecting loops of the brain's motor circuitry, which involve many inhibitory connections, exhibit such transitions. Normal physiological tremor is irregular while other forms of tremor show more regular oscillations. Tremor in Parkinson's disease, for example, stems from weakened synaptic efficacies of dopaminergic neurons in the nigro-striatal pathway, as in our general model. The multiplicity of structures involved in the production of symptoms in Parkinson's disease and the reversibility of symptoms by pharmacological and surgical manipulation of connection parameters suggest that such a neural network model is appropriate. Furthermore, fixed points that can occur in the network models are suggestive of akinesia in Parkinson's disease. This model is consistent with the view that normal physiological systems can be regulated by robust and richly connected feedback networks with complex dynamics, and that loss of complexity in the feedback structure due to disease leads to more orderly behavior.
Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and related molecules constitute the C-C class of the beta chemokine supergene family with inflammatory properties. However, the exact role, function, and implication in inflammatory diseases remain to be determined. Here we report that subcutaneous injections (0.2 ml) of a saturated water solution (1:40) of potassium permanganate crystals induces the generation of granuloma tissue at the site of injection in the rat, and reaches its peak of formation after 1 week. The size and weight of the granulomas were increased by i.p. lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (6 microgram/200 microliter) and inhibited by intraperitoneal (i.p.) dexamethasone (Dxs) 300 microgram/200 microliter) treatments in rats, injected 18 hours before sacrifice. Moreover, steady-state levels of MCP-1 mRNA in the granuloma tissue (control), were strongly generated. Rats treated i.p. with LPS produced an increase of MCP-1 mRNA in the granuloma tissue compared with controls (i.p. PBS-treated) whereas in animals treated with Dxs, there was a decrease in (P &lt; 0.05) in formation of mRNA protein. When the granuloma tissues were homogenized the generation of MCP-1 was found in the supernatants. The level of MCP-1 was higher (P &lt; 0.05) in the LPS-treated animals and lower (P &lt; 0.05) in the Dxs group compared with the controls (treated with PBS). Similar results were obtained in the serum and in minced granuloma tissue where samples were further incubated in vitro with LPS (100 ng/ml) overnight. A Strong increase (P &lt; 0.01) in MCP-1 in all samples was detected, but not in the minced granuloma tissue from Dxs-treated animals. Our data demonstrate that calcified tissue from chronic inflammation induced by KMnO4 generates MCP-1 gene expression and translation, an effect increased by LPS and decreased by Dxs.
Exocytosis of a single vesicle has been proposed as the mechanism which determines quantal size by releasing a prepackaged and standard amount of acetylcholine. As first described by del Castillo and Katz (1954) the endplate potential is composed of 100 unitary events and the small variance suggests a binomial release from 100 &quot;discrete patches of membrane&quot;. However, exocytosis of 100 vesicles selected randomly from 5000 docked vesicles would yield a variance that is 7 times greater than observed values. We propose that the presynaptic ridge with its compliment of docked vesicles functions as the &quot;discrete patch of membrane&quot; such that arrays of calcium activated fusion pores meter transmitter to form the unit of release. A model based on the synchronous flicker of a large number of fusion pores produces the small variance of both miniature end plate potentials and unitary end plate potentials. Release from a single locus (fusion pore) would generate the sub-MEPP. This model permits vesicle trafficking and vesicular content depletion during tetanic stimulation and explains the frequency dependency of MEPP amplitudes and changes in sub-MEPP to bell-MEPP class ratios.
Photodynamic therapy of cancer is a promising treatment based on the tumor-specific accumulation of photosensitizers followed by irradiation with visible light which induces tumor cell death. The effect of different preincubation times on the photosensitization efficiency of the phthalocyanines AlPc and AlPcS4 was investigated in lymphoblastoid CCRF-CEM cells under conditions that allow maximal uptake of the sensitizers. First, the time course for the uptake of AlPcS4 and AlPc by CCRF-CEM cells and by the pheochromocytoma PC12 cells was compared. The uptake of AlPcS4 by CCRF-CEM cells was not significantly different after 6 h or 24 h incubation, but the photosensitization efficiency of the phthalocyanine was much higher when a 24 h preincubation period was used, with a fluence rate of 5 mW/cm2. However, for a fluence rate of 10 mW/cm2, the photosensitization efficiency of AlPcS4 was almost completely independent of the preincubation time (6 h vs. 24 h) with the phthalocyanine. When the cells were preincubated with 1 micromol/L AlPc for 10 min or 6 h, which allows the same accumulation of sensitizer by the cells, no significant effect of the incubation time on the photodynamic inactivation of CCRF-CEM cells was observed, with fluence rates of 5 mW/cm2 or 10 mW/cm2, for different light doses. Confocal fluorescence microscopy studies did not reveal differences in the localization of the phthalocyanines after maximal uptake was reached. The results show that the preincubation time with AlPcS4, after the maximal uptake is reached, affects cell growth to an extent depending on the fluence rate used, and this effect was not due to a major redistribution of the sensitizer during incubation. However, this was not observed when AlPc was used.

The expansive force generated by the positive pressure of the neural tube fluid confined inside the brain vesicles has been shown to be a key factor during the earliest stages of brain morphogenesis and development of chick embryos. In a previous study, we demonstrated the existence of an intracavity extracellular matrix rich in condroitin sulfate in this species, which could be involved in the regulation of the expansive process. In this report, scanning electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry show that, after neurulation, a similar extracellular matrix rich in chondroitin sulfate is present inside the brain vesicles of rat embryos during early enlargement of the brain anlage. In vitro treatment of rat embryos with beta-D-xyloside (a chemical compound which disrupts chondroitin sulfate synthesis) shows that changes in intralumen chondroitin sulfate concentration are accompanied by significant changes in brain anlage growth. These results support the hypothesis that intracerebral chondroitin sulfate plays a relevant role in the regulation of the expansive process of the brain anlage of rat embryos, and could represent a general mechanism in the early brain development of avian and mammalian embryos.


The phosphono amino acid, (RS)-2-amino-3-[5-tert-butyl-3-(phosphonomethoxy)-4-isoxazolyl+ ++]propio nic acid (ATPO), is a structural hybrid between the NMDA antagonist (RS)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) and the AMPA and GluR5 agonist, (RS)-2-amino-3-(5-tert-butyl-3-hydroxy-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ATPA). ATPO has been resolved into (S)-ATPO and (R)-ATPO using chiral HPLC, and the absolute stereochemistry of the two enantiomers was established by an X-ray crystallographic analysis of (R)-ATPO. (S)-ATPO and (R)-ATPO were characterized pharmacologically using rat brain membrane binding and electrophysiologically using the cortical wedge preparation as well as homo- or heteromeric GluR1-4, GluR5-6, and KA2 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. (R)-ATPO was essentially inactive as an agonist or antagonist in all test systems. (S)-ATPO was an inhibitor of the binding of [(3)H]AMPA (IC(50) = 16 +/- 1 microM) and of [(3)H]-6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione ([(3)H]CNQX) (IC(50) = 1.8 +/- 0.2 microM), but was inactive in the [(3)H]kainic acid and the [(3)H]-(RS)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid ([(3)H]CPP) binding assays. (S)-ATPO did not show detectable agonist effects at any of the receptors under study, but antagonized AMPA-induced depolarization in the cortical wedge preparation (IC(50) = 15 +/- 1 microM). (S)-ATPO also blocked kainic acid agonist effects at GluR1 (K(i) = 2.0 microM), GluR1+2 (K(i) = 3.6 microM), GluR3 (K(i) = 3.6 microM), GluR4 (K(i) = 6.7 microM), and GluR5 (K(i) = 23 microM), but was inactive at GluR6 and GluR6+KA2. Thus, although ATPO is a structural analog of AP7 neither (S)-ATPO nor (R)-ATPO are recognized by NMDA receptor sites.

We studied the interictal EEG of 50 epileptic patients (28 males, 22 females) who had parenchymal neurocysticercosis, diagnosed by CAT/MRI of the brain, positive immunological reaction for cysticercosis in cerebral spinal fluid or both. Age ranged from 5 to 61 years old; the mean age of onset was 24.2 +/- 12.2 years. Thirty-six patients had generalized seizures, 13 partial seizures with secondarily generalized seizures, and 1 had complex partial seizures. Twenty-two patients had parenchymal calcifications (inactive form); 21 had parenchymal cysts (active form) and 7 had both. EEG was abnormal in 14 patients (28%): 8 had focal slowing, 3 had focal sharp or spike activity, and 3 had both. The EEG was normal in patients with inactive forms of neurocysticercosis. The EEG was abnormal in 50% of patients with active and mixed forms of neurocystercosis and in 48% of patients with active form only. We conclude that the active forms of neurocysticercosis should be suspected when the EEG is found to be abnormal. In additional, EEG abnormality does not depend on the number of lesions, but rather on location and viability of the cysts, and on host response.
Eighty-six children fed human milk were followed prospectively from birth to 12 months of age to assess the effect of milk 90K, a secreted glycoprotein with immune-stimulatory properties, on development of acute respiratory infections (ARI). The level of human milk 90K was inversely related to episodes of ARI (r = - 0.34; P = 0.001). The average 90K level in human milk fed to children who did not develop ARI was significantly higher than in milk fed to children in whom infection occurred on multiple occasions (156.6 +/- 144.8 microg/ml versus 70.9 +/- 92.3 microg/ml; P = 0.001). These data suggest that the protective effects of human milk against ARI may be due in part to immune maturation effects by secreted 90K.
Tolcapone, a central and peripheral catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, reduces the conversion of L-Dopa into 3-O-methyl-Dopa (3-OMD), thus leading to more stable and sustained L-Dopa plasma levels. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of acute and 6-week tolcapone administration on L-Dopa pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with predictable motor fluctuations. Tapping test, walking time, and tremor, as well as L-Dopa and 3-OMD plasma levels, were assessed before and for 5 hours after the administration of a single L-Dopa dose, alone or in combination with 200 mg tolcapone, in seven patients with PD. This clinical and pharmacokinetic study was repeated after 6 weeks of tolcapone therapy (200 mg three times daily). It was observed that tolcapone, after both acute and chronic administration, prolonged the motor improvement induced by L-Dopa. As a result, at week 6 of tolcapone therapy, the daily hours spent &quot;off&quot; were significantly decreased. Tolcapone significantly increased the area under the curve of L-Dopa plasma levels by slowing down the elimination of L-Dopa from plasma, whereas the maximal concentration of L-Dopa was not modified. 3-OMD levels decreased significantly after acute tolcapone administration, and after 6 weeks of tolcapone therapy, they were approximately one sixth of pre-tolcapone values. The data confirm that tolcapone decreases L-Dopa clearance and prolongs motor response in PD patients with motor fluctuations, and that this effect is maintained after 6 weeks of tolcapone therapy.

Zack Hall, Director of the NINDS, succinctly described the present situation: &quot;This is the golden age of neuroscience research&quot; (verbal presentation at the annual meeting of the American Neurological Association, 1997). Recent trials in clinical research have demonstrated the power of thrombolytic therapy in acute ischemic stroke, and investigators across the country are now refining that therapy. The advantages of thrombolytic intervention can be provided to a much larger proportion of the population as we defined techniques to slow the rate of neuronal cell death after ischemia. However, the most exciting future opportunities for care of individuals of acute ischemic stroke arises from two somewhat unsuspected avenues. First, neuroscientists are learning in an extraordinarily rapid fashion the potentials of replacement of neural cell populations using progenitor cells. Second, the incredible explosion of genetic information has created an opportunity to identify genes responsible for atherosclerosis and other cerebrovascular disease. This, in turn, could lead to precise therapies that prevent or diminish the disease. Exploiting these opportunities requires that neural clinicians continue their cooperative efforts and, also, learn to work together with neuroscientists and geneticists. With such cooperation, we are poised to translate the golden age of neuroscience research into a genuine benefit for individuals with cerebrovascular disorders.
Podiatrists often refer patients to electromyographers to determine the cause of pain, tingling, numbness, and other paresthesias of unknown cause. Hence, some knowledge of the study and an understanding that it is an extension of the patient's history and physical examination is imperative. To enhance the podiatrist's understanding of electromyography, a review of basic neurophysiology, the neurologic examination, and electromyography/nerve conduction velocities (EMG/NCV) are discussed. Definitions are provided for the terms introduced in the article.
We determined whether the sensitivity of the ipsilateral type II units of Rana esculenta to prey (W/H-oriented bars) and non-prey (A/V-oriented bars)-like targets remains invariant under various experimental conditions. We show that the shape of the 'discrimination' curve is largely unaffected by the level of general illumination and by the background texture. An increase in the stimulus velocity and in the width of the bars moderately affects the salient points (negative peak and preference reversal) of the curve, but does not alter the overall configurational preference of these units. As for retinal ganglion cells: (i) this curve expresses better a 'contrast' between two vertically oriented edges of different dimensions than a 'contrast' between two edges of equal dimension but of different orientation; and (ii) the experimentally induced variations can be explained on the basis of the spatial and temporal properties of the neuronal elements forming the antagonistic center-surround arrangement of the receptive field.
An investigation of the mechanical response of the human head subject to externally applied forces is analysed using the finite element method (FEM). The model's geometry description is based on individual 3D MRI datasets of the head. After segmentation the MRI data serves as input to a fully automated mesh generator. The underlying algorithms of the mesh generator are stable and fast. Isotropic and anisotropic meshes consisting of tetrahedra or brick elements are created with a predefined spatial resolution. The meshes are of high quality with regard to numerical stability of the FE calculation. Transient head impact simulations can be carried out on the basis of these meshes with a spatial resolution of up to 2 mm. The results of the impact simulations are validated against previously published experimental data obtained from cadaver tests.
Most neuroscience research is performed by using anesthetized animals or tissue samples obtained from animals that have been euthanatized. However, study of many important issues requires the use of animals that are alert and capable of engaging in behavior. Various methods have been used to humanely perform neuroscience experiments that involved unanesthetized animals. These techniques often involve surgical implantation of an apparatus that permits direct manipulation of brain tissue or measurement of neurochemicals or neuronal activity in conscious animals. We describe here common surgical techniques used to prepare animals for long-term neuroscience studies, discuss several issues related to short- and long-term postoperative care of animals with implants, and offer suggestions that veterinary and research personnel can use to prevent or mitigate some common problems that may develop when preparing and maintaining animals for these studies.
Recent progress in the theory and technology of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is leading to novel approaches in brain mapping. TMS becomes a powerful functional brain mapping tool when other imaging methods are used to record TMS-evoked activity or when peripheral effects are observed as a function of stimulus location. TMS-evoked activity currently can be recorded by EEG, PET, and fMRI. In addition to providing indices of cortical excitability, these methods allow one to study brain connectivity directly, without the need for behavioral activations. When the coordinate systems in the different imaging modalities are combined, anatomical structures seen in MRI and activation sites determined by PET, fMRI, or MEG/EEG can be used for the selection of target areas in the brain. PET and fMRI can be used to map the spatial distribution of TMS-evoked activity. On the other hand, the combination of TMS and high-resolution EEG may often be the method of choice for basic neuroscience and for clinical diagnosis, for example, in the assessment of brain connectivity in patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases or head injuries.
Glutamate and aspartate are the primary excitatory neurotransmitters in the mammalian central nervous system and have also been implicated as mediators of excitotoxic neuronal injury and death. The precise control of extracellular glutamate and aspartate is crucial to the maintenance of normal synaptic transmission and the prevention of excitotoxicity following acute insults to the brain, such as stroke or head trauma, or during the progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The removal of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) from the extracellular space is primarily mediated by a family of sodium-dependent glutamate transporters. These transporters use the sodium electrochemical gradients of the cell to actively concentrate EAAs in both neurons and glia. Five members of this transporter family have been cloned recently and include both 'glial'-specific and 'neuron'-specific subtypes. Although these subtypes share many common functional properties, there are considerable differences in developmental expression, chronic and acute regulation by cellular signaling pathways, and contribution to disease processes among the subtypes. In this review recent studies of glutamate transporter expression, regulation, function, and pathological relevance are summarized, and some of the discrepancies and unexpected results common to any rapidly progressing field are discussed.

Child neurology is a relatively young speciality of neurosciences which is at the frontier of Neurology and Paediatrics. Its development has been impulsed by the diagnosis techniques such as Neurobiology, Genetics, Neuroimaging and pedo-psychology. We conducted a retrospective survey among the in-patients from January 1980 to December 1997 in the service of Neurology of the University Hospital. Have been included children ranged from 0 to 15 years old without any racial, sexual or origin distinctive. In Neurology Department, children of 0 to 15 years old represent 10.06% of the in-patients received from 1980 to 1997. The mortality rate was 9.23%. The diseases are dominated by epilepsy and infantile encephalopathies with 31.02%, infectious diseases with 19.36% represented by tuberculosis, other bacterial, viral and parasitical etiologies, tumors with 10.36%, vascular pathology and degenerative disorders.
In 336 consecutive patients attending a university-affiliated memory unit, clinical and psychological findings, neuroimaging and laboratory tests were analyzed. The patients were diagnosed with early Alzheimer's disease 3%, senile dementia (SDAT) 16%, vascular dementia (VAD) 20%, other dementias 9%, minor cognitive impairment (dysmentia) 32% and subjective symptoms only 21%. Increases in vascular risk factors, serum homocysteine, ApoE4 load and neuroimaging pathology were found in dementia but also in dysmentia and in patients with subjective symptoms only. The homocysteine levels correlated inversely with cognitive performance. The increases in serum homocysteine, which were pathological in VAD, Dysmentia and SDAT, may be indicative of a disturbed cerebral one-carbon metabolism and signal-accelerated development of cognitive disease.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) and alpha1-antichymotrypsin (ACT) genotype and allele frequency distribution were investigated in 113 familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases. A significantly higher sigma4 frequency was observed in patients with an age of onset between 55-64 and 65-74 years compared to individuals with later or earlier onset. No difference in ACT A allele frequency was seen in any onset group, nor was any influence of ACT genotypes on the age of onset observed. However, the mean age of onset was lowered by the presence of the ACT/AA and ACT/TT genotypes among APOE sigma3/3 bearers. Possible APOE effects on age of onset were evaluated in 78 affected sib pairs. An earlier age of onset was observed in siblings with an sigma4 allele compared to siblings without an sigma4 allele. This supports the notion that the sigma4 allele promotes an earlier age of onset. However, in siblings with the same APOE genotype, a wide range of onset was seen, indicating that unknown genetic or environmental factors affect the expression of AD.
Hikaru genki (HIG) is a putative secreted protein of Drosophila that belongs to immunoglobulin and complement-binding protein superfamilies. Previous studies reported that, during pupal and adult stages, HIG protein is synthesized in subsets of neurons and appears to be secreted to the synaptic clefts of neuron-neuron synapses in the central nervous system (CNS). Here we report the analyses of distribution patterns of HIG protein at embryonic and larval stages. In embryos, HIG was mainly observed in subsets of neurons of the CNS that include pCC interneurons and RP5 motorneurons. At third instar larval stage, this protein was detected in a limited number of cells in the brain and ventral nerve cord. Among them are the motorneurons that extend their axons to make neuromuscular junctions on body wall muscle 8. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that these axonal processes as well as the neuromuscular terminals contain numerous vesicles with HIG staining, suggesting that HIG is in a pathway of secretion at this stage. Some neurosecretory cells were also found to express this protein. These data suggest that HIG functions in the nervous system through most developmental stages and may serve as a secreted signalling molecule to modulate the property of synapses or the physiology of the postsynaptic cells.
Previous studies have shown that zygotic expression of the Drosophila lark gene, which encodes an RNA-binding protein, is essential for embryogenesis. We now show that lark mRNA is abundant in preblastoderm (0-2 h) embryos, prior to zygotic transcription, indicative of maternal inheritance. Lark can also be detected within the nurse cells of developing egg chambers, suggesting a function for the protein during oogenesis. To test the hypothesis that the maternal inheritance of lark is required for oogenesis or early development, we employed the &quot;FLP-DFS&quot; technique to eliminate the lark maternal component within the germ line. Unfertilized and fertilized eggs lacking the lark maternal component exhibit a &quot;fragile&quot; phenotype, indicating that the protein functions during oogenesis. Furthermore, differentiation of the fertilized eggs is abnormal-most embryos arrest prior to blastoderm formation and exhibit morphological phenotypes that might reflect underlying defects in syncytial nuclear cycling or cellularization. Mutational analysis of a retroviral-type zinc finger within the lark protein indicates that it is required for the maternal function of the protein: females are completely sterile when their only source of lark protein contains a zinc-finger mutation. The aggregate of our studies shows that the germ-line expression of lark is essential for development, and suggests that the retroviral-type zinc finger mediates important RNA-binding functions during oogenesis and/or early development.
Recent experiments have demonstrated that a family of proteins, known as the innexins, are structural components of invertebrate gap junctions. The shaking-B (shak-B) locus of Drosophila encodes two members of this emerging family, Shak-B(lethal) and Shak-B(neural). This study focuses on the role of Shak-B gap junctions in the development of embryonic and larval muscle. During embryogenesis, shak-B transcripts are expressed in a subset of the somatic muscles; expression is strong in ventral oblique muscles (VO4-6) but only weak in ventral longitudinals (VL3 and 4). Carboxyfluorescein injected into VO4 of wild-type early stage 16 embryos spreads, via gap junctions, to label adjacent muscles, including VL3 and 4. In shak-B2 embryos (in which the shak-B(neural) function is disrupted), dye injected into VO4 fails to spread into other muscles. In the first instar larva, when dye coupling between muscles is no longer present, another effect of the shak-B2 mutation is revealed by whole-cell voltage clamp. In a calcium-free saline, only two voltage-activated potassium currents are present in wild-type muscles; a fast IA and a slow IK current. In shak-B2 larvae, these two currents are significantly reduced in magnitude in VO4 and 5, but remain normal in VL3. Expression of shak-B(neural) in a shak-B2 background fully rescues both dye coupling in embryonic muscle and whole-cell currents in first instar VO4 and 5. Our observations show that Shak-B(neural) is one of a set of embryonic gap-junction proteins, and that it is required for the normal temporal development of potassium currents in some larval muscles.
Neuronal elimination in the developing CNS is accomplished by an orderly type of cellular suicide called programmed cell death. The principal non-neuronal cells implicated in regulating programmed cell death and subsequent phagocytosis of dying neurons are the brain's macrophage population, the microglia. Little is known about the signaling between microglia and neurons during programmed cell death. However, macrophages in non-neural tissues express receptors for immunoglobulin (IgG) and complement, and these molecules help regulate phagocytosis of dying cells and foreign organisms. Since many of the neurons generated early in CNS development are transient cell types that are immunoreactive for IgG [Upender et al.: J Comp Neurol 1997; 384:271-282], we hypothesized that IgG might alter the phagocytic properties of microglia within the developing nervous system and potentiate engulfment of dying cells. To begin to address this hypothesis, we first asked whether cortical neurons immunoreactive for IgG or calbindin-D28k exhibit morphological evidence of programmed cell death in the cerebral cortex of neonatal rat pups. Secondly, we quantified the incidence of contacts made by microglia on IgG- vs. calbindin-immunoreactive neurons. Thirdly, perturbation experiments were performed to elevate intracortical levels of IgG and the incidence of microglia:neuron contacts were determined. We found that although the nuclei of some IgG-immunoreactive neurons exhibited condensation and fragmentation characteristic of programmed cell death, we did not observe pyknotic calbindin-immunoreactive neurons. IgG-immunoreactive neurons were also more likely to be contacted by microglia than calbindin-immunoreactive neurons. Elevating intracortical levels of IgG experimentally led to a dramatic increase in the expression of microglia complement receptors throughout the cerebral cortex. Taken together, these results suggest that IgG normally present within neuronal subsets in the developing cerebral cortex could serve to locally regulate the expression of complement receptors on microglia.
Strong evidence exists for the masculinizing effects of estrogen on the neural network that controls song learning and behavior in zebra finches. However, the mechanisms by which estrogen acts to influence the development of this circuitry are not well understood. In this study, we used in situ hybridization to detect the distribution of cells expressing mRNAs for AROM and ERalpha at postnatal days 5-25 (P5-25). Our findings revealed developmental regulation of both mRNAs in the neostriatum, archistriatum, hippocampus, diencephalon and midbrain. Within the vocal control circuitry, cells expressing ERalpha mRNA were found in the medial HVC (P10-25), archistriatum lateral to the RA (Ad; P25), in the ICo (P5-25), and along the fiber tract containing efferents from the RA. High levels of AROM mRNA were found in the neostriatum, including both the lateral and mMAN and along their projections to the RA and HVC, respectively, (P5-25), in the archistriatum (P18-25) and around RA (P18). Codistribution of the two mRNAs occurred along the border of the HVC suggesting that in this region, local synthesis of estrogen may be acting through its nuclear receptor to regulate gene transcription. Taken together, our findings show that the neural circuitry controlling song may be exposed to the effects of estrogen during early postnatal development. However, in most of the song control regions, these mRNAs were not expressed together either temporally or spatially, indicating that AROM may have a role in the development of the song system independent of ERalpha.
Fetal rats were exposed throughout gestation to one of three diets: an ethanol-containing liquid diet, a liquid diet with the isocaloric substitution of sucrose for ethanol or a laboratory chow control diet. At postnatal day 1 (P1), the spinal cords were taken for analyses of motoneuron number and size. These analyses revealed a significant loss of motoneurons and a reduction of motoneuron size in the ethanol-exposed animals, compared to both sucrose and chow controls. Spinal cord length and ventral horn volume were not altered as a result of ethanol treatment, so the change in motoneuron number cannot be attributed to volumetric changes. The content of the motoneuron survival factor glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was also assessed in the P1 limb motoneuron target tissue. This analysis was undertaken because GDNF is a potent survival factor for developing motoneurons and has been shown to protect this population from ethanol neurotoxicity. Thus, its depletion could contribute to motoneuron loss. These analyses, using the ELISA assay, did not detect reductions in GDNF in the ethanol-exposed animals. Therefore, alterations in other neurotrophic factors or ethanol neurotoxicity by other means appear to be responsible for the motoneuron loss. These results are consistent with earlier studies in the chick embryo, which also found reduced motoneuron numbers as a function of developmental ethanol exposure, and point again to the general lethality of ethanol to the developing nervous system.
Consumption of alcohol during pregnancy can result in central nervous system deficits in infants ranging from fetal alcohol effects to fetal alcohol syndrome. Changes in cerebral metabolism causing ischemic in utero conditions can also result from ethanol (EtOH). Growth factors have been shown to ameliorate ischemic damage and EtOH-induced neurotoxicity. However, using an in vitro model system of fetal alcohol effects/fetal alcohol syndrome, this study examines the neuroprotective effects of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, or glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor against EtOH treatment (0, 200, 400, 800, or 1, 600 mg/dl) combined with acute ischemia (2-hour hypoxia in EtOH-containing glucose-free media) followed by chronic hypoglycemia (16-hour glucose deprivation in EtOH-containing media). 3-(4, 5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assays assessed relative neurotoxicity. Glial cell derived neurotrophic factor was not neuroprotective. Nerve growth factor protected against ischemia/hypoglycemia combined with 0-1,600 mg/dl EtOH. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor protected against ischemia/hypoglycemia combined with 0-800 mg/dl EtOH. These studies demonstrate marked growth factor neuroprotection against a myriad of conditions encountered by developing EtOH-exposed fetuses.
The membrane-associated protein gephyrin can form part of the glycine receptor complex at inhibitory synapses. This study provides evidence for gephyrin localisation in the developing axons of the rat brain and spinal cord, with particular reference to the corticospinal tract. Using a well-characterised monoclonal antibody (MAb 7a) gephyrin-like immunoreactivity was found expressed by growing axons, disappearing as these axons became myelinated. Immunoelectron microscopy localised the antigen to the interior of small, unmyelinated axons in the dorsal funiculus of young rats. Western blot analysis of cervical spinal cord from different post-natal ages only detected one immunoreactive band at ages when immunohistochemistry revealed gephyrin-like immunoreactivity in both the grey matter and corticospinal tract. Furthermore, the molecular weight of this band corresponded to that of gephyrin, suggesting it is present both at synapses and in axons. The known tubulin binding ability of the gephyrin may have a role in stabilisation of microtubules in growing axons.
The glial cells, especially the astroglia constitute a prominent part of the brain cell volume. Astroglial properties are difficult to study in the intact nervous system. For that reason, different in vitro models have been developed. The development of cell and tissue cultivation conditions has been the prerequisite to our present knowledge of the biochemistry and pharmacology of glial cells and to some extent even neurons. It is, however, an advantage if results from tissue culture can be evaluated in more in vivo like systems. We here describe a method for acute isolation of freshly prepared neurons and glial cells.
In Drosophila the precursors of the adult musculature arise during embryogenesis. These precursor cells have been termed Persistent Twist Cells (PTCs), as they continue to express the transcription factor Twist after that gene ceases expression elsewhere in the mesoderm. In the larval abdomen, the PTCs are associated with peripheral nerves in stereotypic ventral, dorsal, and lateral clusters, which give rise, respectively, to the ventral, dorsal, and lateral muscle fiber groups of the adult. We tested the developmental potential of the PTCs by using a microbeam laser to ablate specific clusters in larvae. We found that the ablation of a single segmental PTC cluster does not usually result in the deletion of the corresponding adult fibers of that segment. Instead, normal or near normal numbers of adult fibers can form after the ablation. Examination of pupae following ablation showed that migrating PTCs from adjacent segments are able to invade the affected segment, replenishing the ablated cells. However, the ablation of homologous PTCs in multiple segments does result in the deletion of the corresponding adult muscle fibers. These data indicate that the PTCs in an abdominal segment can contribute to the formation of muscle fibers in adjacent abdominal segments, and thus are not inherently restricted to the formation of muscle fibers within their segment of origin.
The gastrointestinal tract of many patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is hypersensitive to different stimuli. The mechanisms of this hypersensitivity are unclear, but could involve enteric, visceral afferent/efferent, spinal and/or central nervous systems. Such complexity, the absence of animal models or anatomical, molecular or genetic markers of IBS, means that it is difficult to create new types of drugs which specifically treat the condition of IBS. To help in this process, current pre-clinical and early-clinical approaches are evaluated in terms of their ability to intervene within the gut-spinal cord/brain axis and inhibit gastrointestinal 'hypersensitivity' and 'hyperreactivity'. Thus, by developing a rational process the pharmaceutical industry may better understand how to design truly effective drugs for the treatment of IBS.


The synapsins are a family of neuronal phosphoproteins that are specifically associated with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. In mammals, distinct genes for synapsins I, II, and III give rise to members of the synapsin family. The synapsins are implicated in neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis, processes believed to be aberrant in several neuropsychiatric diseases. The characterization of human synapsins is therefore important for evaluating the possible role of synapsins in human neuropathology. In this report, we describe the cloning and sequence of human synapsins IIa and IIb, products of the synapsin II gene. Human synapsins IIa and IIb conform to the previously described domain model of the synapsins, and the most conserved protein domains are A, C, and E.
Werner Ernst Reichardt was born on January 30, 1924 in Berlin and at age 19 was drafted into the Luftwaffe and assigned to an electronic signals section laboratory. He became an active member of a resistance group and supplied radios for the movement in Germany. He emerged from the ashes of the Second World War and dedicated his scientific life to the development of the newborn specialty of biological physics. Following graduation from the Technische Hochschule Charlottenburg, he did a fellowship at CalTech under Max Delbrck. On returning to Germany he joined the Max Planck Institut and later became Director of the Max Planck Institut fr Biologische Kybernetik in Tbingen, West Germany. Reichardt was one of the founders of the quantitative study of visually controlled orientation in animals. His work is very nearly unique in its close dialectic between elegant non-linear mathematical theory and quantitative experimental test of their predictions. During the 1950s Reichardt and his collaborators jointly developed an autocorrelation model (i.e. the firing rate of the involved visual neurones is closely correlated with the features of the pattern stimulating them) of how moving patterns are perceived by motion detectors in the visual system of the fly. This was the first mathematical description of a biological abstraction process. His findings apply to vertebrate vision, including motion detection and figure-ground description in human vision. His Max Planck Institute became a world renowned center for the computational approach to information processing by the nervous system. At his retirement party from the Institute he founded, Reichardt died on the evening of September 11th, 1992.

In previous trials we proved how propionyl carnitine, an acyl carnitine characterized by its intense mitochondrial metabolic, and cardio and vasoprotective activity, could prevent the cyclosporine-induced nephrotoxicity. Subsequently we also noted how propionyl carnitine could prevent the increase in renal intracellular calcium, which is the base of many cyclosporine-induced toxic phenomena. In our trials, we used the isolated and perfused rat kidney technique to examine if with the variations of the concentration of intracellular calcium, the adenosine 5'-triphosphate concentrations also varied, and if this decrease could be corrected by administrating propionyl carnitine. The results we obtained in these experiments indicated that when propionyl carnitine was administered preventively, the concentrations of renal intracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate which were decreased by the cyclosporine returned to their normal values and, at the same time, a decrease in the increased vascular resistance of the kidney was noted. Therefore, propionyl carnitine corrected one of the biochemical alterations which explained the pathogenesis of the renal damage induced by cyclosporine.


Food movements during complete feeding sequences on soft and hard foods (8 g of chicken spread, banana, and hard cookie) were investigated in 10 normal subjects; 6 of these subjects also ate 8 g peanuts. Foods were coated with barium sulfate. Lateral projection videofluorographic tapes were analyzed, and jaw and hyoid movements were established after digitization of records for 6 subjects. Sequences were divided into phases, each involving different food management behaviors. After ingestion, the bite was moved to the postcanines by a pull-back tongue movement (Stage I transport) and processed for different times depending on initial consistency. Stage II transport of chewed food through the fauces to the oropharyngeal surface of the tongue occurred intermittently during jaw motion cycles. This movement, squeeze-back, depended on tongue-palate contact. The bolus accumulated on the oropharyngeal surface of the tongue distal to the fauces, below the soft palate, but was cycled upward and forward on the tongue surface, returning through the fauces into the oral cavity. The accumulating bolus spread into the valleculae. The total oropharyngeal accumulation time differed with initial food consistency but could be as long as 8-10 sec for the hard foods. There was no predictable tongue-palate contact at any time in the sequence. A new model for bolus formation and deglutition is proposed.






A 74-year-old patient suffers from painful muscle cramps when he stands since 30 years. He has no visible tremor but 16 Hz burst activity on EMG, indicating orthostatic tremor. Previous diagnosis was hysteria, stiff person syndrome or dystonia. This shows that EMG during standing should be part of the examination of patients with stiff muscles or muscle cramps. Tremor was not strictly orthostatic. It appeared in back muscles while sitting, when the patient supported a weight with outstretched arms. Phase between muscles differed between normal standing and standing on heels. Subthreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation modulated timing of the tremor bursts and inhibited them at higher intensity stimulation.
The goals of this study were to determine the cellular sites of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) and IGF type-I receptor (IGF-IR) expression and to begin to elucidate functional roles for the IGFs during postnatal development of the murine mammary gland. Using in situ hybridization analyses, we determined that IGF-I, IGF-II, and IGF-IR messenger RNAs were expressed in the highly proliferative terminal end buds during pubertal ductal growth. Consistent with these data, IGF-I (in combination with mammogenic hormones) promoted ductal growth in pubertal stage mammary glands cultured in vitro. During postpubertal and pregnancy stages, IGF-II and IGF-IR continued to be expressed in ductal epithelium. Expression of IGF-II in ductal and alveolar epithelium correlated with the pattern of rapidly proliferating cells, as determined by incorporation of 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, suggesting a potential autocrine or paracrine role for IGF-II as a mitogen for ductal epithelial cells. IGF-I expression was reinitiated in mammary epithelium in the differentiated alveoli at the end of pregnancy, suggesting an additional role for this factor in maintenance of the alveoli during lactation. Taken together, these data support an in vivo role for locally-produced IGFs in promoting ductal growth during puberty and suggest that IGF-I and IGF-II may have distinct functions during pregnancy-induced alveolar development.
Grafts of fetal tissue including the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus restore locomotor rhythmicity to behaviorally arrhythmic, SCN-lesioned Syrian hamsters. We sought to determine whether such transplants also reinstate endocrine rhythms in SCN-lesioned hamsters. In Exp 1, SCN lesions interrupted estrous cycles in a 14 h light, 10 h dark photoperiod and locomotor rhythms in constant dim red light (DD). SCN grafts that reinstated behavioral circadian rhythms consistently failed to reestablish estrous cycles. After ovariectomy, estradiol implants triggered LH surges at approximately circadian time 8 in 10 of 12 brain-intact control females and 0 of 9 SCN-lesioned, grafted females. Daily rhythms of the principal urinary melatonin metabolite, 6alpha-sulfatoxymelatonin, were not reestablished by behaviorally functional grafts. In Exp 2, SCN lesions eliminated locomotor rhythmicity in adult male hamsters maintained in DD. Seven to 12 weeks after restoration of locomotor activity rhythms by fetal grafts, hosts and sham-lesioned controls were decapitated at circadian times 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, or 24. Clear circadian rhythms of both serum corticosterone and cortisol were seen in sham-lesioned males, with peaks in late subjective day. No circadian rhythms in either adrenal hormone were evident in serum from lesioned-grafted males. Testicular regression, observed in intact and sham-lesioned males maintained in DD, was absent not only in arrhythmic SCN-lesioned hamsters given grafts of cerebral cortex, but also in animals in which hypothalamic grafts had reinstated locomotor rhythmicity. The pineal melatonin concentration rose sharply during the late subjective night in control hamsters, but not in SCN-lesioned animals bearing behaviorally effective transplants. Even though circadian rhythms of locomotor activity are restored by SCN transplants, circadian endocrine rhythms are not reestablished. Endocrine rhythms may require qualitatively different or more extensive SCN outputs than those established by fetal grafts.
In golden hamsters, seasonal changes in day length act via a pineal-dependent mechanism to regulate feedback and behavioral effects of androgen. Endogenous opiates participate in photoperiodically regulated neuroendocrine functions, but the effects of androgen on expression of the gene encoding POMC, the precursor of beta-endorphin, have been controversial. We used quantitative in situ hybridization to examine regulation of POMC messenger RNA (mRNA) by testosterone and to test the hypothesis that short day lengths act through the pineal gland to amplify POMC mRNA expression. We studied intact hamsters and castrates with or without androgen treatment held in long (14 h of light, 10 h of darkness) or short (5 h of light, 19 h of darkness) days for 10 weeks. POMC gene expression differed with rostral-caudal plane, photoperiod, and surgical treatment (castration and testosterone administration). Testosterone increased the number of silver grains in labeled cells throughout the arcuate nucleus, and short day castrates given androgen consistently had more silver grains per labeled cell than did their long day counterparts. Testosterone exerted an inhibitory effect, however, on the number of POMC mRNA-positive cells, and more POMC mRNA-labeled cells were found in the arcuate nucleus of long than short day castrates treated with testosterone. Photoperiod had no significant influence in castrates not receiving androgen. Testosterone treatment had generally similar effects whether it was begun at the time of castration or 5 weeks later. Pinealectomy blocked the influence of photoperiod on both the mean number of silver grains per labeled cell and the number of labeled cells. The results indicate that day length regulates POMC gene expression when androgen levels are held constant, but that androgen is necessary for photoperiod effects to be expressed.
During lactation the suckling stimulus increases the activity of two populations of neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons in the hypothalamus, the caudal portion of the arcuate nucleus (ARH) and the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), and suppresses the activity of TIDA neurons in the ARH. In the present study, an acute resuckling model was used to examine the role of suckling-induced hyperprolactinemia in modulating the activity of these systems. Lactating rats were deprived of their eight-pup litters on day 9 postpartum, and 48 h later, the animals served either as nonsuckled controls (0 pups) or were suckled for 24 h. In addition, some of the resuckled animals received two s.c. injections of bromocriptine (0.5 mg/rat x injection), a dopamine D2 agonist, to inhibit suckling-induced PRL secretion. In situ hybridization was performed for rat NPY messenger RNA (mRNA) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA to provide an index for NPY and TIDA neuronal activities, respectively. Resuckling for 24 h induced a significant increase in NPY mRNA levels in the caudal portion of the ARH and in the DMH. Bromocriptine treatment did not alter the increase in NPY mRNA levels in the ARH, whereas the treatment greatly attenuated the increase in NPY mRNA in the DMH. TH mRNA levels in the rostral ARH area returned to basal levels in the nonsuckled control animals, and 24 h of resuckling significantly suppressed TH mRNA expression in this area. Bromocriptine treatment caused a significant increase in TH mRNA levels compared with those in the eight-pup suckled group. Thus, the results from the present study demonstrate that the suckling stimulus activated the two populations of NPY neurons and suppressed TIDA activity. Suckling-induced hyperprolactinemia did not participate in the increase in ARH NPY activity, whereas it played a major stimulatory role in suckling-induced activation of NPY neurons in the DMH and an inhibitory role in suckling-induced suppression of TIDA activity. The increase in TIDA activity after bromocriptine treatment was unexpected and suggests that the role of PRL in the regulation of TIDA activity is significantly altered during lactation.
Doses of testosterone that fully activate male reproductive behavior in castrated adult male hamsters fail to elicit mounting and intromissions in prepubertal castrates, even when circulating levels of testosterone are equivalent in the two age groups. We hypothesize that this differential responsiveness to testosterone is mediated at least in part by the efficacy with which testosterone in the hypothalamus is aromatized to estradiol, an important hormone mediating male sexual behavior. Therefore, hypothalamic aromatase activity, as measured by the conversion of [3H]testosterone to [3H]estradiol in tissue homogenates, was assessed in four separate experiments: 1) intact prepubertal and adult male golden hamsters, 2 and 3) castrated adult or prepubertal males that received either a 0- or 2.5-mg dose of testosterone, and 4) castrated adult and prepubertal males treated with the 2.5-mg dose oftestosterone. These studies demonstrate that hypothalamic aromatase activity is significantly higher in adult males compared with prepubertal males, and that hypothalamic aromatase activity is increased by testosterone to the same extent in both the adult and prepubertal male hamster. Therefore, the failure of testosterone-treated castrated prepubertal male hamsters to engage in the full suite of male reproductive behaviors is not due to the inability of testosterone to be converted into estradiol in the hypothalamus. Differences in the ability of testosterone to increase aromatase activity in other brain regions, or differences in the action of testosterone and/or estradiol on other cellular processes must account for the inability of testosterone to facilitate male reproductive behavior in juvenile males.

This is a study of the electron-immunocytochemical localization of nitric oxide synthase (type III) and endothelin in renal and mesenteric artery endothelial cells of normal (active) and hibernating hamsters, as well as hamsters exposed to the cold but not hibernating, and hamsters aroused for 2h following hibernation. In the renal artery of hibernating hamsters and cold-exposed hamsters, a subpopulation of nitric oxide synthase-positive endothelial cells displayed immunoprecipitate predominantly in the vicinity of the Golgi complex indicating intracellular translocation from the cytoplasm to the Golgi complex. In hibernating animals, the percentages of both nitric oxide synthase-positive and endothelin-positive endothelial cells were notably lower than those observed either in active, cold-exposed or aroused animals. These changes may reflect a reduced endothelial contribution to the maintenance of vascular tone in these vessels during hibernation and an upregulation of expression of nitric oxide synthase and endothelin in the endothelium early on during arousal from hibernation.
To quantify rapid and precise proximo-distal movements, we have developed a simple system (eurythmokinesimeter or EKM) which requires the subject to touch alternately the center of proximal and distal targets with a stylus. Ninety-six participants, including 30 controls subjects, 36 Cree subjects exposed to mercury, 21 subjects with Parkinson disease, 6 with presumed cerebellar deficit, and 3 with essential tremor, participated in the study. A total of nine measures, including precision, imprecision, contact duration, unsureness, tremor, transit time, irregularity, speed, and Fitts' constant, were calculated. Test-retest reliability was above 0.8 for most measures and above 0.9 for many measures. Correlations between measures and number of outliers with respect to the control group distribution for each measure were used to reduce the set of measures to five (i.e., precision, imprecision, tremor, Fitts' constant, and irregularity). An ANOVA on the three largest groups generated significant results for tremor, Fitts' constant, and irregularity between the Cree and the control subjects and on Fitts' constant and irregularity between the subjects with Parkinson's disease and the control subjects. Three subgroups of the same mean age composed of six subjects each were selected. One was composed of Cree subjects with the highest level of mercury exposure, another with Cree subjects having a low level of mercury exposure, and a third with control subjects. An ANOVA on these three groups revealed a significant difference between both groups of Cree subjects and the control group for Fitts' constant and irregularity. These preliminary results suggest that the EKM system is able to discriminate the performance of different groups of subjects.
The purpose of the study was to discover how much European patients with epilepsy and their carers understand about epilepsy. This article reports the interim results for the first four European countries recruited to the study and includes data collected from 1,920 people with epilepsy and 2,136 carers. Clinical and demographic details and data on understanding of epilepsy were collected using self-completed questionnaires mailed to members of epilepsy support groups. There were no significant differences between people with epilepsy and carers for scores on the Epilepsy Knowledge Questionnaire, although people with epilepsy were more likely to score in the higher ranges. Higher scorers on the questionnaire were more likely to be better educated, to have lower scores on the impact of epilepsy scales, to have higher scores on the adjustment to epilepsy scale, and were less likely to report feeling stigmatized. The study confirms the findings of previous studies that people with epilepsy are reasonably well informed, although some gaps in their knowledge were evident. A comparison of country differences will be made and multivariate statistical analysis will allow a better understanding of the contribution of knowledge to people's overall adjustment to their condition.
Gabitril (tiagabine) is a potent selective inhibitor of the principal neuronal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter (GAT-1) in the cortex and hippocampus. By slowing the reuptake of synaptically-released GABA, it prolongs inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In animal models of epilepsy, tiagabine is particularly effective against kindled (limbic) seizures and against reflexly-induced generalized convulsive seizures. These data are predictive of its efficacy in complex partial seizures in humans. Possible clinical applications outside the field of epilepsy include bipolar disorder and pain.
This chapter deals with some aspects of psychiatric disturbances in people with epilepsy. Because depression and its treatment are extensively described later in this issue, they are not discussed here. The same pertains to forced normalization.

Seizures in the neonate are often considered a form of status epilepticus (SE) because they are relatively prolonged, difficult to control with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), and may be associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Despite their clinical importance, there is still no clear understanding of how seizures may affect the developing brain. Although both basic neuroscience and clinical research have addressed these issues, there are difficulties in the design and analysis of each type of investigation. Animal studies should reflect the human condition, the most relevant studies being those that consider neocortical rather than hippocampal seizures. Clinical investigations should be based on precise, age-specific definitions of seizures of epileptic origin and of SE. Treatment strategies should be standardized with defined rationale and end points. Outcome measures are best when defined and quantifiable. The relative effects of underlying CNS injuries that coexist with the onset of neonatal seizures may be difficult to differentiate from the effects of the seizures themselves or their treatment. Current clinical studies suggest that the overriding factors in determining the outcome of neonates with seizures are the cause, the degree, and the distribution of brain injury at the time of seizure occurrence. However, such studies have limitations and may not yet employ methodology sensitive enough to detect a full range of adverse effects of seizures themselves.


In vivo brain imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in resting-state brain glucose metabolism and blood flow (markers of synaptic activity) in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. During cognitive or psychophysical stimulation, however, blood flow and metabolism in the affected brain regions can increase to the same extent in mildly demented AD patients as in age-matched controls, despite reduced resting state values. The extent of activation declines with dementia severity and is markedly reduced in severely demented patients. Thus, there appears to be an initial functionally-responsive stage in AD, which direct brain analysis suggests is accompanied by reversible down-regulation because of reduced synaptic energy demand of enzymes mediating mitochondrial oxidative-phosphorylation. A later irreversible stage of AD is accompanied by marked synaptic loss, accumulation of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, reduced general transcriptional capacity, and death of neurons.
Hippocampal pyramidal neuron size was determined in all Cornu Ammonis subregions - CA1-CA4 - in five chronic schizophrenic men and compared with eight controls matched with respect to age and sex. Four out of five probands and the same eight controls had been examined in a previous study showing a significantly lower cell count and disorientation of pyramidal cells in the CA1- CA3 subregions of the schizophrenics. There was also a negative correlation between the total number of cells and the number of disoriented cells. In this study it was shown that the schizophrenic probands also had significantly smaller neurons in all subregions. There was a significant negative correlation between pyramidal neuron size and the number of disarrayed neurons in each subregion, and there was a significant positive correlation between neuron size and the total number of pyramidal cells in CA1 and CA2, but not in CA3 and CA4. The consistency of hippocampal anomalies in these schizophrenics is, thus, demonstrated by the statistical relations between the different parameters examined.
Measurements of threshold angle and incremental dynamic stiffness (IDS) were derived from triceps surae stretch reflexes, elicited by ramp and hold flexion at the ankle joint of four cats that were tested while awake. Stretch reflexes were assessed from trials that began from different ankle joint start positions or were matched using a post-hoc analysis for initial background force during testing sessions before and following unilateral lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus at levels ranging from T13 to L3. Unilateral lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) produced significant ipsilateral decreases in stretch reflex threshold and increases in reflex gain, measured as incremental dynamic stiffness (IDS). ANCOVA testing indicated that the reduction in threshold, but not the increase in IDS, was dependent upon the level of background force. Reflex testing from different start angles demonstrated that DLF lesions diminished the correlation between threshold and IDS. Intravenous infusion of ketamine dose-dependently reduced IDS, compared with testing in the unanaesthetized state. Postoperative reflex testing during infusion of ketamine at 22.2 mg/kg per h, when electromyographic responses were reduced to 24% of control levels, abolished differences in IDS between the ipsilateral and contralateral hindlimbs. These and related observations suggest that the postoperative increase in IDS in awake animals was not due to an increase in passive stiffness.
In contrast to sensory cortical areas of the brain, the relevant physiological inputs to the hippocampus, leading to selective activation of pyramidal cells, are largely unknown. Pyramidal cells are thought to be phasically activated by spatial cues and a variety of sensory and motor stimuli. Here, we used a behavioural 'space clamp' method, which involved the confinement of the actively running animal in a defined position in space (running wheel) and kept sensory inputs constant. Twelve percent of the recorded CA1 pyramidal cells were selectively active while the rat was running in the wheel. Cell firing was specific to the direction of running and disappeared after rotating the recording apparatus. The discharge frequency of pyramidal cells and interneurons was sustained as long as the rat ran continuously in the wheel. Furthermore, the discharge frequency of pyramidal cells and interneurons increased with increasing running velocity, even though the frequency of hippocampal theta waves remained constant. The discharge frequency of some 'wheel-related' pyramidal cells could increase more than 10-fold between 10 and 100 cm/s, whereas the firing rate of 'non-wheel' cells remained constantly low. We hypothesize that: (i) a necessary condition for place-specific discharge of hippocampal pyramidal cells is the presence of theta oscillation; and (ii) relevant stimuli can tonically and selectively activate hippocampal pyramidal cells as long as theta activity is present.
Recent studies have provided evidence that nitric oxide (NO) has a role in certain forms of memory formation. Spatial learning is one of the cognitive abilities that has been found to be impaired after systemic administration of an NO-synthase inhibitor. As the hippocampus has a pivotal role in spatial orientation, the present study examined the role of hippocampal NO in spatial learning and reversal learning in a Morris task in adult rats. It was found that N omega-nitro-L-arginine infusions into the dorsal hippocampus affected the manner in which the rats were searching the submerged platform during training, but did not affect the efficiency to find the spatial location of the escape platform. Hippocampal NO-synthase inhibition did not affect the learning of a new platform position in the same water tank (i.e. reversal learning). Moreover, no treatment effects were observed in the probe trials (i.e. after acquisition and after reversal learning), indicating that the rats treated with N omega-nitro-L-arginine had learned the spatial location of the platform. These findings were obtained under conditions where the NO synthesis in the dorsal hippocampus was completely inhibited. On the basis of the present data it was concluded that hippocampal NO is not critically involved in place learning in rats.
The role of protein kinase C (PKC) in the control of neurotransmitter release from cultured rat cerebellar granule cells was investigated. Release of preloaded [3H]-D-aspartate which is incorporated into synaptic vesicles in this preparation was evoked by electrical field stimulation or elevated KCl. PKC activation by phorbol esters resulted in a large facilitation of field-evoked Ca(2+)-dependent [3H]-D-aspartate release and a lesser enhancement of KCl-stimulated release. Inhibition of PKC by Ro 31-8220 or staurosporine virtually abolished field-evoked release but had no effect on KCl-evoked release. Field-evoked, but not KCl-evoked, synaptic vesicle exocytosis monitored by the fluorescent vesicle probe FM2-10 was inhibited by staurosporine. PKC was not directly modulating neurite Ca2+ channels coupled to release, as Ro 31-8220 did not inhibit these channels. Activation or inhibition of PKC modulated field-evoked plasma membrane depolarization, but had no effect on KCl-evoked depolarization, consistent with a regulation of Na+ or K+ channels activated by field stimulation. No modulation of field-evoked neurite Na+ influx was seen using phorbol esters. Phorbol ester-induced facilitation of field-evoked [3H]-D-aspartate release and neurite Ca2+ entry was non-additive with that produced by the specific K+ channel antagonist dendrotoxin-1, suggesting that PKC modulates transmitter release from field-stimulated cerebellar granule cells by inhibiting a dendrotoxin-1-sensitive K+ channel.
Concentrations of the four major brain gangliosides, GM1, GD1a, GD1b and GT1b, biochemical markers of neuronal membranes, were determined in cerebrospinal fluid from a large series of patients with classical Rett syndrome, aged 1.5-21 years at sampling, and from 11 patients with infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, aged 1.5-11 years. The results were compared with age-matched healthy controls. Compared with fluid from the control group, the cerebrospinal fluid samples from Rett patients contained significantly reduced levels of gangliosides GD1a and GT1b. In cerebrospinal fluid of the infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis patients, even the very young ones, all four major brain gangliosides were significantly reduced compared with controls and the concentration levels also differed significantly from those in patients with Rett syndrome. The ganglioside pattern in the brain is reflected in the cerebrospinal fluid early in the course of the disease in Rett syndrome and infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis.
The structural similarities between the anandamide transport inhibitor N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-arachidonylamide (AM404) and the synthetic vanilloid agonist olvanil [(N-vanillyl)-9-oleamide], prompted us to investigate the possibility that olvanil may interfere with anandamide transport. The intracellular accumulation of [3H]anandamide by human astrocytoma cells was prevented by olvanil with a Ki value of 14.1+/-7.1 microM. By contrast, capsaicin [(8-methyl-N-vanillyl)-6-noneamide], a plant-derived vanilloid agonist, and capsazepine (N-[2-(4-chlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-2 H-2-benzazepine-2-carbothioamide), a vanilloid antagonist, had no such effect (Ki &gt; 100 microM). These results indicate that, although less potent than AM404 (Ki 2.1+/-0.2 microM), olvanil may reduce anandamide clearance at concentrations similar to those needed for vanilloid receptor activation.
So far, no clear correlation has been found between the effects of dopamine D1 receptor agonists on motor behavior in primate models of Parkinson's disease and their ability to stimulate adenylate cyclase in rats, the benzazepine SKF 83959 (3-methyl-6-chloro-7,8-hydroxy-1-[3-methylphenyl]-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-]H- 3-benzazepine) being the most striking example. Since this discrepancy might be attributed to: (A) the different species used to study these effects or (B) the interaction of SKF 83959 with other catecholamine receptors, the aims of this study were: (1) to study the ability of SKF 83959 to stimulate adenylate cyclase in cultured human and monkey glial cells equipped with dopamine D1 receptors and (2) to evaluate the affinity for and the functional interaction of SKF 83959 with other catecholamine receptors. Binding studies revealed that SKF 83959 displayed the highest affinity for the dopamine D1 receptor (pKi=6.72) and the alpha2-adrenoceptor (pKi=6.41) and moderate affinity for the dopamine D2 receptor and the noradrenaline transporter. In monkey and human cells, SKF 83959 did not stimulate cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation to a significant extent, but antagonized very potently the dopamine-induced stimulation of cAMP formation in both cell types. The compound stimulated basal dopamine outflow and inhibited depolarization-induced acetylcholine release only at concentrations &gt; 10 microM. Finally, SKF 83959 concentration dependently increased electrically evoked noradrenaline release, indicating that it had alpha2-adrenoceptor blocking activity and interfered with the noradrenaline transporter. In conclusion, SKF 83959 is a potent dopamine D1 receptor and alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist. Thus, the anti-parkinsonian effects of SKF 83959 in primates are not mediated by striatal dopamine D1 receptors coupled to adenylate cyclase in a stimulatory way.
Abnormal electrophysiological findings may be delayed in the Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). In this study, conducted in 29 GBS patients, 23 patients (group 1) fulfilled the electrodiagnostic criteria for GBS [1]at the time of initial investigation, performed on average 22.3 days after onset of symptoms; whereas the 6 patients (group 2) who did not fulfil the criteria were first seen earlier, on average after 9.7 days. During the initial nerve conduction studies, numerous late responses, distinct from F waves, were observed in 26 of the 29 patients (90%), that is in 20 patients of group 1, and in all patients of group 2. Most of these responses, if not all, were indirect discharges (iDs) caused by proximal re-excitation on motor axons. If the iDs had been included in the electrodiagnostic criteria of GBS, all the patients of this series would have been diagnosed at the initial electrophysiological examination. We conclude that iDs occur frequently in GBS and are observed early in the disease. We recommend adding the presence of multiple iDs to the classical electrodiagnostic criteria of GBS.
The assessment of lesion load (LL) on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is widely used to monitor disease evolution, natural or modified by treatments. In this study, we evaluated the effect of formal operator training on the intra- and inter-observer reproducibility of LL measurements obtained by several operators in a setting similar to that of clinical trials. Proton-density (PD)-weighted, unenhanced and enhanced T1-weighted brain MRI scans were obtained from 10 MS patients. Five naive technicians assessed LL on these images, using a semiautomated local thresholding technique for lesion segmentation and marked hardcopies as a reference. Measurements were performed twice before and twice after a 20-hour operator training. Mean intra-observer measurement coefficient of variations (COV) before and after the training were 3.1 and 1.6% for PD-weighted LL, 4.3 and 1.8% for unenhanced T1-weighted LL (p &lt; 0. 001), 4.9 and 2.0% for enhanced T1-weighted LL (p = 0.002). Mean inter-observer COV were significantly reduced after training (from 10.0 to 5.6% for PD-weighted, from 11.0 to 7.3% for unenhanced T1-weighted and from 16.0 to 6.8% for enhanced T1-weighted LL). Our data indicate that LL assessment on serial MRI scans from MS patients performed by technicians, using a local thresholding technique for lesion segmentation, is characterized by low measurement variability which may be significantly improved by a short and cost-effective training.
We assessed the relative sensitivities of standard (SD)- and triple-dose (TD) gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detecting enhancing lesions in different phases of multiple sclerosis (MS) disease activity. Ten MS patients were studied with monthly brain MRI scans for a 3-month follow-up (i.e., 4 scans were obtained for each patient with both SD and TD). A total of 11 relapses were recorded and treated with short-term high-dose steroid therapy. Enhancing lesion numbers and volumes were significantly higher for TD vs. SD scans (p &lt; 0.0001). For both Gd doses, the numbers and volumes of lesions were higher during clinical relapses; the differences were statistically significant when comparing the results for scans obtained during and after a relapse. The gain in sensitivity of TD vs. SD scans for enhancing lesion detection was lower during relapses, whilst it was maximum after relapses, although these differences did not reach statistical significance. Our data confirm the potential role of TD MRI for monitoring MS activity, since, with its higher sensitivity, it may detect more subtle blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage. They also suggest that the degree of BBB damage in individual lesions changes during different phases of disease activity.

Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) has been suggested to be involved in the development of vascular endothelial damage. The source of the soluble form of SSAO found in the blood serum is unknown. However, it has been speculated that it is secreted from cells within the vascular wall where high activity of the enzyme is found. Altered SSAO activity has been reported in atherosclerotic plaques of the human aorta. Stroke is a manifestation of long-term atherosclerotic disease, and in this study, plasma SSAO activities were estimated in 42 patients with cerebral thrombosis and 26 patients with cerebral embolism, and compared to two control groups of 45 individuals in total. No statistically significant differences were found between the patient groups and controls regarding plasma SSAO activity, suggesting that changes in the soluble form of SSAO found in the circulation do not play a major role in this type of acute cerebrovascular event. Furthermore, it does not seem likely that the involvement of vascular tissue occurring in stroke results in release of the enzyme into the circulation. Nevertheless, further studies on tissue-bound SSAO in cerebral vessels would be of great interest.
Behavioural studies have shown an involvement of central endogenous opioid systems in experimental cocaine addiction. Seeking to further localize the attenuating effect of opioid blockade on the reinforcing effects of cocaine, naltrexone was administered locally to different regions of the mesocorticolimbic system, which are thought to be critically involved in cocaine self-administration behaviour. Both cell body and nerve terminal regions of this system were targeted. Using a model for the initiation of cocaine self-administration behaviour, no effect of naltrexone was found in caudate, amygdaloid or accumbens nuclei, nor in the medial prefrontal cortex. However, blockade of endogenous opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area region attenuated cocaine self-administration. With the initiation model, this finding reflects an attenuating effect on the reinforcing effects of cocaine. The attenuation of self-administration was dependent on the naltrexone dose. The present findings suggest that endogenous opioid systems in the ventral tegmental area modulate the reinforcing efficacy of cocaine.
The aim of this explorative study was to investigate whether physical and psychological challenges are effective in inducing a cortisol response in psychiatric and control children, and if so whether the cortisol response can discriminate between diagnostic groups and is related to psychiatric symptoms. Fifty-two patients, including children with dysthymia, oppositional defiant disorder/conduct disorder, pervasive developmental disorder, not otherwise specified (PDDNOS) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, were compared to 15 healthy control children. Symptomatology was scored using the Child Behaviour Checklist. The response to both psychological and physical challenges was assessed by measuring salivary cortisol and heart rate. Physical challenge, but not psychological challenge, resulted in an overall increase in heart rate and saliva cortisol. Dysthymic and PDDNOS patients showed a diminished cortisol response, in spite of a significant increase in heart rate. These groups scored highest on the symptom factor withdrawal. Withdrawal was negatively correlated with the cortisol response. Thus, physical exercise is effective in inducing a salivary cortisol response in children. Dysthymic and PDDNOS patients have a disturbed pituitary-adrenal function in relation to physical stress, that may be associated with withdrawal.
The results of spinal fusion in patients with paralytic deformities are usually presented as the correction of the deformity. When evaluating the surgical results in such patients, it is advantageous to classify the patients into subgroups because of the varying dysfunction and disabilities. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of spinal fusion in patients with paralytic scoliosis in relation to function in terms of Impairments, activities in terms of Disabilities, and dependence in terms of Handicaps 1 year postoperatively, with emphasis on subgroups. A total of 94 patients with paralytic scoliosis and 18 different diagnoses were evaluated 1 year after surgery. The patients were classified according to whether or not they could understand verbal instructions. The patients were also grouped according to the Scoliosis Research Society classification of diagnoses. A set of instruments was used with the variables classified according to WHO's International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities, and Handicaps (ICIDH). This consists of the patient's/relative's motives for surgery, persistent skin discoloration, ambulating or use of wheelchair, use of a brace, sitting balance, weight distribution on a sitting surface, angle of scoliosis, reaching, pain estimation, activities of daily living (ADL) Klein and Bell, care given, time spent resting, and seating supports. The set of instrument also included a follow-up questionnaire comprising 12 different areas, where the patients/relatives assessed the results of surgery. The study showed that spinal fusion in paralytic scoliosis led to showed improvements in the whole group of patients at the Impairment level in the angle of scoliosis, sitting balance, weight distribution, and reduced number of patients with persistent skin discoloration, and at the Handicap level in reduced time for resting during the day, reduced number of seating supports in the wheelchair, and in the use of a brace. Most of the parameters were unchanged. The results in the subgroups were almost the same as in the whole group, although pain and reaching at the Impairment level, and ADL at the Disability level, could not be measured in the patients who were unable to understand verbal instructions. The subjectively assessed results showed that seating posture was ranked positively irrespective of the motive for surgery. The study showed that the patients with paralytic scoliosis maintained or improved their function and level of independence in terms of Impairment and Handicap 1 year postoperatively. The subjective results assessed by the patients/relatives also showed a positive outcome of surgery. Weight distribution on a seating surface was improved, but still uneven, and with respect to better sitting balance and increasing time sitting in a wheelchair, this can involve a risk for pressure sores and needs further investigation. When introducing outcomes including the Disability level, one must take the importance of homogeneity in the groups into consideration.
alpha-Adrenoceptor blocker drugs are commonly used in the clinical (non-surgical) treatment of BPH. alpha1-adrenoceptors were originally sub-divided using agonists but, subsequently, were sub-divided using only antagonists in ligand-ligand interactions, which did not require agonists at all. Ultimately, proof that adrenoceptors are functional receptors for the natural ligands, noradrenaline and adrenaline, requires that agonists be used. The earlier excitement engendered by finding varying agonist potency series in different tissues has not been revisited to place it in the context of current concepts of alpha1-adrenoceptor subtypes. This review will consider the advantages and limitations of different agonists for the study of alpha1-adrenoceptor subtypes including 'extreme' examples where the archetypal alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine activates alpha2-adrenoceptors and others where UK14304, often the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist of choice, activates alpha1-adrenoceptors. New work will also be presented showing the interaction between agonists and the fluorescent alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist QAPB. This introduces the novel point of view of studying the displacement of antagonists by agonists. Possible errors in antagonist classification arising from complexity in the actions of agonists and the recently developed method of fluorescent ligand binding on isolated living human prostatic smooth muscle cells will be discussed.

The effects of age on late component (N100, P200, N200, and P300) event-related potentials (ERP) and reaction time (RT) were investigated in 50 normal subjects, 18 to 70 years of age. A conventional auditory oddball paradigm was employed. An equal number of subjects, as well as an equal number of males and females, were examined in each decade. There were no significant associations found between ERP amplitude and age. A significant positive correlation was found between age and N200/P300 latency. There were no significant effects of age on RT in the overall group. However, females had slower RT and decreased P200 and N200 amplitude as compared with males. Moreover, males had significant correlations between N200 latency and RT, whereas females showed significant correlations between P300 amplitude and RT. ERP/RT effects should be further explicated between gender, as well as across age.
To test the hypothesis of a planning dysfunction in schizophrenia using a precise temporal definition, the readiness potential (RP), a negative cortical wave preceding self-initiated movements and reflecting motor preparation processes, was studied in patients under stable medication and in controls. The supplementary motor area (SMA), known to be involved in the generation of the RP, has also been implicated in movement selection (fixed versus free) and complexity (single versus sequence). This is the first study using RP for the assessment of the influence of these factors on motor preparation in schizophrenics. Our results show that schizophrenics' RP amplitude is significantly lower than in controls at central and contralateral electrodes. However, RP amplitude increases with task difficulty in both groups, offering important new insight into classical SMA hypoactivation in schizophrenics performing motor tasks. Topographic analysis shows that RP amplitude is, for both groups, significantly higher in sequence than in single movements at fronto-central sites and higher for free than for fixed movements at centro-parietal sites. Finally, RP onset occurs significantly later in schizophrenics than in controls. These results support the view of a motor-preparation and decision-making dysfunction in schizophrenia. They are interpreted within the framework of a fronto-striatal disorder in this disease.
In the guinea pig, lateral deviation of the head is a cardinal symptom of the vestibular syndrome caused by unilateral labyrinthectomy. In the course of recovery from this syndrome (vestibular compensation), lateral deviation of the head disappears completely in 2-3 days. Because this symptom is known to be due to the lesion of the horizontal semicircular canal system, and since obliquus capitis inferior (OCI) muscle is activated predominantly by yaw rotation (horizontal vestibulocollic reflex), we hypothesized that changes in the activity of this muscle could be at least in part responsible for the lateral head deviation caused by unilateral labyrinthectomy. In order to test this hypothesis, electromyographic (EMG) activities of the right and left OCI muscles, as well as eye movements, were recorded in 12 head-fixed alert guinea pigs at various times after left surgical labyrinthectomy (performed with the animals under halothane anesthesia). After the operation, a decrease in tonic EMG activity was observed in the right (contralateral to the lesion) OCI muscle while an increase in tonic EMG activity was detected in the left (ipsilateral) OCI muscle. In addition, phasic changes in EMG activity associated with ocular nystagmic beats occurred in the OCI muscles. These phasic changes were in the opposite direction to those of the tonic changes. There were bursts of activity in the right OCI and pauses in the left OCI. From measurements of rectified averaged EMG activities which took into account both parts (tonic and phasic) of the phenomenon, it was concluded that the labyrinthectomy-induced asymmetry between the activities of the left and right OCI muscles was high enough and lasted long enough to be an important mechanism in the lateral deviation of the head caused by unilateral labyrinthectomy.
The effect of the predictability of perturbation to standing balance was evaluated in terms of the muscle activity and response dynamics of five subjects exposed to horizontal forces at the pelvis producing sideways or forward sway. Rapid (EMG onset latencies of 70-80 ms recorded from the left gluteus medius and gastrocnemius) and qualitatively different patterns of response were produced by forward pushes and pushes to either side. However, the EMG response to left push was constant in pattern and timing, whether the push direction was constant and, therefore, predictable over a block of trials or whether the left push trials were interleaved randomly with right push or forward push trials. Moreover, there were no systematic effects of perturbation direction uncertainty on the latency and rate of increase of ground reaction forces. We conclude that prior information does not speed postural responses that differ quantitatively according to the direction of perturbation to balance.
Evaluation of trunk movements, trunk muscle activation, intra-abdominal pressure and displacement of centres of pressure and mass was undertaken to determine whether trunk orientation is a controlled variable prior to and during rapid bilateral movement of the upper limbs. Standing subjects performed rapid bilateral symmetrical upper limb movements in three directions (flexion, abduction and extension). The results indicated a small (0.4-3.3 degrees) but consistent initial angular displacement between the segments of the trunk in a direction opposite to that produced by the reactive moments resulting from limb movement. Phasic activation of superficial trunk muscles was consistent with this pattern of preparatory motion and with the direction of motion of the centre of mass. In contrast, activation of the deep abdominal muscles was independent of the direction of limb motion, suggesting a non-direction specific contribution to spinal stability. The results support the opinion that feedforward postural responses result in trunk movements, and that orientation of the trunk and centre of mass are both controlled variables in relation to rapid limb movements.
In a previous study where reaction-time methods were combined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex, cortico-spinal excitability was shown to reflect time preparation. Provided that subjects can accurately estimate time, the amplitude of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) diminish progressively during the interval separating the warning signal from the response signal (i.e., the foreperiod). On the other hand, several experiments have demonstrated that the amplitude of the Hoffman (H) reflex elicited in prime movers diminishes during the foreperiod of reaction-time tasks. The aim of the present study was to compare the time course of the respective decrements of H-reflex and MEP amplitude during a constant 500-ms foreperiod. The subjects (n=8) participated in two experimental sessions. In one session, H-reflexes were induced in a tonically activated, responding hand muscle, the flexor pollicis brevis, at different times during the foreperiod of a visual-choice reaction-time task. In the other session, motor potentials were evoked in the same muscle by TMS of the motor cortex delivered in the same behavioral conditions and at the same times as in the first session. The results show that both H-reflexes and MEPs diminish in amplitude during the foreperiod, which replicates and extends previous findings. Interestingly, the time constants of the two decrements differed. There was a facilitatory effect of both electrical and magnetic stimulations on the subject's performance: reaction time was shorter for the trials during which a stimulation was delivered than for the no-stimulation trials. This facilitation was maximal when the stimulations were delivered simultaneously with the warning signal and vanished progressively with stimulation time.
NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity and oxidative stress have been implicated in the etiology of a number of degenerative diseases including motor neuron disease. The present study examined the effect of chronic administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist L-701,324 and the monoamine oxidase B inhibitor (r)-deprenyl on the onset and rate of progression of neurological impairment in the motor neuron degeneration (mnd) mouse, a murine model of neurodegeneration. Neurological assessment of mnd mice revealed an onset of motor deficits at 6 months of age as observed by the loss of hindlimb reflex extension. By 7 months, balance was also markedly impaired as measured by deficits in rotarod performance and ability to remain on balancing beams. At 8 months of age mnd mice exhibited gross abnormalities in walking pattern; animals were unable to flex their hindlimbs and tended to walk in small labored movements. Daily administration of L-701,324 (10 mg/kg p.o.) or r(-)-deprenyl (1 mg/kg p.o.) to mnd mice from 4 to 8 months of age failed to delay the onset of symptoms or slow the rate of deterioration of motor performance. These findings suggest that excessive activation of NMDA receptors may not be involved in the pathological process leading to motor neuron dysfunction in mnd mice and do not suggest a protective effect of deprenyl on motor neurons in these mice.
Current symptomatic treatment for Parkinson's disease is based largely on dopamine-replacing agents. The fact that long-term treatment with these drugs is characterized by many side effects has lead to widespread interest in nondopaminergic therapies. To date, however, it has proved difficult to devise a nondopaminergic therapy with significant antiparkinsonian efficacy when administered as monotherapy. Overactivity of the striatolateral pallidal pathway, the &quot;indirect&quot; striatal output pathway, is thought be responsible for the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. Indeed, it has been suggested that selective reduction in the activity of the &quot;indirect&quot; pathway may be achieved by blockade of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. In the present study, we demonstrate that selective blockade of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors with the polyamine antagonists ifenprodil and eliprodil causes a significant increase in locomotor activity in the reserpine-treated rat model of Parkinson's disease (30 mg/kg ifenprodil, 221.2 +/- 54 mobile counts compared to vehicle, 19.6 +/- 6.87, P &lt; 0.001). Additionally, we show that, subsequent to dopamine depletion, the ability of ifenprodil to bind to the polyamine site and inhibit binding of the NMDA channel blocker [3H] MK-801 is increased fourfold (IC50 3.7 +/- 0.4 microM compared to vehicle, IC50 14.3 +/- 2.34 microM, P &lt; 0.01). We suggest that ifenprodil selectively targets the polyamine site on overactive NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. Thus, we propose that NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonists may prove useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

The proposed methods are directed at unification of conducting and assessing neurodynamic properties of the higher nervous activity of a human that are related to the processing of visual information of various complexity levels. It should be considered that the conducting of examinations in maximum close conditions of the same tests and assessment criteria will increase the possibilities and the value of the analysis of various experimental materials.
The mechanisms that lead to mitochondrial damage under oxidative stress conditions were examined in synaptosomes treated with ascorbate/iron. A loss of membrane integrity, evaluated by electron microscopy and by LDH leakage, was observed in peroxidized synaptosomes and it was prevented by pre-incubation with vitamin E (150 microM) and idebenone (50 microM). ATP levels decreased, in synaptosomes exposed to ascorbate/iron, as compared to controls. NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (Cx I) and cytochrome c oxidase (Cx IV) activities were unchanged after ascorbate/iron treatment, whereas succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (Cx II), ubiquinol cytochrome c reductase (Cx III) and ATP-synthase (Cx V) activities were reduced by 55%, 40%, and 55%, respectively. The decrease of complex II and ATP-synthase activities was prevented by reduced glutathione (GSH), whereas the other antioxidants tested (vitamin E and idebenone) were ineffective. However, vitamin E, idebenone and GSH prevented the reduction of complex III activity observed in synaptosomes treated with ascorbate/iron. GSH protective effect suggests that the oxidation of protein SH-groups is involved in the inhibition of complexes II, III and V activity, whereas vitamin E and idebenone protection suggests that membrane lipid peroxidation is also involved in the reduction of complex III activity. These results may indicate that the inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymatic complexes, that are differentially affected by oxidative stress, can be recovered by specific antioxidants.
The &quot;glucocorticoid cascade hypothesis&quot; of hippocampal aging has stimulated a great deal of research into the neuroendocrine aspects of aging and the role of glucocorticoids, in particular. Besides strengthening the methods for investigating the aging brain, this research has revealed that the interactions between glucocorticoids and hippocampal neurons are far more complicated than originally envisioned and involve the participation of neurotransmitter systems, particularly the excitatory amino acids, as well as calcium ions and neurotrophins. New information has provided insights into the role of early experience in determining individual differences in brain and body aging by setting the reactivity of the hypothalamopituitary-adrenal axis and the autonomic nervous system. As a result of this research and advances in neuroscience and the study of aging, we now have a far more sophisticated view of the interactions among genes, early development, and environmental influences, as well as a greater appreciation of events at the cellular and molecular levels which protect neurons, and a greater appreciation of pathways of neuronal damage and destruction. While documenting the ultimate vulnerability of the brain to stressful challenges and to the aging process, the net result of this research has highlighted the resilience of the brain and offered new hope for treatment strategies for promoting the health of the aging brain.

In this study of GAW11 Problem 1, we analyzed the genome scan data in families weighted according to the density of alcoholism among the probands' siblings. We hypothesized that certain disease-predisposing alleles may be common in the general population, rendering high-density sibships less informative for linkage. Three types of families were found in the data, with the prevalence of alcoholism of 1.0, 0.78, and 0.24 in the probands' sibships. The linkage results showed several peak lod scores on chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 8, 11, 19, and 21, the majority of which originated in only one or two types of families. However, for almost all markers, the maximum lod scores observed without the weights were equal to or exceeded the values obtained for any single type of family. These results indicate that although the stratification of families may be theoretically justified, in practice the best strategy is to use all available information.
A genetic component for alcoholism appears likely, but the genes involved have yet to be identified. The mode of inheritance is probably more complex than for traditional mendelian disorders. In particular, there are marked differences in alcoholism by gender, parent-of-origin effects, ethnicity, and other epidemiological factors. We investigated the evidence for the presence of susceptibility genes for alcohol dependence in the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism data set.
Cell swelling and astrogliosis (manifested as an increase in GFAP) were evoked in isolated rat spinal cords of 4-21-day-old rats by incubation in either 50 mM K+ or hypotonic solution (235 mosmol kg(-1)). Application of K+ and hypotonic solution resulted at first in a decrease of extracellular space (ECS) volume fraction alpha (ECS volume/total tissue volume) and an increase in tortuosity lambda (lambda2 = free/apparent diffusion coefficient) in spinal gray (GM) and white matter (WM). These changes resulted from cell swelling, since the total water content (TW) in spinal cord was unchanged and the changes were blocked in Cl- -free solution and slowed down by furosemide and bumetanide. Diffusion in WM was anisotropic, i.e., more facilitated along fibers (x-axis) than across them (y- or z-axis). The increase of lambda(y,z) was greater than that of lambda(x), reaching unusually high values above 2.4. In GM only, during continuous 45 min application, alpha and lambda started to return towards control values, apparently due to cell shrinkage of previously swollen cells since TW remained unchanged. This return was blocked by fluoroacetate, suggesting that most of the changes were due to the swelling of glia. A 45 min application of 50 mM K+ and, to a lesser degree, of hypotonic solution evoked astrogliosis, which persisted after washing out these solutions with physiological saline. During astrogliosis lambda increased again to values as high as 2.0, while alpha either returned to or increased above control values. This persistent increase in lambda after washout was also found in WM, and, in addition, the typical diffusion anisotropy was diminished. Our data show that glial swelling and astrogliosis are associated with a persistent increase in ECS diffusion barriers. This could lead to the impairment of the diffusion of neuroactive substances, extrasynaptic transmission, &quot;crosstalk&quot; between synapses and neuron-glia communication.
Allothetic and idiothetic navigation strategies rely on very different cues and computational procedures. Allothetic navigation uses the relationships between external cues (visual, auditory, and olfactory) and mapping or geometrical calculations to locate places. Idiothetic navigation relies on cues generated by self-movement (proprioceptive cues or cues from optic, auditory, and olfactory flow, or efference copy of motor commands) and path integration to locate a present location and/or a starting point. Whereas it is theorized that exploratory behavior is used by animals to create a central representation of allothetic cues, it is unclear whether exploration plays a role in idiothetic navigation. Computational models suggest that either a reference frame, calibrated by exploration, or vector addition, without reference to exploration, could support path integration. The present study evaluated the contribution of exploration in these navigation strategies by comparing its contribution to the solution of both allothetic and idiothetic navigation problems. In two experiments, rats were trained to forage on an open table for large food pellets, which they then carried to a refuge to eat. Once trained, they were given probe trials from novel locations in either normal light, which permits the use of allothetic cues, or in infrared light, which requires the use of idiothetic cues. When faced with a new problem in either lighting condition, the rats first explored the foraging table before navigating directly home with the food. That exploration is equally important for allothetic and idiothetic navigation, suggests that both navigation strategies require a calibrated representation of the environment.
We previously reported that neonatal isolation stress significantly changes measures of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in male and female juvenile rats, i.e., at 30 days of age. The changes in dentate granule population measures, i.e., excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) and population spike amplitude (PSA), evoked by tetanization of the medial perforant pathway, indicated that juvenile rats exposed to neonatal isolation exhibit different enhancement profiles with respect to both the magnitude and duration of LTP in a sex-specific manner. Isolated males showed a significantly greater enhancement of LTP, while female &quot;isolates&quot; showed significantly longer LTP duration when compared to all other groups. The present study was designed to determine whether the effects of the neonatal isolation stress paradigm endures into adulthood. Rats isolated from their mothers for 1 h per day during postnatal days 2-9 were surgically prepared at 70-90 days of age, with stimulating and recording electrodes placed in the medial perforant pathway and the hippocampal dentate gyrus, respectively. Prior to tetanization, no significant effect of sex or treatment was obtained for baseline measures of EPSP slope or PSA. In order to rule out baseline differences in hippocampal cell excitability in female adult rats, we measured the response of dentate granule cells for one estrus cycle and found no pretetanization enhancement in the evoked response in either controls or previously stressed rats. Following tetanization, there was a significant treatment and sex effect. During the induction of LTP, PSA values were significantly enhanced in both isolated males and females and had significantly longer LTP duration when compared to the unhandled control group. Additionally, we observed that females took longer to reach baseline levels than males. Taken together, these results indicate that repeated infant isolation stress enhances LTP induction and duration in both males and females. These results indicate that infant stress alters hippocampal neuroplasticity in such a way that its effect endures into adulthood.
A number of functional brain imaging studies indicate that the medial temporal lobe system is crucially involved in encoding new information into memory. However, most studies were based on differences in brain activity between encoding of familiar vs. novel stimuli. To further study the underlying cognitive processes, we applied a parametric design of encoding. Seven healthy subjects were instructed to encode complex color pictures into memory. Stimuli were presented in a parametric fashion at different rates, thus representing different loads of encoding. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to assess changes in brain activation. To determine the number of pictures successfully stored into memory, recognition scores were determined afterwards. During encoding, brain activation occurred in the medial temporal lobe, comparable to the results obtained by others. Increasing the encoding load resulted in an increase in the number of successfully stored items. This was reflected in a significant increase in brain activation in the left lingual gyrus, in the left and right parahippocampal gyrus, and in the right inferior frontal gyrus. This study shows that fMRI can detect changes in brain activation during variation of one aspect of higher cognitive tasks. Further, it strongly supports the notion that the human medial temporal lobe is involved in encoding novel visual information into memory.
Theoretical, behavioral, and electrophysiologic evidence suggests that the hippocampal formation may play a role in path integration, a form of spatial navigation in which an animal can return to a starting point by integrating self-movement cues generated on its outward journey. The present study examined whether the hippocampus (Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus) is involved in this form of spatial behavior. Control rats and rats with selective ibotenic acid lesions of the hippocampus were tested in a foraging task in which they retrieved large food pellets from an open field, which when found, they carried to a refuge for consumption. The experiments measured the rats' homing accuracy, returning to the starting location, under conditions in which visual, surface, and self-movement cues; surface and self-movement cues; or only self-movement cues were available. Although both control rats and rats without a hippocampus could use visual and surface cues, only control rats appeared to be able to use self-movement cues. The finding that hippocampal rats are impaired under conditions requiring the use of self-movement cues suggests that the hippocampus plays an essential role in path integration.
This series of studies investigated the effects of predator exposure on working memory in rats trained on the radial arm water maze (RAWM). The RAWM is a modified Morris water maze that contains four or six swim paths (arms) radiating out of an open central area, with a hidden platform located at the end of one of the arms. The hidden platform was located in the same arm on each trial within a day and was in a different arm across days. Each day rats learned the location of the hidden platform during acquisition trials, and then the rats were removed from the maze for a 30-min delay period. During the delay period, the rats were placed either in their home cage (nonstress condition) or in close proximity to a cat (stress condition). At the end of the delay period, the rats were run on a retention trial, which tested their ability to remember which arm contained the platform that day. The first experiment confirmed that the RAWM is a hippocampal-dependent task. Rats with hippocampal damage were impaired at learning the location of the hidden platform in the easiest RAWM under control (non-stress) conditions. The next three experiments showed that stress had no effect on memory in the easiest RAWM, but stress did impair memory in more difficult versions of the RAWM. These findings indicate that the capacity for stress to impair memory is influenced not only by the brain memory system involved in solving the task (hippocampal versus nonhippocampal), but also by the difficulty of the task. This work should help to resolve some of the confusion in the literature regarding the heterogeneous effects of stress on hippocampal-dependent learning and memory.
In the present study, 93 cells in the superior colliculus (SC) were recorded extracellularly during the simultaneous occurrence of spontaneous theta field activity, sensory-induced (tail pinch) theta field activity, and large amplitude irregular (LIA) field activity, recorded from an electrode located in the stratum moleculare of the hippocampal formation (HPC). The effect of the intravenous administration of atropine sulfate (ATSO4) was also tested on SC cellular activity. The field activities of theta and LIA were recorded from all layers of the SC and were found to be temporally coherent with the same activities recorded simultaneously from the HPC, during all conditions tested. By using the criteria of Colom and Bland (1987) for the classification of theta-related cells, 75 of 93 cells (81%) were found to be related to the generation of theta field activity in the HPC and 18 of 93 (19%) were nonrelated. All cells recorded discharged in a tonic, nonrhythmic pattern during the theta HPC field states. Of the 75 theta-related cells, 61 (81%) were classified as tonic theta-ON cells and 14 (19%) as tonic theta-OFF cells. Although these cell types were found in all three layers of the SC, the majority of tonic theta-ON cells were recorded in the intermediate layer, and the tonic theta-OFF cells were dispersed evenly between the intermediate layer and the deep layer of the SC. The intravenous administration of ATSO4 abolished theta field activity in the HPC and SC, and the theta-related increase in the discharge rate of all tonic theta-ON cells tested. However, the same treatment did not have any effect on the discharge properties of tonic theta-OFF cells. The same stimuli that resulted in the inhibition of the discharge rates of these cells (tail pinch and electrical stimulation of the PH) in the predrug condition did so after the administration of ATSO4.
The angular positions of hippocampal place cell firing fields are accurately controlled by the position of a single salient cue card attached to the wall of a recording cylinder; when the card is rotated, fields rotate equally. In contrast, the control exerted by 3-dimensional objects placed directly in the recording arena depends on their arrangement. When three objects lie on the vertices of an isosceles triangle near the center of the cylinder they rarely exert any control over the angular positions of firing fields. However, if the isosceles triangle is dilated so that its vertices are against the apparatus wall, the objects exert virtually ideal control over angular field position. Why do the objects gain control when they are against the cylinder wall? One possibility is that the asymmetry in the object set is more easily detected when the objects are far apart so that they provide a better polarizing cue. This hypothesis assumes that the identity of individual landmarks is not recognized by the place cell system whereas their geometric arrangement provides crucial information for controlling place field positions. If this is true, putting the 3 objects against the cylinder wall on the vertices of an equilateral triangle should cause a loss of stimulus control over the angular positions of firing fields. To the contrary, we found that the firing fields of most place cells (23/29) were accurately controlled by the equilateral object arrangement. Moreover, 5/6 of the uncontrolled cells were in a single animal. These results bolster our previous suggestion that the centrally placed objects fail to control place field positions because the computations necessary to form a stable reference frame are very difficult when the animal can go between stimuli.
A profound increase in the study of the role of the hippocampus in behavior and cognitive processing resulted from the startling discovery by O'Keefe and Dostrovsky in 1971 that hippocampal neurons fire selectively in different regions or &quot;place fields&quot; of an environment. That discovery spawned a comprehensive theory of hippocampal function that was elucidated in the publication, The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map by O'Keefe and Nadel in 1978. According to the theory, the hippocampus serves as the neural substrate for maps of allocentric space. The goal of this paper is to revisit the historical background for the development of the cognitive map theory and to examine the context in which the theory and the phenomenon of place field activity began to gain acceptance by the scientific community. While subsequent research has led some to question if the theory can adequately account for all consequences of hippocampal lesions and all the correlates of hippocampal cellular activity, it is clear the theory has stood the test of time and has been successful in generating an enormous amount of fruitful research.
In the present study 99 cells were recorded in the pontine region of urethane-anesthetized rats during: (1) the spontaneous occurrence of hippocampal formation (HPC) theta field activity; (2) sensory-induced (tail pinch) theta field activity; and (3) large amplitude irregular field activity (LIA). Using the criteria of Colom and Bland (Brain Res 1997;422:277-286) for the classification of theta-related cells, 58/99 cells (59%) were involved with changes in activity related to the occurrence of HPC theta field activity, 24/99 (24%) were non-related, and 17/99 (17%) were related to the sensory input (tail pinch). All cells recorded discharged in a tonic, non-rhythmic pattern in relation to the HPC field activity occurring during the three conditions. Of the 58 theta-related cells, 52 (90%) were classified as tonic theta-ON cells and 6 (10%) as tonic theta-OFF cells. There were no clear regional differences in the distribution of cell types. Statistical analysis of the discharge rates of tonic theta-ON cells during spontaneously occurring theta and tail pinch-induced theta (tested on 48 cells) revealed that 22/48 (46%) of these cells discharged at significantly higher rates during the faster theta field frequencies associated with tail pinches while 26/48 (54%) tonic theta-ON cells did not change discharge rate between the spontaneously occurring theta and the tail pinch-induced theta states. In addition, the discharges of 11/52 (21%) tonic theta-ON cells exhibited weak to moderate correlations with the negative peak of HPC theta field activity recorded from the stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus. Of the 17 cells related to the sensory stimulation (tail pinch), 12 (71%) cells increased discharge rate during the tail pinch and were classified as sensory activated, while 5 (29%) cells decreased discharge rate during the tail pinch and were classified as sensory inactivated. The results supported the following conclusions: (1) the main cells in the pontine region involved with changes in activity related to the occurrence of HPC theta field activity are tonic theta-ON cells and tonic theta-OFF cells; (2) a subpopulation of tonic theta-ON cells coded the increasing intensity of activation of the ascending brainstem HPC synchronizing pathways by an increase in discharge rate; and (3) a smaller population of cells in the rostral pontine region appeared to be related to sensory stimulation, independent of theta-related activity.
While the morphometry of classical transmitter systems has been extensively studied, relatively little quantitative information is available on the subcellular distribution of peptidergic dense core vesicles (DCVs) within axonal arbors and terminals, and how distribution patterns change in response to neural activity. This study used correlated quantitative light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry to examine dynorphin B-like immunoreactivity (dyn B-LI) in the rat hippocampal mossy fiber pathway before and after seizures. Forty-eight hours after seizures induced by two pentylenetetrazol injections, light microscopic dyn B-LI was decreased dorsally and increased ventrally. Ultrastructural examination indicated that, in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, these alterations resulted from changes that were almost entirely restricted to the profiles of the large mossy-like terminals formed by mossy fiber collaterals (which primarily contact spines), compared to the profiles of the smaller, less-convoluted terminals found on the same collaterals (which primarily contact aspiny dendritic shafts). Dorsally, mossy terminal profile labeled DCV (/DCV) density dropped substantially, while ventrally, both mossy terminal profile perimeter and /DCV density increased. In all terminal profile examined, /DCVs also were closely associated with the plasma membrane. Following seizures, there was a reorientation of /DCVs along the inner surface of mossy terminal profile membranes, in relation to the types of profiles adjacent to the membrane: in both the dorsal and ventral hilus, significantly fewer /DCVs were observed at sites apposed to dendrites, and significantly more were observed at sites apposed to spines. Thus, after seizures, changes specific to: (1) the dorsoventral level of the hippocampal formation, (2) the type of terminal, and (3) the type of profile in apposition to the portion of the terminal membrane examined were all observed. An explanation of these complex, interdependent alterations will probably require evoking multiple interrelated mechanisms, including selective prodynorphin synthesis, transport, and release.
The pattern separation ability of hippocampal place cells was tested in an environment in which two visually identical rectangular compartments (Box A and Box B) were connected by a hidden door. Small ensembles of neurons were recorded with tetrodes while the rat searched for randomly distributed loci for reinforcing brain stimulation. The first recording session in Box A was conducted after the rat had explored the environment for the first time for 30 min. Immediately thereafter, a hidden door between Box A and Box B was opened to let the rat into the unexplored compartment, and a 5-min recording session was run with the door concealed. A rearrangement of place fields in Box B was observed in 18/20 neurons and in 5/6 ensembles. Most place fields did not change between two successive sessions in Box B. When the rat returned to Box A, the ensembles of neurons were as likely to adopt the original Box A firing field pattern as the more recent Box B pattern. In order to control for the influence of extra-arena cues, the rat was gradually lifted in a closed bucket from Box A into Box B while the whole arena was rotated by 90 degrees. All but one neuron and all the ensembles followed the intra-arena cues. Both rotated Box B and Box A firing field patterns were represented but Box B pattern was stronger among the neuronal ensembles. These findings indicate that hippocampal place cells not only can develop distinct representations of two visually identical environments but also can selectively reactivate either one of these representations depending on the rat's recent experience.
We investigated the role of NMDA receptors in memory encoding and retrieval. A delayed matching-to-place (DMP) paradigm in the watermaze was used to examine 1-trial spatial memory in rats. Over periods of up to 21 days, 4 daily trials were given to an escape platform hidden in a new location each day, with the memory interval (ITI) varying from 15 sec to 2 hours between trials 1 and 2, but always at 15 sec for the remaining ITIs. Using chronic i.c.v. infusions of D-AP5, acute intrahippocampal infusions, ibotenate hippocampus + dentate lesions and relevant aCSF or sham surgery control groups, we established: (1) the DMP task is hippocampal-dependent; (2) D-AP5 causes a delay-dependent impairment of memory in which the Groups x Delay interaction was significant on two separate measures of performance; (3) this memory impairment also occurs with acute intrahippocampal infusions; (4) the impairment occurs irrespective of whether the animals stay in or are removed from the training context during the memory delay interval; and (5) D-AP5 affects neither the retrieval of information about the spatial layout of the environment, nor memory of where the escape platform had been located on the last day before the start of chronic D-AP5 infusion. LTP in vivo in the dentate gyrus was blocked in the chronically-infused D-AP5 rats and HPLC measurements at sacrifice revealed appropriate intrahippocampal levels. Acute intrahippocampal infusion of radiolabelled D-AP5 revealed relatively restricted diffusion and was used to estimate whole-tissue hippocampal drug concentrations. These results indicate that (1) short-term memory for spatial information is independent of NMDA receptors; (2) the rapid consolidation of spatial information into long-term memory requires activation of hippocampal NMDA receptors; (3) NMDA receptors are not involved in memory retrieval; and (4) the delay-related effects of NMDA receptor antagonists on performance of this task cannot be explained in terms of sensorimotor disturbances. The findings relate to the idea that hippocampal synaptic plasticity is involved in event-memory (Morris and Frey, Phil Trans R Soc Lond B 1997;352:1489-1503) and to a computational model of one-trial DMP performance of Foster et al. (unpublished data).

Today, most studies of cognitive processes using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) adopt an event-related experimental design. Highly flexible stimulation settings require new statistical models where not only the activation amount, but also the time course of the measured hemodynamic response is analyzed. It is possible to obtain statistically valid descriptions of single hemodynamic responses from a robust nonlinear estimation procedure. Focus is placed on the temporal behaviour of the hemodynamic response: relative temporal order, changes induced by modification of the experimental context, and interindividual differences. Example analyses from recent fMRI studies underline the usefulness of this approach.
High-field (3 Tesla) functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to investigate the cortical circuitry subserving pursuit tracking in humans and compare it to that for saccadic eye movements. Pursuit performance, relative to visual fixation, elicited activation in three areas known to contribute to eye movements in humans and in nonhuman primates: the frontal eye field, supplementary eye field, and intraparietal sulcus. It also activated three medial regions not previously identified in human neuroimaging studies of pursuit: the precuneus and the anterior and posterior cingulate cortices. All six areas were also activated during saccades. The spatial extent of activation was similar for saccades and pursuit in all but two regions: spatial extent was greater for saccades in the superior branch of the frontal eye field and greater for pursuit in posterior cingulate cortex. This set of activations for smooth pursuit parallels the network of oculomotor areas characterized in nonhuman primates and complements recent studies showing that common cortical networks subserve oculomotor functions and spatial attention in humans.
This article presents, for the first time, a practical method for the direct quantification of frequency-specific synchronization (i.e., transient phase-locking) between two neuroelectric signals. The motivation for its development is to be able to examine the role of neural synchronies as a putative mechanism for long-range neural integration during cognitive tasks. The method, called phase-locking statistics (PLS), measures the significance of the phase covariance between two signals with a reasonable time-resolution (&lt;100 ms). Unlike the more traditional method of spectral coherence, PLS separates the phase and amplitude components and can be directly interpreted in the framework of neural integration. To validate synchrony values against background fluctuations, PLS uses surrogate data and thus makes no a priori assumptions on the nature of the experimental data. We also apply PLS to investigate intracortical recordings from an epileptic patient performing a visual discrimination task. We find large-scale synchronies in the gamma band (45 Hz), e.g., between hippocampus and frontal gyrus, and local synchronies, within a limbic region, a few cm apart. We argue that whereas long-scale effects do reflect cognitive processing, short-scale synchronies are likely to be due to volume conduction. We discuss ways to separate such conduction effects from true signal synchrony.
A fundamental problem in the study of learning is that learning-related changes may be confounded by nonspecific time effects. There are several strategies for handling this problem. This problem may be of greater significance in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) compared to positron emission tomography (PET). Using the general linear model, we describe, compare, and discuss two approaches for separating learning-related from nonspecific time effects. The first approach makes assumptions on the general behavior of nonspecific effects and explicitly models these effects, i.e., nonspecific time effects are incorporated as a linear or nonlinear confounding covariate in the statistical model. The second strategy makes no a priori assumption concerning the form of nonspecific time effects, but implicitly controls for nonspecific effects using an interaction approach, i.e., learning effects are assessed with an interaction contrast. The two approaches depend on specific assumptions and have specific limitations. With certain experimental designs, both approaches may be used and the results compared, lending particular support to effects that are independent of the method used. A third and perhaps better approach that sometimes may be practically unfeasible is to use a completely temporally balanced experimental design. The choice of approach may be of particular importance when learning-related effects are studied with fMRI.
A boy with the clinical phenotype of Duchenne muscular dystrophy had no detectable deletion or duplication in the dystrophin gene by the routine multiplex PCR method. In mRNA extracted from his muscle biopsy, newly recognized extra-exons of 172 bp and 202 bp were present between exon 25 and 26 suggesting a splicing abnormality. Genomic DNA of the intron 25 including the above insertions were amplified and sequenced. There was one nucleotide substitution of A-to-G at 2 Kb downstream from the 5' end of intron 25 which formed consensus dinucleotide 'GT' motif for 5' splice site resulting in aberrant splicing. This is the first patient who had a mutation at the central part of an intron of the dystrophin gene instead of at the exon-intron border.
Electroencephalogram(EEG) and transcranial Doppler(TCD) recordings were carried out in 25 children with migraine during ictal and interictal period. The results were that the abnormal rate of EEG and TCD was 85% and 72%, respectively; the positive rate of EEG provoked test was 60%; there was the single untypical epileptiform wave in the occipital in 3 patients by EEG. We conclude that EEG combined TCD examination in migraine can increase the correct rate of diagnosis and help to differ epilepsy from migraine.
-According to the &quot;epinephrine hypothesis,&quot; circulating epinephrine taken up by sympathetic nerves is coreleased with norepinephrine during sympathetic stimulation and binding of coreleased epinephrine to presynaptic beta-adrenoceptors augments exocytotic release of norepinephrine, contributing to high blood pressure. This study examined whether infusion of a physiologically active amount of epinephrine affects subsequent vascular responses and the estimated rate of entry of norepinephrine into regional venous plasma (norepinephrine spillover). Each of 3 experiments included intravenous infusion of 3H-norepinephrine, measurements of forearm vascular resistance, and intra-arterial infusion of epinephrine (3 ng/min per deciliter forearm volume). In experiment 1, subjects underwent lower body negative pressure (LBNP-25 mm Hg) before and after intra-arterial epinephrine; in experiment 2, LBNP and intra-arterial yohimbine before and after intra-arterial epinephrine; and in experiment 3, intravenous nitroprusside before and after intra-arterial epinephrine. In all subjects, intra-arterial epinephrine produced ipsilateral pallor and decreased forearm vascular resistance. Ipsilateral venous epinephrine increased by 10-fold. Epinephrine did not affect forearm vasoconstrictor responses to LBNP or vasodilator responses to intra-arterial yohimbine or intravenous nitroprusside; did not affect venous norepinephrine levels or norepinephrine spillover during LBNP, yohimbine, LBNP during yohimbine, or nitroprusside; and did not increase venous epinephrine levels during any of these manipulations. Loading of forearm sympathetic terminals with epinephrine therefore does not augment subsequent neurogenic vasoconstriction or norepinephrine release in the human forearm in response to sympathetic stimulation. The findings are inconsistent with the epinephrine hypothesis.
Since the discovery of sumatriptan, several 5-HT(1D/1B) receptor agonists have now reached the clinic and marketplace as treatments for migraine. The highly efficacious F-11356 is the latest compound to emerge but none of these agents have appreciable selectivity between the h5-HT(1D) and h5-HT(1B) receptor subtypes. Research has now focused on obtaining selective h5-HT(1D) receptor agonists which, if inhibition of peptide release is involved in the antimigraine action, may be expected to have reduced vasoconstrictor liability. This has led especially to the discovery of L-775606 and PNU-109291, which should constitute useful tools to delineate the role of h5-HT(1D) receptors in migraine.

This report focuses on the two most common neurological diseases in man: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and stroke. One common feature of both of these diseases is the death of cells, particularly neurons. Since a typical mechanism of cell death is apoptosis, this will be an additional focal point in this report.
This report from the Society of Neuroscience meeting in Los Angeles is limited to a small cohort of presentations which reflect this reporter's research interests, namely mechanisms of cell death in neurodegenerative disease, and in particular Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Parkinson's disease (PD).
This meeting, stretching over 5 days with approximately 24,000 registrants, had approximately 13,000 oral and poster presentations covering all areas of neuroscience. This review focuses on a selection of new developments in the field of glutamate receptors. This area is receiving considerable attention from research groups in both academic and industrial establishments, and it is notable that many efforts are collaborative between workers from these different types of establishment. Glutamate receptors (GluR) can be classified as ionotropic (iGluR) or metabotropic (mGluR) receptors. Amongst the ionotropic receptors are the NMDA receptors, AMPA receptors and kainate receptors, whilst there are eight subtypes of mGluRs which can be placed into three groups on the basis of sequence homology, pharmacology and intracellular transduction mechanism.
A new method for the extraction of a repeating pattern in cyclic biomechanical data is proposed--singular value decomposition pattern analysis (SVDPA). This method is based on the recent work of Kanjilal and Palit [14], [15] and can be applied to both contiguous and repeated trials without being constrained to be strictly periodic. SVDPA is a data-driven approach that does not use a preselected set of basis functions; but instead utilizes a data matrix with a special structure to identify repeating patterns. Several important features of SVDPA are described including its close relationship to the Kahunen-Love transform. The dominant pattern is defined as the average energy component (AEC). The AEC is obtained from the SVD of the data matrix and is equivalent to the optimal [maximal signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)] ensemble average pattern. The degree of periodicity and SNR for the AEC are defined explicitly from the singular values of the data matrix. We illustrate the usefulness of SVDPA for dominant pattern extraction by applying it to the quasiperiodic three-dimensional trajectory of a marker attached to the trunk during treadmill locomotion. The AEC obtained for the normalized trajectory and error estimates at each point suggests that SVDPA could be a useful tool for the extraction of the fine details from cyclic biomechanical data.

An epileptic patient on high dose carbamazepine monotherapy received erythromycin from a physician and ketoconazole from a dermatologist. Carbamazepine neurotoxicity developed as a result of a pharmacokinetic interaction between the three drugs. Precautions are suggested to minimize the risk of such drug interactions that span medical specializations.

Nocturnal eating/drinking syndrome secondary to neuroleptic-induced restless legs syndrome (RLS) occurred under treatment with low-dose haloperidol in a 51-year-old female schizophrenic patient. Polysomnographic investigation showed a low level of sleep efficacy, periodic leg movements, and a strict relationship between nocturnal eating episodes and non-rapid eye movement sleep. Her nocturnal eating and RLS were completely inhibited by clonazepam treatment. To our knowledge, this is the first published case of nocturnal eating/drinking syndrome secondary to neuroleptic-induced RLS.
Rats treated with the NMDA-blocker, ketamine hydrochloride 30 minutes after the induction of seizures by lithium/pilocarpine exhibited statistically smaller lateral ventricles in the left hemisphere compared to rats that had received acepromazine after the induction of these seizures. In addition, the ketamine-treated rats had more neurons and glial cells surrounding the ventricles. These results suggest a neuroprotective effect of ketamine, such that there is less atrophy surrounding the ventricles and therefore, a smaller degree of dilatation. The possibility that insidious neuronal atrophy and death associated with the ventricular enlargement encourages the marked aggression in the epileptic rats not treated by ketamine is discussed.
After inoculation with spinal cord and complete Freund's adjuvant, female Lewis rats were exposed to weak, 7 Hz complex magnetic fields or to the control condition. The computer-generated magnetic field, whose amplitude varied from 15 nT to 60 nT every 6 to 12 sec, was presented for 6 min every hour between midnight and 0800 of the scotophase. In two replicates of the experiment, the rats exposed to the field displayed statistically significant suppression relative to sham-field controls (effect size=55%) of the overt symptoms of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis which included hindleg paralyses.
The effect of weak electromagnetic stimulation on the emergence of conditioned analgesia was examined in the adult rat. Subjects were conditioned to associate a continuous 20 kHz ultrasonic tone (CS) with 0.2 mA footshock (UCS(-) ) over five successive days. For 30 min either before or after conditioning sessions, rats were exposed to sham or pulsed (primed burst potentiation) magnetic fields (500 nT). At the end of the conditioning phase, all animals were evaluated for anticipatory analgesia following CS presentation using a hotplate analgesiometer. Data analysis suggested a statistically significant attenuation of fear-conditioned analgesia in rats exposed to electromagnetic stimulation prior to conditioning, whereas post-conditioning exposure potentiated the reduction in pain sensitivity compared to baseline measures. The present results suggest that the emergence of fear-conditioned responses is sensitive to whole body exposure to a magnetic field pattern that has been shown to induce long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with postural instability and an increased risk of falling which is facilitated by a variety of factors including diminished visual acuity, diplopia, ataxia, apraxia of gait, and peripheral neuropathy. Deficient binocular depth perception may also contribute to a higher incidence of postural instability and falling in these patients who, for example, find it an extremely difficult task to walk on uneven ground, over curbs, or up and down steps. I report a 51 year old woman with secondary progressive MS who experienced difficulties with binocular depth perception resulting in frequent falls and injuries. Deficient depth perception was demonstrated also on spontaneous drawing of a cube. Following a series of transcranial treatments with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 7,5 picotesla flux density, the patient experienced a major improvement in depth perception which was evident particularly on ascending and descending stairs. These clinical changes were associated with an improvement in spatial organization and depth perception on drawing a cube. These findings suggest that in MS impairment of depth perception, which is encoded in the primary visual cortex (area 17) and visual association cortex (areas 18 and 19), may be improved by administration of AC pulsed EMFs of picotesla flux density. The primary visual cortex is densely innervated by serotonergic neurons which modulate visual information processing. Cerebral serotonin concentrations are diminished in MS patients and at least some aspects of deficient depth perception in MS may be related to dysfunction of serotonergic transmission in the primary visual cortex. It is suggested that transcranial AC pulsed applications of EMFs improve depth perception partly by augmenting serotonergic transmission in the visual cortex.
As part of a Nordic multi-centre study investigating the life and care situation of community samples of schizophrenic patients the aim of the present part of the study was to examine the relationship between global subjective quality of life and objective life conditions, clinical characteristics including psychopathology and number of needs for care, subjective factors such as satisfaction with different life domains, social network, and self-esteem. A sample of 418 persons with schizophrenia from 10 sites was used. The results of a final multiple regression analysis, explaining 52.3% of the variance, showed that five subjective factors were significantly associated with global subjective quality of life, together with one objective indicator, to have a close friend. No clinical characteristics were associated with global subjective quality of life. The largest part of the variance was explained by satisfaction with health, 36.3% of the variance, and self-esteem, 7.3% of the variance. It is concluded that the actual relationship between objective life conditions and subjectively experienced quality of life still remains unclear. Furthermore, it seems obvious that personality related factors such as self-esteem, mastery and sense of autonomy also play a role in the appraisal of subjective quality of life, which implies that factors like these are important to consider in clinical and social interventions for patients with schizophrenia in order to improve quality of life for these persons.
Since the discovery of the vasorelaxant properties of nitric oxide and the vasoconstrictor effect of endothelin-1, there have been many studies of the distribution and functional significance of these agents in various vascular beds. In the coronary and pulmonary circulation nitric oxide and endothelin-1 actions have been largely investigated in terms of an imbalance between the opposing effects of these vasoactive agents leading to pathophysiological conditions. This article review functional and immunocytochemical studies with emphasis on the ultrastructural localization of nitric oxide synthase and endothelin-1 in the coronary and pulmonary vascular beds. Localization of nitric oxide synthase (type III or I or II) has been shown in endothelial cells, smooth muscle, and perivascular nerves of the coronary and pulmonary vascular beds and in the neurons, nerve fibers, and the small granule-containing cells within cardiac ganglia. Endothelin-1 was mainly localized in subpopulations of coronary and pulmonary endothelial cells. These immunocytochemical studies provide information about the sources of nitric oxide and endothelin-1 that contribute to the vasomotor control of cardiac and pulmonary circulation under normal and pathophysiological conditions.
Invertebrate tissues contain mammalian-like proenkephalin, prodynorphin, and proopiomelanocortin. Amino acid sequence determination of these opioid gene products reveals the presence of various opioid peptides exhibiting high sequence identity with their mammalian counterparts. These associated peptides are flanked by dibasic amino acid residues, indicating cleavage sites. Together with the presence of various processing enzymes, i.e., neutral endopeptidase 24.11 and angiotensin-converting enzymes, this suggests that opioid precursor processing is also similar to that described in mammals. It is noted that the levels and/or activity of invertebrate neutral endopeptidase 24.11 can be upregulated by signaling molecules shown to perform the same function in mammals, i.e., morphine. Critical to opioid precursor processing are immunocytes that contain the precursors and transport processing enzymes to sites of inflammation, in part, to cleave these peptide precursors, thus liberating immune-stimulating molecules. Furthermore, in response to lipopolysaccharides, Met-enkephalin levels peak immediately and hours after the exposure, revealing a release and induction process. It appears that the opioid precursors and their processing enzymes first evolved in &quot;simple&quot; animals and the have been maintained and embellished during the course of evolution guided by conformational matching.

The medical therapy of tinnitus should be oriented by objective measurement of the disorder. Preferably, it should be qualitative, indicating the exact neural mechanism to be neuromodulated by neuroprotective medication. The neurophysiological approach in objectivization of tinnitus is presented by means of auditory brainstem response and middle latency response. These tests could be applied in functional follow-up of medical therapy, as these are more sensitive and harmless methods as compared to standard morphological methods.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission tomography (SPET) offer the opportunity to improve a diagnosis of dementia by providing regional functional measurements, which can be used to substantiate the clinical judgement. Further progress in the differential diagnosis among degenerative dementias is expected from pathological confirmation in the follow-up of patients evaluated with neuroimaging methods. A prospective multi-center cohort study of patients with possible or probable Alzheimer's disease mostly with presenile onset, showed impairment of brain glucose metabolism in temporoparietal or frontal association areas, as measured with PET. This was associated significantly with dementia severity, clinical classification, presence of multiple cognitive deficits, and history of progression. In addition, prospective longitudinal analysis showed a significant association between initial metabolic impairment (metabolic ratio = 0.80) and subsequent clinical deterioration. In patients with mild cognitive deficits at entry, the risk of deterioration was up to 4.7-times higher if metabolism was severely impaired than with mild or absent metabolic impairment. In the future, it might be possible to use different tracers to measure neurotransmitter release or receptor function. It may also be possible to scan the patient while performing cognitive tasks to examine changes in functional brain activity during pharmacological treatments.
Neuroimaging techniques aimed at studying structural changes of the brain may provide useful information for the diagnosis and the clinical management of patients with dementia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may show abnormalities amenable to surgical treatment in a significant percentage of patients with cognitive impairment. MRI may also assist the differential diagnosis in dementia associated with metabolic or inflammatory diseases.MRI has the potential to detect focal signal abnormalities which may assist the clinical differentiation between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Severe temporal atrophy, hyperintensities involving the hippocampal or insular cortex, and gyral hypointense bands are more frequently noted in AD. Basal ganglionic/thalamic hyperintense foci, thromboembolic infarctions, confluent white matter and irregular periventricular hyperintensities are more common in VaD. The high sensitivity of MRI in detecting T2 hyperintense lesions and the low specificity off white matter lesions have resulted in a poor correlation between MRI findings and both neuropathological and clinical manifestations. In particular, MRI has disclosed a series of white matter focal changes in the elderly population, which are not necessarily associated with cognitive dysfunction. The recent advent of a new MRI method sensitive to the microstructural changes of white matter, the so-called diffusion tensor imaging, may be helpful in correlating clinical manifestations with white matter abnormalities.
Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) provides a unique form of magnetic resonance (MR) contrast that enables the diffusional motion of water molecules to be quantitatively measured. As a consequence, DWI provides information about the orientation, size and geometry of brain structures. Cellular structures in the central nervous system restrict water molecular motion, and the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) is reduced compared to diffusion in bulk water. Pathological processes that modify tissue integrity, thus removing some of the &quot;restricting&quot; barriers, can result in increased ADC. Preliminary studies in multiple sclerosis (MS) using DWI showed that the ADC is higher in macroscopic lesions than in the normal appearing white matter (NAWM). The ADC is also dependent on the direction in which diffusion is measured, thus making comparison of ADC values meaningless without taking into account the measurement direction. One measurement of diffusion that is independent of the orientation of structures is provided by measuring the ADC in three orthogonal directions, and then averaging the results to form the mean diffusivity, D. We obtained DW scans from 35 patients with relapsing-remitting MS and 24 healthy volunteers. D was measured inside T2-visible lesions and regions located in different areas of the NAWM. D histograms from a large portion of the brain were created. MS lesions had a significantly higher D than NAWM. T1-hypointense lesions had the highest diffusion values, consistent with more severe tissue disruption. D was higher in the NAWM from patients than in the white matter from healthy controls. We also found significant differences between D histogram-derived measures from patients and controls, confirming the presence of diffuse damage in the brain of patients with MS.
Magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique that is now used in multiple sclerosis (MS) studies, and is thought to have a higher pathological specificity than conventional T2-weighted imaging. This review outlines the major contributions given by MTI for the understanding of MS evolution.MTI studies of individual MS lesions confirm the pathological heterogeneity of T2-weighted MRI abnormalities and the potential role of unenhanced T1-weighted hypointensities as specific markers of localized severe white matter disruption. Correlative cross-sectional and longitudinal studies using MIT and gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced MRI reveal that MTI findings may vary in lesions with different patterns of enhancement, and that MTI abnormalities are closely related to the onset and recovery of blood-brain barrier disruption in new MS plaques. MTI lesion load (LL) is highly correlated with T2-weighted MRI lesion load, but it has a limited reliability as a measure of MS lesion burden. On the other hand, measures obtained from MT scans using whole-brain histogram analysis are highly correlated with the extent of MS abnormalities on conventional MRI scans, and predict patients' clinical disability well, since they are sensitive to both macro- and microscopic MS lesion burden in the whole brain and in specific regions. These data suggest that (a) MTI is sensitive to different stages of lesion pathology and pathological evolution in MS patients; and (b) MT histogram analysis can provide a more global assessment of MS lesion burden, since it encompasses both macro- and microscopic MS pathology.

Variations in the amplitude of transiently evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) produced by a contralateral complex tone were measured in 26 normal-hearing human subjects. TEOAEs were evoked using a 1-kHz tone pip at 60 dB SPL. The contralateral complex consisted of harmonic components with frequencies between 400 and 2000 Hz; it was presented at levels ranging from 40 to 50 dB SL and its fundamental frequency (F0) was varied. In experiment 1, the dependence of TEOAE amplitude variations on the F0 of the contralateral complex was measured by varying the F0 from 50 to 400 Hz in octave steps. The results revealed a nonmonotonic dependence of TEOAE amplitude variations on contralateral F0, with significantly larger TEOAE suppression for F0's of 100 and 200 Hz than for F0's of 50 and 400 Hz. Experiment 2, in which the harmonics were summed in alternating sine-cosine phase instead of constant sine phase, showed a shift of the function relating TEOAE attenuation to F0 towards lower F0's, indicating that the waveform repetition rate, rather than harmonic spacing, was the actual factor of the dependence of contralateral TEOAE attenuation on F0. Furthermore, significantly smaller suppression was observed with the alternating-phase complexes than with the sine-phase complexes, suggesting an influence of the waveform crest factor. Experiment 3 showed no difference between the contralateral TEOAE attenuation effects produced by positive and negative Schroeder-phase complexes. Overall, these results bring further arguments for the notion that contralaterally induced medial olivocochlear bundle (MOCB) activity, as measured through the contralateral suppression of TEOAEs in humans, is sensitive to the rate of temporal envelope fluctuations of the contralateral stimulus, with preferential rates around 100-200 Hz.

This study focuses on 19 juvenile offenders who were frequently intoxicated by flunitrazepam (FZ), almost exclusively under the brand name Rohypnol. Street names for Rohypnol tablets are Rophies, Ropies, Roofies, Ropes, Roches, Rochas, Rochas Dos, Rophs, Ropers, Ribs, R-25, Roach-2s, Trip and Fall, Remember All, Mind Erasers, Forget Pills, and the Date Rape Drug. An overdose of FZ gives an increased feeling of power and self-esteem, reduces fear and insecurity, and provides the belief that everything is possible. FZ is also associated with loss of episodic memory and with impulsive violence, particularly when combined with alcohol. The subjects were taken from a subpopulation of 47 male juvenile offenders from Swedish national correctional institutions. Background information for subjects was obtained by in-depth interviewing and personality inventories including the Zuckerman Sensation-Seeking Scales, the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, and the Karolinska Scales of Personality. Data concerning previous criminal offenses was obtained from the Swedish National Police Board. Almost all of the FZ abusers had been previously sentenced for serious violent offenses. Our data suggest that FZ abused by psychiatrically vulnerable subjects (i.e., with high scores on boredom susceptibility and verbal aggression) poses a serious hazard both to the abusers as well as the community. Our results support the finding that FZ should be classified as a Schedule I drug (i.e., a drug similar to heavy narcotics).
A central tenet of psychoanalysis, and arguably of any comprehensive theory of mind, is the existence of a psychological unconscious. Years of clinical investigation into the nature of unconscious processes have facilitated the development of psychoanalysis as a clinical method. Empirical investigations of unconscious mental processes, however, have lagged behind clinical inquiry. With few exceptions, attempts to understand unconscious processes using rigorous experimental controls have remained sequestered in scientific domains other than psychoanalysis, where they have proliferated recently. In view of this recent upsurge of research on unconscious processes outside of psychoanalysis, efforts to integrate such knowledge into general theories of psychopathology and clinical investigation are critical. In this paper, an interdisciplinary approach is taken to the study of one aspect of unconscious mental functioning--what Freud originally termed signal anxiety. Signal anxiety is examined using information from cognitive psychology and learning theory, psychophysiology, behavioral neuroscience, and psychoanalytic theory. Though the original concept of signal anxiety is supported by recent research, it is concluded that signal anxiety is probably best thought of not as the affect of anxiety but as a subset of unconscious mental processes that have a signal function of anticipating danger. Such unconscious anticipatory processes are a general feature of the mind that includes responses to both real and imagined (neurotic) appraisals of a situation. The neurophysiological structures and processes associated with unconscious anticipation in humans are just beginning to be understood.
How is psychoanalysis to deal with its ever widening field of clinical observations and the changing theoretical perspectives that may accompany them--e.g., those concerning intersubjectivity and empathy? Will it be necessary, as some suggest, to modify traditional theory and to abandon related principles of technique such as anonymity and abstinence? Detailed clinical examples of specific interactions are presented to illustrate the interrelated roles of memory, subjective interaction, and empathy. It is suggested that these clinical observations, which encompass newer perspectives, do not require new paradigms. Rather, they can for the present be comfortably accommodated within the purview of older observations, modern cognitive neuroscience, and traditional technical theory.
The zebrafish egg provides a useful experimental system to study events of fertilization, including exocytosis. We show by differential interference contrast videomicroscopy that cortical granules are: (1) released nonsynchronously over the egg surface and (2) mobilized to the plasma membrane in two phases, depending upon vesicle size and location. Turbidometric assay measurements of the timing and extent of exocytosis revealed a steady release of small granules during the first 30 seconds of egg activation. This was followed by an explosive discharge of large granules, beginning at 30 seconds and continuing for 1-2 minutes. Stages of single granule exocytosis and subsequent remodeling of the egg surface were imaged by either real-time or time-lapse videomicroscopy as well as scanning electron microscopy. Cortical granule translocation and fusion with the plasma membrane were followed by the concurrent expansion of a fusion pore and release of granule contents. A dramatic rearrangement of the egg surface followed exocytosis. Cortical crypts (sites of evacuated granules) displayed a purse-string-like contraction, resulting in their gradual flattening and disappearance from the egg surface. We tested the hypothesis that subplasmalemmal filamentous (F-) actin acts as a physical barrier to secretion and is locally disassembled prior to granule release. Experimental results showed a reduction of rhodamine-phalloidin and antimyosin staining at putative sites of secretion, acceleration of the timing and extent of granule release in eggs pretreated with cytochalasin D, and dose-dependent inhibition of exocytosis in permeabilized eggs preincubated with phalloidin. An increase in assembled actin was detected by fluorometric assay during the period of exocytosis. Localization studies showed that F-actin and myosin-II codistributed with an inward-moving, membrane-delimited zone of cytoplasm that circumscribed cortical crypts during their transformation. Furthermore, cortical crypts displayed a distinct delay in transformation when incubated continuously with cytochalasin D following egg activation. We propose that closure of cortical crypts is driven by a contractile ring whose forces depend upon dynamic actin filaments and perhaps actomyosin interactions.
This study investigated parental perception of sleep problems in stimulant treated and untreated children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Parents of 135 psychiatric clinic referred children and 83 pediatric outpatients completed a sleep questionnaire and the Child Behavior Checklist. Moderate to severe &quot;sleep problems&quot; reportedly occurred at least once a week in 19.3% of children with ADHD, 13.3% of the psychiatric controls, and 6.2% of the pediatric controls. Children with ADHD treated with stimulants were reported to display a higher prevalence of nightly &quot;severe&quot; sleep problems than did untreated children with ADHD. Almost a third (29%) of stimulant treated ADHD children were reported to display increased sleep latency or insomnia every night versus 10% of untreated children with ADHD. Despite the high prevalence of sleep related problems in ADHD, the significance of the association between delayed sleep onset and ADHD with regard to etiology and management of ADHD is still poorly understood.
In this case series, risperidone augmentation of treatment with a serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) is described in four pediatric patients diagnosed with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). An improved treatment response was observed in all cases, albeit in different ways. All four of the patients had failed prior SRI monotherapy. Comorbid tics were observed in two cases and aggressive behavior or violent images were seen in three. Possible predictors of response to risperidone in patients with OCD and future research avenues are explored.
This article reviews progress in research on childhood phobia, generalized anxiety, and separation anxiety disorders from the perspectives of developmental psychopathology and affective neuroscience. These perspectives represent two organizing theoretical schools in the realms of clinical and basic science research. Studies in developmental psychopathology suggest the need to identify specific subgroups of children with one of these anxiety disorders who are particularly at risk for anxiety disorders in adulthood. Studies in affective neuroscience suggest potential neurobiological avenues for identifying such children who face a particularly high risk for chronic anxiety disorders.
This article reviews established, emergent, and potential applications of continuous EEG (CEEG) monitoring in the Neuroscience Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Emergency Department. In each application, its goal as a neurophysiologic monitor is to extend our powers of observation to detect abnormalities at a reversible stage and to guide timely and physiologically sound interventions. Since this subject was reviewed 5 years ago, the use of CEEG monitoring has become more widespread. In a modern NICU, it is no longer novel to have CEEG data contributing to management decisions. A well-trained CEEG monitoring team is important for its optimal implementation. In the diagnosis and management of convulsive and nonconvulsive status epilepticus, its value appears established. It is finding benefit in the early diagnosis and management of precarious cerebral ischemia, including severe acute cerebral infarctions and post-SAH vasospasms. In comatose patients, it can provide diagnostic and prognostic information which is otherwise unobtainable. More recently, it has been found advantageous for targeting management of acute severe head trauma patients. Networking technology has facilitated the implementation and oversight of CEEG monitoring and promises to expand its availability, credibility, and effectiveness. The maturing of CEEG use is reflected in preliminary efforts to assess its cost benefit, cost effectiveness, and impact on patient outcomes.
A case of recurrent acoustic neuroma in a 58-year-old man is presented. The tumour was initially subtotally removed and then was irradiated using stereotactic radiosurgery. He represented with ataxia and new onset headache four years later and underwent further surgery for recurrence of his acoustic neuroma. The literature is reviewed and the authors' view point on the different modalities of treatment is discussed.
Dystonia may be primary or symptomatic. Most, if not all, primary torsion dystonias are genetic diseases and manifest as 'pure dystonia', without consistent biochemical or neuropathological changes. Symptomatic dystonias may be (a) secondary to drugs or other environmental factors, (b) part of a 'dystonia plus' syndrome or (c) part of several heredodegenerative diseases. In the last few years, there have been rapid advances in the genetic classification of primary torsion dystonia. The gene for one form (DYT1dystonia), particularly common in Ashkenazi Jews, has been isolated. In this review, I present a basic clinical overview of dystonia and focus on the recent advances in molecular genetics of primary torsion dystonia (PTD). Treatment of dystonia is a large subject, worthy of a review in itself, and is not covered here. Several of the paroxysmal movement disorders may manifest with dystonia, but these are usually considered separately, as I have done in this review. Copyright 1999 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.
It is widely accepted that schizophrenia originates from abnormalities occurring during the early stages of neural development. Although large studies have revealed behavioral precursors of schizophrenia in childhood, the disorder is usually not evident until patients are in their 20s or 30s. Some patients will be resistant to typical antipsychotic treatment at this first-onset of schizophrenia; however, treatment resistance develops in the majority of patients during the course of successive episodes. This ongoing deterioration suggests that a degenerative process operates during the active psychotic phase of the illness. This review presents evidence of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative mechanisms for the development of schizophrenia. These data indicate the importance of effective treatment at the first onset of schizophrenia to improve patient outcome. In addition, animal studies suggest that treatment with clozapine may prevent the neurodegenerative component responsible for the development of treatment resistance.
Three atypical antipsychotics are currently considered to be first-line therapies for schizophrenia, namely risperidone, olanzapine, and quetiapine. Deciding which one of these agents to choose for any given patient can be a daunting task because head-to-head comparisons of these 3 agents are just beginning, and most published trials are comparisons with typical antipsychotics, not with another atypical antipsychotic. Furthermore, results from clinical trials often do not match findings from clinical practice. Thus, guidelines for selection and use of the atypical antipsychotics are evolving from controlled studies as well as from clinical judgment based on the practical use of these agents once they have entered clinical practice. The atypical properties of first-line atypical antipsychotics as well as clozapine are reviewed here, with clinical pearls and dosing tips for each based upon a consensus of information from both clinical trials and clinical practice. The conventional antipsychotic loxapine is also reviewed and proposed as a potentially valuable agent to augment atypical antipsychotics when patients do not experience an acceptable treatment response from monotherapy with an atypical antipsychotic. By integrating information from clinical trials and clinical practice, the prescriber can be in a better position to choose which atypical antipsychotic to select for any given patient.
Recent advances in our understanding of schizophrenia along with neuroscience insights into antipsychotic medication mechanisms of action have led to a renaissance in new drug development, including an expanded therapeutic spectrum encompassing more of the symptoms encountered in schizophrenia. Atypical antipsychotics, or new generation therapies, also demonstrate greater selectivity for therapeutic actions than for extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Our modern armamentarium of drugs spans a wide range of pharmacologies, and it is more accurate to envision shades of gray rather than a black-and-white description for typical versus atypical properties of medications. As our paradigms for antipsychotic efficacy have shifted, a reexploration of the &quot;older&quot; neuroleptics is warranted to determine if they possess pharmacologic attributes that might have been overlooked during the era of high-dose neuroleptic therapy. Loxapine appears to be in the center of this spectrum, somewhere between haloperidol and risperidone. Dosing implications for drugs with a more even serotonin-2A (5-HT2A) receptor and dopamine-2 (D2) receptor blocking effect are discussed. Loxapine might have a window of partial atypicality at doses &lt; or = 50 mg/day. These lower doses might have potential as both monotherapy in responsive patients with persistent psychotic disorders and as an adjunctive treatment in partially responding patients on concurrent atypical antipsychotic treatments. The pharmacologic properties of loxapine within its usable dosage range are quite complex and are the net sum of the parent's plus metabolites' contributions (demethylation and hydroxylation by cytochrome P450 enzymes). These pharmacologic effects include alpha-adrenergic blockade, inhibition of the noradrenergic transporter protein (reuptake inhibition), and antimuscarinic effects. Drug interactions and cigarette smoking might alter the parent-to-metabolite concentration ratios, affecting the relative atypicality of this antipsychotic therapy. Moreover, with the intramuscular formulation, which does not undergo first-pass metabolism, the parent compound of loxapine, i.e., not its metabolites, is predominantly detected in the plasma of patients, reducing the likelihood for EPS during emergency interventions in patients with positive symptoms. Further study is warranted to determine loxapine's place in our treatment of schizophrenia.


The lifetime risk of suicide in persons with schizophrenia is much greater than that in the general population. The role of antipsychotic medications in decreasing suicide risk in schizophrenia has been little studied, and results often appear inconclusive and even confusing when issues such as dose-response effect are examined. Yet, evidence exists that both the traditional and newer antipsychotic medications reduce the risk of suicide and suicide attempts in schizophrenia. Because side effects are potentially significant risk factors in suicide, considerable incentive exists to examine whether newer antipsychotic agents that have a lower incidence of extrapyramidal side effects offer greater safety for this population.
Patients with major affective disorders are more likely to complete suicide than patients in any other medical group. Established risk factors for completed suicide in affective disorders include acute depression (with turmoil, hopelessness, global insomnia, anhedonia, anxiety and/or panic), mixed episodes, rapid cycling, substance abuse, aggression and/or impulsivity, low serotonergic activity, and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation. Although anticonvulsants have mood-stabilizing and antidepressant properties, few data are available on the antisuicide effects of anticonvulsant treatment in manic-depressive patients. On the other hand, as reviewed elsewhere in this issue, massive data have been accumulated on the antisuicide effect of lithium. This article discusses lithium versus anticonvulsants in the prevention of suicide associated with affective disorders and future treatment strategies to reduce this most serious complication of manic-depressive illness.
Suicidal behavior has neurobiological determinants independent of the psychiatric illnesses with which it is associated. We have found that some patients with major depression are vulnerable to acting on suicidal impulses. This vulnerability results from the interaction between triggers or precipitants and the threshold for suicidal behavior. An important factor in setting an individual's threshold for acting on suicidal impulses is brain serotonergic function. Serotonin function has been shown to be lower in suicide attempters by studies measuring serotonin metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid and studies of prolactin response to fenfluramine. Postmortem studies of suicide victims also reveal decreased serotonin activity in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. New neuroimaging paradigms, such as positron emission tomography (PET), offer an opportunity to visualize serotonin function in vivo in a more direct way than has previously been available. This technology may provide the possibility of timely therapeutic intervention in patients at high risk for suicide.
The functional anatomy of perceptual and semantic processings for odors was studied using positron emission tomography (PET). The first experiment was a pretest in which 71 normal subjects were asked to rate 185 odorants in terms of intensity, familiarity, hedonicity, and comestibility and to name the odorants. This pretest was necessary to select the most appropriate stimuli for the different cognitive tasks of the second experiment. The second one was a PET experiment in which 15 normal subjects were scanned using the water bolus method to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during the performance in three conditions. In the first (perceptual) condition, subjects were asked to judge whether an odor was familiar or not. In the second (semantic) condition, subjects had to decide whether an odor corresponded to a comestible item or not. In the third (detection) condition, subjects had to judge whether the perceived stimulus was made of an odor or was just air. It was hypothetized that the three tasks were hierarchically organized from a superficial detection level to a deep semantic level. Odorants were presented with an air-flow olfactometer, which allowed the stimulations to be synchronized with breathing. Subtraction of activation images obtained between familiarity and control judgments revealed that familiarity judgments were mainly associated with the activity of the right orbito-frontal area, the subcallosal gyrus, the left inferior frontal gyrus, the left superior frontal gyrus, and the anterior cingulate (Brodmann's areas 11, 25, 47, 9, and 32, respectively). The comestibility minus familiarity comparison showed that comestibility judgments selectively activated the primary visual areas. In contrast, a decrease in rCBF was observed in these same visual areas for familiarity judgments and in the orbito-frontal area for comestibility judgments. These results suggest that orbito-frontal and visual regions interact in odor processing in a complementary way, depending on the task requirements.
Transmission and scanning electron microscopic examinations were undertaken to detail changes in the olfactory epithelium (OE) resulting from the ageing process. Samples were prepared from 3% glutaraldehyde/1% formaldehyde perfused mice aged 6 months and 29-30 months. Compared to OE from young adults, a number of striking changes were apparent in tissue from older animals. The most obvious of these were extensive local accumulations of large inclusion bodies, totally disrupting the normal morphology of such affected areas of olfactory epithelium. Even in areas where these deposits were absent, other significant signs of ageing were noted in the seemingly unaffected OE of all older mice studied. Quantitative analysis of semi-thin resin sections revealed that the OE of aged mice was significantly reduced in thickness, and with significantly fewer olfactory sensory neurons, irrespective of whether or not inclusions were present. In addition, pale cells, which have been suggested to be a form of degenerating cells, were more abundant in aged OE. The straight, sharp boundary between respiratory and olfactory epithelia which is seen in young adults became irregular and disrupted with age due to an intermingling of the respiratory and olfactory cells. Such structural alterations may parallel olfactory dysfunction reputed to occur in older mammals.
The role of HRT and/or oestrogens in the aetiology, progression and prevention of neurodegenerative disorders is unclear. Various studies have been conducted in cells, animals and humans to better define these relationships. The following is a presentation of data on the role of oestrogens in the two most common dementia syndromes Alzheimer's Disease and vascular dementia. This review examines whether there is support for the hypothesis that the use of oestrogens reduces the risk for dementia and cognitive decline in a variety of experimental models. A literature search was performed using the following key words: oestrogen and dementia, oestrogen and Alzheimer, oestrogen and cognition, oestrogen and learning, and oestrogen and memory. The reference lists for the articles identified using these search strategies were examined. The strongest evidence for a beneficial effect comes from cell and animal studies. These suggest that treatment with oestrogens may influence the pathogenetic processes of AD, mainly by affecting the beta-amyloid metabolism, by promoting the activity of the cholinergic system, by reducing oxidative stress or cardiovascular risk. Observational studies give some support to the hypothesis that HRT may be protective for cognitive decline and dementia in the elderly, but the inherited methodological problems in these studies preclude any conclusions. The treatment trials published thus far have methodological problems that prohibit definite conclusions on the relationship between HRT and cognitive decline and dementia.
Methods for mass transformation of Paramecium tetraurelia were established using plasmids bearing neomycin-resistance or calmodulin gene fragments. Phenotypic and molecular analyses showed that, although variable, up to 5% transformation can be achieved by electroporation. Concentrations of divalent cations Ca2+ and Mg2+ in the electroporation medium were crucial for efficient transformation. Strong neomycin-resistance transformation using bioballistic particle bombardment with gold particles was observed. For both methods, hybridization to transformant DNA revealed plasmid signals consistent with macronuclear transformation and correlated with transformed phenotypes. Complementation of a known calmodulin gene mutation was also achieved by mass transformation. Possible sources of variation and the general utility of these methods are discussed.
Lidocaine produces voltage- and use-dependent inhibition of voltage-gated Na+ channels through preferential binding to channel conformations that are normally populated at depolarized potentials and by slowing the rate of Na+ channel repriming after depolarizations. It has been proposed that the fast-inactivation mechanism plays a crucial role in these processes. However, the precise role of fast inactivation in lidocaine action has been difficult to probe because gating of drug-bound channels does not involve changes in ionic current. For that reason, we employed a conformational marker for the fast-inactivation gate, the reactivity of a cysteine substituted at phenylalanine 1304 in the rat adult skeletal muscle sodium channel alpha subunit (rSkM1) with [2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl]methanethiosulfonate (MTS-ET), to determine the position of the fast-inactivation gate during lidocaine block. We found that lidocaine does not compete with fast-inactivation. Rather, it favors closure of the fast-inactivation gate in a voltage-dependent manner, causing a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of site 1304 accessibility that parallels a shift in the steady state availability curve measured for ionic currents. More significantly, we found that the lidocaine-induced slowing of sodium channel repriming does not result from a slowing of recovery of the fast-inactivation gate, and thus that use-dependent block does not involve an accumulation of fast-inactivated channels. Based on these data, we propose a model in which transitions along the activation pathway, rather than transitions to inactivated states, play a crucial role in the mechanism of lidocaine action.
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) has been shown to stimulate growth of muscle and nerve cells. In this rat study, in which the nerve to the medial head of the gastrocnemius was divided and repaired and slow-release LIF was administered at the repair site, we evaluated recovery by measuring the force of muscle contraction and of muscle bulk. Thirty-five male Sprague-Dawley rats (325-375 g) were randomly divided into 5 different groups according to type of treatment: denervated, end-to-end nerve repair, end-to-end nerve repair with LIF, neurotization, and neurotization with LIF. The contralateral side served as a nonoperated control group. Leukemia inhibitory factor was administered for 28 days to the site of the nerve repair via an implanted osmotic infusion pump. Muscle mass and muscular function were evaluated at 6 weeks using electrophysiologic techniques. The medial gastrocnemius muscle mass of the repair + LIF group was greater than the repair-alone group. The peak twitch, relative twitch, relative tetanic, and tetanic forces generated from the repair + LIF group were also significantly higher than those in the repair-alone group. Although neurotization was almost as effective as end-to-end nerve repair for reinnervating muscle, LIF had no increased effect on neurotization. These data suggest that LIF protects muscular function and reduces denervation atrophy following end-to-end nerve repair.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has an anti-Parkinsonian effect. In two cases repeated single ECT, i.e. maintenance ECT (MECT), caused different, hitherto unreported positive effects. One patient had either severe mental side effects from higher L-dopa doses or intolerable parkinsonian symptoms on lower doses. MECT entailed a marked improvement in parkinsonian symptoms without mental side effects. Another patient with depression as well as Parkinson's disease who showed a slight improvement of motor symptoms after a series of ECT presented further anti-parkinsonian effects on MECT.
Melatonin was determined in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from 13 healthy males lumbar-punctured in the sitting position without preceding bed rest. There was a significant correlation between the levels of melatonin in serum and the CSF. The serum concentration was lower than that in the CSF, a finding that calls in question the theory that melatonin is mainly released from the pineal gland into the bloodstream. In conclusion, serum levels of melatonin in healthy male volunteers, mirror the CSF concentrations when lumbar puncture is carried out using the described technique.
In a recent study we analysed the concentrations of two forms of cholecystokinin (CCK), CCK-8S (sulphated) and CCK-4 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from 14 healthy male volunteers lumbar-punctured after a minimum of eight hours of strict bed-rest. We have now lumbar-punctured another group of 14 healthy males, using the same procedure except for the requirement of strict bed-rest prior to puncture. In contrast to our previous study, the concentration of CCK-4 (but not CCK-8S) was significantly higher in the second CSF fraction (7-12 ml) than in the first one (0-6 ml). On using the concentration ratio between the second and first fraction, CCK-8S (but not CCK-4) correlated positively with the atmospheric pressure, which is in contrast to our previous study in which a significant negative correlation was found. When the lumbar CSF concentrations were expressed as the concentration per minute of tapping-time (an estimate of the mass flow), atmospheric pressure, age and the neuraxis distance in the lying position made significant contributions to the variance in CCK-8S. A significant positive correlation with atmospheric pressure was found for CCK-4. In conclusion, the results indicate that the question of strict bed-rest or not prior to lumbar puncture may have to be considered when interpreting data on lumbar CSF concentrations of CCK. A controlled study is warranted.
The effects of Ca2+ on glutamate uptake by synaptosomes were investigated. Glutamate uptake was decreased in the absence of Ca2+ with 2 mM EGTA added to the medium. After a 8-min preincubation, the uptake reduced to the greatest extent (about 64% of the uptake measured in Ca2+ medium). According to the kinetic analysis, lack of Ca2+ resulted in a reduction of the Vmax for glutamate uptake. These results suggested external Ca2+ was necessary for the optimal uptake of glutamate. TTX, an inhibitor of the voltage-dependent Na+ channel, almost reversed the reduction of glutamate uptake, indicating that the uptake might be impaired via the partial activation of the voltage-dependent tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channel. On the other hand, glutamate uptake was decreased by trifluoperazine, a calmodulin antagonist, and KN-62, an inhibitor of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, implying that intrasynaptosomal Ca2+ might also have a role in the uptake of glutamate, and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent processes, such as Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, might be involved in the modulation of glutamate transporter activity.
In vivo microdialysis was used to study the effects of restraint stress (30 min) and amphetamine (AMPH) (5 mg/kg, i.p.) in awake adult male rats with neonatal ventral hippocampal (VH) damage. Extracellular levels of dopamine (DA), dihydrophenylacetate (DOPAC), homovanillate (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindolacetate (5-HIAA) were measured in the nucleus accumbens (NA). There were no differences in the baseline levels of DA, DOPAC, HVA or 5-HIAA in the lesioned as compared to the sham rats. Release from restraint resulted in increased extracellular levels of DA in the sham but not in the lesioned animals. AMPH increased DA release in both sham operated and lesioned animals, but this increase was significantly attenuated in the lesioned rats. Our data suggest that this developmental lesion alters function of the dopaminergic system in response to environmental and pharmacological challenge.
It has been reported that dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) or dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) is associated with affective disorders and that pathology of affective disorders are related with dysfunction of serotonin(5-HT)-2A receptor-mediated responses. In this study, we investigated the effect of DHEA on (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2 aminopropane (DOI), 5-HT-2A receptor agonist, -induced wet dog shaking behavior (WDS) in rats. Acute treatment with DHEA inhibited the DOI-induced WDSs dose dependently. This inhibition was recovered by opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone. 5-HT-2A receptor-mediated WDSs were desensitized after chronic treatment with DOI, however chronic treatment with DHEA had no effect on this desensitization. Chronic treatment with DHEA had no facilitating effect of chronic dexamethasone treatment on DOI-induced WDSs. These findings may lead the possibility that DHEA has the inhibitory effect of 5-HT-2A mediated signaling pathway via non-genomic action.
Down's syndrome (DS), occurring in 0.8 out of 1,000 live births, is a genetic disorder in which an extra portion of chromosome 21 leads to several abnormalities. With respect to the nervous system, it causes mental retardation. It is conceived that abnormal neuronal cell death in development is involved, but there is no direct evidence yet. In addition to developmental brain abnormalities, almost all DS brains over 40 years old manifest a similar pathology to Alzheimer's disease (AD), including the presence of senile plaques (SP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). Although there was a debate to segregate dementia from underlying mental retardation, at least some portion of DS patients exhibit deteriorated mental status with aging. The mechanism underlying these abnormalities at the molecular level remains to be elucidated. Recently there have been several reports suggesting abnormalities reflecting increased risk to apoptosis in DS brains. Increased expression of several apoptosis-related genes (p53, fas, ratio of bax to bcl-2, GAPDH) in DS brains has been reported. Cultured neurons from both patients and model animals are reportedly more vulnerable to apoptosis. Overproduction of reactive oxygen species and its causative roles for increased apoptosis in DS tissues are suggested. One possible hypothesis is an increased susceptibility to apoptosis due to p53 overactivation in DS brains. A beta 42, a critical peptide for AD pathology from amyloid precursor protein (APP), can be detected in DS brains. A beta 42 is deposited in SP from an early stage, suggesting common molecular mechanisms in DS and AD. Animal models for DS are important in the search of molecular mechanisms. Several types of models are now available. Future DS studies are expected to integrate information from animal models and human tissues.
Apomorphine is a potent non selective agonist at the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors acting both pre- and post-synaptically. In this report we describe a novel function of apomorphine, independent from its dopaminergic activity. Apomorphine inhibits Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. The EC50 of apomorphine-induced inhibition of CHO-K1 cell proliferation determined by cell counting was 3.24 +/- 0.07 microM. Remarkably, the dose-response curve obtained by measuring the incorporation of [3H]thymidine was practically identical to the previous one giving an EC50 of 3.52 +/- 0.04 microM. The dopaminergic antagonists SCH23390 and spiperone at a concentration of 10 microM (well beyond their Kd values for the dopamine D1- and D2-like receptors respectively) were not able to antagonize the effect of apomorphine on CHO-K1 cell proliferation. Apomorphine exerts its effect early during incubation; CHO-K1 cells exposed to apomorphine for a period as short as 1 h and then allowed to grow for three days were significantly reduced in number with respect to untreated control cells. After four hours of exposition to apomorphine (10 microM) the antiproliferative effect was similar to that seen when this compound was present in the bath for all three days. Concentrations of apomorphine higher than 10 microM induced cell death, and the colony was completely destroyed at 50 microM. Cytometric analyses showed a significant accumulation of CHO-K1 cells in the G2/M phase.


Rds/peripherin is an integral membrane glycoprotein that is present in the rims of photoreceptor outer segment disks. In mammals, it is thought to stabilize the disk rim through heterophilic interactions with the related nonglycosylated protein roml. Glycosylation of rds/peripherin at asparagine 229 is widely conserved in vertebrates. In this study, we investigated the role of rds/peripherin N-glycosylation. We generated transgenic mice that expressed only S231A-substituted rds/peripherin in their retinas. This protein was not glycosylated but formed covalent dimers with itself and with glycosylated rds/peripherin. Nonglycosylated rds/peripherin also interacted noncovalently with rom1 homodimers to form a heterooligomeric complex. The glycosylated rds/peripherin..rom1 complex bound to concanavalin A-Sepharose, suggesting that the glycan is not directly involved in the interaction between these proteins. In double transgenic mice expressing normal and S231A-substituted rds/peripherin, the mRNA-to-protein ratios were similar for both transgenes, indicating no effect of N-glycosylation on rds/peripherin stability. Finally, expression of nonglycosylated rds/peripherin in transgenic mice rescued the phenotype of outer segment nondevelopment in retinal degeneration slow (rds-/-) null mutants. These observations indicate that N-glycosylation of rds/peripherin is not required for its normal processing, stability, or in vivo function.
In this study we have used the presynaptic-rich rat cerebrocortical synaptosomal preparation to investigate the proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (AbetaPP) by the alpha-secretase pathway within the betaA4 domain to generate a soluble secreted N-terminal fragment (AbetaPPs). AbetaPP was detected in crude cortical synaptosomal membranes, although at a lower density than that observed in whole-tissue homogenates. Protein kinase C (PKC) activation induced a translocation of the conventional PKC isoform beta1 and novel PKCepsilon from cytosol to membrane fractions, but there was no alteration in the proportion of AbetaPP associated with the Triton-soluble and -insoluble fractions. AbetaPPs was constitutively secreted from cortical synaptosomes, with this secretion being enhanced significantly by the direct activation of PKC with phorbol ester. The PKC-induced secretion of AbetaPPs was only partially blocked by the PKC inhibitor GF109203X (2.5 microM), whereas the phosphorylation of the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate (MARCKS) protein was significantly inhibited by GF109203X. The differential sensitivities of the MARCKS phosphorylation and AbetaPPs secretion to GF109203X may imply that different PKC isoforms are involved in these two events in the synaptosomal system. These findings strongly suggest that the alpha-secretase activity leading to the secretion of AbetaPPs can occur at the level of the presynaptic terminal.
We have examined the effects of transient global ischemia on both the gene expression levels and the functionality of GABA(B) receptors in rat brain, using antisense in situ hybridization and electrophysiological evaluations. At the level of gene expression, no significant change in GABA(B) receptor expression was observed in any hippocampal subfield at either 6 or 12 h after challenge. At 24 h postchallenge, however, a significant decrease in GABA(B) receptor expression was observed in both the CA1 and CA3 subfields, whereas no change was observed in the dentate granule cell layer. Although expression in both the vulnerable CA1 and less vulnerable CA3 subfields was diminished at this time postchallenge, there was no significant difference in the degree of the diminished expression between these subfields. At the functional level, the dose-dependent ability of baclofen (1-100 microM) to inhibit an evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential (f-EPSP) in the CA1 subfield was evaluated at 24 h postischemia, in comparison with the dose-response observed in sham-operated subjects. No significant differences were observed in the efficacy of GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of the elicited f-EPSP at any of the baclofen concentrations examined. These data demonstrate that although the mRNA expression levels for the GABA(B) receptor are diminished in both vulnerable and less vulnerable neurons of Ammon's horn at 24 h following transient global ischemia, the functionality of the GABA(B) receptor system is maintained at this time postchallenge.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a T-cell-dependent and antibody-mediated autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction, in which the cytokine network may be deranged. Specific receptors for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, a cytokine with several effects on the neuroimmune system, were found on human lymphocytes. In the present study, we assayed TNF-alpha binding on peripheral blood T-cells from MG patients, finding that T-cells from patients have significantly more TNF-alpha receptors than those from controls (Bmax: 654 +/- 12 vs. 133 +/- 4 (mean +/- SEM) receptors/cell). Such TNF-alpha binding sites are of the same type in patients and healthy subjects (Kd: 68.7 +/- 4.3 vs. 70.1 +/- 4.8 (mean +/- SEM) pM). The enhanced T-cell TNF-alpha binding is due to an increased number of TNF-alpha receptors on T-helper lymphocytes. These results are discussed in terms of MG immunopathogenesis, since it has been reported that activated T-cells have increased amounts of TNF-alpha receptors.

In the west London prospective study of first episode schizophrenia, the prevalence and nature of abnormal involuntary movements were examined in 27 patients who had never received antipsychotic drugs and 36 who had been treated with such medication. Motor disturbance was assessed with rating scales designed to cover the full range of spontaneous and drug induced movement disorder. Only one person in the drug naive group showed evidence ofparkinsonism, a finding which contrasts with recent reports suggesting that spontaneous extrapyramidal signs may not be uncommon in such patients. However, according to ratings on the modified Rogers scale, 11% of the drug naive group exhibited orofacial dyskinesia, 4% trunk and limb dyskinesia, 7% postural abnormalities, and 4% increased muscle tone. The respective figures in the closely matched medicated group were not significantly different except for increased muscle tone, which was significantly more common (25%). The proportion of drug naive patients fulfilling criteria for tardive dyskinesia on the abnormal involuntary movements scale ranged from 4% to 11% depending on the criterion threshold score used. These findings are in accord with the notion that abnormal involuntary movements, particularly orofacial dyskinesia, represent a neuromotor component of schizophrenia.





The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in initiation, promotion and progression of several (lung, skin, colon, bladder, breast) tumors is well-documented. Indirect evidence for ROS involvement in tumor proliferation is provided by numerous in vivo and in vitro studies that show antioxidants inhibit tumor proliferation. However, despite strong epidemiological and experimental support for ROS involvement in brain tumor proliferation, to date little is known about the role of ROS in brain tumor promotion at a cellular level. In the present study ROS involvement in proliferation of a cultured, human astrocytoma cell line (U373-MG) was tested by studying effects of an oxidant (hydrogen peroxide, H2O2), and an antioxidant (N-acetylcysteine, NAC) on astrocytoma on proliferation of these cultured cells. Proliferation was assessed by evaluating changes in cell counts and DNA synthesis. Results from these experiments clearly indicate that NAC inhibits tumor cell proliferation and DNA synthesis induced by both serum and H2O2 (10(-5) M). NAC alone did not have any significant effects on the proliferation of serum-starved cells. Thus, ROS are capable of inducing proliferation in cultured astrocytoma cells and antioxidants block ROS- and serum-induced proliferation. Further investigation using primary cultures and animal models will be needed to substantiate the therapeutic potential of antioxidants in future brain tumor therapy.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) and high affinity FGF receptor (FGFR) have been detected in the nucleus as well as the cytoplasm of many human gliomas, and are known to stimulate cellular proliferation and angiogenesis in the tumors. To investigate the effects of inactivation of FGFR on the growth of malignant gliomas, we constructed a replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus vector encoding a truncated form of chicken FGFR1 (AxCA delta FR). AxCA delta FR-infected cells were confirmed to express truncated FGFR protein by immunoblotting and FGF-2-dependent clonogenicity of NIH3T3 cells was suppressed by infection with this virus vector. Then human malignant glioma cell lines U-251MG and T98G, both of which have been reported to express FGF-2 and FGFR, were infected with AxCA delta FR. These infected cells showed nuclear as well as cytoplasmic expression of a truncated FGFR protein. Proliferation rate and the ability to form colonies in soft agar of the cells infected with this virus vector were significantly suppressed compared with those of uninfected and lacZ-expressing adenovirus-infected cells. Moreover, intratumoral injection of AxCA delta FR significantly suppressed the subcutaneous tumor growth of the glioma cells in nude mice. We concluded that inactivation of the cytoplasmic and nuclear FGFR using this truncated FGFR-expressing adenovirus vector can inhibit the growth of malignant gliomas both in vitro and in vivo.

The extent to which regenerative action potentials invade hippocampal CA1 pyramidal dendrites is dependent on both recent activity and distance from the soma. Previously, we have shown that the amplitude of back-propagating dendritic action potentials can be increased by activating either protein kinase A (PKA) or protein kinase C (PKC) and a subsequent depolarizing shift in the activation curve for dendritic K+ channels. Physiologically, an increase in intracellular PKA and PKC would be expected upon activation of beta-adrenergic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively. Accordingly, we report here that activation of either of these neurotransmitter systems results in an increase in dendritic action-potential amplitude. Activation of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system, which is also expected to raise intracellular adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and PKA levels, increased action-potential amplitude in only a subpopulation of neurons tested.
We have previously shown that fast phase axis orientation and primary eye position in rhesus monkeys are dynamically controlled by otolith signals during head rotations that involve a reorientation of the head relative to gravity. Because of the inherent ambiguity associated with primary otolith afferent coding of linear accelerations during head translation and tilts, a similar organization might also underlie the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during translation. The ability of the oculomotor system to correctly distinguish translational accelerations from gravity in the dynamic control of primary eye position has been investigated here by comparing the eye movements elicited by sinusoidal lateral and fore-aft oscillations (0.5 Hz +/- 40 cm, equivalent to +/- 0.4 g) with those during yaw rotations (180 degrees/s) about a vertically tilted axis (23.6 degrees). We found a significant modulation of primary eye position as a function of linear acceleration (gravity) during rotation but not during lateral and fore-aft translation. This modulation was enhanced during the initial phase of rotation when there was concomitant semicircular canal input. These findings suggest that control of primary eye position and fast phase axis orientation in the VOR are based on central vestibular mechanisms that discriminate between gravity and translational head acceleration.
We examined the patterns of muscle activity associated with multiple directions of step-tracking movements of the wrist in humans and monkeys. Human subjects made wrist movements to 12 different targets that required varying amounts of flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation. Wrist muscles displayed two patterns of electromyographic (EMG) modulation as movement direction changed: amplitude graded and temporally shifted. The amplitude-graded pattern was characterized by modulation of the quantity of muscle activity that occurred during two distinct time periods, an agonist burst interval that began before movement onset and an antagonist burst interval that began just after movement onset. The timing of muscle activity over the two intervals showed little variation with changes in movement direction. For some directions of movement, EMG activity was present over both time intervals, resulting in &quot;double bursts.&quot; Modulation of activity during the agonist burst interval was particularly systematic and was well fit by a cosine function. In contrast, the temporally shifted pattern was characterized by a gradual change in the timing of a single burst of muscle activity. The burst occurred at a time intermediate between the agonist and antagonist burst intervals. The temporally shifted pattern was seen less frequently than the amplitude-graded pattern and was present only in selected wrist muscles for specific directions of movement. Monkeys made wrist movements to 8-16 different targets that required varying amounts of flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation. These movements were performed more slowly than those of human subjects. The wrist muscles of the monkeys we examined displayed the amplitude-graded pattern of activity but not the temporally shifted pattern. Stimulation of individual wrist muscles in monkeys resulted in wrist movements that were markedly curved, particularly for the wrist extensors. These results indicate that step-tracking movements of the wrist are generated mainly by using the amplitude-graded pattern to modulate muscle activity. We propose that this pattern reflects a central process that decomposes an intended movement into an agonist, &quot;propulsive&quot; component and an antagonist, &quot;braking&quot; component. Separate bursts of muscle activity then are generated to control each component. On the other hand, we argue that the temporally shifted pattern may function to reduce the amount of movement curvature associated with the activation of wrist muscles.
An initial overload of intracellular Ca2+ plays a critical role in the delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons that die a few days after transient ischemia. Without direct evidence, the prevailing hypothesis has been that Ca2+ overload may recur until cell death. Here, we report the first measurements of intracellular Ca2+ in living CA1 neurons within brain slices prepared 1, 2, and 3 days after transient (5 min) ischemia. With no sign of ongoing Ca2+ overload, voltage-dependent Ca2+ transients were actually reduced after 2-3 days of reperfusion. Resting Ca2+ levels and recovery rate after loading were similar to neurons receiving no ischemic insult. The tetrodotoxin-insensitive Ca spike, normally generated by these neurons, was absent at 2 days postischemia, as was a large fraction of Ca2+-dependent spike train adaptation. These surprising findings may lead to a new perspective on delayed neuronal death and intervention.
Presynaptic Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels triggers neurotransmitter release. Action potential duration plays a determinant role in the dynamics of presynaptic Ca2+ influx. In this study, the presynaptic Ca2+ influx was optically measured with a low-affinity Ca2+ indicator (Furaptra). The effect of action potential duration on Ca2+ influx and transmitter release was investigated. The K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) was applied to broaden the action potential and thereby increase presynaptic Ca2+ influx. This increase of Ca2+ influx appeared to be much less effective in enhancing transmitter release than raising the extracellular Ca2+ concentration. 4-AP did not change the Ca2+ dependence of transmitter release but instead shifted the synaptic transmission curve toward larger total Ca2+ influx. These results suggest that changing the duration of Ca2+ influx is not equivalent to changing its amplitude in locally building up an effective Ca2+ concentration near the Ca2+ sensor of the release machinery. Furthermore, in the presence of 4-AP, the N-type Ca2+ channel blocker omegaCgTx GVIA was much less effective in blocking transmitter release. This phenomenon was not simply due to a saturation of the release machinery by the increased overall Ca2+ influx because a similar reduction of Ca2+ influx by application of the nonspecific Ca2+ channel blocker Cd2+ resulted in much more inhibition of transmitter release. Rather, the different potencies of omega-CgTx GVIA and Cd2+ in inhibiting transmitter release suggest that the Ca2+ sensor is possibly located at a distance from a cluster of Ca2+ channels such that it is sensitive to the location of Ca2+ channels within the cluster.
Whole cell recordings were performed on acutely dissociated neurons from the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (hDBB) from rats to elucidate the ionic mechanisms of action of neurotensin. Neurotensin caused a decrease in whole cell voltage-activated outward currents and failed to elicit a response when Ca2+ influx was blocked by changing the external solution to the one containing 0 mM Ca2+ and 50 microM Cd2+, suggesting the involvement of Ca2+-dependent conductances. Charybdotoxin, a specific blocker of voltage-sensitive calcium-activated K+ channels (IC), caused a decrease in outward currents comparable with that caused by blocking calcium influx and occluded the neurotensin-induced decrease in outward currents. Similarly, 50 microM tetraethylammonium ions also blocked the neurotensin response. Also neurotensin reduced whole cell barium currents (IBa) and calcium currents (ICa). Amiloride and omega-conotoxin GVIA, but not nimodipine, were able to eliminate the neurotensin-induced decrease in IBa. Thus T- and N- but not L-type calcium channels are subject to modulation by neurotensin, and this may account for its effects on IC. The predicted changes in action potential as a result of the blockade of currents through calcium channels culminating into changes in IC were confirmed in the bridge current-clamp recordings. Specifically, neurotensin application led to depolarization of the resting membrane potential, broadening of spike and a decrease in afterhyperpolarization and accommodation. These alterations in action potential characteristics that resulted in increased firing rate and excitability of the hDBB neurons also were produced by application of charybdotoxin. Neurotensin effects on these properties were occluded by 2 - [(1 - 7 - chloro - 4 - quinolinyl) - 5 - (2, 6 - di - methoxyphenyl) pyrazol-3-yl) carbonylamino] tricyclo (3.3.1.1.)decan-2-carboxylic acid, a nonpeptide high-affinity neurotensin receptor antagonist. Neurotensin blockade of IC, possibly through ICa, is a potential physiological mechanism whereby this peptide may evoke alterations in the cortical arousal, sleep-wake cycle, and theta rhythm.
Rats and mice are the species most frequently used for cellular and biochemical studies of plasticity, but only a few studies have examined developmentally regulated visual plasticity in these species. Here we report a study of the critical period for monocular deprivation in Long-Evans rats in which visual pattern sweep evoked potentials (sweep VEP) was used. Successful recording of sweep VEPs depended on establishing a stable light plane of anesthesia. We found a mixture of halothane and NO2 to be suitable. During a single trial lasting 10 s, anesthetized rats (n = 28) viewed a sinusoidal contrast grating (spatial frequency of 0.13 cycles/deg) that reversed phase at 3 Hz. During the trial, the grating contrast increased logarithmically from 1 to 70%. Extracellular recording pipettes were placed bilaterally in layers II/III of the binocular regions of primary visual cortex. Stimulating the right and left eye on alternate trials, sweep VEP amplitudes were collected for 30 trials from each eye. In monocularly deprived animals, the right eyelid had been sutured for 5 days before recording. Age at suture varied from P19 to P86. In 12 of 13 rats sutured between P19 and P50, the crossed response from the deprived eye was smaller than the crossed response from the nondeprived eye. The same relation prevailed for the uncrossed responses in 11 of 13 animals. There was no significant monocular deprivation effect in animals sutured between P55 and P86 (n = 9). Dark rearing until approximately P90 followed by 5 days of eyelid suture resulted in a strong monocular deprivation effect in both crossed and uncrossed pathways (n = 3). There was little effect of dark rearing alone on the size the sweep VEPs (n = 3). The critical period reported here lasts at least 2 wk longer than reported for rats by Fagliolini et al. and for mice by Gordon and Stryker. Both previous studies used single unit recording rather than the sweep VEP method.
We sought to define the gustatory neural representation in primates for stimuli that humans describe as predominantly bitter. Thus we analyzed the responses of single neurons from the insular cortex of two alert, male cynomolgus macaques in response to the oral application of four basic taste stimuli (glucose, NaCl, HCl, and quinine HCl) and fruit juice, and to a series of 15 other chemicals to which humans ascribe a bitter component. Gustatory neurons occupied a volume of 109 mm3 across an area of 4.0 mm in the anterposterior plane, 4.4 mm in the mediolateral, and 6.2 mm in the dorsoventral. Taste cells represented 161 (8.6%) of the 1881 neurons tested for chemical sensitivity. Fifty of these could be monitored throughout the delivery of the entire stimulus series, and their responses constitute the data of this study. The mean spontaneous discharge rate of the cortical gustatory cells was 3.2 +/- 3.3 spikes/s (range = 0.2-17.7 spikes/s). The mean breadth-of-tuning coefficient was a moderate 0.77 +/- 0.15 (range = 0.25-0.99). Forty-eight neurons responded to taste stimuli with excitation, and two responded with inhibition. Forty-one of the 50 neurons were able to be classified into one of four functional types based on their responses to the four basic stimuli used here. These were sugar (n = 22), salt (n = 7), acid (n = 7), and quinine (n = 5). A two-dimensional space was generated from correlations among the response profiles elicited by the stimuli array. The 16 bitter chemicals formed a coherent group that was most closely related to HCl, moderately to NaCl, and bore no relationship with glucose. Within the bitter stimuli, six formed a subgroup that was most separated from all nonbitter chemicals: quinine HCl, phenlythiocarbamide, propylthiouracil, caffeine, theophylline, and phenylalanine. Humans describe these stimuli as rather purely bitter. Of the remaining 10 bitter compounds, 4 were on the fringe of the bitter group leading to NaCl: MgCl2, CaCl2, NH4Cl, and arginine. Humans characterize these as bitter-salty. Three were on the fringe leading to HCl: urea, cysteine and vitamin B1. Humans call these bitter-sour. The remaining three (nicotine, histidine, and vitamin B2) occupied the center of the bitter group. Taste quality, inferred from the position of each stimulus in the space, correlated well with human descriptions of the same stimuli, reinforcing the value of the macaque as a neural model for human gustation.
Voltage-activated currents from adult honey bee antennal motor neurons were characterized with in vitro studies in parallel with recordings taken from cells in situ. Two methods were used to ensure unequivocal identification of cells as antennal motor neurons: 1) selective backfilling of the neurons with fluorescent markers before dissociation for cell culture or before recording from cells in intact brains, semiintact brains, or in brain slices or 2) staining with a fluorescent marker via the patch pipette during recordings and identifying antennal motor neurons in situ on the basis of their characteristic morphology. Four voltage-activated currents were isolated in these antennal motor neurons with pharmacological, voltage, and ion substitution protocols. The neurons expressed at least two distinct K+ currents, a transient current (IA) that was blocked by 4-aminopyridine (4-5 x 10(-3) M), and a sustained current (IK(V)) that was partially blocked by tetraethylammonium (2-3 x 10(-2) M) and quinidine (5 x 10(-5) M). IA activated above -40 to -30 mV and the half-maximal voltages for steady-state activation and inactivation were -8.8 and -43.2 mV, respectively. IK(V) activated above -50 to -40 mV and the midpoint of the steady-state activation curve was +11.2 mV. IK(V) did not show steady-state inactivation. Additionally, two inward currents were isolated: a tetrodotoxin (10(-7) M)-sensitive, transient Na+ current (INa) that activated above -35 mV, with a maximum around -5 mV and a half-maximal voltage for inactivation of -72.6 mV, and a CdCl2 (5 x 10(-5) M)-sensitive Ca2+ current that activated above -45 to -40 mV, with a maximum around -15 mV. This study represents the first step in our effort to analyze the cellular and ionic mechanisms underlying the intrinsic properties and plasticity of antennal motor neurons.
The one-dimensional current-source density method was used to analyze laminar field potential profiles evoked in rat olfactory bulb slices by stimulation in the olfactory nerve (ON) layer or mitral cell layer (MCL) and to identify the field potential generators and the characteristics of synaptic activity in this network. Single pulses to the ON evoked a prolonged (&gt;/=400 ms) sink (S1ON) in the glomerular layer (GL) with corresponding sources in the external plexiform layer (EPL) and MCL and a relatively brief sink (S2ON) in the EPL, reversing in the internal plexiform and granule cell layers. These sink/source distributions suggested that S1ON and S2ON were generated in the apical dendrites of mitral/tufted cells and granule cells, respectively. The kainate/AMPA-receptor antagonist CNQX (10 microM) reduced the early phase of S1ON, blocked S2ON, and revealed a low amplitude, prolonged sink at the location of S2ON in the EPL. Reduction of Mg2+, in CNQX, enhanced both the CNQX-resistant component of S1ON and the EPL sink. This EPL sink reversed below the MCL, suggesting it was produced in granule cells. The NMDA-receptor antagonist APV (50 microM) reversibly blocked the CNQX-resistant field potentials in all layers. Single pulses were applied to the MCL to antidromically depolarize the dendrites of mitral/tufted cells. In addition to synaptic currents of granule cells, a low-amplitude, prolonged sink (S1mcl) was evoked in the GL. Corresponding sources were in the EPL, suggesting that S1mcl was generated in the glomerular dendritic tufts of mitral/tufted cells. Both S1mcl and the granule cell currents were nearly blocked by CNQX (10 microM) but enhanced by subsequent reduction of Mg2+; these currents were blocked by APV. S1mcl also was enhanced by gamma-aminobutyric acid-A-receptor antagonists applied to standard medium; this enhancement was reduced by APV. ON activation produces prolonged excitation in the apical dendrites of mitral/tufted cells, via kainate/AMPA and NMDA receptors, providing the opportunity for modulation and integration of sensory information at the first level of synaptic processing in the olfactory system. Granule cells respond to input from the lateral dendrites of mitral/tufted cells via both kainate/AMPA and NMDA receptors; however, in physiological concentrations of extracellular Mg2+, NMDA-receptor activation does not contribute significantly to the granule cell responses. The glomerular sink evoked by antidromic depolarization of mitral/tufted cell dendrites suggests that glutamate released from the apical dendrites of mitral/tufted cells may excite the same or neighboring mitral/tufted cell dendrites.
The association between the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 (APOE E4) allele and a wide spectrum of behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) was investigated. Neither the severity nor the presence of any behavioral changes was associated with the number of APOE E4 alleles, even after controlling for the effects of age at onset, sex, education level, duration of illness, and severity of dementia. The findings do not support the hypothesis that neuropsychiatric manifestations of AD are different in patients with the APOE E4 allele.
The author reviews the history, accomplishments, and goals of the American Neuropsychiatric Association on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of its founding.

We investigated the mechanisms underlying the activation of endogenous opioids in placebo analgesia by using the model of human experimental ischemic arm pain. Different types of placebo analgesic responses were evoked by means of cognitive expectation cues, drug conditioning, or a combination of both. Drug conditioning was performed by means of either the opioid agonist morphine hydrochloride or the nonopioid ketorolac tromethamine. Expectation cues produced placebo responses that were completely blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. Expectation cues together with morphine conditioning produced placebo responses that were completely antagonized by naloxone. Morphine conditioning alone (without expectation cues) induced a naloxone-reversible placebo effect. By contrast, ketorolac conditioning together with expectation cues elicited a placebo effect that was blocked by naloxone only partially. Ketorolac conditioning alone produced placebo responses that were naloxone-insensitive. Therefore, we evoked different types of placebo responses that were either naloxone-reversible or partially naloxone-reversible or, otherwise, naloxone-insensitive, depending on the procedure used to evoke the placebo response. These findings show that cognitive factors and conditioning are balanced in different ways in placebo analgesia, and this balance is crucial for the activation of opioid or nonopioid systems. Expectation triggers endogenous opioids, whereas conditioning activates specific subsystems. In fact, if conditioning is performed with opioids, placebo analgesia is mediated via opioid receptors, if conditioning is performed with nonopioid drugs, other nonopioid mechanisms result to be involved.
We examined how attention affected the orientation tuning of 262 isolated neurons in extrastriate area V4 and 135 neurons in area V1 of two rhesus monkeys. The animals were trained to perform a delayed match-to-sample task in which oriented stimuli were presented in the receptive field of the neuron being recorded. On some trials the animals were instructed to pay attention to those stimuli, and on other trials they were instructed to pay attention to other stimuli outside the receptive field. In this way, orientation-tuning curves could be constructed from neuronal responses collected in two behavioral states: one in which those stimuli were attended by the animal and one in which those stimuli were ignored by the animal. We fit Gaussians to the neuronal responses to twelve different orientations for each behavioral state. Although attention enhanced the responses of V4 neurons (median 26% increase) and V1 neurons (median 8% increase), selectivity, as measured by the width of its orientation-tuning curve, was not systematically altered by attention. The effects of attention were consistent with a multiplicative scaling of the driven response to all orientations. We also found that attention did not cause systematic changes in the undriven activity of the neurons.
This is the second in a series of studies of the neural representation of tactile spatial form in cortical area 3b of the alert monkey. We previously studied the spatial structure of 330 area 3b neuronal receptive fields (RFs) on the fingerpad with random dot patterns scanned at one velocity (40 mm/sec; ). Here, we analyze the temporal structure of 84 neuronal RFs by studying their spatial structure at three scanning velocities (20, 40, and 80 mm/sec). As in the previous study, most RFs contained a single, central, excitatory region and one or more surrounding or flanking inhibitory regions. The mean time delay between skin stimulation and its excitatory effect was 15.5 msec. Except for differences in mean rate, each neuron's response and the spatial structure of its RF were essentially unaffected by scanning velocity. This is the expected outcome when excitatory and inhibitory effects are brief and synchronous. However, that interpretation is consistent neither with the reported timing of excitation and inhibition in somatosensory cortex nor with the third study in this series, which investigates the effect of scanning direction and shows that one component of inhibition lags behind excitation. We reconcile these observations by showing that overlapping (in-field) inhibition delayed relative to excitation can produce RF spatial structure that is unaffected by changes in scanning velocity. Regardless of the mechanisms, the velocity invariance of area 3b RF structure is consistent with the velocity invariance of tactile spatial perception (e.g., roughness estimation and form recognition).
We used a behavioral learning paradigm followed by electrophysiological analysis to find sites in the Lymnaea feeding network in which electrical changes could be recorded after appetitive conditioning. Specifically, we analyzed conditioning-induced changes in cellular responses in the mechanosensory conditioned stimulus (CS) pathway, in the central pattern generator (CPG) network, and in feeding motoneurons. During training, experimental animals received 15 pairings of lip touch (the CS) with sucrose (the unconditioned stimulus, US). Control animals received 15 random CS and US presentations. Electrophysiological tests on semi-intact preparations made from conditioned animals demonstrated a network correlate of the overall feeding conditioned response, a touch-evoked CPG-driven fictive feeding rhythm. At the motoneuronal level, we found significant conditioning-induced increases in the amplitude of an early touch-evoked EPSP and spike activity, recorded from the B3 feeding motoneuron. Increases in EPSP amplitude and motoneuronal spike activity could occur independently of conditioned fictive feeding. These changes in response recorded at the level of CPG interneurons, and motoneurons were preceded by changes recorded in the CS pathway. This was demonstrated by recording a conditioning-induced increase in the number of touch-evoked spikes in the cerebrobuccal connective, which forms part of the CS pathway. The finding that electrophysiological changes after conditioning can be recorded at multiple sites in this simple system provided an important intermediate level of analysis between whole animal behavior and cellular studies on the synaptic sites of plasticity.
In sensory neurons (SNs) of adult Aplysia, serotonin (5-HT)-induced spike broadening has long been implicated as important for synaptic facilitation [spike duration-dependent (SDD) facilitation], particularly at nondepressed synapses. At depressed synapses, spike broadening has less impact on synaptic facilitation; under these conditions, 5-HT induces a spike duration-independent (SDI) form of facilitation (). It has been difficult to dissociate clearly the cellular mechanisms underlying these two forms of facilitation. However, the observation that a major form of spike broadening emerges late in juvenile development () provides a unique opportunity to examine the relationship between spike broadening and synaptic facilitation in juvenile Aplysia. We have identified three forms of synaptic plasticity in juvenile Aplysia: homosynaptic depression, SDD facilitation, and SDI facilitation. We show that homosynaptic depression is fully developed in the juvenile and that 5-HT reliably induces synaptic facilitation at depressed synapses. However, in nondepressed synapses, 5-HT-induced facilitation is not reliable. Further analysis revealed that the relationship between spike broadening and synaptic facilitation for nondepressed synapses is the inverse of that in adults. Surprisingly, in juveniles, minor spike broadening induced by 5-HT results in significant synaptic facilitation, whereas major spike broadening, when it occurs, does not. These results suggest a model in which juvenile synapses predominantly use SDI facilitation, and with the emergence of major spike broadening, a developmentally transient inhibitory process emerges. This inhibitory process seems to be independent of major spike broadening induced by 5-HT because directly broadening the spike with 4-aminopyridine induces adult-like SDD synaptic facilitation. Finally, in the adult, the inhibitory process is either lost or masked, and SDD facilitation predominates at nondepressed synapses.
We examined whether excitation and inhibition are balanced in hippocampal cortical networks. Extracellular field and single-unit activity were recorded by multiple tetrodes and multisite silicon probes to reveal the timing of the activity of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and classes of interneurons during theta waves and sharp wave burst (SPW)-associated field ripples. The somatic and dendritic inhibition of pyramidal cells was deduced from the activity of interneurons in the pyramidal layer [int(p)] and in the alveus and st. oriens [int(a/o)], respectively. Int(p) and int(a/o) discharged an average of 60 and 20 degrees before the population discharge of pyramidal cells during the theta cycle, respectively. SPW ripples were associated with a 2.5-fold net increase of excitation. The discharge frequency of int(a/o) increased, decreased (&quot;anti-SPW&quot; cells), or did not change (&quot;SPW-independent&quot; cells) during SPW, suggesting that not all interneurons are innervated by pyramidal cells. Int(p) either fired together with (unimodal cells) or both before and after (bimodal cells) the pyramidal cell burst. During fast-ripple oscillation, the activity of interneurons in both the int(p) and int(a/o) groups lagged the maximum discharge probability of pyramidal neurons by 1-2 msec. Network state changes, as reflected by field activity, covaried with changes in the spike train dynamics of single cells and their interactions. Summed activity of parallel-recorded interneurons, but not of pyramidal cells, reliably predicted theta cycles, whereas the reverse was true for the ripple cycles of SPWs. We suggest that network-driven excitability changes provide temporal windows of opportunity for single pyramidal cells to suppress, enable, or facilitate selective synaptic inputs.
Before action potential-evoked Ca2+ transients, basal presynaptic Ca2+ concentration may profoundly affect the amplitude of subsequent neurotransmitter release. Reticulospinal axons of the lamprey spinal cord receive glutamatergic synaptic input. We have investigated the effect of this input on presynaptic Ca2+ concentrations and evoked release of neurotransmitter. Paired recordings were made between reticulospinal axons and the neurons that make axo-axonic synapses onto those axons. Both excitatory and inhibitory paired-cell responses were recorded in the axons. Excitatory synaptic inputs were blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10 microM) and by the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (AP-5; 50 microM). Application of NMDA evoked an increase in presynaptic Ca2+ in reticulospinal axons. Extracellular stimulation evoked Ca2+ transients in axons when applied either directly over the axon or lateral to the axons. Transients evoked by the two types of stimulation differed in magnitude and sensitivity to AP-5. Simultaneous microelectrode recordings from the axons during Ca2+ imaging revealed that stimulation of synaptic inputs directed to the axons evoked Ca2+ entry. By the use of paired-cell recordings between reticulospinal axons and their postsynaptic targets, NMDA receptor activation was shown to enhance evoked release of transmitter from the axons that received axoaxonic inputs. When the synaptic input to the axon was stimulated before eliciting an action potential in the axon, transmitter release from the axon was enhanced. We conclude that NMDA receptor-mediated input to reticulospinal axons increases basal Ca2+ within the axons and that this Ca2+ is sufficient to enhance release from the axons.
We used electron tomography to map the three-dimensional architecture of the ribbon-class afferent synapses in frog saccular hair cells. The synaptic body (SB) at each synapse was nearly spherical (468 +/- 65 nm diameter; mean +/- SD) and was covered by a monolayer of synaptic vesicles (34.3 nm diameter; 8.8% coefficient of variation), many of them tethered to it by approximately 20-nm-long filaments, at an average density of 55% of close-packed (376 +/- 133 vesicles per SB). These vesicles could support approximately 900 msec of exocytosis at the reported maximal rate, which the cells can sustain for at least 2 sec, suggesting that replenishment of vesicles on the SB is not rate limiting. Consistent with this interpretation, prolonged K+ depolarization did not deplete vesicles on the SB. The monolayer of SB-associated vesicles remained after cell lysis in the presence of 4 mM Ca2+, indicating that the association is tight and Ca2+-resistant. The space between the SB and the plasma membrane contained numerous vesicles, many of which ( approximately 32 per synapse) were in contact with the plasma membrane. This number of docked vesicles could support maximal exocytosis for at most approximately 70 msec. Additional docked vesicles were seen within a few hundred nanometers of the synapse and occasionally at greater distances. The presence of omega profiles on the plasma membrane around active zones, in the same locations as coated pits and coated vesicles labeled with an extracellular marker, suggests that local membrane recycling may contribute to the three- to 14-fold greater abundance of vesicles in the cytoplasm (not associated with the SB) near synapses than in nonsynaptic regions.
The major pathological lesion of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the selective cell death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in substantia nigra (SN). Although the initial cause and subsequent molecular signaling mechanisms leading to DA cell death underlying the PD process remain elusive, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is thought to exert neuroprotective as well as neurotrophic roles for the survival and differentiation of DA neurons in SN. Addressing molecular mechanisms of BDNF action in both primary embryonic mesencephalic cultures and in vivo animal models has been technically difficult because DA neurons in SN are relatively rare and present with many heterogeneous cell populations in midbrain. We have developed and characterized a DA neuronal cell line of embryonic SN origin that is more accessible to molecular analysis and can be used as an in vitro model system for studying SN DA neurons. A clonal SN DA neuronal progenitor cell line SN4741, arrested at an early DA developmental stage, was established from transgenic mouse embryos containing the targeted expression of the thermolabile SV40Tag in SN DA neurons. The phenotypic and morphological differentiation of the SN4741 cells could be manipulated by environmental cues in vitro. Exogenous BDNF treatment produced significant neuroprotection against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, glutamate, and nitric oxide-induced neurotoxicity in the SN4741 cells. Simultaneous phosphorylation of receptor tyrosine kinase B accompanied the neuroprotection. This SN DA neuronal cell line provides a unique model system to circumvent the limitations associated with primary mesencephalic cultures for the elucidation of molecular mechanisms of BDNF action on DA neurons of the SN.
Recent work has demonstrated that induced neurite outgrowth in neuroblastoma cells and spontaneous differentiation of primary neurons in culture are accompanied by upregulation of GM1 ganglioside in the nuclear envelope. Previous reports have depicted morphological variations in the nature of stimulated neurites resulting from different neuritogenic agents, and a recent study by this laboratory demonstrated that such stimulants could be divided into two categories: those which induce axon-like neurites (group I) as opposed to those that stimulate dendrite-like outgrowths (group II). The former includes KCl, ionomycin, neuraminidase, and cholera toxin B subunit (all agents which elevate intracellular Ca2+), while the latter group is comprised of retinoic acid, dibutyryl cAMP, exogenous GM1, and low serum treatment. The present study was undertaken to determine whether differences in neuritic phenotype could be correlated with upregulation of nuclear GM1. The neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 cell line was employed because of its ability to respond robustly to a variety of neuritogenic stimuli. It was found that although both groups of stimulants are capable of inducing stable neurites (terminal differentiation) in this cell line, nuclear GM1 is elevated only in the presence of group I stimulants. Thus, a correlation is indicated between axonogenesis and upregulation of GM1 in the nuclear envelope. Additionally, these two events appear to coincide with elevation of intracellular Ca2+. Conversion of cells to the differentiated phenotype, with or without nuclear GM1 elevation, was found to depend in some cases on concentration of stimulant and duration of treatment.
We have investigated sacral spinal cord lesions in rats with the goal of developing a rat model of muscular spasticity that is minimally disruptive, not interfering with bladder, bowel, or hindlimb locomotor function. Spinal transections were made at the S2 sacral level and, thus, only affected the tail musculature. After spinal transection, the muscles of the tail were inactive for 2 weeks. Following this initial period, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, and clonus developed in the tail, and grew more pronounced with time. These changes were assessed in the awake rat, since the tail is readily accessible and easy to manipulate. Muscle stretch or cutaneous stimulation of the tail produced muscle spasms and marked increases in muscle tone, as measured with force and electromyographic recordings. When the tail was unconstrained, spontaneous or reflex induced flexor and extensor spasms coiled the tail. Movement during the spasms often triggered clonus in the end of the tail. The tail hair and skin were extremely hyperreflexive to light touch, withdrawing quickly at contact, and at times clonus could be entrained by repeated contact of the tail on a surface. Segmental tail muscle reflexes, e.g., Hoffman reflexes (H-reflexes), were measured before and after spinalization, and increased significantly 2 weeks after transection. These results suggest that sacral spinal rats develop symptoms of spasticity in tail muscles with similar characteristics to those seen in limb muscles of humans with spinal cord injury, and thus provide a convenient preparation for studying this condition.


We have examined the role of complement component 5 (C5) in peripheral nerve fiber degeneration and regeneration, as well as in glial and neuronal cell responses in the central nervous system (CNS). Adult congenic mice lacking C5 (C5(-)) and the corresponding normal strain (C5(+)) were used. Macrophage recruitment as well as axonal and myelin sheath elimination were delayed from 1 to 21 days postinjury in C5(-) mice compared to the C5(+) group after sciatic nerve crush. Despite this, recovery of motor function was not delayed. In the CNS, microglial cells and astrocytes responded in the same way from 3 to 21 days after sciatic nerve injury in C5(-) and C5(+) mice, and the extent of neuron death following hypoglossal nerve avulsion was the same in both groups. These findings suggest that C5 and/or its derivatives play an important role in initiating the recruitment of macrophages to the injured nerve and, probably indirectly, in early remyelination of regenerating axons, but does not influence the longterm functional restoration or axotomy-induced nerve cell death. C5-derived molecules do not appear to participate in central glial cell responses to peripheral nerve injury. These findings elucidate new aspects on the functional role of the complement system in the peripheral nervous system following peripheral nerve injury.
The proper assessment of neuron numbers in the nervous system during physiological and pathological conditions, as well as following various treatments, has always been an important part of neuroscience. The present paper evaluates three methods for numerical estimates of nerves in epithelium: I) unbiased nerve fiber profile and nerve fiber fragment estimation methods, II) the traditional method of counting whole nerve fibers, and III) the nerve fiber estimation method. In addition, an unbiased nerve length estimation method was evaluated. Of these four methods, the nerve length per volume method was theoretically optimal, but more time-consuming than the others. The numbers obtained with the methods of nerve fiber profile, nerve fragment and nerve fiber estimation are dependent on the thickness of the epithelium and the sections as well as certain shape factors of the counted fiber. However for those, the actual counting can readily be performed in the microscope and is consequently quick and relatively inexpensive. The statistical analysis showed a very good correlation (R &gt; 0.96) between the three numerical methods, meaning that basically any method could be used. However, dependent on theoretical and practical considerations and the correlation statistics, it may be concluded that the nerve fiber profile or fragment estimation methods should be employed if differences in epithelial and section thickness and the nerve fibers shape factors can be controlled. Such drawbacks are not inherent in the nerve length estimation method and, thus, it can generally be applied.
The intraepidermal nerves of normal adult human skin were demonstrated by employing a powerful marker of neuronal elements, protein gene product (PGP) 9.5. There were two types of epidermal nerves, free nerve endings and nerves in the Merkel cell-neurite complex. The free nerve endings distributed to, and terminated in, all the strata basale, spinosum and granulosum, and they appeared as thin fibers, mostly varicose, branched or single processed, straight or bent. They existed at every site of the human body, including face, trunk and extremities. However, the densities of these nerves varied in different body parts and areas. The number of nerves decreased from the trunk to the distal parts of the limbs, and small denser 'innervation patches' showed up in the epidermis which were identified in confocal microscopy as one morphologic terminal field coming from the same dermal nerve bundle. This study has confirmed the existence of epidermal nerves in normal adult human skin, and presented a more clear picture than earlier. The difference between densities of epidermal nerves at different body areas implies area-specific functions of the intraepidermal nerve terminals. The observed intraepithelial nerve fibers may have a pain-perceiving role, however, also trophic or immunoregulatory roles can not be excluded.
By using acetylcholine-induced stimulation of [35S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding to membrane G proteins as a functional assay of the cloned human m1-m4 muscarinic receptor subtypes stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells, muscarinic toxin 3 (MT3) was found to block the m4 receptor with a potency (pA2 = 8.33) much higher than those displayed at the m1 (pA2 = 6.78), m3 (pA2 = 6.3), and m2 (pA2 &lt; 6.3) subtypes. In N1E-115 cells, which have been reported to express m4 receptors coupled to inhibition of cAMP, MT3 potently antagonized the carbachol-induced inhibition of adenylyl cyclase with a pA2 of 8. 81 and displayed monophasic inhibitory curves. Unexpectedly, in NG108-15 cells, known to express only m4 receptors, MT3 counteracted the carbachol inhibition of adenylyl cyclase with a lower potency (pA2 = 7.60) and showed a biphasic inhibitory curve, suggesting the participation of both m4 and m2 receptors. This possibility was supported by radioligand binding data showing that MT3 failed to completely displace the binding of [3H]N-methylscopolamine to NG108-15 cell membranes and by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis, revealing the presence of mRNAs for both m4 and m2 receptor subtypes. These data demonstrate that MT3 possesses a high functional receptor selectivity for both the cloned and native m4 receptors and that in cell systems containing m4 and m2 receptors coupled to a common response, the toxin constitutes a powerful tool to resolve the relative contribution by each receptor subtype.
Dithiocarbamate compounds are widely used agricultural fungicides that display low acute toxicity in mammals and that may become neurotoxic after prolonged exposure. Mancozeb, among other dithiocarbamates tested, proved to be the most potent (Ki= 0.27 microM) at noncompetitively inhibiting the in vitro ATP-dependent uptake of [3H]glutamate in rat cortical vesicles. Furthermore, mancozeb partially (20%) inhibited the ATP-dependent uptake of [14C]methylamine, used as an index for the vesicular transmembrane proton gradient (DeltapH), and evoked its efflux from organelles previously incubated with the 3H-labeled marker. Meanwhile, the vesicular uptake of 36chloride- anions whose concentrations regulate the transmembrane potential gradient (DeltapsiSV) was not impaired. The dithiocarbamate effects on the vesicular transport of [3H]glutamate thus appeared to involve mainly the DeltapH gradient rather than the potential gradient. Dithiocarbamate metabolites, the potent neurotoxin carbon disulfide included, did not affect the uptake process, thus implying the relevance for inhibition of the persistence, if any, of parent compounds in the brain. The present novel and potent in vitro interferences of selected dithiocarbamate pesticides with the vesicular transport of glutamate, if representative of in vivo alterations, may play some role in the probably complex origin of dithiocarbamate neurotoxicity.
1. To determine their contributions to the rapid kinetic properties of GABAA receptor (GABAR) currents, alpha1 and beta3 subunit subtypes without or with delta or gamma2L subtypes were transiently coexpressed in mouse L929 fibroblasts to produce alpha1beta3, alpha1beta3delta, or alpha1beta3gamma2L GABAR isoforms. 2. Brief (2-3 ms) applications of 1 mM GABA to outside-out membrane patches containing alpha1beta3, alpha1beta3delta, or alpha1beta3gamma2L isoforms elicited currents that activated rapidly with monophasic time courses and deactivated rapidly with biphasic time courses. alpha1beta3gamma2L currents exhibited a slower mean deactivation rate (76.1 ms) than alpha1beta3 (34.1 ms) or alpha1beta3delta currents (42.8 ms). 3. During 1 mM GABA applications, alpha1beta3gamma2L currents activated more rapidly (0.46 ms) than alpha1beta3 currents (1.7 ms) or alpha1beta3delta currents (2.4 ms). During 4000 ms GABA applications, alpha1beta3 and alpha1beta3gamma2L currents desensitized with triphasic time courses to similar extents (alpha1beta3, 94.6 %; alpha1beta3gamma2L, 92.4 %) and with similar mean rates (alpha1beta3, 352 ms; alpha1beta3gamma2L, 462 ms). In contrast, alpha1beta3delta currents desensitized only 55.6 % with a biphasic time course and slower mean rate (1260 ms). 4. These experiments demonstrated that the alpha1beta3 heterodimer formed a GABAR channel with rapid deactivation and rapid and nearly complete desensitization. Addition of the delta subunit did not alter the activation rate, but produced a receptor with slower and less complete desensitization. Addition of the gamma2L subtype increased activation rate, prolonged deactivation and changed the pattern of rapid desensitization. 5. Rapid kinetic and steady-state single-channel data were used to construct kinetic models that predicted the behaviour of the alpha1beta3gamma2L and alpha1beta3delta currents. These models represent a reconciliation of macroscopic and steady-state single-channel data for GABARs and provide a framework for systematically assessing the functional significance of different GABAR isoforms.
The impact of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) on psychiatric symptoms and diagnoses, personality variables and self evaluation was studied in a 12 year-follow-up of patients with NF 1 in the city of Gteborg, Sweden. 48 living adult patients with NF1 were re-evaluated in 1990 in a 12 year long time follow up study. The patients were diagnosed according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. The following scales were used; the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS), the Karolinska Scales of Personality inventory (KSP) and the Self-Evaluation Scale (SES). A significant psychopathology was found in the NFI patients, p &lt;0.001. One third of the patients were affected by a psychiatric disease, 21% by dysthymia. There was no significant progress in psychiatric symptoms in the follow up period. The personality profile disclosed a heightened self-esteem. The chronic stigmatizing character of NF1 may be the reason for the increased psychopathology found.

Between 1987 and 1989, the different protein subunits that make up the receptor for the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were identified. These make up the alpha, beta, gamma and delta families, for each of which exist several subtypes. This receptor is the molecular target of modern hypnotic drugs (i.e. benzodiazepines, zopiclone, zolpidem and zaleplon). In the 10 years that have followed this milestone, significant progress has been made in exploring the molecular mechanisms of hypnotic drug action. Receptor subtype specificity of hypnotics has been explained in terms of differential affinity for receptors containing different alpha subunits, which are expressed in different brain regions. Zolpidem and zaleplon bind preferentially to alpha1-containing receptors, whereas benzodiazepines and zopiclone are aspecific. Different sets of subunits are encoded in contiguous 'cassettes' on the genome, and the transcription of each set appears to be regulated coherently. The predominant GABA(A) receptor composition found in the brain is alpha1beta2gamma2, which are all encoded on human chromosome 5. Targeted gene disruption has provided clues to the physiological functions served by GABA(A) receptors containing different subunits. Receptors containing gamma2 appear to have a vital role in maintaining appropriate central inhibition, beta3-containing receptors may also be important determinants of excitability in certain brain regions, whereas a clear role for alpha5-, alpha6- and gamma3-containing receptors has not yet been established by these techniques. Site-directed mutagenesis has indicated that benzodiazepines bind to a cleft on the GABA(A) receptor surface at the interface between the alpha and gamma subunits. Other drugs (flumazenil, zopiclone, zolpidem) also bind to the a subunit, but interact with amino acids in different binding domains to the benzodiazepines. The molecular mechanism of hypnotic dependence has been explored, and seems to involve downregulation of transcription of the normally prevalent alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 subunits, and the reciprocal upregulation of the expression of rarer subunits. Chronic treatment with hypnotic drugs that may have less dependence potential, such as zopiclone and zolpidem, appears to produce more limited change in GABA(A) receptor subunit expression. These ideas will be important both for designing new hypnotic drugs with a better safety/efficacy profile, and for evaluating more appropriate ways of using the drugs available today.
Two hundred and fifty patients participated in a 6-month, double-blind study to evaluate safety and efficacy of a medium-term treatment with amisulpride 50 mg/day versus amitriptyline 25-75 mg/day in dysthymia. Patients in treatment groups (165 amisulpride; 85 amitriptyline) were well balanced for demographic and baseline characteristics. A total of 139 patients (93 amisulpride, 46 amitriptyline) completed the study with no statistically significant differences in reasons for premature termination between the two groups. A tendency towards a higher incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events with amitriptyline was observed (73% versus 64% amisulpride). In the amitriptyline group, a statistically significantly higher incidence of central nervous system (41% versus 24%, p=0.004) and autonomic nervous system disorders (45% versus 16%, p &lt; 0.0001) was reported. Conversely, endocrine disorders were more frequent with amisulpride (18% versus 7%, p=0.023). Efficacy was a secondary end-point. Results of the symptom rating scales indicate that both drugs were equally effective: 60% and 62% of patients under amisulpride and amitriptyline, respectively, achieved a reduction &gt; or = 50% of the Montgomery and Asberg Rating Scale total score at end-point. On the item 'global improvement' of the Clinical Global Impression, 67% of amisulpride and 68% of amitriptyline patients were rated as 'very much' or 'much' improved. Results of the present study in a large patient population further confirm the safe use of amisulpride in dysthymia and support its administration upon a medium-term treatment period.
The broad host range and superior infectivity of alphaviruses have encouraged the development of efficient expression vectors for Semliki Forest virus (SFV) and Sindbis virus (SIN). The generation of high-titer recombinant alphavirus stocks has allowed high-level expression of a multitude of nuclear, cytoplasmic, membrane-associated and secreted proteins in a variety of different cell lines and primary cell cultures. Despite the viral cytopathogenic effects, functional assays on recombinant proteins are possible for a time-period of at least 24 hours post-infection. The high percentage (80-95%) of primary neurons infected with SFV has allowed localization and functional studies of recombinant proteins in these primary cell cultures. Through multiple infection studies the interaction of receptor and G protein subunits has become feasible. Establishment of efficient scale-up procedures has allowed production of large quantities of recombinant protein. Potential gene therapy applications of alphaviruses could be demonstrated by injection of recombinant SIN particles expressing beta-galactosidase into mouse brain. Tissue/cell specific infection has been achieved by introduction of an IgG-binding domain of protein A domain into one of the spike proteins of SIN. This enabled efficient targeting of infection to human lymphoblastoid cells.
Binding of native adenine nucleotides to rat liver and adipose plasma membranes was studied under steady-state conditions using EDTA/Na for inhibition of ecto-nucleotidase activity. [3H]-labelled ATP, ADP and AMP are able to interact with specific binding sites with respective Kd values of 88 +/- 9, 278 +/- 29 and 495 +/- 40 nmol/l for liver membranes; and of 64 +/- 7, 231 +/- 36 and 2050 +/- 290 nmol/l for adipose membranes. The nucleotide-binding capacity (Bmax) varied from 15 to 18 pmol/mg protein in the case of [3H]ATP and [3H]ADP-binding studies and from 22 to 26 pmol/mg protein for [3H]AMP-binding sites. Both 2-MeSATP and ADP inhibited [3H]ATP-binding to membranes with respective IC50 values of 60 +/- 7 and 285 +/- 30 nM. Other purinergic agents suramin, Reactive blue 2, alpha,beta-MeATP and beta,gamma-MeATP were less potent competitors of [3H]ATP binding, whereas AMP, adenosine, GTP, UTP, and CTP did not cause any displacement effect at concentrations of 10(-6)-10(-5) M. It is suggested that the described ATP/ADP-binding sites are linked to G protein-coupled P2Y receptors, whereas AMP-binding sites may represent a substrate-binding component of the membrane ecto-5'-nucleotidase.

Marine snails of the genus Conus, as they are carnivorous predators, have a venom apparatus used to capture their prey. The toxins contained in the venoms of Conidae, called conotoxins, are of a particular high degree of diversity and represent powerful tools in the neuroscience field. Indeed, these toxins specifically bind with a high affinity to receptors and ionic channels. Therefore, they provide original pharmacological tools which receive increasing investigation both to identify and study some functions of the nervous systems and to characterize new types and closely related subtypes of receptors or ionic channels. The voltage-gated sodium channel, because of its fundamental role in cell membrane excitability, is the specific target of a large number of animal and vegetal toxins. Actually, at least seven toxin receptor sites have been identified on this channel-protein. These toxins, and in particular conotoxins, are used to precise the role of different types and/or closely related subtypes of sodium channels in the peripheral and central nervous systems. The focus of the present review is to summarize our current knowledge of the consequences of physiological interactions between different conotoxin families and sodium channels.
Time shapes our behavior: we must estimate the duration of events in our environment in order to anticipate changes and time our activity in function of these changes. However, there is no sensory modality devoted to the perception of time, therefore the question is to know which mechanisms underlie the consciousness that time flows and allow us to estimate time precisely. This article proposes a brief overview of psychological, neuropsychological and brain imaging studies which rely on theoretical models postulating the existence of an internal timer. These studies examine the different components--time base, counter and memory--of this timer: particularly they are aimed at characterising the relationships between the evolution of these components with age or their pathological alterations and changes in temporal judgements. They also attempt to specify the neural bases of these components. From this brief overview comes the idea that, if an internal timer exits, it does not mark objective time but a multitude of subjective times.
Postural instability (relative to pre-flight) has been observed in all shuttle astronauts studied upon return from orbital missions. Postural stability was more closely examined in four shuttle astronaut subjects before and after an 8 day orbital mission. Results of the pre- and post-flight postural stability studies were compared with a larger (n = 34) study of astronauts returning from shuttle missions of similar duration. Results from both studies indicated that inadequate vestibular feedback was the most significant sensory deficit contributing to the postural instability observed post flight. For two of the four IML-1 astronauts, post-flight postural instability and rate of recovery toward their earth-normal performance matched the performance of the larger sample. However, post-flight postural control in one returning astronaut was substantially below mean performance. This individual, who was within normal limits with respect to postural control before the mission, indicated that recovery to pre-flight postural stability was also interrupted by a post-flight pitch plane rotation test. A similar, though less extreme departure from the mean recovery trajectory was present in another astronaut following the same post-flight rotation test. The pitch plane rotation stimuli included otolith stimuli in the form of both transient tangential and constant centripetal linear acceleration components. We inferred from these findings that adaptation on orbit and re-adaptation on earth involved a change in sensorimotor integration of vestibular signals most likely from the otolith organs.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of aging on postural function in human subjects. Subjects aged 18-39 years (n = 24), 40-59 years (n = 24) and 60 years or older (n = 27) were tested for postural stability using an electronic balance platform. There was a significant increase in postural instability with increasing age (P &lt; 0.0001), and as the conditions of testing became more difficult (P &lt; 0.0001) (e.g., with eyes closed). Elderly males were found to have significantly poorer postural control than elderly females in the visual-vestibular conflict conditions (P &lt; 0.05). These results further demonstrate a decline in postural function with increasing age, which may be related to deterioration in the peripheral or central vestibular systems and may be partly responsible for the high incidence of falls in the elderly.
Both yaw and pitch visual-vestibular interactions at two separate frequencies of chair rotation (0.2 and 0.8 Hz) in combination with a single velocity of optokinetic stimulus (36 degrees/s) were used to investigate the effects of sustained weightlessness on neural strategies adopted by astronaut subjects to cope with the stimulus rearrangement of spaceflight. Pitch and yaw oscillation in darkness at 0.2 and 0.8 Hz without optokinetic stimulation, and constant velocity linear optokinetic stimulation at 18, 36, and 54 degrees/s presented relative to the head with the subject stationary, were used as controls for the visual-vestibular interactions. The results following 8 days of space flight showed no significant changes in: (1) either the horizontal and vertical vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) gain, phase, or bias; (2) the yaw visual-vestibular response (VVR); or (3) the horizontal or vertical optokinetic (OKN) slow phase velocity (SPV). However, significant changes were observed: (1) when during pitch VVR at 0.2 Hz late inflight, the contribution of the optokinetic input to the combined oculomotor response was smaller than during the stationary OKN SPV measurements, followed by an increased contribution during the immediate postflight testing; and (2) when during pitch VVR at 0.8 Hz, the component of the combined oculomotor response due to the underlying vertical VOR was more efficiently suppressed early inflight and less suppressed immediately postflight compared with preflight observations. The larger OKN response during pitch VVR at 0.2 Hz and the better suppression of VOR during pitch VVR at 0.8 Hz postflight are presumably due to the increased role of vision early inflight and immediately after spaceflight, as previously observed in various studies. These results suggest that the subjects adopted a neural strategy to structure their spatial orientation in weightlessness by reweighting visual, otolith, and perhaps tactile/somatic signals.
A detailed map of the vestibular nuclear complex of the guinea pig has been established by Gstoettner and Burian (1987), using cytoarchitectonic (cresyl violet staining) and fiberarchitectonic criteria. However, the exact borders between the different subdivisions are not always evident in Nissl stained sections. In the present study, serial sections of the vestibular nuclei of the guinea pig were stained to visualize acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and compared with corresponding sections stained with cresyl violet. All of the subdivisions of the vestibular nuclear complex previously described are more readily distinguished in AChE than in Nissl preparations. The AChE reactivity also shows that the medial vestibular nucleus extends more rostrally than previously described. Furthermore, it questions whether the area classically referred to as the rostral pole of the descending vestibular nucleus belongs to the descending vestibular nucleus or to the lateral vestibular nucleus (LV). Finally, a morphometric analysis performed on cresyl violet stained sections shows that (1) in the caudal LV, the neurons of the ventromedial extension are smaller than those of the dorsolateral extension and that (2) in the rostral LV, the ventromedial division contains a larger ratio of smaller neurons than the dorsolateral one.
Previous studies have shown that experience with optokinetic stimulation can alter a subject's sensitivity to illusions such as circularvection (CV). The aim of the present experiment was to compare optokinetic nystagmus (OKN), optokinetic afternystagmus (OKAN), and sensitivity to CV between 2 groups of sportspeople: 1) squash players (n = 16), who regularly experience vigorous optokinetic stimulation while engaging in their sporting activity, and 2) weightlifters (n = 16), whose sport does not involve the same degree of optokinetic stimulation as squash, but who nevertheless have to achieve a high degree of physical skill. OKN, OKAN (frequency, slow phase velocity, and timeconstant), and latency to CV (Stage 2 and Stage 3) were measured using electro-oculographic recording inside an optokinetic drum. Contrary to predictions, there were no significant differences in OKN, OKAN, or latency to CV between the 2 groups. These results suggest that 1) the practice effects that alter the sensitivity to CV may decay relatively quickly, and 2) differences in recreational sporting activities between subjects may not be a significant confounding factor in visual-vestibular interaction experiments.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of unilateral vestibular neurotomy on humans ability to perform navigation tasks. These tasks provided self-motion feedback by way of either locomotor activity only (nonvisual navigation or &quot;locomotor task&quot;) or visual motion cues only (visually simulated navigation or &quot;visual task&quot;). After exploration of an environment in which 4 locations were marked by different objects, subjects attempted to navigate to those locations either by reproducing the same paths as those followed during exploration, by reversing routes, or by making spatial inferences (shortcuts). Vestibular defective patients were tested one day before surgical treatment and during the recovery time course following unilateral vestibular nerve lesion (1 week, 1 month, and 3 month later). Their performance was assessed by measuring turn error and distance error in both navigation tasks and was compared to that of control subjects tested 4 times at similar time intervals. Turn error in the reproduction of previously explored routes in the locomotor task was lower in patients before surgery than in controls, suggesting the existence of compensatory processes. In the acute stage (1 week) after unilateral vestibular lesion, turn error was greater in patients than in controls for the highest level of mental representation (spatial inferences or reversing routes); impairment at making accurate rotations had disappeared by 1 month after vestibular lesion in both navigation tasks. These results point to the role of vestibular cues, in interaction with other sensory modalities, in the elaboration of an accurate internal representation of the environment. In addition, they suggest that unilateral suppression of vestibular information would induce transitory spatial memory disorganization at a high level of information processing.
Spatial transformations of the vestibular-optokinetic system must account for changes in head position with respect to gravity in order to produce compensatory oculomotor responses. The purpose of this experiment was to study the influence of gravity on the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in darkness and on visual-vestibular interaction in the pitch plane in human subjects using two different comparisons: (1) Earth-horizontal axis (EHA) rotation about an upright versus a supine body orientation, and (2) Earth-horizontal versus Earth-vertical (EVA) rotation axes. Visual-vestibular responses (VVR) were evaluated by measuring the slow phase velocity of nystagmus induced during sinusoidal motion of the body in the pitch plane (at 0.2 Hz and 0.8 Hz) combined with a constant-velocity vertical optokinetic stimulation (at +/- 36 degrees/s). The results showed no significant effect on the gain or phase of the VOR in darkness or on the VVR responses at 0.8 Hz between EHA upright and EHA supine body orientations. However, there was a downward shift in the VOR bias in darkness in the supine orientation. There were systematic changes in VOR and VVR between EHA and EVA for 0.2 Hz, including a reduced modulation gain, increased phase lead, and decreased bias during EVA rotation. The same trend was also observed at 0.8 Hz, but at a lesser extent, presumably due to the effects of eccentric rotation in our EVA condition and/or to the different canal input across frequencies. The change in the bias at 0.2 Hz between rotation in darkness and rotation with an optokinetic stimulus was greater than the optokinetic responses without rotation. During EHA, changes in head position relative to gravity preserve graviceptor input to the VVR regardless of body orientation. However, the modifications in VVR gain and phase when the rotation axis is aligned with gravity indicate that this graviceptive information is important for providing compensatory eye movements during visual-vestibular interaction in the pitch plane.
Curriculum vitae as well as scientifical out-put of the Nobel Price winners--David Hunter Hubel and Torsten Nils Wiesel, and the Friedenwald Memorial Award laureate--Nigel Warwick Daw are described. D.H. Hubel was born in 1926 in Windsor, Canada. In 1951 he received a medical degree from McGill University. From 1955-1958 he worked at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, from 1958-1959 at Johns Hopkins University, and since 1959 at Harvard University. T.N. Wiesel was born in 1924 in Uppsala, Sweden. In 1954 he received a medical degree from Karolinska Institute. From 1955-1959 he worked at Johns Hopkins University, from 1959-1982 at Harvard University, and since 1983 at the Rockefeller University, New York. N.W. Daw was born in 1933 in London, England. In 1961 he received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Trinity College. In 1967 he became a doctor of philosophy in biophysics at Johns Hopkins University. From 1967-1969 he worked at Harvard University, from 1969-1992 at Washington University, and since 1992 at Yale University.
Functional bowel disorders are more prevalent in women than in men, but the reason for this is unclear. Stressful experiences can increase the risk for or precipitate intestinal dysfunction. Using a model for long-term stress-induced sensitisation in rats, it was investigated whether male and female rats differ in susceptibility for long-term colonic, behavioural and hormonal disturbances following brief but intense stress. Male and female Wistar rats were fitted with chronic electrodes on proximal colon and given either a 15-minute session of foot shocks or no shocks. Two weeks later, rats were exposed to two different novel stressful challenges in the home cage: an electrified prod (day 14) and an 85 dB noise stressor (day 15). Digitalised colonic myoelectric spike burst activity was quantified automatically. Behaviour during prod and noise exposure was scored blindly from videotape. Resting plasma hormone concentrations at the end of the study were determined by radio-immuno assay. Following prod stress on day 14, both male and female preshocked rats showed a greater increase in colonic spike burst frequency than controls, but similar behaviour, and the dynamics of colonic motility differed between sexes. Following noise stress on day 15, only a small change in burst frequency was seen in all rats, but preshocked rats showed less self-grooming behaviour and there was a tendency for preshocked females to show increased noise-induced immobility. Preshocked rats also had lower levels of plasma free thyroxine. While both male and female rats show long-term stress-induced colonic sensitisation and hormonal changes, females show a different activation pattern of colonic motility, and may be more vulnerable for altered behavioural reactivity, following stress.
Analysis of an extensive database of human platelet 5-HT2A receptor binding assays has been conducted in order to identify factors that may affect the assay results. Despite anecdotal reports that storage of frozen platelet pellets may affect 5-HT2A binding affinity and capacity, no quantitative study has been reported in the literature. Analysis of binding data for 373 frozen samples with a storage time up to three years is presented in this paper. It is shown that prolonged storage significantly decreases binding. The loss of binding capacity begins in the first six month of storage. Bmax declines by half after 17 month. The impact of storage time on the binding affinity is much smaller. There is only about 20% increase in the value of affinity K(D) during the half-life of Bmax. Differences in sample storage time may partly explain discrepancies in results between different research groups. Nonspecific binding due to binding to filter material diminishes accuracy and reliability of the binding assays as a result of a decrease in the ratio of specific to nonspecific ratio. A data analysis based on our suggested mathematical model shows that this effect depends on tissue concentration in test tube and becomes pronounced when the concentration is below 0.1 mg protein/ml (at 0.2 nM of ligand). Above 0.1 mg protein/ml, percentage of specific to total binding exceeds 65%, which is an acceptable level for the ratio. The majority of the binding studies reported in the literature employed a tissue concentration more than 0.5 mg/ml, well above the minimal limit sufficient for a reliable assay. However, development of microassays to conserve precious tissue must take the limit into consideration.
In membranes of Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing the cloned human M1-M4 muscarinic receptor subtypes, PD 102807, a novel M4 selective antagonist, was found to counteract the M4 receptor-induced stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding to membrane G proteins with a pK(B) of 7.40, a value which was 63-, 33- and 10-fold higher than those displayed at M1 (pK(B) = 5.60), M2 (pK(B) = 5.88) and M3 (pK(B) = 6.39) receptor subtypes, respectively. In rat striatal membranes, PD 102807 antagonized the muscarinic inhibition of dopamine (DA) D1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase with a pK(B) value of 7.36. In contrast, in membranes of rat frontal cortex, PD 102807 displayed lower potencies in antagonizing either the muscarinic facilitation of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase (pK(B) = 5.79) or inhibition of Ca2+/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM)-stimulated enzyme activity (pK(B) = 5.95). In each response investigated, PD 102807 interacted with muscarinic receptors in a manner typical of a simple competitive antagonist. These data provide additional evidence that PD 102807 is a M4-receptor preferring antagonist and that this compound can discriminate the striatal muscarinic receptors inhibiting DA D1 receptor activity from the cortical receptors mediating the potentiation of CRH receptor signalling and the inhibition of Ca2+/CaM-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity.
We determined whether two naturally occurring steroids, cortisol and 17beta-estradiol (E2), can rapidly modulate the activity of an important membrane protein, human erythrocyte (RBC) Na+,K+-ATPase, an enzyme that does not bind either hormone directly. We also determined the membrane binding locations for cortisol and E2 and their effects on membrane molecular structure and fluidity. Direct application of both steroids to intact human RBC significantly altered maximum ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake within 5 min: Cortisol decreased it by 24%, whereas E2 increased it by 18%. As determined by small angle x-ray diffraction, these steroids occupied distinct time-averaged binding locations in the RBC membrane, cortisol localizing near the bilayer surface, 14-29 A from the bilayer center, and E2 localizing deep within the hydrocarbon core, 0-7 A from the bilayer center. Neither steroid significantly changed overall bilayer width or membrane fluidity. These data suggest that cell membrane protein function can be altered rapidly and differentially by naturally occurring steroids. This effect did not appear to be related to the different binding locations of the steroids in the membrane or to their influence on membrane fluidity.
Prior exposure of cultured murine splenocytes to 17beta-estradiol (E) protects them from the membrane disrupting effects of the xenoestrogen 4-tert-octylphenol (OP). Using splenocytes isolated from male Balb/c mice, we tested whether (a) the xenoestrogen, 2', 3', 4', 5'-tetrachloro-4-biphenylol (PCB-OH), or the polychlorinated biphenyl, 3, 3', 4, 4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 77), which displays both estrogenic and anti-estrogenic actions, would compromise the membrane integrity of the cells and (b) E or tamoxifen (TX), another ligand for the E receptor, would protect the membranes of cells exposed to the agents. We also examined possible interactions between OP, PCB-OH, and PCB 77 on the cells. Splenocytes were cultured for 24 hr. Concentrations of OP (10(-5)-10(-9) M), PCB-OH (10(-6)-10(-16) M), or PCB 77 (10(-8)-10(-12) M) significantly compromised the membrane integrity of the cultured splenocytes in a dose response manner. Concentrations of E as high as 10(-5) M or TX as high as 10(-7) M were without effect. Incubation of splenocytes in medium containing E or TX at 10(-7) M for 2 hr prior to the subsequent addition of either OP, PCB-OH or PCB 77 (final concentrations of 10(-7), 10(-7), or 10(-8) M, respectively) blocked the membrane disrupting effects. Incubation of splenocytes in medium containing 10(-7) M E starting 2 hr after the addition of OP or PCB 77 or incubation of splenocytes in medium containing 10(-7) M TX starting 2 hr after the addition of OP or PCB-OH did not block the damaging effects of OP, PCB 77, or PCB-OH on the cell membranes. No interactions were observed when various combinations of OP, PCB-OH, or PCB 77 were used. These data suggest that: (a) TX acts like E in this system, (b) a prior response of splenocytes to E or TX can protect them from the potential cytotoxic effects of OP, PCB-OH, or PCB 77; and, (c) OP, PCB-OH, and PCB 77 were not additive in their actions.
The respiratory function and the antioxidant capacity of liver mitochondrial preparations isolated from Goto-Kakizaki non-insulin dependent diabetic rats and from Wistar control rats, with the age of 6 months, were compared. It was found that Goto-Kakizaki mitochondrial preparations presented a higher coupling between oxidative and phosphorylative systems, compared to non-diabetic preparations. Goto-Kakizaki mitochondria presented a lower susceptibility to lipid peroxidation induced by ADP/Fe2+, as evaluated by the formation of thiobarbituric acid substances. The decreased susceptibility to peroxidation in diabetic rats was correlated with an increase in mitochondrial vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) content and GSH/GSSG ratio. Moreover, the glutathione reductase activity was significantly increased, whereas the glutathione peroxidase was decreased. Superoxide dismutase activity was unchanged in diabetic rats. Fatty acid analyses showed that the content in polyunsaturated fatty acids of Goto-Kakizaki mitochondrial membranes was significantly higher compared to controls. These results indicate that the lower susceptibility to lipid peroxidation of mitochondria from diabetic rats was related to their antioxidant defense systems, and may correspond to an adaptative response of the cells against oxidative stress in the early phase of diabetes.
The biodistribution of 11C-labeled 4-(3-bromoanilino)-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline, an inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor tyrosine kinase, has been evaluated in vivo in rats using positron emission tomography (PET). Time-activity data obtained after i.v. administration in one rat revealed that the radiotracer rapidly cleared from plasma with subsequent uptake in major organs of the body (brain, heart, liver, gastrointestinal tract and bladder). Uptake in proliferating tissue in rats with human neuroblastoma xenografts indicate that [O-11C-methyl]PD153035 shows promise as a new agent for in vivo imaging of tumors with PET.
NIH-R1 and R2 missions, conducted by NASA, allowed us to study the effects of the microgravitational environment 1) on cardiac ANP in pregnant rats, spaceflown for 11 days and dissected after a 2-day readaptation to Earth's gravity, after natural delivery, and 2) on maturation of cardiac ANP system in rat fetuses developed for 11 days in space and dissected on the day of landing, 2 days before birth. Immunocytochemical and electron microscopy analyses showed a typical formation of ANP-containing granules in atrial myocytes, in both dams and fetuses. Using competitive RT-PCR and radioimmunoassays, we observed that, after 2 days of readaptation to Earth's gravity, cardiac ANP biosynthesis of rat dams flown in space was increased by about twice, when compared to Synchronous and Vivarium Control rats. More obviously, rat fetuses developed in space and dissected on the day of landing displayed an altered maturation of cardiac ANP, evidenced by an increased mRNA biosynthesis (by about 6 fold, p&lt;0.05), whereas the cardiac ANP storage was slightly reduced (by about twice, p&lt;0.05) in both Flight and Synchronous Control groups, in comparison with Vivarium Control rats. These last results suggest that ANP metabolism during development is impacted by the microgravitational environment, but also by the housing conditions designed for space flight.
Corticosteroids receptors were characterized and compared in central and peripheral tissues of two pig breeds, the Meishan (MS) and the Large White (LW) pigs, that display differences in the basal activity and stress-induced reactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In vitro kinetic experiments on kidney and liver cytosols from adrenalectomized pigs allowed to identify two distinct corticosteroid receptors referred to as mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid (GR) receptors. The binding specificities were determined for kidney and hippocampal MR and for liver and hippocampal GR. In hippocampus and peripheral tissues, cortisol showed a greater affinity for MR than for GR. As already described in the dog, mouse and human, dexamethasone and progesterone display a moderate affinity for MR. Putative differences in corticosteroid receptors binding capacities and affinities were investigated by saturation binding studies in specific regions implicated in the regulation of HPA axis (hippocampus and pituitary). The MS pigs evidenced higher densities of hippocampal MR, while LW pigs had higher densities of pituitary GR. Thus, this study suggests that a difference in the MR/GR balance in hippocampus and pituitary could be implicated in the different HPA activity between MS and LW pigs.
GABA, the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter present in the mammalian CNS, is also found in the periphery. GABA actions are mediated by the ionotropic GABA(A)/GABA(C) receptors, as well as the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor. The rat GABA(B) receptor has recently been cloned and two cDNA clones have been isolated encoding two isoforms of the receptor, GABA(B)R1a and R1b. Northern blot analysis revealed the presence of both transcripts in the rat brain using specific cDNA probes for GABA(B)R1a and R1b, respectively. However, Northern blot analysis, hybridized with a probe containing a sequence common to both isoforms, revealed specific RNAs in the rat brain and in testis, but not in other peripheral tissues. In the present study, by using the more sensitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction with a specific set of primers for each isoform and Southern blot analysis, we found that both isoforms of the GABA(B) receptor are expressed not only throughout the brain but also in all peripheral organs examined, including heart, spleen, lung, liver, small intestine, large intestine, kidney, stomach, adrenal, testis, ovary and urinary bladder. The peripheral distribution of GABA(B)R1 mRNAs supports the notion of a physiological role for GABA in the control of a wide range of peripheral organs.
The brain neuromodulator histamine induces antinociception when administered directly into the rodent CNS. However, several compounds derived from H2 and H3 antagonists also produce antinociception after central administration. Pharmacological studies have shown that a prototype of these agents, improgan, induces analgesia that is not mediated by actions on known histamine receptors. Presently, the antinociceptive properties of a compound that chemically resembles both improgan and histamine were investigated in rats. Intraventricular (i.v.t.) administration of impentamine (4-imidazolylpentylamine) induced reversible, near-maximal antinociception on the hot plate and tail flick tests (15 microg, 98 nmol). The dose-response function was extremely steep, however, since other doses showed either no effect or behavioral toxicity. On the tail flick test, impentamine antinociception was resistant to antagonism by blockers of H1, H2, or H3 receptors, similar to characteristics previously found for improgan. In contrast, histamine antinociception was highly attenuated by H1 and H2 antagonists. These findings suggest that: 1) the histamine congener impentamine may induce antinociception by a mechanism similar to that produced by improgan, and 2) additional histamine receptors may be discovered that are linked to pain-attenuating processes.
The hippocampus is importantly involved in learning and memory, and is severely impacted by aging. In in vitro hippocampal slices, both the post-burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and spike-frequency accommodation are reduced in hippocampal pyramidal neurons after hippocampally-dependent trace eyeblink conditioning, indications of increased cellular excitability. The AHP results from the activation of outward potassium currents, including sI(AHP) and muscarine-sensitive I(M). The AHP is significantly increased in aging hippocampal neurons, potentially contributing to age-associated learning deficits. Compounds which reduce the AHP and spike-frequency accommodation could facilitate learning in normal aging or in age-associated dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. The cholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate enhances trace eyeblink conditioning by aging rabbits and reduces the AHP and accommodation in hippocampal CA1 neurons in a dose-dependent manner. These reductions are mediated by muscarinic cholinergic transmission as they are blocked by atropine. Hippocampal neurons from metrifonate treated but behaviorally naive rabbits were more excitable and not desensitized to the effects of metrifonate since the AHP and accommodation were further reduced when metrifonate was bath applied to the neurons. These observations suggest that the facilitating effect of chronic metrifonate on acquisition of hippocampally dependent tasks is mediated at least partially by increasing the baseline excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The issue of whether learning can be facilitated with muscarinic cholinergic agonists, in addition to cholinesterase inhibitors, was addressed by training aging rabbits during intravenous treatment with the M1 agonist CI1017. A dose-dependent enhancement of acquisition was observed, with rabbits receiving 1.0 or 5.0 mg/ml CI1017 showing comparably improved learning rates as those receiving 0.5 mg/ml or vehicle. Sympathetic side effects, mainly excess salivation, were seen with the 5.0 mg/ml dose. Post-training evaluations suggested that the effective doses of CI1017 were enhancing responsivity to the tone conditioned stimulus. These studies suggest that muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmission is importantly involved in associative learning; that learning in aging animals may be facilitated by enhancing cholinergic transmission; and that the facilitation may be mediated through actions on hippocampal neurons.
The role of muscarinic receptors in schizophrenia was investigated using the muscarinic agonist PTAC. PTAC was highly selective for muscarinic receptors, was a partial agonist at muscarinic M2/M4 receptors and an antagonist at M1, M3 and M5 receptors. PTAC was highly active in animal models predictive of antipsychotic behavior including inhibition of conditioned avoidance responding in rats and blockade of apomorphine-induced climbing behavior in mice. d-Amphetamine-induced Fos expression in rat nucleus accumbens was inhibited by PTAC, thus directly demonstrating the ability of PTAC to modulate DA activity. In electrophysiological studies in rats, PTAC acutely inhibited the firing of A10 DA cells and after chronic administration decreased the number of spontaneously firing DA cells in the A10 brain area. However, PTAC did not appreciably alter the firing of A9 DA cells. Thus, PTAC appears to have novel antipsychotic-like activity and these data suggest that muscarinic compounds such as PTAC may represent a new class of antipsychotic agents.
The highly reactive free radical gas, nitric oxide, serves a variety of biomodulatory functions and has been implicated in a growing array of physiological and pathophysiological states. The striking differences between this labile substance and other, more conventional, signaling molecules highlight the tight degree of nitric oxide regulation that is required in order to maintain appropriate cellular homeostasis. The generation of nitric oxide represents a common component of the signal transduction pathways of a number of chemical signaling molecules that act via binding to G protein-coupled receptors. This review focuses on the relationship between this receptor superfamily, the generation of nitric oxide via the actions of the nitric oxide synthases and some of the inter- and intracellular roles of nitric oxide.
Some humans and animals with inherited retinal degenerations (RD) have lower blood levels of docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) than controls. As a result of recent studies, clearly the low blood 22:6n-3 phenotype is found in multiple RD phenotypes and no mutation thus far identified in humans or animals is involved in lipid metabolism. Therefore, it seems reasonable to suggest that the primary defect is not in 22:6n-3 metabolism, but rather in some common convergent pathway that ultimately leads to the reduction of blood and tissue 22:6n-3 levels. One possibility is that the different mutations produce a metabolic stress that provokes structural and biochemical adaptive changes in photoreceptor cells and their rod outer segments. If the stress is oxidant, the retina could downregulate 22:6n-3 and upregulate antioxidant defenses. How such a stress could lead to changes in blood levels of 22:6n-3 is not obvious. However, the consistent finding of the 22:6n-3 phenotype in many different retinal degeneration genotypes suggests that some form of communication exists between the retina and other tissues that serves to reduce blood levels of 22:6n-3.

We describe an adolescent with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and pseudotumor cerebri (PTC) associated with diffuse white matter lesions (leukoencephalopathy) on neuroimaging studies. Although the association between SLE and PTC has been reported previously in 21 cases, the findings of leukoencephalopathy is known in only one other patient.
High resolution NMR imaging of the isolated perfused rat hippocampal slice was used to quantitate ADC changes following ouabain-induced cell swelling. Hippocampal slices were studied in artificial cerebrospinal fluid and then in ouabain using a 600-MHz narrow bore spectrometer and a home-built perfusion chamber. The brain slices demonstrated biexponential diffusion behavior. After perfusion with 1 mMouabain, there was an increase in the fraction of slowly diffusing water. The ADCs of the two fractions did not change. These data support the hypothesis that the decrease in the ADC of brain water following an ischemic attack is caused by cell swelling. The relative amplitudes of the two diffusing fractions do not match the expected ratio of intracellular and extracellular fractions. This discrepancy may be principally due to the difference in T2 relaxation rates of the two compartments.
The transformation of psychiatry during the last decades has also resulted in changed and more independent roles for mental health workers of all categories. The nurse has traditionally had a central role in psychiatric care. In the community oriented care the nurse still plays an important role which can be summarised in four points: 1. focus on the rehabilitation of long term mentally ill patients, 2. the case manager function, 3. to provide individual support in the daily living and 4. to provide support to the relatives of the patients. Those different roles are described. The research being done on these different approaches is presented and it is concluded that case management, social skills training and family intervention programmes have all proved to be effective. In these programmes nurses often play a central role.
Regulation of mRNA turnover is a critical control mechanism of gene expression and is influenced by ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes that form on cis elements. All mRNAs have an intrinsic half-life and in many cases these half-lives can be altered by a variety of stimuli that are manifested through the formation or disruption of an RNP structure. The stability of alpha-globin mRNA is determined by elements in the 3' untranslated region that are bound by an RNP complex (alpha-complex) which appears to control the erythroid-specific accumulation of alpha-globin mRNA. The alpha-complex could consist of up to six distinct proteins or protein families. One of these families is a prominent polycytidylate binding activity which consists of two highly homologous proteins, alpha-complex proteins 1 and 2 (alphaCP1 and alphaCP2). This article focuses on various methodologies for the detection and manipulation of alphaCP1 and alphaCP2 binding to RNA and details means of isolating and characterizing mRNA bound by these proteins to study mRNA turnover and its regulation.










The present protocol describes a series of procedures to identify peptides interacting with PDZ domains. It is conceivable that the procedures can be applied to other purified protein modules or intact proteins without substantial modifications. With the deduced consensus combined with sequence information, it is possible to identify proteins present in the database with compatible sequences. If the expression of target protein and potential interacting candidate overlap temporally and spatially, biochemical and molecular experiments can be designed to study their physical and functional interactions.








Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by damage to selective neuronal populations (1) that could be followed or proceeded by synaptic injury (2). The mechanisms triggering cell death and synaptic damage in these disorders might be related to gain of a toxic property and/or loss of neuroprotective capacity of a specific neuronal protein (3). Many of these neuronal molecules play an important role in the maintenance and functioning of the synaptic apparatus (4,5). Therefore, specific mutations and other alterations of synaptic proteins might result in particular neurodegenerative diseases. In this regard, recent studies have shown that molecules involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in fact have a synaptic location. Examples of such proteins include amyloid precursor protein (APP) (6-8), nonamyloid- component precursor (NACP) (9), and presenilin 1 and 2 (10-12). Furthermore, other neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease (HD) (13,14), Parkinson's disease (PD) (15-17), Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) (18), and myotonic dystrophy (19) have turned out to be the result of mutations in proteins that concentrate at the synaptic site. Therefore, in order to better understand the mechanisms of central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders, it is important to determine the concentrations of specific synaptic proteins at the synaptic site, as well as to determine overall synaptic density in specific brain regions. For example, in AD, memory deficits in early stages of the disease are associated with synaptic loss in the molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, which reflects degeneration of the perforant pathway (2,20).
The functional unit of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) is the neuron, with its long axon enveloped either by Schwann cells (unmyelinated axons) or by the multilamellar myelin sheath formed and maintained by these cells (myelinated axons) (Fig. 1 A). Neuronal cell bodies may be located within the CNS (e.g., motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord) or within the PNS itself (e.g., sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia), but in either case, bundles of long axons course through various peripheral nerves to their target tissues (Fig. 1 B). Normal operation of the PNS depends on the integrity of both neurons and glial (Schwann) cells. Additionally, however, function is critically dependent on intricate interactions between these two cell types at molecular, structural, and functional levels. As an example, the intimate structural relationship between large axons and the myelin sheath that surrounds them is an absolute requirement for the rapid and efficient &quot;saltatory conuction&quot; of nervous impulses (1,2). Damage or insult to either the neuronal or glial component of this functional unit affects the other component, and most often has deleterious effects on normal nervous system function. In some cases, damage may be so severe that it is readily apparent as gross functional or morphological alterations, but in many cases the initial insult, although eventually leading to serious pathological consequences, may be subtle and difficult to detect. In recent years, it has become possible to utilize molecular biological approaches as rapid and sensitive probes for neurotoxic insults. Fig. 1. (A) The neuron-Schwann cell functional unit of the peripheral nervous system. The functional integrity of the PNS depends on both the neuron and its ensheathing Schwann cells (which may or may not produce a myelin sheath), as well as on vital interactions between these two components. The axon is actually several orders of magnitude longer (in relation to its cell body) than is shown in the diagram, and each axon branches into numerous nerve endings. (B) Generalized diagram of the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system contains both myelinated and unmyelinated axons. Unmyelinated axons are also enveloped by Schwann cells (not shown in the figure). Neuronal cell bodies from which PNS axons arise are located in either the dorsal root ganglia (sensory neurons) or in the ventral horn of the spinal cord (motor neurons). Sympathetic ganglia with their associated neurons, also part of the peripheral nervous system, are not shown. The sciatic nerve is an easily accessible, major component of the peripheral nervous system.
During the course of aging both activation and degenerative changes are found in the human hypothalamus. Degeneration may start around middle-age in some neurotransmitter- or neuromodulator-containing neurons. For instance, a decreased number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) neurons was observed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of middle-aged males. The normal circadian fluctuations seen in the number of vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the SCN of young subjects diminished in subjects older than 50 years. Moreover, a sharp decline in cell number was found in the sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN) after 50 years in males. On the other hand, many hypothalamic systems remain perfectly intact during aging like the oxytocin (OXT) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). The AVP neurons in the PVN are activated during aging as appears from their increasing cell number. Also the corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the PVN are activated in the course of aging, as indicated by their increased number and their increased AVP coexpression. Part of the infundibular nucleus, the subventricular nucleus, contains hypertrophic neurokinin B neurons in postmenopausal women. It can be concluded that a multitude of changes in the various hypothalamic nuclei may be the biological basis for many functional changes in aging, i.e., both endocrine and central alterations, and that only a minority of the possible human hypothalamic changes have so far been studied.
In 1958 Professor Setsuro Ebashi found that serum creatine kinase activity is increased in patients suffering from various muscular dystrophies, especially Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). He and others proposed that creatine kinase passes through the cell membrane as it is released from DMD muscle fibers. Since then, it has been found that dystrophin and dystrophin-associated proteins are connected to several other components, including the basal lamina and subsarcolemmal cytoskeletal networks on the cell membrane, while dystrophin anchors these dystrophin-associated proteins to the actin filaments inside the muscle cell. In DMD muscle, dystrophin has been found to be absent and dystroglycans and sarcoglycans decreased. However, how creatine kinase molecules can pass through the DMD muscle cell membrane still remains unanswered. On the basis of recent findings on the structure of the protein layers which sandwich the lipid bilayer of muscle cell membranes, this essay stresses the importance of these lipid bilayers in protecting creatine kinase release from protoplasma in normal muscle. It further indicates the possibility that the absence of dystrophin in DMD muscle during muscle contraction may result in temporal damage to the lipid bilayer.
In cell culture systems, the TCF Elk-1 represents a convergence point for extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK/SAPK) subclasses of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades. Its phosphorylation strongly potentiates its ability to activate transcription of the c-fos promoter through a ternary complex assembled on the c-fos serum response element. In rat brain postmitotic neurons, Elk-1 is strongly expressed (V. Sgambato, P. Vanhoutte, C. Pags, M. Rogard, R. A. Hipskind, M. J. Besson, and J. Caboche, J. Neurosci. 18:214-226, 1998). However, its physiological role in these postmitotic neurons remains to be established. To investigate biochemically the signaling pathways targeting Elk-1 and c-fos in mature neurons, we used a semi-in vivo system composed of brain slices stimulated with the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. Glutamate treatment leads to a robust, progressive activation of the ERK and JNK/SAPK MAPK cascades. This corresponds kinetically to a significant increase in Ser383-phosphorylated Elk-1 and the appearance of c-fos mRNA. Glutamate also causes increased levels of Ser133-phosphorylated cyclic AMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) but only transiently relative to Elk-1 and c-fos. ERK and Elk-1 phosphorylation are blocked by the MAPK kinase inhibitor PD98059, indicating the primary role of the ERK cascade in mediating glutamate signaling to Elk-1 in the rat striatum in vivo. Glutamate-mediated CREB phosphorylation is also inhibited by PD98059 treatment. Interestingly, KN62, which interferes with calcium-calmodulin kinase (CaM-K) activity, leads to a reduction of glutamate-induced ERK activation and of CREB phosphorylation. These data indicate that ERK functions as a common component in two signaling pathways (ERK/Elk-1 and ERK/?/CREB) converging on the c-fos promoter in postmitotic neuronal cells and that CaM-Ks act as positive regulators of these pathways.
The adult avian forebrain continues to generate neurons from ventricular zone (VZ) precursor cells, whose neuronal progeny then migrate into the brain parenchyma. Migrating neurons respond to the Ig-family adhesion molecule NgCAM with increments in cytosolic calcium, and migration is disrupted by anti-NgCAM Ig. The calcium response to NgCAM is developmentally restricted to bipolar migrants during a period spanning 6 to 9 DIV. This period corresponds to the postmitotic age at which new neurons leave the adult VZ to traverse a subjacent layer of estrogen-receptive &quot;gatekeeper&quot; neurons. Since neuronal passage through this layer occurs concurrently with the onset of NgCAM-dependent calcium signaling, we asked whether acquisition of the calcium response to NgCAM required estrogen exposure. Among neurons arising from explants of the adult finch neostriatal VZ, only those supplemented with estrogen developed calcium responses to NgCAM; neither explants raised in the absence of estrogen, nor those supplemented with testosterone, did so. Neurons in all three groups expressed NgCAM, had equivalent baseline calcium levels, and responded identically to K+-depolarization. Nonetheless, many more neurons migrated from explants of both finch and canary VZ raised in estrogen-supplemented media than from their estrogen-deprived counterparts, even though no effect of estrogen on neuronal survival per se was noted. These findings suggest that estrogen encourages the initial departure and assumption of signal competence by neurons arising from the adult avian VZ, thereby promoting their parenchymal recruitment and migration success.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) catalyzes the extracellular hydrolysis of the neuromodulator N-acetyl-aspartylglutamate to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. GCP II also hydrolyzes gamma-glutamyl bonds in folylpolyglutamate. The predicted amino acid sequence of GCP II displays similarities to aminopeptidases from Streptomyces griseus and Vibrio proteolyticus, whose crystal structures have been determined. These aminopeptidases are cocatalytic zinc metallopeptidases belonging to the peptidase family M28. Specific zinc and substrate ligands have been proposed in GCP II based on the amino acid sequence alignment to these M28 family members. In the present study, site-directed mutagenesis has been used to test the assignment of these putative ligands in human GCP II. Substitutions to the five putative zinc ligands resulted in severely reduced enzyme activity, although mutant protein was expressed as demonstrated by immunoblot analysis. In addition, substitutions of amino acids near the putative zinc ligands have identified other specific residues important for enzyme structure and/or function. Substitutions to putative substrate ligands were less perturbing, and increases in Km were observed for substitutions that introduced a large charge perturbation (e.g., Lys to Glu). The results from substitutions at the proposed zinc and substrate ligands are consistent with the assignment of these residues and suggest that GCP II has a three-dimensional structure similar to other members of the peptidase family M28.
A new gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor (GABAR) subunit class, epsilon, has recently been cloned and shown to form functional channels when coexpressed with both alpha and beta subunits. We report that the combination of alpha1beta3epsilon subunit subtypes expressed in L929 cells produced functional chloride ion channels that were both spontaneously active and gated by the application of extracellular GABA. When cells were voltage-clamped at -75 mV in the whole-cell configuration, holding currents of 50 to 300 pA associated with increased noise were consistently recorded. The application of pentobarbital and loreclezole, which increase GABAR currents, increased the holding current, whereas the application of zinc and picrotoxin, which reduce GABAR currents, reduced the holding current in a concentration-dependent manner. Coexpression of alpha1beta3gamma2L, alpha1beta3delta, alpha1epsilon, beta3epsilon, alpha1beta3, or epsilon subtypes did not produce holding currents that were sensitive to picrotoxin (30 microM). Cells expressing alpha1 beta3epsilon subtypes had concentration-dependent GABAR currents that were potentiated by pentobarbital, loreclezole, and lanthanum and inhibited by zinc and furosemide. Spontaneous and GABAR single-channel currents from alpha1beta3epsilon receptors had single-channel conductances of approximately 24 pS. The biophysical properties and the effects of allosteric modulators were similar for spontaneous and evoked GABAR currents, suggesting that a single GABAR isoform was responsible for both currents. These data extend the pharmacological characterization of epsilon-containing GABARs and demonstrate that incorporation of the epsilon subunit permits spontaneous channel gating while preserving the structural information necessary for GABA sensitivity.
Tottering mice inherit a recessive mutation of the calcium channel alpha1A subunit that causes ataxia, polyspike discharges, and intermittent dystonic episodes. The calcium channel alpha1A subunit gene encodes the pore-forming protein of P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels and is predominantly expressed in cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons with moderate expression in hippocampus and inferior colliculus. Because calcium misregulation likely underlies the tottering mouse phenotype, calcium channel blockers were tested for their ability to block the motor episodes. Pharmacologic agents that specifically block L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, but not P/Q-type calcium channels, prevented the inducible dystonia of tottering mutant mice. Specifically, the dihydropyridines nimodipine, nifedipine, and nitrendipine, the benzothiazepine diltiazem, and the phenylalkylamine verapamil all prevented restraint-induced tottering mouse motor episodes. Conversely, the L-type calcium channel agonist Bay K8644 induced stereotypic tottering mouse dystonic at concentrations significantly below those required to induce seizures in control mice. In situ hybridization demonstrated that L-type calcium channel alpha1C subunit mRNA expression was up-regulated in the Purkinje cells of tottering mice. Radioligand binding with [3H]nitrendipine also revealed a significant increase in the density of L-type calcium channels in tottering mouse cerebellum. These data suggest that although a P/Q-type calcium channel mutation is the primary defect in tottering mice, L-type calcium channels may contribute to the generation of the intermittent dystonia observed in these mice. The susceptibility of L-type calcium channels to voltage-dependent facilitation may promote this abnormal motor phenotype.
Genetic anticipation, manifested by increased severity and earlier age-at-onset of the disease over successive generations, is reported in schizophrenia. The molecular basis of anticipation in several neurodegenerative diseases is unstable coding CAG repeat expansions. Anticipation was reported in schizophrenia. Recently, studies suggested that enlarged CAG/CTG repeats are over represented in schizophrenic patients compared to normal controls. Together, these observations suggest that unstable CAG repeats may play a role in the etiology of schizophrenia. The purpose of this study is to test for the presence of polyglutamine-expanded tracts, encoded by CAG repeats, in total protein extracts derived from lymphoblastoid cell lines of schizophrenic patients. Proteins from schizophrenic patients (n = 59) and normal controls (n = 73) were separated by means of SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, wet blotted onto nitrocellulose membrane and probed with a monoclonal antibody (mab 1C2) recognizing expanded polyglutamine arrays. Three abnormal bands corresponding to protein(s) of molecular weight of approximately 50 kDa were identified in two unrelated schizophrenic patients and in a sibling of one of these patients. None of the normal controls tested positive for this abnormal band. These results suggest that expanded polyglutamine-containing proteins, though rare, may play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
L1 and Thy-1 are members of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) that are vital for normal neural development. Abnormalities in CAM expression could lead to the histological abnormalities that have previously been described in the frontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia. A postmortem immunohistochemical study of L1 and Thy-1 in the normal human prefrontal cortex revealed positive immunostaining of axons in all layers of the cortex. Quantifying the intensity of immunostaining in the prefrontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression failed to reveal any significant differences when compared to that of normal controls.





Transplantation of embryonic nigral tissue ameliorates functional deficiencies in Parkinson disease. The main practical constraints of neural grafting are the shortage of human donor tissue and the poor survival of dopaminergic neurons grafted into patients, which is estimated at 5-10% (refs. 3,4). The required amount of human tissue could be considerably reduced if the neuronal survival was augmented. Studies in rats indicate that most implanted embryonic neurons die within 1 week of transplantation, and that most of this cell death is apoptotic. Modified peptides, such as acetyl-tyrosinyl-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-chloro-methylketone (Ac-YVAD-cmk), that specifically inhibit proteases of the caspase family effectively block apoptosis in a plethora of experimental paradigms, such as growth factor withdrawal, excitotoxicity, axotomy, cerebral ischemia and brain trauma. Here we examined the effects of caspase inhibition by Ac-YVAD-cmk on cell death immediately after donor tissue preparation and on long-term graft survival. Treatment of the embryonic nigral cell suspension with Ac-YVAD-cmk mitigated DNA fragmentation and reduced apoptosis in transplants. It also increased survival of dopaminergic neurons grafted to hemiparkinsonian rats, and thereby substantially improved functional recovery.

Many excitatory synapses are thought to be postsynaptically 'silent', possessing functional NMDA but lacking functional AMPA glutamate receptors. The acquisition of AMPA receptors at silent synapses may be important in synaptic plasticity and neuronal development. Here we characterize a possible morphological correlate of silent synapses in cultured hippocampal neurons. Initially, most excitatory synapses contained NMDA receptors, but only a few contained detectable AMPA receptors. Synapses progressively acquired AMPA receptors as the cultures matured. AMPA receptor blockade increased the number, size and fluorescent intensity of AMPA receptor clusters and rapidly induced the appearance of AMPA receptors at 'silent' synapses. In contrast, NMDA receptor blockade increased the size, intensity and number of NMDA receptor clusters and decreased the number of AMPA receptor clusters, resulting in an increase in the proportion of 'silent' synapses. These results suggest that the number of silent synapses is regulated during development and by changes in synaptic activity.
Modulation of AMPA-type glutamate channels is important for synaptic plasticity. Here we provide physiological evidence that the activity of AMPA channels is regulated by protein phosphatase 1 (PP-1) in neostriatal neurons and identify two distinct molecular mechanisms of this regulation. One mechanism involves control of PP-1 catalytic activity by DARPP-32, a dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein highly enriched in neostriatum. The other involves binding of PP-1 to spinophilin, a protein that colocalizes PP-1 with AMPA receptors in postsynaptic densities. The results suggest that regulation of anchored PP-1 is important for AMPA-receptor-mediated synaptic transmission and plasticity.
Since the classical hallucinogens were initially reported to produce their behavioral effects via a 5-HT2 agonist mechanism (i.e., the 5-HT2 hypothesis of hallucinogen action), 5-HT2 receptors have been demonstrated to represent a family of receptors that consists of three distinct subpopulations: 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, and 5-HT2C receptors. Today, there is greater support for 5-HT2A than for 5-HT2C receptor involvement in the behavioral effects evoked by these agents. However, with the recent discovery of 5-HT2B receptors, a new question arises: do classical hallucinogens bind at 5-HT2B receptors? In the present study we examined and compared the binding of 17 phenylisopropylamines at human 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, and 5-HT2C receptors. Although there was a notable positive correlation (r&gt;0.9) between the affinities of the agents at all three populations of 5-HT2 receptors, structural modification resulted only in small differences in 5-HT2B receptor affinity such that the range of affinities was only about 50-fold. As with 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptor affinity, there is a significant correlation (r&gt;0.9, n=8) between 5-HT2B receptor affinity and human hallucinogenic potency. Nevertheless, given that 5-HT2A and 5-HT2A/2C antagonists - antagonists with low affinity for 5-HT2B receptors - have been previously shown to block the stimulus effects of phenylisopropylamine hallucinogens, it is likely that 5-HT2A receptors play a more prominent role than 5-HT2B and 5-HT2C receptors in mediating such effects despite the affinity of these agents for all three 5-HT2 receptor subpopulations.
Numerous studies have suggested that the brain may encode information in the temporal firing pattern of neurons. However, little is known regarding how information may come to be temporally encoded and about the potential computational advantages of temporal coding. Here, it is shown that local inhibition may underlie the temporal encoding of spatial images. As a result of inhibition, the response of a given cell can be significantly modulated by stimulus features outside its own receptive field. Feedforward and lateral inhibition can modulate both the firing rate and temporal features, such as latency. In this article, it is shown that a simple neural network model can use local inhibition to generate temporal codes of handwritten numbers. The temporal encoding of a spatial pattern has the interesting and computationally beneficial feature of exhibiting position invariance. This work demonstrates a manner by which the nervous system may generate temporal codes and shows that temporal encoding can be used to create position-invariant codes.
The barn owl is a nocturnal predator that is able to capture mice in complete darkness using only sound to localize prey. Two binaural cues are used by the barn owl to determine the spatial position of a sound source: differences in the time of arrival of sounds at the two ears for the azimuth (interaural time differences (ITDs)) and differences in their amplitude for the elevation (interaural level differences (ILDs)). Neurophysiological investigations have revealed that two different neural pathways starting from the cochlea seem to be specialized for processing ITDs and ILDs. Much evidence suggests that in the barn owl the localization of the azimuth is based on a cross-correlation-like treatment of the auditory inputs at the two ears. In particular, in the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICx), where cells are activated by specific values of ITD, neural activation has been recently observed to be dependent on some measure of the level of cross-correlation between the input auditory signals. However, it has also been observed that these neurons are less sensitive to noise than predicted by direct binaural cross-correlation. The mechanisms underlying such signal-to-noise improvement are not known. In this paper, by focusing on a model of the barn owl's neural pathway to the optic tectum dedicated to the localization of the azimuth, we study the mechanisms by which the ITD tuning of ICx units is achieved. By means of analytical examinations and computer simulations, we show that strong analogies exist between the process by which the barn owl evaluates the azimuth of a sound source and the generalized cross-correlation algorithm, one of the most robust methods for the estimate of time delays.
Many studies in recent years have been devoted to the detection of fast oscillations in the Central Nervous System (CNS), interpreting them as synchronizing devices. We should, however, refrain from associating too closely the two concepts of synchronization and oscillation. Whereas synchronization is a relatively well-defined concept, by contrast oscillation of a population of neurones in the CNS looks loosely defined, in the sense that both its frequency sharpness and the duration of the oscillatory episodes vary widely from case to case. Also, the functions of oscillations in the brain are multiple are not confined to synchronization. The paradigmatic instantiation of oscillation in physics is given by the harmonic oscillator, a device particularly suited to tell the time, as in clocks. We will thus examine first the case of oscillations or cycling discharges of neurones, which provide a clock or impose a &quot;tempo&quot; for various kinds of information processing. Neuronal oscillators are rarely just clocks clicking at a fixed frequency. Instead, their frequency is often adjustable and controllable, as in the example of the &quot;chattering cells&quot; discovered in the superficial layers of the visual cortex. Moreover, adjustable frequency oscillators are suitable for use in &quot;phase locked loops&quot; (PLL) networks, a device that can convert time coding to frequency coding; such PLL units have been found in the somatosensory cortex of guinea pigs. Finally, are oscillations stricto sensu necessary to induce synchronization in the discharges of downstream neurones? We know that this is not the case, at least not for local populations of neurones. As a contribution to this question, we propose that repeating patterns in neuronal discharges production may be looked at as one such alternative solution in relation to the processing of information. We review here the case of precisely repeating triplets, detected in the discharges of olfactory mitral cells of a freely breathing rat under odor stimulation.




Regulation of nitric oxide (NO) formation is critical to ensure maintenance of appropriate cellular concentrations of this labile, signaling molecule. This study investigated the role exogenous and endogenously produced NO have in feeding back to regulate NO synthesis in intact cells. Two NO donors inhibited activation of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) in response to the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably transfected with the M1 muscarinic receptor and nNOS. The presence of the NO scavenger [2-(4-Carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide potassium salt] (C-PTIO) potentiated carbachol-induced activation of nNOS in transfected CHO cells. C-PTIO also potentiated nNOS activity in response to the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin. In contrast, the NO scavenger oxyhemoglobin depressed carbachol- and ionomycin-induced NO formation. These discrepant results suggest that it is unlikely that endogenously produced NO induces feed back inhibition at the level of nNOS activation itself. Exogenous sources of NO inhibited carbachol-induced inositol phosphates formation. However, endogenously produced NO did not appear to feed back to regulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis as there was no difference in [3H]inositol phosphates formation between cells that do or do not express nNOS. There was also no change in carbachol-induced [3H]inositol phosphates formation in the presence or absence of a NOS inhibitor or the NO scavenger C-PTIO. A decrease in the carbachol-mediated transient Ca2+ peak was observed in cells that express nNOS as compared to cells lacking the enzyme, suggesting that endogenous NO might inhibit receptor mediated Ca2+ signaling. This conclusion, however, was not supported by the lack of ability of a NOS inhibitor to modulate carbachol-induced Ca2+ elevations. Taken together, these results highlight differences in the regulation of the nNOS activation cascade by endogenous vs. exogenous sources of NO.
The effect of glucose on the release of immunoreactive insulin (IRI) in synaptosomes isolated from rat brain was studied. In the absence of glucose synaptosomes release about 4% (0.77 microIU/mg protein) of total content. Glucose increases significantly the IRI released by synaptosomes. Addition of the glycolytic inhibitor iodoacetic acid (IAA), decreased the glucose-induced release of IRI by about 50%, suggesting that glucose metabolism is involved. The observation that glucose provides a concentration related signal for IRI release indicates that this synaptosomal preparation may be useful as a model for research on the mechanism of insulin release in brain.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA and activity and concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and catecholamines were examined as markers of sympathetic innervation and catecholamine synthesis in peripheral tissues of sympathectomized and intact rats. Chemical sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) markedly decreased norepinephrine and to a generally lesser extent TH activities and dopamine in most peripheral tissues (stomach, lung, testis, duodenum, pancreas, salivary gland, spleen, heart, kidney, thymus). Superior cervical ganglia, adrenals and descending aorta were unaffected and vas deferens showed a large 92% decrease in norepinephrine, but only a small 38% decrease in TH activity after 6-OHDA. Presence of chromaffin cells or neuronal cell bodies in these latter tissues, indicated by consistent expression of TH mRNA, explained the relative resistance of these tissues to 6-OHDA. Stomach also showed consistent expression of TH mRNA before, but not after 6-OHDA, suggesting that catecholamine synthesizing cells in gastric tissue are sensitive to the toxic effects of 6-OHDA. Tissue concentrations of DOPA were mainly unaffected by 6-OHDA, indicating that much of the DOPA in peripheral tissues is synthesized independently of local TH or sympathetic innervation. The differential effects of chemical sympathectomy on tissue catecholamines, DOPA, TH mRNA and TH activity demonstrate that these variables are not simple markers of sympathetic innervation or catecholamine synthesis. Other factors, including presence of neuronal cell bodies, parenchymal chromaffin cells, non-neuronal sites of catecholamine synthesis and alternative sources of tissue DOPA, must also be considered when tissue catecholamines, DOPA and TH are examined as markers of sympathetic innervation and local catecholamine synthesis.
Recent evidence has suggested that cyclosporin A (CsA), an immunosuppressive agent, has neuroprotective properties. However, its mechanisms associated with this activity remain unclear. We have previously shown that post-ischemic administration of CsA daily for 14 days prevented the decrease of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding in the hippocampus in the gerbil model of 5-min transient forebrain ischemia. In the present study, CsA (5 mg/kg, subcutaneously) was administered to each animal just after, 2 and 6 h after ischemia so as not to exert its immunosuppressive effect. Initial CsA treatment significantly restored the declined muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding of the hippocampus 14 days after ischemia similar to the previous report. However, CsA did not alter reactive changes of astrocytes and microglia in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, which had been suppressed by daily administration. These results indicate that CsA could positively modulate the hippocampal acetylcholine neurotransmission system broken down through the ischemia-induced pyramidal cell death and its action mechanism may have no relation to the immunosuppressive properties.
The ventrolateral hypothalamus in female guinea pigs includes an estrogen receptor dense region adjacent to the ventromedial hypothalamus. This region is reciprocally connected with other estrogen receptor-containing areas suggesting that steroid hormone receptor-containing cells may be directly linked. Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, an anterograde tract tracer, was specifically placed in this region with the aim of labeling some projections from estrogen receptor-containing neurons. These projections were colocalized immunocytochemically with the distribution of estrogen receptor-containing cells. Dense ventrolateral hypothalamic innervation was observed in some regions also containing a high concentration of estrogen receptor-containing cells. These regions included the medial preoptic area, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral hypothalamus anterior and posterior to the injection site, and the midbrain central gray. A low density of ventrolateral hypothalamic fibers and terminals was observed in two regions rich in estrogen receptors, the amygdala and the arcuate nucleus. In general, ventrolateral hypothalamic fibers and terminals were present in all regions where estrogen receptors were found except the medial thalamus and habenular region. Labeled terminal boutons and perineuronal baskets were found around estrogen receptor-containing cells in most regions which contained estrogen receptor-containing cells. These close appositions were suggestive of synaptic contacts, suggesting that the ventrolateral hypothalamus may influence steroid-dependent behaviors via the modulation of estrogen receptor-containing cells. Furthermore, ventrolateral hypothalamic projections may include direct connections with estrogen receptor-containing cells, suggesting the presence of a network of interconnected estradiol-sensitive neurons involved in the regulation of estradiol-dependent functions.
We describe a system for parcellation of the human cerebral white matter and nuclei, based upon magnetic resonance images. An algorithm for subdivision of the cerebral central white matter according to topographic criteria is developed in the companion manuscript. In the present paper we provide a rationale for this system of parcellation of the central white matter and we extend the system of cerebral parcellation to include principal subcortical gray structures such as the thalamus and the basal ganglia. The volumetric measures of the subcortical gray and white matter parcellation units in 20 young adult brains are computed and reported here as well. In addition, with the comprehensive system for cerebral gray and white matter structure parcellation as reference, we formulate a systematics of forebrain connectivity. The degree to which functionally specific brain areas correspond to topographically specific areas is an open empirical issue. The resolution of this issue requires the development of topographically specific anatomic analyses, such as presented in the current system, and the application of such systems to a comprehensive set of functional-anatomic correlation studies in order to establish the degree of structural-functional correspondence. This system is expected to be applied in both cognitive and clinical neuroscience as an MRI-based topographic systematics of human forebrain anatomy with normative volumetric reference and also as a system of reference for the anatomic organization of specific neural systems as disrupted by focal lesions in lesion-deficit correlations.
Antiplatelet therapy is recommended for stroke prevention in persons with a history of thromboembolic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) that is not of cardiac origin. Aspirin was the first antiplatelet agent to be used in this context and is still the most frequently prescribed preventive treatment for ischemic stroke. However, because the results of clinical studies with aspirin have been inconsistent, the dose of aspirin required for stroke prevention in persons with cerebrovascular disease has been a subject of debate among stroke neurologists. In the present discussion, low-dose aspirin is generally regarded by the experts as equivalent in effectiveness to high-dose aspirin, and its higher tolerability has the potential to significantly increase compliance with long-term therapy. Higher aspirin doses may have clinical utility in particular settings, but this requires further study. Despite the controversy, aspirin is now recognized as the treatment standard against which other antiplatelet agents are compared. Antiplatelet agents that may be more effective than aspirin have now been developed. Although each of these agents has been directly compared with aspirin in a large, randomized clinical trial, the lack of direct comparisons among these alternative antiplatelet therapies complicates decisions regarding long-term care of patients with cerebrovascular disease. An international panel of stroke neurologists reports that their selection of antiplatelet therapies for patients with prior history of TIA or stroke depends most heavily on drug efficacy and safety issues and is limited by availability (approval status of alternatives).
In multiple sclerosis (MS), conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is very sensitive in detecting new lesion formation and changes of lesion sizes over time. However, it lacks specificity to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of the MS lesions. This might explain the lack of correlation between MRI findings and the development of disability in MS. Magnetization transfer (MT) imaging is promising for a more accurate monitoring of the evolution of MS. MT changes indicate a reduced capacity of the macromolecules in brain tissue to exchange magnetization with the surrounding water molecules, thus reflecting matrix disorganization. The analysis of MT changes can be performed on a regional basis, thus obtaining information about individual lesions or discrete areas of the normal-appearing white matter, or on a more global basis, using MT histograms, thus estimating the amount and severity of microscopic and macroscopic disease burden in MS. The present review will summarize the major contributions given by MT for the understanding of how individual MS lesions evolve. Monitoring individual lesion evolution may be relevant not only for the understanding of the disease pathophysiology, but also as a new approach for assessing treatment efficacy in MS.
Dopaminomimetic agents, which were rationally designed to reverse dopamine deficits in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area of the parkinsonian midbrain, effectively attenuate deficits in motor and non-motor behavior thought to be elicited by dopamine deficiencies in the striatal and frontal limbic regions, respectively. On the other hand, dopaminomimetic medications may also induce perturbations in postsynaptic peptides, causing dopaminergic hypersensitivity. Drug-induced chronic dopaminomimetic psychosis afflicts about one-fifth of PD patients on dopaminergic regimens. Although the long-held mechanism for psychosis in PD is excessive stimulation of mesocorticolimbic dopamine receptors, interactions between dopamine and serotonin, as well as participation of serotonin-modulated GABAergic neurons may also contribute to the pathophysiology. Reduction or withdrawal of anticholinergic agents, amantadine, and dopamine precursors or agonists constitutes a first approach to the problem but is often insufficient. Unfortunately, typical antipsychotic agents such as haloperidol, which selectively antagonizes dopamine D-2 receptors, can induce extrapyramidal syndromes such as tardive parkinsonism. On the other hand, emerging atypical neuroleptics such as clozapine, quetiapine, and olanzapine, which antagonize 5HT-2A receptors (among others), inhibit D-2 receptors to a lesser degree and exhibit selective binding to mesolimbic (vs. striatal) dopamine receptors. The limbic selectivity of these agents appears to be of greater magnitude than that typical of risperidone. In addition, the selective antiserotonergic agent ondansetron is a prospective therapeutic option. The pharmacologic properties of these agents are explored.

Objectives. Prospective studies using specific outcome measures for the treatment of complex regional pain syndromes (CRPS) using spinal cord stimulation are lacking in the literature. The current prospective study followed 19 patients with the objective of analyzing such patients using specific outcome measures including the McGill Pain Rating Index, the Sickness Impact Profile, Oswestry Disability, Beck Depression Inventory, and Visual Analog Scale Scores. Materials and Methods. Nineteen patients are reported as a subgroup enrolled at two centers participating in a multicenter study of efficacy/outcomes of spinal cord stimulation. These patients were specifically identified as having CRPS and followed as a separate group. Specific preimplant and postimplant tests to measure outcome were administered. Results. Statistically significant improvement in the Sickness Impact Profile physical and psychosocial subscales is documented. The McGill Pain Rating Index words chosen and sensory subscale also improved significantly as did Visual Analog Scale scores. The Beck Depression Inventory trended toward significant improvement. Conclusions. Patients with CRPS benefit significantly from the use of spinal cord stimulation, based on average follow-up of 7.9 months.
Synaptic clustering of neurotransmitter receptors is crucial for efficient signal transduction and integration in neurons. PDZ domain-containing proteins such as PSD-95/SAP90 interact with the intracellular C termini of a variety of receptors and are thought to be important in the targeting and anchoring of receptors to specific synapses. Here, we show that PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase), a PDZ domain-containing protein, interacts with the C termini of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors in vitro and in vivo. In neurons, PICK1 specifically colocalizes with AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses. Furthermore, PICK1 induces clustering of AMPA receptors in heterologous expression systems. These results suggest that PICK1 may play an important role in the modulation of synaptic transmission by regulating the synaptic targeting of AMPA receptors.
Neuronal activity-dependent processes are believed to mediate the formation of synaptic connections during neocortical development, but the underlying intracellular mechanisms are not known. In the visual system, altering the pattern of visually driven neuronal activity by monocular deprivation induces cortical synaptic rearrangement during a postnatal developmental window, the critical period. Here, using transgenic mice carrying a CRE-lacZ reporter, we demonstrate that a calcium- and cAMP-regulated signaling pathway is activated following monocular deprivation. We find that monocular deprivation leads to an induction of CRE-mediated lacZ expression in the visual cortex preceding the onset of physiologic plasticity, and this induction is dramatically downregulated following the end of the critical period. These results suggest that CRE-dependent coordinate regulation of a network of genes may control physiologic plasticity during postnatal neocortical development.


An autopsy case of a 65-year-old male diagnosed as having classic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and who survived for 16 years without artificial ventilation is described. The progression of the disease was remarkably slow, and the bulbar and respiratory functions remained relatively well preserved. Pathologically, both upper and lower motor neurons were affected, the latter much more than the former. The volume of the spinal anterior horn of the fourth cervical cord (C4) was relatively well preserved compared to those of the thoracic cords, which were the most severely affected. This preservation of C4 may have been compatible with the relatively good preservation of respiratory muscle. Despite the long clinical course, the involvement was restricted to the motor and related systems, which was compatible with classic ALS. However, this case was distinctive in the lack of myelin pallor and the absence of macrophages in the pyramidal tracts, where large myelinated fibers were markedly decreased. Further-more, no identification was made of any Bunina bodies or skein-like inclusions despite a survey of almost the entire spinal cord. No abnormalities were found in superoxide dismutase 1 complementary DNA sequences. Among the previously reported long surviving cases, certain cases showed relatively uniform neuropathologic findings including the lack of Bunina bodies and macrophage activation in the pyramidal tracts. Such cases as well as ours may represent a form of ALS. Further study is required to determine the significance of these long sur-viving cases for understanding the pathomechanisms underlying motor neuron diseases.
Changes in carbohydrate metabolism in brain injury and the involvement of numerous glycoproteins in the subsequent restoration phenomena orientated this paper towards reporting on glucidic radical distribution in postinjured brain tissue. Samples from nine patients suffering severe head injuries and three matched controls were studied. Autopsies were performed up to 24 h postmortem; brains were fixed in formalin and samples were taken from contusional, pericontusional and different brain regions including the anterior cingulum and corpus callosum, parasagittal gyrus, putamen, hippocampus and opercular areas embedded in paraffin. Hematoxylin-eosin staining, immunoreaction with glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and biotin-conjugated lectins (RCA, UEA, PNA, concanavalin A (Con A) and WGA) were used. Contusion and related phenomena such as ischemia induced changes in lectin expression in several elements of the nervous tissue. Endothelial cells of contused areas were positive for RCA, UEA and progressively for WGA and Con A, which could be related to hemorheological disturbances inducing secondary brain damage. Neurons in affected areas were also stained for Con A and UEA, with some processes being delineated. Axonal swellings showed particular affinity to any lectin. Reactive astrocytes displaying only mild staining to WGA in cell bodies were strongly positive for GFAP, showing different patterns of reactivity in the cortex and in white matter.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (IR) neurons and their relationship with Lewy bodies were investigated in Parkinson's disease. Using anti-TH and/or anti-ubiquitin antibodies, we evaluated the cerebral cortices included superior frontal gyrus, precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, cuneus, cingulate gyrus, short and long gyri of insula, and parahippocampal gyrus from 18 autopsy cases of Parkinson's disease and 16 controls. The appearance of TH-IR neurons in cerebral cortices was suggestive of non-pyramidal interneurons. The mean number of TH-IR neurons and the density of TH-IR fibers in Parkinson's disease were decreased in comparison with the controls. The cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease has been accounted for by the lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert, the locus ceruleus, and the cortical Lewy bodies in the cerebral cortex. In addition to these lesions, the global loss of non-pyramidal TH-IR cortical neurons and TH-IR fibers would induce the dysfunction of higher-order control of the neocortex and the limbic system in Parkinson's disease. Double-immunostaining with anti-TH and anti-ubiquitin antibodies did not show the TH-IR neuron with cortical Lewy body in the cerebral cortices of Parkinson's disease. In the cerebral cortices of Parkinson's disease, TH-IR non-pyramidal neurons in which cortical Lewy body is not formed decreased in number.
The in vitro and in vivo effects of the novel acetylcholinesterase inhibitors donepezil and NXX-066 have been compared to tacrine. Using purified acetylcholinesterase from electric eel both tacrine and donepezil were shown to be reversible mixed type inhibitors, binding to a similar site on the enzyme. In contrast, NXX-066 was an irreversible non-competitive inhibitor. All three compounds were potent inhibitors of rat brain acetylcholinesterase (IC50 [nM]; tacrine: 125 +/- 23; NXX-066: 148 +/- 15; donepezil: 33 +/- 12). Tacrine was also a potent butyrylcholinesterase inhibitor. Donepezil and tacrine displaced [3H]pirenzepine binding in rat brain homogenates (IC50 values [microM]; tacrine: 0.7; donepezil: 0.5) but NXX-066 was around 80 times less potent at this M1-muscarinic site. Studies of carbachol stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i in neuroblastoma cells demonstrated that both donepezil and tacrine were M1 antagonists. Ligand binding suggested little activity of likely pharmacological significance with any of the drugs at other neurotransmitter sites. Intraperitoneal administration of the compounds to rats produced dose dependent increases in salivation and tremor (ED50 [micromol/kg]; tacrine: 15, NXX-066: 35, donepezil: 6) with NXX-066 having the most sustained effect on tremor. Following oral administration, NXX-066 had the slowest onset but the greatest duration of action. The relative potency also changed, tacrine having low potency (ED50 [micromol/kg]; tacrine: 200, NXX-066: 30, donepezil: 50). Salivation was severe only in tacrine treated animals. Using in vivo microdialysis in cerebral cortex, both NXX-066 and tacrine were found to produce a marked (at least 30-fold) increase in extracellular acetylcholine which remained elevated for more than 2 h after tacrine and 4 h after NXX-066.
There is experimental evidence for the existence of interactions between metabotropic glutamate (mGlu), adenosine and dopamine receptors in the striatum. In membrane preparations from rat striatum the group I and II mGlu receptor agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-1S-3R-dicarboxylic acid (1S-3R-ACPD) was found to modulate the binding characteristics of D2 receptors in a similar manner as the A2A receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenthylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680), with a significant decrease in the affinity of the high-affinity state of D2 receptors for dopamine. The effect of 1S-3R-ACPD was mimicked by (+/-)-trans-ACPD (t-ACPD; a racemic mixture of 1S-3R-ACPD and its inactive isomer 1R-3S-ACPD) and by the selective group I mGlu receptor agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and it was counteracted by the selective group I mGlu receptor antagonist 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxilic acid (AIDA), but not by the the group II and III mGlu receptor antagonist (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-tetrazolylphenylglycine (MTPG) or the adenosine receptor antagonist 8-phenyltheophylline. Furthermore, a strong synergistic effect was observed when the striatal membranes were exposed to both CGS 21680 and 1S-3R-ACPD. In agreement with the biochemical results, in unilaterally 6-OH-dopamine lesioned rats 1S-3R-ACPD counteracted the turning behaviour induced by the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole, but not by the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393, and it synergistically potentiated the antagonistic effect of CGS 21680 on quinpirole-induced turning behaviour.
This article reviews the functional studies that have been carried out on transgenic and knockout animals that are relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The discussion focuses upon the functional characterisation of these strains, particularly upon factors that affect synaptic processes that are thought to contribute to memory formation, including hippocampal long-term potentiation. We examine the use of transgenes associated with amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1, their mutations linked to early onset familial AD, and the recent attempts to establish double transgenic strains that have an AD-like pathology which occurs with a more rapid onset. The development of new transgenic strains relevant to Alzheimer's disease has rapidly outpaced their characterisation for functional deficits in synaptic plasticity. To date most studies have focused on those transgenes linked to the minority of familial early onset rather than late-onset sporadic AD cases, and have focused on those changes linked to the induction of the early-phase of hippocampal long-term potentiation. Future studies will need to address the question of whether the development of AD pathology can be reversed or at least halted and this will be aided by the use of conditional transgenics in which genes linked to AD can either be switched on or off later in development. Furthermore, it remains to be resolved whether the deficits in synaptic function are specific to the hippocampus and whether deficits affect late-phase long-term potentiation. Nonetheless, the recent advances in genome sciences and the development of transgenic technology have provided a unique opportunity to study how genes associated with human cognitive dysfunction alter synaptic transmission between neurones in the mammalian brain.

Recent studies suggest that protein kinase C (PKC), particularly the alpha isoform, plays an important role in the action of lithium. There is, however, little evidence from patients with bipolar disorder (BD) to support this effect. The present investigation carried out comparative studies of PKC levels in platelets obtained from BD subjects including those with and without lithium treatment. All subjects met DSM-IV criteria for BD type I confirmed by structured interview (SCID-IV). Levels of PKC-alpha isoform in platelets from controls and from BD subjects were measured with immunoblotting analysis. No significant differences were found between controls, drug-free or lithium-treated BD subjects on membrane or cytosolic levels of PKC-alpha or in the membrane-to-cytosol ratio of this protein. The present study suggests that levels of PKC-alpha do not change in the peripheral tissues of BD subjects with or without lithium treatment.
The study of hemispheric asymmetry in olfaction in human subjects has given rise to many publications, but the findings have often been contradictory. This study used bilateral electrodermal activity recordings with unilateral stimulation as a measure of functional hemispheric asymmetry. A specific odorant (lavender) was used by monorhinic (single nostril) stimulation on 30 dextral subjects (20 females and 10 males). Intraindividually, the results showed no difference between the two nostrils, but all subjects exhibited a constant direction of electrodermal asymmetry: 20 subjects systematically showed a greater response amplitude for the right hand and 10 subjects systematically showed a greater response amplitude for the left hand, whatever hemisphere stimulated.
Apomorphine, a dopamine receptor agonist (given in a dose of 0.75 mg s.c.), was administered to 8 healthy volunteers; electroencephalograph (EEG) and event-related potential (ERP) mapping were performed before dosing and 0.5, 1.5 and 2.5 h after dosing. Apomorphine caused an overall increase in beta activity at time 0.5 h in both absolute and relative energy; P300 and CNV ERPs were not significantly altered, although a tendency towards increased P300 latency was seen. The results confirm that the EEG mapping technique is sufficiently sensitive to monitor dopaminergic neurochemical stimulation by means of apomorphine. This could lead to a new, non-invasive and repeatable method for monitoring central neuronal systems which is more convenient to apply repeatedly than for example positron emission tomography techniques. Furthermore, electrophysiological techniques undoubtedly constitute an alternative to classical neuroendocrinological methods, allowing a more direct assessment of central nervous system neurotransmission. Finally, these EEG approaches could lead to better characterization of drugs acting on dopaminergic pathways, such as antipsychotics.
Patients with relatively mild unilateral spatial neglect underwent the line bisection task with self-estimation, where they were asked two different questions about the relationship of their subjective midpoint to the line. For the first trial, all patients responded by &quot;yes&quot; when asked whether their subjective midpoint was placed at the center of the line, but by &quot;left&quot; or &quot;right&quot; when asked to indicate the longer segment of the bisected line. In the subsequent trials, they repeatedly reported that their subjective midpoints were placed at the true center, even after they had recognized their bisection errors when indicating the longer segment. Of the 32 patients, 28 kept on showing this pattern of responses in almost all the 30 trials. Moreover, the patients who could estimate the longer segment showed no improvement of line bisection throughout the trials. Their performances strongly depended upon the task demand regarding the subjective midpoint. These results demonstrate that the patients treated the two related tasks as independent. Accordingly, they could not improve their performances on one task with the feedback from their performances on the other. The lack of association between the responses to two related task demands may be one of the factors that prevent patients with unilateral spatial neglect from improving the deficit.
Concept formation and shifting abilities of 17 frontal lesion (FL) and 8 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients were assessed with the California Card Sorting Test. FL patients demonstrated a significantly greater number of perseverative responses and deficits in strategy planning, strategy initiation, and concept formation and did not benefit from abstract cues in comparison with their matched normal control (NC) participants. PD patients also demonstrated an increased number of perseverative responses under selected conditions in comparison with their matched NCs, but their ability to explain their sorts, to extract and express the sorting principles, and to sort with the help of abstract and concrete cues depended on their general cognitive status.
Prefrontal cortex and cerebellum have both been implicated in temporal processing tasks although the exact contribution of each system remains unclear. To investigate this issue, control participants and patients with either prefrontal or cerebellar lesions were tested on temporal and nontemporal perceptual tasks under 2 levels of attentional load. Each trial involved a comparison between a standard tone and a subsequent comparison tone that varied in frequency, duration, or both. When participants had to make concurrent judgments on both dimensions, patients with frontal lobe lesions were significantly impaired on both tasks whereas the variability of cerebellar patients increased in the duration task only. This dissociation suggests that deficits on temporal processing tasks observed in frontal patients can be related to the attention demands of such tasks; cerebellar patients have a more specific problem related to timing.
In the present article, it is argued that a five-stage sequential model of the behavioral and neurophysiological events that occur when organisms are exposed to signals predicting significant events suggests that classical conditioning produces multiple memory traces involving both excitatory and inhibitory processes. Further, these multiple brain structures and associated neurophysiological mechanisms are beginning to be understood; thus, using Pavlovian conditioning techniques to study aging and cognitive functions may provide insights into which brain structures or mechanisms are responsible for more general age-related declines in associative learning and memory. The evidence for this model is briefly reviewed and studies suggesting age-related effects on classical conditioning of various response systems are described within the context of the brain structures implicated by the model.
Primate and human parenting have often been viewed as completely emancipated from neuroendocrine influences and primarily dependent on experience, social and cognitive processes. A review of recent findings of primate research on the neurobiological regulation of parental responsiveness, the causes of variability in parenting styles, and the determinants of infant abuse suggests that primate parenting is more sensitive to neuroendocrine mechanisms than previously thought. The findings of primate research can have important implications for human research and encourage the investigation of biological influences on human parenting.
Evidence is reviewed concerning the brain areas and neurotransmitters involved in aggressive behavior in the cat and rodent. In the cat, two distinct neural circuits involving the hypothalamus and PAG subserve two different kinds of aggression: defensive rage and predatory (quiet-biting) attack. The roles played by the neurotransmitters serotonin, GABA, glutamate, opioids, cholecystokinin, substance P, norepinephrine, dopamine, and acetylcholine in the modulation and expression of aggression are discussed. For the rat, a single area, largely coincident with the intermediate hypothalamic area, is crucial for the expression of attack; variations in the rat attack response in natural settings are due largely to environmental variables. Experimental evidence emphasizing the roles of serotonin and GABA in modulating hypothalamically evoked attack in the rat is discussed. It is concluded that significant progress has been made concerning our knowledge of the circuitry underlying the neural basis of aggression. Although new and important insights have been made concerning neurotransmitter regulation of aggressive behavior, wide gaps in our knowledge remain.

Sprague-Dawley rats (weight 130-150 g) were sensitized by an intraperitoneal injection of 1 mg chicken egg albumin with 0.25 ml Freund's adjuvant to stimulate immunoglobulin E antibody production. Leukocyte migration inhibitory factor was used as an indicator of animal sensitization. In acute electrophysiological experiments on sensitized animals, an intra-arterial or intraluminal chicken egg albumin (100 microg) challenge evoked a 10% enhancement of the activity of mesenteric nerves of the small intestine, regardless of the injection site chosen. Afferent nerve activity in control animals was not changed during the chicken egg albumin challenge. Morphometry at the light microscope level showed activation of mast cell degranulation after the antigen challenge to presensitized rats. Intraluminal injections of a stimulator of mast cell degranulation, compound 48/80 (20-30 mg), were found to increase afferent discharges in intact rats. An antagonist of H1 histamine receptors, clemastine, reduced the effect of compound 48/80. The results obtained provide direct evidence for the stimulation of sensory nerve endings by mast cell mediators released during mast cell degranulation.
Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain. Several lines of evidence suggest that glutamatergic hypoactivity exists in the Alzheimer's disease brain, where it may contribute to both brain amyloid burden and cognitive dysfunction. Although metabotropic glutamate receptors have been shown to alter cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein, little attention has been paid to the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in this process. We now report that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in transiently transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells increases production of the soluble amyloid precursor protein derivative. Moreover, using both pharmacological and gene transfer techniques, we show that this effect is largely due to activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade, specifically the pathway leading to activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase but not other mitogen-activated protein kinases. These observations further our understanding of the pathways that regulate amyloid precursor protein cleavage, and buttress the notion that regulation of amyloid precursor protein cleavage is critically dependent upon the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade.
DNA repair is one of the most essential systems for maintaining the inherited nucleotide sequence of genomic DNA over time. Repair of DNA damage would be particularly important in neurons, because these cells are among the longest-living cells in the body. MSH2 is one of the proteins which are involved in the recognition and repair of a specific type of DNA damage that is characterized by pair mismatches. We studied the distribution of MSH2 in rat brain by immunohistochemical analysis. We found the level of MSH2 expression in rat brain to be clearly heterogeneous. The highest intensity of staining was found in the pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and in the entorhinal and frontoparietal cortices. Positive cells were observed in the substantia nigra pars compacta, in cerebellar granular and Purkinje cells, and in the motor neurons of the spinal cord. We investigated the possible modulation of MSH2 expression after injection of kainate. Systemic administration of kainate induces various behavioural alterations and a typical pattern of neuropathology, with cell death in the hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the CA3/CA4 fields. Kainate injection also resulted in a marked, dose-dependent increase of MSH2 immunoreactivity in the hippocampal neurons of the CA3/CA4 fields. The effect was specific, since no changes in immunoreactivity were detected in the dentate gyrus nor in other brain areas. In summary, our data suggest that a mismatch DNA repair system, of which MSH2 protein is a representative component, is heterogeneously expressed in the rat brain and specifically induced by an experimental paradigm of excitotoxicity.
This study had three objectives: (i) to determine whether there were individual differences in the activation and adaptation of a range of immediate-early genes to repeated restraint stress, (ii) to monitor physiological responses (endocrine, cardiovascular and core temperature) and their adaptation with repeated presentations of the stressor, and (iii) to determine whether any of these indices were altered by dehydroepiandrosterone, an anti-glucocorticoid steroid known to be reduced in humans by stress. Four groups of male rats were implanted subcutaneously with either dehydroepiandrosterone or control (paraffin) pellets. They were then subjected to either a single or 14 days of restraint (60 min/day) or transferred to the testing room (unstressed). Repeatedly stressed animals and their controls were also implanted with intra-abdominal telemetric transmitters to record heart rate and core temperature. Protein products for c-fos,fos-b, c-jun and jun-b were displayed by immunocytochemistry. Areas examined included the ventrolateral septum, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, amygdala, locus coeruleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Acute restraint increased Fos immunoreactivity in all of the areas examined, with the exception of the medial amygdala. The pattern of induction for Fos-B and Jun-B was similar, while c-Jun was only increased in the septum (though constitutive levels were high in most structures compared to the other proteins examined). After 14 days of restraint, immediate-early gene immunostaining was reduced in all of the areas examined, though the extent of adaptation depended on the area and immediate-early gene. In the forebrain, Fos expression adapted in the paraventricular nucleus, amygdala and septum, whereas Fos-B and c-Jun adapted incompletely in the septum. In contrast, Jun-B behaved like Fos. In the brainstem, Fos, Fos-B and Jun-B expression adapted in the nucleus of the solitary tract (but not the locus coeruleus). Corticosterone levels were still raised above baseline, but the response was blunted compared to acute stress. There was marked stress-induced hypothermia which did not adapt during the restraint session, but this returned to baseline during restraint after about five days. In contrast, stress-induced tachycardia did not change during repeated restraint. Dehydroepiandrosterone implants had no clear-cut effects on any immunostaining following acute stress, though there was a trend towards lessened adaptation of the Fos response in the septum after steroid treatment. Dehydroepiandrosterone also did not affect the cardiovascular or endocrine responses to repeated restraint. These experiments show that adaptation of the expression of multiple immediate-early genes occurs during repeated restraint, but in a site-specific pattern in the brains of male rats.
A group of four proteins with recognition sites for L-glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, glycine, and competitive and non-competitive inhibitors of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was previously purified from rat brain synaptic membranes. The biochemical and immunochemical characteristics of this complex, as well as the sequences of the complementary DNAs of three subunits, are distinct from those of other glutamate receptors, transporters, or enzymes. The function of this complex has not yet been defined, but it appears to be involved in glutamate-induced neuronal excitation and toxicity. It is not known whether all protein components of the complex are expressed in the same populations of brain cells. In the present study, immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization were used to map the distribution of the glutamate-binding, glycine/thienylcyclohexylpiperidine-binding, and carboxypiperazinyl-propylphosphonate-binding protein subunits of the complex. These proteins were abundantly expressed in pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, and in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, cerebellum, and olfactory tubercle. Based on these results, it was concluded that the three subunits of the complex have similar patterns of expression in rat brain. The distribution of one subunit of the complex, glutamate-binding protein, was traced throughout the rat brain, thus providing a potential map of the expression of the complex in rodent brain. In addition, probes were developed in the present study that should be useful in future explorations of the role of these proteins in brain function and of the possible co-localization of the protein subunits in single cells or cell processes.
We describe here the identification and molecular characterization of a new brain protein that we named SV2C because it is homologous to the synaptic vesicle proteins SV2A and SV2B, and because it is also recognized by the monoclonal SV2 antibody that led to the initial discovery of SV2A and SV2B. SV2C is more closely related to SV2A (62% identity) than to SV2B (57% identity), and contains 12 transmembrane regions similar to these proteins. To characterize SV2C and compare its properties and localization with those of SV2A and SV2B, we raised an SV2C-specific antibody. Using this antibody, we show that SV2C is an N-glycosylated protein that is concentrated on small synaptic vesicles; in addition, it is found on microvesicles in adrenal chromaffin cells. We evaluated the relative localization of the three SV2 isoforms by staining rat brain sections with antibodies specific for SV2A, SV2B and SV2C. Analysis of the resulting staining patterns confirmed previous conclusions that SV2A is ubiquitously expressed in virtually all synapses. SV2B, although more restricted in distribution, was also found in a wide variety of synapses throughout the brain. In striking contrast to this general localization and to similarly wide distributions of other synaptic vesicle proteins, SV2C was observed only in few brain areas. High levels of SV2C were found primarily in phylogenetically old brain regions such as the pallidum, the substantia nigra, the midbrain, the brainstem and the olfactory bulb. SV2C was undetectable in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, and found at low levels in the cerebellar cortex. Our data suggest that closely related members of a synaptic vesicle protein family can either have very general (SV2A) or restricted distributions (SV2C), possibly in order to allow specialization in the regulation of the expression or of the function of these abundant synaptic vesicle proteins.
The in vivo autoradiographic deoxyglucose method was used to identify the functional brain circuits that are involved in the performance of appetitive and consummatory components of male sexual behavior in Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica). Two groups of castrated, testosterone-treated male quail were trained during 12 sessions to associate the view of a female behind a window with the opportunity to interact freely and to copulate with her. They developed, as a consequence, a social proximity response (staying close and looking through the window providing a view of the female) that has been used in previous experiments to measure appetitive sexual behavior. A third control group (also castrated and treated with testosterone) was allowed to view the female but not to copulate with her and therefore did not develop this proximity response. 2-14C-deoxyglucose was then injected i.p. to these birds and they were allowed to either copulate freely with a female (consummatory sexual behavior group) or express the social proximity response (appetitive sexual behavior group). The control group was provided a view of the female but these birds, although they were exposed to the same stimuli as birds in the appetitive group, did not express the social proximity response because they had never learned the association with the opportunity to copulate. Birds were killed 45 min after the deoxyglucose injection and their brains were processed for autoradiography. Densitometric analyses of the autoradiograms revealed that the expression of appetitive or consummatory aspects of male sexual behavior was associated with significant increases by comparison with the control group in the deoxyglucose incorporation in the nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis, pars dorsalis and in the nucleus leminsci lateralis. In addition, an increase in the deoxyglucose incorporation was specifically observed in the paleostriatum primitivum, rostral preoptic area, nucleus intercollicularis, nucleus interpeduncularis and third nerve but a decrease was observed in the dorsomedial part of the hippocampus and in the nucleus nervi oculomotori in birds of the consummatory sexual behavior group by comparison with controls. By contrast, in the appetitive sexual behavior group, significant increases in deoxyglucose incorporation were observed in two telencephalic areas, the intermediate hyperstriatum ventrale and neostriatum caudolaterale by comparison with the controls, but decreases were detected in the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale of optic tectum by comparison with the consummatory behavior group. These studies demonstrate that the performance of appetitive or consummatory components of male sexual behavior affects in a specific manner the deoxyglucose uptake and accumulation in specific regions of the quail brain. Changes in metabolic activity were observed in steroid-sensitive areas, in auditory, visual and vocal brain regions, and in brain nuclei related to motor behavior but also in association telencephalic and limbic structures. These changes in oxidative metabolism overlap to some extent with metabolic changes as revealed by immunocytochemistry for the immediate early gene products Fos and Zenk, but many specific reactions are also detected indicating that these techniques are not necessarily redundant and, together, they can provide a more complete picture of the brain circuits that are implicated in the control and performance of complex behaviors.
The present study was undertaken to explore the effects of central serotonin receptor activation on the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of Syrian hamsters. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical procedures were used to examine the effects of systemic application of the serotonin-1A and serotonin-7 receptor agonist, (+/-)-2-dipropyl-amino-8-hydroxyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT; 3.75 mg/kg) on the contents and distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Administration of 8-OH-DPAT at midday caused a significant reduction in immunoreactive glial fibrillary acidic protein content within 1 h of injection, compared to vehicle controls. This effect was not evident 3 h after drug injection. Treatment with 8-OH-DPAT during the late dark phase had little effect on glial fibrillary acidic protein content. The 8-OH-DPAT-induced reduction in glial fibrillary acidic protein content seen at midday was blocked partially by pretreatment with the serotonin-2 and serotonin-7 receptor antagonist, ritanserin, and more substantially by pretreatment with the serotonin-1A receptor antagonist, NAN-190. Treatment with 8-OH-DPAT also caused a significant redistribution of immunoreactive glial fibrillary acidic protein, such that the dense mesh-like appearance seen in vehicle controls was significantly reduced. The 8-OH-DPAT treatment also significantly decreased expression of polysialic acid, a cell-surface molecule associated with neural plasticity. Immunoblot assessments of glial fibrillary acidic protein contents 2 h before and 1 h after lights off revealed a significant time-of-day difference in glial fibrillary acidic protein expression, with lowest levels occurring at the latter time-point, associated with maximal endogenous serotonin release in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Collectively, these results indicate that acute plastic changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein-related astrocytic activity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus can be induced in response to serotonin-7 or serotonin-1A receptor activation in a phase-dependent manner. It is interesting to speculate that circadian reorganizations in astrocytic activity could be regulated by the daily rhythm in serotonin release in the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Terazosin, a water-soluble alpha 1 antagonist that can be administered in high doses intraventricularly was used to study the relationship between brain alpha 1 adrenoceptor neurotransmission and behavioral activation in the mouse. The antagonist was found to produce a dose-dependent, complete inhibition of motor activity and catalepsy which were reversed preferentially by coinfusion of an alpha 1 agonist (phenylephrine) compared to a D1 (SKF38393) or a D2 agonist, (quinpirole). Blockade of central beta-1 (betaxolol), alpha-2 (RX821002) or beta-2 (ICI 118551) adrenoceptors had smaller or non-significant effects. Terazosin's selectivity for alpha 1 receptors versus dopaminergic receptors was verified under the present conditions by showing that the intraventricularly administered antagonist protected striatal and cerebral cortical alpha 1 receptors but not striatal or cortical D1 receptors from in vivo alkylation by N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1, 2-dihydroxyquinoline. That its effect was due to blockade of brain rather than peripheral receptors was shown by the finding that intraperitoneal doses of terazosin three to 66 times greater than the maximal intraventricular dose produced less behavioral inhibition. Intraventricular terazosin also produced hypothermia and a reduced respiratory rate suggestive of a reduced sympathetic outflow. However, external heat did not affect the inactivity, and captopril, a hypotensive agent, did not mimic it. Terazosin did not impair performance on a horizontal wire test or the ability to make co-ordinated movements in a swim test suggesting that its activity-reducing effect was not due to sedation and may have a motivational or sensory gating component. It is concluded that central alpha 1-noradrenergic neurotransmission is required for behavioral activation to environmental change in the mouse and may operate on sensorimotor and motivational processes.
Neuronal Na+ channels are functionally inhibited in the adult in response to acute O2 deprivation. Since prolonged hypoxia may not only affect channel function, but also its expression, we hypothesized that long-term hypoxia alters Na+ channel density. This alteration may depend on age, because we have found major differences in neuronal responses to hypoxia between the immature and adult. In the present work, we used northern blots, slot blots, saxitoxin binding and autoradiography to ask whether: (i) prolonged hypoxia alters Na+ channel messenger RNA and protein levels in the brain; (ii) there is a difference between the adult and prenatal brains regarding Na+ channel expression with hypoxic exposure; and (iii) regional differences in Na+ channel expression occur in hypoxia-exposed brains. Our results show the following. (1) Na+ channel messenger RNA and saxitoxin binding density decreased after prolonged hypoxia in adult brain homogenates; this is in sharp contrast to the changes observed in fetal brains, which tended to increase Na+ channel messenger RNA and protein after hypoxia. (2) Changes in saxitoxin binding density are related to alterations in the number of saxitoxin binding sites and not to binding affinity, since there was no major change in Kd values between the hypoxia and naive groups. (3) The hypoxia-induced Na+ channel expression was heterogeneous, with major differences between rostral regions (e.g., the cortex) and caudal regions (e.g., the medulla and pons). We speculate that down-regulation of Na+ channels during long-term hypoxia in mature brains is an adaptive cellular response, aimed at minimizing the mismatch between energy supply and demand, since maintenance of Na+ gradients is a major energy-requiring process. However, the prenatal brain does not depend on this adaptive mechanism in response to hypoxic stress.
The mechanism of ischaemic injury to white matter axons was studied by transiently depriving rat optic nerves in vitro of oxygen and glucose. Light and electron microscopic analysis showed that increasing periods of oxygen/glucose deprivation (up to 1 h) caused, after a 90-min recovery period, the appearance of increasing numbers of swollen axons whose ultrastructure indicated that they were irreversibly damaged. This conclusion was supported by experiments showing that the damage persisted after a longer recovery period (3 h). To quantify the axonal pathology, an automated morphometric method, based on measurement of the density of swollen axons, was developed. Omission of Ca2+ from the incubation solution during 1 h of oxygen/glucose deprivation (and for 15 min either side) completely prevented the axonopathy (assessed following 90 min recovery). Omission of Na+ was also effective, though less so (70% protection). The classical Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (1 microM), provided 92% protection. In view of this evidence implicating Na+ channels in the pathogenesis of the axonal damage, the effects of three different Na+ channel inhibitors, with known neuroprotective properties towards gray matter in in vivo models of cerebral ischaemia, were tested. The compounds used were lamotrigine and the structurally-related molecules, BW619C89 and BW1003C87. All three compounds protected the axons to varying degrees, the maximal efficacies (observed at 30 to 100 microM) being in the order: BW619C89 (&gt;95% protection) &gt; BW1003C87 (70%) &gt; lamotrigine (50%). At a concentration affording near complete protection (100 microM), BW619C89 had no significant effect on the optic nerve compound action potential. Experiments in which BW619C89 was added at different times indicated that its effects were exerted during two distinct phases, one (accounting for about 50% protection) was during the early stage of oxygen/glucose deprivation itself and the other (also about 50%) during the first 15 min of recovery in normal incubation solution. The results are consistent with a pathophysiological mechanism in which Na+ entry through tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channels contributes to Na+ loading of the axoplasm which then results in a lethal Ca2+ overload through reversed Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange. The identification of BW619C89 as a compound able to prevent oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced injury to white matter axons without affecting normal nerve function opens the way to testing the importance of this pathway in white matter injury in vivo.
Necrotic and apoptotic cell death both play a role mediating tissue injury following brain trauma. Caspase-1 (interleukin-1beta converting enzyme) is activated and oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation is detected in traumatized brain tissue. Reduction of tissue injury and free radical production following brain trauma was achieved in a transgenic mouse expressing a dominant negative inhibitor of caspase-1 in the brain. Neuroprotection was also conferred by pharmacological inhibition of caspase-1 by intracerebroventricular administration of the selective inhibitor of caspase-1, acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-chloromethyl-ketone or the non-selective caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone. These results indicate that inhibition of caspase-1-like caspases reduces trauma-mediated brain tissue injury. In addition, we demonstrate an in vivo functional interaction between interleukin-1beta converting enyzme-like caspases and free radical production pathways, implicating free radical production as a downstream mediator of the caspase cell death cascade.
We applied randomized double pulse stimulation for assessing the effects of GABA and a GABAA antagonist on compound action potentials in dorsal column axons isolated from adult rat. We stimulated the axons with double pulses at 0.2 Hz and randomly varied interpulse intervals between 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 20, 30, 50 and 80 ms. Action potentials were measured using glass micropipettes. The first pulse was used to condition the response activated by the second test pulse. Concentrations of GABA of 1 mM, 100 microM and 10 microM did not affect action potential amplitudes or latencies activated by conditioning pulses. In the control studies, before drug administration, test pulses induced response amplitudes that were significantly decreased at 3-, 4- and 5-ms interpulse intervals. The test action potential amplitudes were 84.6 +/- 2.5%, 89.0 +/- 3.9% and 93.3 +/- 3.6% (mean +/- S.E.M.) of conditioning pulse levels, respectively. At 3-ms interpulse intervals, test response latencies were prolonged to 104.3 +/- 1.0%, but were unchanged at the other interpulse intervals. The 10 microM, 100 microM and 1 mM concentrations of GABA affected test response amplitudes. Application of 100 microM GABA reduced the amplitudes of test responses at 3-, 4-, 5- and 8-ms interpulse intervals, to 59.2 +/- 3.0%, 70.0 +/- 3.0%, 80.2 +/- 1.1% and 88.6 +/- 3.6% of the conditioning pulse amplitudes, respectively. At both 100 microM and 1 mM concentrations, GABA significantly prolonged the latencies of test responses. Treatment with 100 microM GABA prolonged the latencies of test responses at 3-, 4- and 5-ms interpulse intervals, to 119.3 +/- 3.1%, 107.3 +/- 2.8% and 105.5 +/- 2.5% of conditioning pulse latencies, respectively. The addition of 100 microM bicuculline methochloride, a GABAA antagonist, eliminated the effects of 100 microM GABA. The combined application of GABA and bicuculline (both 100 microM) did not affect amplitudes or latencies of test responses. These results suggest that GABA(A) receptor subtypes are present on the spinal dorsal column axons of adult rat, and that they modulate the excitability of the axons. The randomized double pulse methods reveal that GABA increases refractoriness of adult rat dorsal column axons.
Excitatory amino acids are known to activate the spinal neural network that organize locomotor activity in various species. In this study, the role of various compounds which alter the functioning of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (glycine, Mg2+ ions and spermine) was investigated during fictive locomotion, using an in vitro isolated spinal cord preparation from neonatal rats. Locomotor-like activity induced by excitatory amino acids was recorded both extra- and intracellularly. 7-chloro-kynurenic acid, an antagonist of the glycine site at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, depressed the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of the synaptic inputs received by the motoneurons. Glycine at low concentrations had no effect on locomotor activity, while 7-chlorokynurenic acid increased the locomotor period and decreased the burst amplitude in a dose-dependent manner. Removal of Mg2+ ions from the saline facilitated the N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated response, and triggered spontaneous bursting activity, abolished by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. The polyamine, spermine, did not change the locomotor parameters. On the contrary, arcaine, a putative antagonist of the polyamine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, increased locomotor activity. The effects of arcaine were counteracted by spermine. These results suggest that glycine and spermine are present at saturating concentrations on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor during ongoing locomotion. Together with Mg2+ ions, these endogenous regulators contribute to control the level of activity of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the spinal cord of the neonatal rat.
The pharmacological properties, molecular identity and physiopathological regulation of neurotensin receptors expressed by central astrocytes were investigated in primary glial cultures and sections from the adult rat brain. Binding experiments carried out on astrocytes in culture revealed the presence of a single apparent class of neurotensin binding sites. These sites bound [125]neurotensin with an affinity (6 nM) comparable to that of the recently cloned NT2 low-affinity receptor expressed in transfected cells. The glial receptor was sensitive to the antihistamine, levocabastine, but less so than the NT2 site expressed in heterologous expression systems, suggesting the presence of an additional site or a differential coupling of the NT2 receptor in glia. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments demonstrated that both NT2 and NT3 neurotensin receptor sub-types were in fact expressed by cortical glial cells in culture. Confocal microscopic visualization of specifically bound fluorescent neurotensin indicated that this expression concerned only a sub-population of astrocytes in culture, in conformity with earlier reports of a heterogeneous expression of neuropeptides and their receptors by glial cells. To further investigate the functionality of NT2 receptors expressed in astrocytes, dual immunohistochemical labeling of glial fibrillary acidic protein and in situ hybridization of NT2 messenger RNA was performed on sections of normal and lesioned rat brain. In sections from normal brain, only a small subset of immunolabeled astrocytes hybridized NT2 messenger RNA. By contrast, in sections of stab-wounded rat brains, there was a marked increase in the number of NT2-hybridizing astrocytes in the surround of the lesion. Furthermore, NT2 expression within immunopositive reactive astrocytes was significantly enhanced as compared to immunolabeled glial cells in the brain of control animals. These results indicate that NT2 receptor expression is up-regulated during astrocytic reaction, suggesting that NT2 receptors may play a role in regulating glial response to injury.
These experiments examined the role of substance P-selective neurokinin 1 receptors in the restraint-induced activation of the rat locus coeruleus. Immunohistochemistry revealed high levels of neurokinin 1 receptor expression in the plasma membrane of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive locus coeruleus neurons. The selective neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists, RP 67580 (5 nmol) and L-760,735 (3.4 nmol), were administered intracerebroventricularly prior to restraint stress, and c-fos protein was measured as an index of locus coeruleus activation. Both antagonists attenuated the restraint-induced increase in locus coeruleus c-fos expression, whereas their inactive enantiomers were ineffective. These results suggest that neurokinin 1 receptors may mediate activation of locus coeruleus neurons during stress. Neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists may prove to be novel therapeutic compounds in the treatment of anxiety and depression.
Whole-cell recordings were made from neurons in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract in horizontal brainstem slices. Monosynaptic GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by single stimulus shocks or by high-frequency tetanic stimulation in the presence of glutamate receptor blockers. While single stimulus-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials had variable amplitudes, tetanic stimulation-induced, hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potentials were of a more constant amplitude. Furthermore, tetanic stimulation resulted in potentiation of the amplitude of single stimulus shock-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Of 55 neurons that were tested, potentiation lasted over 30 min for 11, 10-30 min for 13, less than 10 min for 23 and no potentiation occurred in eight. Tetanic stimulation did not result in potentiation of the tetanic stimulus-evoked hyperpolarizing postsynaptic potentials. Both the single stimulus shock- and tetanic stimulus-evoked potentials had similar inhibition concentration-response curves to the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline methiodide (EC50 = 0.75 and 0.83, respectively), indicating that they were mediated by the same postsynaptic receptors. By comparing the effect of bicuculline methiodide on the amplitude of the single stimulus shock-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and the tetanic stimulus-evoked hyperpolarizing potentials, we concluded that a single stimulus shock does not activate all postsynaptic GABAA receptors. However, tetanic stimulation results in activation of all postsynaptic GABAA receptors and induces long-lasting changes in the presynaptic GABAergic neuron. These long-lasting changes of the presynaptic neuron facilitate the release of GABA during single stimulus shock and, as a consequence, more postsynaptic receptors are activated during single stimulus shock-evoked synaptic transmission. This conclusion is supported by the results of experiments in which the extracellular Ca2+ concentration was manipulated to change the amount of neurotransmitter released from the presynaptic GABAergic terminals. The single stimulus shock-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were sensitive to the extracellular Ca2+ concentration, whereas tetanic stimulus-evoked inhibitory post-synaptic potentials were essentially insensitive to extracellular Ca2+ concentration. The relationship between the single stimulus shock-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude and extracellular Ca2+ concentration indicates that, in control physiological saline containing 2.5 mM Ca2+, a single stimulus shock activates less than half the postsynaptic GABA receptors. The phenomenon of long-lasting potentiation of inhibitory transmission within the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract may be important in the processing of gustatory information and play a role in taste-guided behaviors.
The role of the p75 nerve growth factor receptor in the retrograde transport of neurotrophins in the adult CNS was investigated by comparing the transport of 125I-labeled neurotrophins by normal and p75 nerve growth factor receptor-deficient cholinergic septohippocampal neurons. In control mice, nerve growth factor was selectively transported from the hippocampal formation to the cholinergic neurons in the septum. Nerve growth factor labeling was found in three to four times as many septal cholinergic neuronal cell bodies than labeling for neurotrophin-3 or neurotrophin-4/5, and transported brain-derived neurotrophic factor was barely detectable. Cells were considered as labeled when the number of grains per cell exceeded five times background. In p75 nerve growth factor receptor-deficient mice, the number of cholinergic neurons labeled with each of the neurotrophins was reduced by 85-95%. Retrograde labeling of septohippocampal neurons with Fluorogold was not obviously reduced in p75 nerve growth factor receptor-deficient mice, suggesting that general transport mechanisms were not impaired. Despite the reduced neurotrophin transport, cholinergic neurons of p75 nerve growth factor receptor-deficient mice were larger than controls and had an apparently normal density of immunostaining for choline acetyltransferase. Since nerve growth factor is reportedly involved in size regulation and choline acetyltransferase expression, this raises the possibility that the retrograde transport itself is not essential for these events. Thus, p75 nerve growth factor receptor plays an important, although not exclusive, role in the transport of neurotrophins by cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, and retrograde transport of nerve growth factor may not be needed for regulating certain cellular processes.
Interactions between glutamatergic mechanisms mediated by receptors of the ionotropic and metabotropic classes in the central nervous system are complex and incompletely understood. To explore the consequences of these interactions on excitotoxicity, we examined the influence of group II and group III selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists on the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced apoptotic destruction of GABAergic neurons in rat striatum. The intrastriatal administration of a group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid, 900-1800 nmol), but not of a group II agonist [(2S,1'S,2'S)-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine, 100-1800 nmol] produced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation. Similarly, amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (600 nmol) but not (2S,1'S,2'S)-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (100-1800 nmol) destroyed some striatal neurons as indicated by a loss of D1 dopamine receptors and 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase (glutamate decarboxylase-67) messenger RNA. On the other hand, the intensity of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation induced by N-methyl-D aspartate (150 nmol) was substantially decreased by the intrastriatal co-administration of either (2S,1'S,2'S)-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine or amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (100-600 nmol). Both (2S, 1'S,2'S)-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine and amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid also reduced the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced loss of striatal D1 dopamine receptors by 67% and 68% (both P &lt; 0.001), and glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA by 68% and 61%, respectively. Furthermore, both (2S,1'S,2'S)-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine and amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid also attenuated the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced decline in striatal IKB-alpha protein levels by 62% and 37%, as well as the increase in nuclear transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB binding activity by 135% and 94% (both P &lt; 0.001), and the subsequent rise in p53 and c-Myc protein levels. These results suggest that stimulation of cyclic-AMP-linked metabotropic glutamate receptors inhibits ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated activation of apoptotic cascades involving IkappaB-alpha degradation and nuclear factor-kappaB nuclear translocation, as well as p53 and c-Myc induction. Certain selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists might thus find utility as adjuncts to N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists in the protection against the neurotoxicity initiated by excessive ionotropic glutamate receptor stimulation.
The nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems of the rat were reconstructed using an organotypic culture model, whereby neonatal brain tissue was grown in vitro for approximately one month. The nigrostriatal system comprised of tissue from the substantia nigra, the dorsal striatum and the frontoparietal cortex, while the mesolimbic system included the ventral tegmental area, ventral striatum (including the fundus striati, accumbens nucleus, olfactory tubercle, lateral septum, ventral pallidum and piriform cortex) and cingulate cortex. These regions were also cultured alone or in pairs. The cultures were monitored in vitro, and after one month fixed in a formalin-picric acid solution, and processed for immunohistochemistry using antibodies raised against tyrosine hydroxylase, nitric oxide synthase, preprocholecystokinin, glutamate decarboxylase, neuropeptide Y, dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 and glial fibrillary acidic protein. The tissue survived in single, double or triple cultures, although differences were found depending upon the source and combination of cultured region. Neurons had localization and shape as in vivo. Local networks were especially prominent in the mesencephalon, where both tyrosine hydroxylase-positive axons spread from the &quot;substantia nigra&quot; to the rest of the tissue, and where nitric oxide synthase-positive networks also surrounded tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Glutamate decarboxylase-positive nerve terminals formed dense networks around tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. In the striatum, nitric oxide synthase and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 neurons were surrounded by tyrosine hydroxylase-positive nerve terminals. The nigral and ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons projected to striatal and cortical structures, but the projection from the ventral tegmental area to the cingulate cortex was more prominent. With regard to co-existence, preprochole-cystokinin-like immunoreactivities was found in many tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons and neuropeptide Y- and nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity co-existed in striatal and cortical tissues. In general terms, the chemical neuroanatomy in the cultures was similar to that described earlier in vivo. Nitric oxide synthase staining was particularly intense. Taken together, the organotypic model captures many of the morphological and neurochemical features seen in vivo, providing a valuable model for studying neurocircuitries of the brain in detail, where 'normal' and 'pathological' conditions can be simulated.
The influence of dopaminergic denervation on neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing factor-containing neurons in the amygdala was investigated in rats by examining the effects of a selective, unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in both the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area on these peptides and their messenger RNA expression, observed eight to 10 days after the lesion. The studies were conducted by immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization methods. Neuropeptide Y or corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive neurons were counted in sections of the amygdala under a microscope, and the messenger RNA expression was measured as optical density units in autoradiograms. A significant increase in both neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing factor messenger RNA expression was found in the amygdala on the lesioned side in comparison with the contralateral one, as well as with the ipsilateral side of vehicle-injected controls. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the number of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons increased in the whole amygdala on the lesioned side. At the same time, the number of corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive neurons grouped in the central amygdaloid nucleus declined, and so did the staining intensity. The obtained results indicate that dopaminergic denervation stimulates the synthesis of neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing factor in rat amygdala, but the peptide levels are differently regulated, which points to a diverse release of these peptides.
The interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure is, like the striatum, very rich in tyrosine hydroxylase and acetylcholinesterase, but on the basis of most other neurochemical criteria displays features that are typical of the extended amygdala (Alheid, de Olmos and Beltramino, 1995). Its afferent connections were examined in the rat with retrograde (cholera toxin B subunit) and anterograde (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) tracers and compared to those of the neighboring amygdalostriatal transition area and central amygdaloid nucleus. Deposits of cholera toxin B subunit in the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure result in retrograde labeling that is similar to that seen after cholera toxin B subunit injections in the central amygdaloid nucleus. Retrogradely labeled cells are found in insular, infralimbic, prelimbic, piriform, amygdalopiriform transition, entorhinal and perirhinal cortices, as well as in temporal field CA1 of Ammon horn and ventral subiculum, amygdala (nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, anterior amygdaloid area, anterior cortical, posterolateral cortical, anterior and posterior basomedial, intercalated cells, basolateral and lateral nuclei), and extended amygdala, primarily in its central division. The latter includes the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, dorsal portions of the sublenticular region, the lateral pocket of the supracapsular bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the central amygdaloid nucleus. Retrogradely labeled cells are also seen in midline thalamic nuclei, lateral hypothalamus, ventral tegmental area, retrorubral field, dorsal raphe nucleus, pedunculopontine and dorsolateral tegmental nuclei, locus coeruleus and parabrachial area. The central extended amygdala, lateral hypothalamus and parabrachial area display a substantial retrograde labeling only when the injection involves districts of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure apposed to the pallidum, i.e. its medial part. Our anterograde results confirm that projections from the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus to the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure target its medial part. They also indicate that structures which provide major afferents to the central extended amygdala (the lateral and posterior basolateral amygdaloid nuclei and the amygdalopiriform transition area) innervate chiefly the medial part of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure and, to a much lesser degree, its lateral part. The piriform cortex, which has well-acknowledged projections to the ventral striatum, innervates only the rostral sector of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure. Taken together, these data indicate that the medial part of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure is closely related to the central extended amygdala. Rostral and lateral parts of the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure, on the other hand, appear as transitional territories between the central extended amygdala and ventral striatum. The afferent connections of the zone traditionally termed amygdalostriatal transition area are in general similar to those of the caudate-putamen, which does not receive projections from the central extended amygdala. After cholera toxin B subunit injections in the caudoventral globus pallidus, a dense retrograde labeling is observed in the amygdalostriatal transition area and overlying striatum, but not in the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure. Our results suggest that the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure and the amygdalostriatal transition area are engaged in distinct forebrain circuits; the former is a dopamine-rich territory intimately related to the central ext
How seizures arise and recur in epilepsy is unknown. Recent genetic, pharmacological and electrophysiological data indicate a significant but undisclosed role for voltage-dependent calcium channels. Since the contribution such channels make to nerve function reflects the targeting of discrete subtypes to distinct cellular regions, we hypothesized that epilepsy reflects alterations in their spatiotemporal patterns of expression at the cell surface. To test this possibility, we examined the expression and distribution of hippocampal N-type calcium channels in an animal seizure model: kindling. Confocal microscopy of N-type calcium channels labeled with a new fluorescent ligand, coupled with a novel technique for analysing multiple images, revealed a 20-40% increase in their expression in CA1 and CA3 within 24 h post-seizure. These increases persisted in the dendritic fields of CA1, but had dissipated in CA3 by 28 days post-seizure. Such changes correlate poorly with cell number or synaptogenesis, but are consistent with increased N-type calcium channel expression on presynaptic terminals or, more likely, dendrites. These data rationalize recent electrophysiology and in situ hybridization data, and suggest that kindling alters N-type calcium channel trafficking mechanisms to cause a persistent, local, remodeling of their distributions in CA1 dendrites. The persistent induction of N-type calcium channels may be part of a mechanism for, and a hallmark of, synaptic plasticity, in which kindling represents a reinforcement of synapses en masse.
We have performed a detailed time-course analysis of cell death in the hippocampal formation, basal forebrain and amygdala following a single intraseptal injection of kainate in adult rats. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry revealed a profound loss of staining in the medial septum but not in the diagonal band, and cholinergic fiber density was highly reduced in the hippocampus and amygdala at 10 days postinjection. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphatebiotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) histochemistry was performed for precise location of apoptotic cells. Both the medial septum and amygdala exhibited numerous TUNEL-positive nuclei after the intraseptal injection of kainate, while the lateral septum exhibited a lower but significant incidence in terms of apoptotic cells. In the medial septum, the presence of apoptotic cells was at a location displaying acetylcholinesterase staining. TUNEL histochemistry revealed a time-dependent sequential apoptotic cell death in hippocampal pyramidal cells. During the first two days postinjection, apoptosis in the hippocampus was only evident in the CA3 region. At five days postinjection, the entire CA4 region became apoptotic. At 10 days postinjection, the whole extent of the CA1 pyramidal cell layer exhibited numerous TUNEL-positive nuclei. The time-course of kainate-induced apoptosis in Ammons's horn correlated with the disappearance of hippocampal pyramidal neurons as detected by Nissl staining, which is suggestive of a prominent apoptotic death for these cells. The temporal delayed distant damage to CA4 and CA1 hippocampal subfields after a single intraseptal kainate injection is not seen in other models employing kainate and may be a valuable tool for exploring the cellular mechanisms leading to cell death in conditions of status epilepticus.
The present study was undertaken to better assess the role of dopamine on exocytosis. Since direct activation of adenylate cyclase (e.g., with forskolin) enhances neurotransmitter release it was of interest to see whether the activation of D1-type dopamine receptors, which are positively coupled to adenylate cyclase, could also modulate the molecular machinery underlying the fusion of synaptic vesicles and the release of neurotransmitter. To answer this question we have looked at the effect of the D1-type dopamine receptor agonist SKF-38393 on the spontaneous release of glutamate from cultured rat hippocampal neurons. SKF-38393 enhanced the frequency but not the amplitude of tetrodotoxin-resistant excitatory postsynaptic currents which argues for a presynaptic locus of D1 action. This effect was blocked by the D1-dopaminergic receptor antagonist SCH-23390 and the protein kinase A inhibitors H-7 and Rp-cAMP whereas pertussis toxin failed to affect the dopaminergic response. In addition, carbachol and Ruthenium Red also stimulated exocytosis but did not occlude the SKF-38393-induced modulation. These results indicate that SKF-38393 presynaptically enhances the release of glutamate via a pertussis toxin-insensitive and protein kinase A-dependent mechanism, which most likely involves D1-type dopamine receptors. Our results underline the importance of protein kinase A as potent modulator of synaptic transmission and suggest that high concentrations of dopamine can greatly enhance the release of glutamate in the hippocampus.
Since a disturbed balance between excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors is suggested to be an important condition for epileptogenic cortical activity, the present study has focused on the analysis of the densities of (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA), N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and GABA subtype A receptors in neocortical tissue surgically removed from patients with focal epilepsy. The mean densities (collapsed over cortical layers I-VI) and the laminar distribution patterns of [3H]AMPA, [3H]MK-801, [3H]kainate and [3H]muscimol binding to AMPA, N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and GABAA receptors were determined with quantitative receptor autoradiography in the neocortex of patients with focal epilepsy and controls. The tissue probes used in the present study were functionally characterized by parallel electrophysiological investigations. From that, the different probes could be subdivided into a spontaneously spiking and a non-spontaneously spiking group. The mean density of [3H]AMPA binding sites was significantly increased (+37%) in the group of epileptic brains (n = 10) compared with controls (n = 10), but the mean densities of [3H]MK-801, [3H]kainate and [3H]muscimol binding sites were not significantly altered (-8%, +/-0% and -7%, respectively). The relation between the densities of all four binding sites were simultaneously displayed as polar plots in each single brain (&quot;receptor fingerprints&quot;). The consistent up-regulation of [3H]AMPA binding sites in all epileptic brains was found to be associated with a down-regulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in four of the five non-spontaneously spiking cases, and an associated up-regulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor was seen in all spontaneously spiking cases. Finally, the laminar distribution of binding site densities was analysed, since the mean densities collapsed over all neocortical layers may obscure layer-specific alterations. Layer- and receptor- specific up- or down-regulations were found in epileptic tissue compared with controls. Moreover, the laminar distribution pattern of current sinks associated with epileptiform potentials in a spontaneously spiking cortical slice was found to be co-localized with local maxima of AMPA receptor densities. The present analysis of four ionotropic glutamate and GABA receptor subtypes demonstrates a consistent and significant up-regulation of [3H]AMPA binding sites in all cases of human focal epilepsy, which co-localizes with the occurrence of sinks in current-source-density analysis. The receptor fingerprint analysis suggests a subdivision of focal epilepsy into two subtypes on the basis of neurochemical/functional correlations: (i) a spontaneously spiking subtype with increased N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density, and (ii) a non-spontaneously spiking subtype with decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density.
In human neocortical slices obtained during epilepsy surgery, sharp waves have been described to appear spontaneously, the shape of which met all criteria of epileptiform field potentials. In the present investigation, the current sinks and sources underlying these potentials were analysed. The cortical tissue used in the present study was a small portion of the tissue blocks excised for treatment of pharmacoresistant focal epilepsy. The tissue came from the temporal (n = 26), frontal (n = 1) and parietal (n = 1) lobes. Slices of 500 microm thickness were cut in the frontal plane perpendicular to the pial surface. Field potentials were recorded using a linear array of eight wire electrodes (diameter: 33 microm) with interelectrode distances of 300 microm. To scan a slice for sharp field potentials, this array was placed perpendicular to the pial surface at the midsection of each preparation, and consecutively at the respective midsections of the resulting halves of the slice. Each of these locations was termed a recording line. Depending on the appearance of spontaneous potentials, recording lines and slices were classified as either spontaneous or non-spontaneous. With both spontaneous and zero Mg(2+)-induced interictal discharges, in spontaneous slices, current sinks were preferentially located in layers II and III. In non-spontaneous slices, current sinks associated with interictal potentials could be found throughout all cortical laminae. With zero Mg(2+)-induced ictal activity, in spontaneous slices, the initial sinks were preferentially located in cortical laminae II and IIIa, and were shifted to lower ones after additional application of bicuculline. In non-spontaneous slices, no ictal-type discharges could be induced with omission of Mg2+ from the superfusate. Only addition of bicuculline elicited ictal-type activity, and sinks associated with this were preferentially located in layers II and IIIa. The results suggest that the supragranular layers, especially layer II, change qualitatively in functional organization in slices showing spontaneous discharges. We think that this special feature represents the function of the upper layers and can be blocked by bicuculline. This interpretation is supported by the observation that ictal discharges normally started in the upper layers in spontaneous and non-spontaneous slices, except for spontaneous slices with bicuculline, where the zone initiating discharges was translocated to deeper layers.
Consistent with its putative anxiogenic actions, administration of the benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist FG 7142 has been shown to potentiate defensive-like cardiovascular reactivity to an acoustic stimulus in the rat, an effect that appears to be mediated by the basal forebrain cholinergic system. The present studies tested the hypothesis that the basal forebrain cholinergic projections to the medial prefrontal cortex, an area that has been implicated in both anxiety and autonomic control, may be a relevant pathway underlying this response potentiation. Infusions of the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol into the medial prefrontal cortex, but not into the lateral prefrontal cortex or the basolateral amygdala, mimicked the effects of systemically administered FG 7142 on the cardioacceleratory response. Infusions of the muscarinic antagonist atropine blocked this effect, as well as the response-potentiating actions of FG 7142. The effects of FG 7142 were also blocked by lesions of the cholinergic inputs to the medial prefrontal cortex produced by local infusions of the immunotoxin 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin into this area. These findings indicate that cholinergic activation of the medial prefrontal cortex is sufficient to enhance the cardioacceleratory defensive response, and that cholinergic inputs to the medial prefrontal cortex are necessary for the response-potentiating effects of FG 7142. These results are consistent with a recent neurobiological model of anxiety and autonomic control that attributes the enhanced processing of anxiety-related stimuli and contexts to increases in activity in cortical cholinergic inputs.
The prefrontal cortex receives dopaminergic inputs from the ventral tegmental area and excitatory inputs from the hippocampus. Both afferent pathways target in close proximity dendritic spines of pyramidal cells in layer V-VI of the prefrontal cortex. In view of the prominent role of dopamine in cognitive functions we examined the effects of ventral tegmental area stimulation on the induction of long-term potentiation in the hippocampal-prefrontal cortex pathway of anesthetized rats. Stimulation of the ventral tegmental area at a frequency known to evoke dopamine overflow in the prefrontal cortex produces a long-lasting enhancement of the magnitude of the hippocampal-prefrontal cortex long-term potentiation. The role of dopamine was further examined by investigating the effects of prefrontocortical dopamine depletion induced by an electrolytic ventral tegmental area lesion. A significant correlation (r = 0.8; P &lt; 0.001; n = 14) was obtained between cortical dopamine levels and cortical long-term potentiation amplitude, a depletion of more than 50% of cortical levels corresponding to a dramatic decrease in hippocampal-prefrontal cortex long-term potentiation. However, a recovery to normal long-term potentiation was observed 1 h after tetanic stimulation. In contrast to the effects on long-term potentiation, ventral tegmental area stimulation, when applied at low or high frequency, decreases the amplitude of the hippocampal-prefrontal cortex postsynaptic synaptic response. The present study demonstrates the importance of the integrity of the mesocortical dopaminergic system for long-term potentiation to occur in the hippocampal-prefrontal cortex pathway and suggests a frequency-dependent effect of dopamine on hippocampal-prefrontal cortex transmission.
While several authors have suggested that high-frequency electroencephalogram activity (gamma, &gt;30 Hz) correlates with conscious thought, others have suggested that electroencephalogram activity &gt;30 Hz shows the same relationships to cognitive activity and sleep as activity in the conventional beta frequency band. The existence of coherence of gamma over large distances also remains controversial. We studied quantitatively the relationship of gamma activity to the sleep-wake cycle and cognitive tasks during wakefulness in humans using intracranial electroencephalogram. Gamma activity made up less than 1% of the total power spectrum. A significant relationship was observed between gamma activity and the sleep-wake cycle such that gamma was highest during wakefulness, intermediate during light and rapid eye movement sleep, and lowest during slow-wave sleep. As well, gamma was higher during rapid eye movement sleep with eye movements than during rapid eye movement sleep without eye movements. During a cognitive task experiment, while lower frequencies, including beta, showed a stepwise reduction with increasing task difficulty, gamma was observed to increase during cognitive tasks as compared to the resting state. The relationship between gamma and the sleep-wake cycle and cognitive tasks was independent of brain region and hemisphere. Coherence of gamma activity at distances of 5 mm and greater was not observed. Our data support previously reported findings that gamma activity has a significant relationship to the sleep-wake cycle. The findings of differences in gamma during REM sleep with and without eye movements suggest that the presence or absence of eye movements may reflect two different states of brain activity. Our findings of differences in the relationships of the beta and gamma bands to both the sleep-wake cycle and cognitive tasks demonstrate that various components of the high-frequency spectrum behave differently in some situations.
Embryonic nigral grafts can survive, reinnervate the striatum and reverse functional deficits in both experimental and clinical Parkinsonism. A major drawback is that only around 10% of the implanted dopaminergic neurons survive. The underlying mechanisms leading to this 90% cell death are not fully understood, but oxidative stress and a substantial loss of neurotrophic support are likely to be involved. Hypoxia and mechanical trauma, which are unavoidable during tissue preparation, may be a trigger for cell death. Recent studies have provided evidence that the type of cell death occurring is, to a large extent, apoptotic. Flunarizine is an antagonist of L-, T- and N-type calcium channels, which permits calcium entry into cells via a voltage-dependent mechanism. Flunarizine has been shown to protect neurons against death induced by serum deprivation, nerve growth factor deprivation, oxidative stress, axotomy and ischemia. This study was designed to investigate whether flunarizine can protect grafted embryonic dopaminergic neurons from death when implanted in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Addition of 1 microM flunarizine inhibited cell death in a suspension of cells derived from the rat's ventral mesencephalon and when such a treated suspension was injected into the neostriatum there was a 2.6-fold greater number of surviving dopaminergic neurons, a doubling of the graft volume and a doubling of the volume of the host neostriatum innervated by dopaminergic fibers from the graft, compared with suspensions not exposed to flunarizine. Furthermore, rats injected with cells that had been exposed to flunarizine displayed a greater recovery of function in the amphetamine-induced rotation test.
The membrane changes accompanying Ca(2+)-dependent acetylcholine release were investigated by comparing release-competent and release-incompetent clones of mouse neuroblastoma N18TG-2 cells. No release could be elicited in native N18 cells or in a N18-choline acetyltransferase clone in which acetylcholine synthesis was induced by transfection with the gene for rat choline acetyltransferase. However, acetylcholine release was operative in a To/9 clone which was co-transfected with complementary DNAs from rat choline acetyltransferase and Torpedo mediatophore 16,000 mol. wt subunit. In thin sections, the aspect of resting N18 and To/9 cells was identical: a very dense cytoplasm with practically no vesicle-like organelles. Cells were chemically fixed at different times during a stimulation using A-23187 and Ca2+, and examined following both freeze-fracture and thin section. Stimulation of To/9 cells induced a marked change affecting the intramembrane particles. The number of medium-sized particles (9.9-12.38 nm) increased, while that of the small particles decreased. This change was not observed in control, release-incompetent cell lines. In the To/9 clone (but not in control clones), this was followed by occurrence of a large new population of pits which initially had a large diameter, but subsequently became smaller as their number decreased. Coated depressions and invaginations became abundant after stimulation, suggesting an endocytosis process. By considering the succession of events and by comparison with data from experiments performed on synapses in situ, it is proposed that a particle alteration was the counterpart of acetylcholine release in co-transfected To/9 cells; this was followed by a massive endocytosis.
To investigate further a putative role of dopamine in control of food restriction-induced behavioural stereotypies, chickens were fed during rearing on either a daily restricted ration recommended by a breeding company, twice the recommended restricted ration, or ad libitum food. They were killed at 60 days of age and their excised brains were dissected into six regions and homogenized. Densities of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors were assessed, after first estimating binding parameters for [3H]SCH 23390 (D1) and [3H]spiperone (D2) in chicken brain homogenates. Specific binding of both ligands was highest in basal telencephalon. Concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid were also highest in basal telencephalon, whereas noradrenaline and adrenaline levels were highest in diencephalon. Dopamine concentration in basal telencephalon and noradrenaline concentration in diencephalon were increased significantly in response to food restriction, but no effect of feeding treatment was found in dopamine turnover, adrenaline levels, or D1 and D2 receptor densities in any brain region studied. The observed changes in brain catecholamine levels are consistent with roles for dopaminergic and adrenergic mechanisms in the control of food restriction-induced behavioural stereotypies in chickens.
The role of the receptor-associated protein in controlling the expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein was analysed in brain and in cultured neurons of receptor-associated protein - / - mice. In addition, the effect of two important ligands of lipoprotein receptor-related protein in brain, i.e. apolipoprotein E and amyloid precursor protein, was examined by crossing the receptor-associated protein - / - mice with transgenic mice overexpressing these proteins specifically in neurons. The immunohistochemical localization of lipoprotein receptor-related protein and receptor-associated protein in wild-type mouse brain was demonstrated to be congruent over all structures, including the cortex and hippocampus. In primary hippocampal neurons, lipoprotein receptor-related protein was distributed somatodendritically and receptor-associated protein was concentrated perinuclearly. In hippocampal neurons from receptor-associated protein - / - mice, lipoprotein receptor-related protein was redistributed over the cell body at the expense of the dendrites. In the absence of receptor-associated protein, maturation of lipoprotein receptor-related protein is slow, resulting in accumulation of the uncleaved 600,000 mol. wt precursor. Neither the added expression of apolipoprotein E4 nor that of amyloid precursor protein in cultured neurons influenced the maturation of lipoprotein receptor-related protein, in either the presence or absence of receptor-associated protein. This result shows that receptor-associated protein is not needed to allow co-expression of lipoprotein receptor-related protein with these ligands in neurons. Furthermore, the typical ramified neuronal morphology of cultured primary neurons and the histology and architecture of the brain were normal in receptor-associated protein - / - mice and in all of the double transgenic mice. Finally, we demonstrated that the survival of receptor-associated protein - /- hippocampal neurons was normal and unaffected by the genotype of the glial feeder cells, whether they were derived from wild-type mice or from mice deficient in receptor-associated protein or apolipoprotein E. These results show that, despite the dramatic effect on maturation and cellular localization of lipoprotein receptor-related protein, the absence of receptor-associated protein did not result in any notable physiological, functional or morphological effects.
Depolarization-induced transmitter release in synaptosomes prepared from the hippocampus of aged rats is decreased compared with release from young animals. Although the underlying cause of this deficit is not known, some evidence suggests that increased membrane rigidity may contribute to these age-related synaptic changes. One possible consequence of the decreased transmitter release in the hippocampus of aged rats is a reduced ability to sustain long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses, a pathway in which maintenance of long-term potentiation and increased glutamate release have been coupled. The observation that there is an age-dependent impairment in long-term potentiation is consistent with this view. If the age-related deficits in release and long-term potentiation are a consequence of increased membrane rigidity, it must be predicted that any manoeuvre which reverses membrane rigidity should reverse these functional deficits. In the present study, we investigated the effect of dietary manipulation of aged rats with omega-3 fatty acids on synaptic function. The data obtained indicate that an eight-week modified feeding schedule reversed the age-related impairments in long-term potentiation and depolarization-induced glutamate transmitter release. We also report that the concentrations of both docosahexanoic acid and arachidonic acid, two main polyunsaturated fatty acids in neuronal membranes, were decreased in the hippocampus of aged rats, and were restored by dietary manipulation. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that these deficits results from a change in membrane composition.
The mouse &quot;Purkinje cell degeneration&quot; (pcd) is characterized by a primary loss of Purkinje cells, as well as by retrograde and secondary partial degeneration of cerebellar granule cells and inferior olivary neurons; this neurological mutant can be considered as an animal model of human degenerative ataxia. To determine the consequences of this cerebellar pathology on the noradrenergic system, noradrenaline transporters as well as alpha1-, alpha2- and beta-adrenergic receptors were evaluated by quantitative ligand binding autoradiography in adult control and pcd mice using, respectively, [3H]nisoxetine, [3H]prazosin, [3H]idazoxan and [3H]CGP12177. In cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei of pcd mutants, [3H]nisoxetine labelling of noradrenaline transporters was higher than in control mice. However, when binding densities were corrected by surface area, they remained unchanged in the cerebellar cortex but associated with 25% and 40% lower levels of labelling of alpha1 and beta receptors, as well as a very important increase (275%) of alpha2 receptors. In deep cerebellar nuclei, surface corrections did not reveal any changes either in transporter or in receptor densities. Higher densities of [3H]nisoxetine labelling were found in several regions related with the cerebellum, namely inferior olive, inferior colliculus, vestibular, reticular, pontine, raphe and red nuclei, as well as in primary motor and sensory cerebral cortex; they may reflect an increased noradrenergic innervation related to motor adjustments for the cerebellar dysfunction. Increased [3H]nisoxetine labelling was also measured in vegetative brainstem regions and in dorsal hypothalamus, implying altered autonomic functions and possible compensation in pcd mutants. Other changes found in extracerebellar regions affected by the mutation, such as thalamus and the olfactory system implicated both noradrenaline transporters and adrenergic receptors. In contrast to the important alterations of the noradrenergic system in cerebellar cortex, the lack of receptor changes in deep cerebellar nuclei suggests that local adaptations may be sufficient to minimize the consequence of the cerebellar atrophy on motor control. An intense labelling by [3H]idazoxan of the inner third of the molecular layer was a novel, albeit unexplained finding, and could represent a postsynaptic subset of alpha2-adrenergic receptors.
This study examined the effects of long-term differential rearing on levels of brain nerve growth factor, its receptors, and their relationships to cognitive function. Adult rats (two months old) were placed into either enriched or standard housing conditions where they remained for 12 months. Animals from the enriched condition group had significantly higher levels of nerve growth factor in hippocampus, visual and entorhinal cortices compared with animals housed in isolated condition. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue from the medial septal area revealed higher staining intensity and fibre density with both the low-affinity and the high-affinity nerve growth factor receptors. Enriched rats performed better than isolated rats in acquisition of spatial learning and had lower locomotion scores in the open field. These results provide further evidence that experimental stimulation results in increased production of trophic factors and structural reorganization in specific brain regions known to be involved in cognitive function.
Endogenous excitotoxins that act on receptors of cerebral excitatory amino acids play important roles in the pathogenesis of excitotoxic brain diseases. Activation of excitatory amino acid receptors results in neuronal death characteristic of these disorders. Kynurenic acid, a powerful endogenous excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, which is therefore widely regarded as a potent neuroprotective agent, is produced from its biological precursor, L-kynurenine, by the action of the enzyme kynurenine aminotransferase-I. The chemical hypoxia induced by mitochondrial toxins produces a secondary excitotoxicity, leading to the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Accordingly, sodium azide, an inhibitor of cytochrome oxidase, induces the release of excitotoxins via an energy impairment and this, in turn, results in neurodegeneration. Since energy-dependent secondary excitotoxic mechanisms also account for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, a study was made of the effects of sodium azide on the immunohistochemical localization of kynurenine aminotransferase-I. After in vivo administration of sodium azide for five days, a markedly decreased glial kynurenine aminotransferase-I immunoreactivity was found by immunohistochemical techniques in the glial cells of the striatum, hippocampus, dentate gyrus and temporal cortex; at the same time, kynurenine aminotransferase-I started to be expressed by nerve cells which had not been immunoreactive previously. The accumulation of kynurenine aminotransferase-I reaction product around the ribosomes of neuronal endoplasmic reticulum suggests de novo synthesis of kynurenine aminotransferase-I in the reactive nerve cells.
The properties of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors were examined in various cell types isolated from young rat hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum using patch-clamp and fast application techniques. A dicationic adamantane derivative, IEM-1460, reversibly inhibited kainate-induced currents. In the presence of 100 microM IEM-1460, kainate currents in striatal giant cholinergic interneurons and hippocampal non-pyramidal neurons were inhibited by 95% and 81%, respectively, at Vh = - 70 mV. Striatal GABAergic principal cells, hippocampal pyramidal neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells had low sensitivity to IEM-1460 (inhibition by 4-15%). Analysis of averaged data from the cell types studied revealed a highly significant positive correlation (r= 0.93, P &lt; 0.01) between percentage inhibition by 100 microM IEM-1460 and relative calcium permeability of AMPA receptors, P(Ca)/P(Na). Also, within each brain structure, the sensitivity of IEM-1460 block was lower the stronger the outward rectification of kainate currents. Some hippocampal neurons exhibited intermediate sensitivity to IEM-1460. Kainate currents were suppressed by 40% in the presence of 100 microM IEM-1460. Meanwhile, AMPA receptors in this cell type had low calcium permeability (P(Ca)/P(Na) = 0.13) and demonstrated outwardly rectifying kainate currents. The interrelation of different properties of AMPA receptors considering their assembly is discussed. The data obtained suggest that IEM-1460 may be a convenient and promising marker of native AMPA receptor assembly: it selectively inhibits Ca(2+)-permeable, GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors.
Sexual differences in the expression of messenger RNA and in the binding of serotonin receptors (subtypes 1A and 2A) were studied by in situ hybridization and autoradiography [3H]8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin and [3H]ketanserin binding) in the rat brain. Serotonin-1A receptor messenger RNA showed distinct expression patterns for female and male rats. Expression of serotonin-1A receptor messenger RNA was greater in males in subregions of the hypothalamus and amygdala, and less in males in subregions of the hippocampus. No significant differences in the distribution of serotonin-1A receptor binding sites were found between the sexes. Serotonin-2A receptor messenger RNA expression was comparable in males and females in all brain regions except the ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei, where lower levels were seen in females. However, the binding of serotonin-2A receptor measured with [3H]ketanserin was significantly higher in females in all regions of the hippocampus. In a separate study, gonadectomy in males significantly increased serotonin-1A messenger RNA content in the cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampus, amygdala and dorsal raphe, and decreased serotonin-2A messenger RNA in ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei only. Almost all gonadectomy-induced changes were reversed by concomitant administration of testosterone. Our data provide evidence for region-specific sex differences in serotonin receptor subtype 1A and 2A transcription and concentration in the rat brain, and further suggest a modulatory role of testosterone in serotonin (particularly subtype 1A) receptor expression. Gender and gonadal steroid effects on central serotonergic systems may underlie the reported sexual dimorphisms in affective state regulation, response to psychopharmacological agonists or pituitary adrenal activation.
We have performed a detailed in situ hybridization study of the distribution of aquaporin-4 messenger RNA in the CNS. Contrary to expectation, we demonstrate that aquaporin-4 is ubiquitously expressed in the CNS. Strong hybridization labeling was detected in multiple olfactory areas, cortical cells, medial habenular nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, tenia tecta, pial surface, pontine nucleus, hippocampal formation and multiple thalamic and hypothalamic areas. A low but significant hybridization signal was found, among others, in the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles, ependymal cells, dorsal raphe and cerebellum. Overall, a preferential distribution of aquaporin-4 messenger RNA-expressing cells was evident in numerous periventricular organs. From the distribution study, the presence of aquaporin-4 messenger RNA-expressing cells in neuronal layers was evident in neuronal layers including the CA1 -CA3 hippocampal pyramidal cells, granular dentate cells and cortical cells. Further evidence of neuronal expression comes from the semicircular arrangement of aquaporin-4 messenger RNA-expressing cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial habenular nucleus exhibiting Nissl-stained morphological features typical of neurons. Combined glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry and aquaporin-4 messenger RNA in situ hybridization demonstrated that aquaporin-4 messenger RNA is expressed by glial fibrillary acidic protein-lacking cells. We conclude that aquaporin-4 messenger RNA is present in a collection of structures typically involved in the regulation of water and sodium intake and that aquaporin-4 water channels could be the osmosensor mechanism responsible for detecting changes in cell volume by these cells.
The distributions of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons and of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity were studied in the C6, Th2, L1, L5, S2 and S3 segments and laminae in the rabbit spinal cord and compared with the catalytic nitric oxide synthase activity, determined by monitoring the conversion of [3H]arginine to [3H]citrulline in the same segments and laminae. Morphologically, a heterogeneous population of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-expressing and neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons was detected in the superficial and deep dorsal horn and the pericentral region in all segments studied, and in the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic and lumbosacral segments. A disproportionate distribution of both neuronal categories which had a significantly higher number of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-expressing rather than neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cell bodies was found in all segments. The catalytic nitric oxide synthase activity was distributed unequally in the C6, Th2, L1, L5, S2 and S3 segments, with a comparatively low value in the Th2 segment (70 +/- 5.1 d.p.m./microg protein) in comparison with the S3 segment, where the highest level (140 +/- 5.5 d.p.m./microg protein) was found. A close correlation between the number of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive somata and catalytic nitric oxide synthase activity was revealed in the dorsal horn (laminae I-VI). Whereas a low number of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive somata in laminae VII-X was found in the L5, S2 and S3 segments, the values of catalytic nitric oxide synthase activity in the same laminae and segments were found to be exceedingly high. These findings indicate that the occurrence of many neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibers (mainly axons), and dense, punctate, non-somatic neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunopositivity in the neuropil staining of the same laminae and segments, can substantially enhance catalytic nitric oxide synthase activity.
Natural forms of stimulation were used to compare the spontaneous and evoked activity of dorsal horn neurons in three groups of rats: controls with no surgical lesion, rats with transection of the sciatic nerve and rats with transection of the dorsal roots at the same segmental level. In control rats, cells encountered in the dorsal horn were classified according to their peripheral field as tactile specific, convergent tactile and nociceptive, nociceptive, or movement driven. In 20 control animals, only 20% of the 140 cells with a peripheral field were spontaneously active. After sciatic nerve transection made on the side of recording a few days previously (18 rats), all of the 141 cells studied showed spontaneous activity, only 69 of them having a peripheral field. After dorsal root transections a few days previously (nine rats), 25 spontaneously active cells were found in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the section, none with a peripheral field. Spontaneous activities of cells without a peripheral field were separated into three types as a function of bursting pattern, which were similar following both types of transection. The spontaneous activity shown by dorsal horn cells without peripheral fields following dorsal root transection precludes attribution of spontaneous spiking in such cells to abnormal input from the periphery, and shows that abnormal activity can develop in deafferented dorsal horn cells themselves. A possible role played by this spontaneous activity in deafferentation pain is considered.
Inferior olive neurons are able to enlarge or retract their axonic terminal fields in response to changes in the extension of their target domain. Following Purkinje cell loss, the retraction of target-deprived climbing fibres is accompanied by a size reduction in the inferior olive neuron cell bodies. Here, we asked whether perikaryal modifications also occur when inferior olivary neurons enlarge their terminal fields to innervate supernumerary targets. To achieve this aim, we carried out a morphometric analysis on the somatic compartment of inferior olive neurons in two experimental conditions known to induce an expansion of their terminal field, i.e. a subtotal 3-acetylpyridine inferior olive lesion in the adult and a unilateral transection of the inferior cerebellar peduncle in newborn rats. In both experimental conditions, the inferior olive neurons that survived the lesion showed a remarkable increase in cell body and nuclear size, although the latter change was less pronounced in the 3-acetylpyridine-treated animals. These results show that both developing and mature inferior olive neurons are capable of adjusting their perikaryal phenotype to match the modifications of their target size.
There appear to be different relationships between mu-opioid receptor densities and the acute and neuroadaptive mu-opioid agonist-induced responses of the multiple opioid neuronal systems, including important pons/medulla circuits. The recent success in creating mu-opioid receptor knockout mice allows studies of mu-opioid agonist-induced pharmacological and physiological effects in animals that express no, one or two copies of the mu-opioid receptor gene. We now report that the binding of mu-opioid receptor ligand, [3H][D-Ala2,NHPhe4,Gly-ol]enkephalin to membrane preparations of the pons/medulla was reduced by half in heterozygous mu-opioid receptor knockout mice and eliminated in homozygous mu-opioid receptor knockout mice. The endogenous mu-opioid agonist peptides endomorphin-1 and -2 activate G-proteins in the pons/medulla from wild-type mice in a concentration-dependent fashion, as assessed using [35S]guanosine-5'-o-(3-thio)triphosphate binding. This stimulation was reduced to half of the wild-type levels in heterozygous mice and eliminated in homozygous knockout mice. The intracerebroventricular injection of either endomorphin-1 or endomorphin-2 produced marked antinociception in the hot-plate and tail-flick tests in wild-type mice. These antinociceptive actions were significantly reduced in heterozygous mu-opioid receptor knockout mice, and virtually abolished in homozygous knockout mice. The mu-opioid receptors are the principal molecular targets for endomorphin-induced G-protein activation in the pons/medulla and the antinociception caused by the intracerebroventricular administration of mu-opioid agonists. These data support the notion that there are limited physiological mu-opioid receptor reserves for inducing G-protein activation in the pons/medulla and for the nociceptive modulation induced by the central administration of endomorphin-1 and -2.
The cellular and subcellular distribution of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and its related reduced beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase activity was compared in wild-type and homozygous knockout mice, in which the gene for neuronal nitric oxide synthase has been disrupted, resulting in a lack of the predominant splice isoform alpha. In the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, used as a model structure, the cholinergic principal neurons also exhibited an intensive neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Using the tetrazolium salt 2-(2-benzothiazolyl)-5-styryl-3-(4'-phthalhydrazidyl)-tetrazo++ +-lium chloride (BSPT), these neurons were filled with NADPH-diaphorase reaction product, whereas the equivalent neurons of knockout mice showed, if at all, only traces of neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in parallel to a diminished NADPH-diaphorase labelling. Subcellularly, the neuronal nitric oxide synthase-related diaminobenzidine product was, apparently owing to diffusion artifact, more or less evenly distributed in the cytosol of the neuronal perikarya and dendrites of wild-type mice. In contrast, the BSPT reaction product formazan was closely and discretely attached to endocellular membranes. In the intensely NADPH-diaphorase stained neurons of wild-type mice, 85% of the mitochondria were, at least partly, labelled for BSPT-formazan, whilst in the equivalent neurons of mutant mice, only 13% of mitochondria were NADPH-diaphorase positive. Related to the NADPH-diaphorase activity in the principal neurons of wild-type mice, only 10% of membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum, 27% of mitochondrial membranes and 26% of the nuclear envelope exhibited NADPH-diaphorase activity in the mutant mice. Our findings with the BSPT histochemistry suggest that residues of NADPH-diaphorase positivity in mutant mice are attributed to the alternative splice isoforms beta and/or gamma of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The splice isoform a is located predominantly at the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum.
Fragile X syndrome is an X-linked form of mental retardation resulting from the absence of expression of the fragile X mental retardation 1 gene. The encoded protein is a ribosome-associated, RNA-binding protein thought to play a role in translational regulation of selective messenger RNA transcripts. A knockout mouse has been described that exhibits subtle deficits in spatial learning but normal early-phase long-term potentiation. We expanded these studies by examination of late-phase hippocampal long-term potentiation, the protein synthesis-dependent form of long-term potentiation, in the Fmrl knockout mice. Here, late-phase long-term potentiation was normal, suggesting either that absence of fragile X mental retardation protein has no influence on long-term potentiation or that any influence is too subtle to be detected by this technique. Alternatively, the hippocampus may not be the primary site affected by the absence of this protein. Accordingly, we examined spatial learning in the knockout mice using the hippocampus-dependent Morris water maze. Contrary to earlier reports, near-normal performance was observed. Since the knockout line used in this study has been back-crossed to C57BL/6 for more than 15 generations, whereas the line used in the earlier studies contained a substantial strain 129 contribution, we examined F1 siblings of knockout and 129 crosses. Here, significant but subtle increased swim latencies in reversal trials were observed, in agreement with the previous studies. These data suggest strain differences between C57BL/6 and 129 that influence the Fmrl knockout phenotype. In order to investigate a paradigm less dependent on hippocampal function, the knockout mice were examined using the conditional fear paradigm. Here, the knockout animals displayed significantly less freezing behavior than their wild-type littermates following both contextual and conditional fear stimuli. These data suggest that amygdala disturbances may also be involved in fragile X syndrome.
In the present study we examined the role of the central nucleus of the amygdala in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to an immune challenge in the form of systemic administration of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (1 microg/kg). We found that bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the central amygdala substantially reduced adrenocorticotropin hormone release and hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor and oxytocin cell c-fos expression responses to interleukin-1,8 suggesting a facilitatory role for this structure in the generation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to an immune challenge. Since only a small number of central amygdala cells project directly to the paraventricular nucleus, we then examined the effect of central amygdala lesions on the activity of other brain nuclei that might act as relay sites in the control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function. We found that bilateral central amygdala lesions significantly reduced interleukin-1beta-induced c-fos expression in cells of the ventromedial and ventrolateral subdivisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and brainstem catecholamine cell groups of the nucleus tractus solitarius (A2 noradrenergic cells) and ventrolateral medulla (A1 noradrenergic and C1 adrenergic cells). These findings, in conjunction with previous evidence of bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and catecholamine cell group involvement in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation, suggest that ventromedial and ventrolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis cells and medullary catecholamine cells might mediate the influence of the central amygdala on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to an immune challenge. Thus these data establish that the central amygdala influences hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to a systemic immune challenge but indicate that it primarily acts by modulating the activity of other control mechanisms.
The present study was designed to investigate the organization of excitatory projections from regions of the anterior hypothalamus that are known to co-ordinate autonomic and sensory functions to medullo-output neurons in the periaqueductal gray. The induction of Fos protein was used to identify neurons in the periaqueductal gray that were activated synaptically by chemical stimulation at sites in the anterior hypothalamus from which either increases or decreases in arterial blood pressure were evoked (pressor sites and depressor sites, respectively). This was combined with retrograde tracing using fluorescent latex microspheres from sites in the medulla. When compared to control animals, neuronal activation at pressor sites in the anterior hypothalamus evoked Fos-like immunoreactivity in significantly more neurons in all but one sub-division of the periaqueductal gray (P at least &lt; 0.05). The majority of Fos-positive neurons following a pressor response were located in the caudal half of the periaqueductal gray where significantly more neurons contained Fos-like immunoreactivity in lateral than in any other sub-division (P &lt; 0.01). In all but two of 14 subdivisions of the periaqueductal gray, the numbers of neurons that expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity following stimulation at depressor sites in the anterior hypothalamus were not significantly different from controls. When neuronal activation at pressor or depressor sites in the anterior hypothalamus was combined with retrograde tracing from the rostral ventrolateral medulla, nucleus raphe magnus and/or nucleus raphe obscurus the majority of double-labelled neurons were located in the caudal half of the periaqueductal gray. Comparisons between the numbers of double-labelled neurons that resulted from different combinations of hypothalamic and medullary injection sites revealed that neuronal activation at pressor sites in the anterior hypothalamus combined with retrograde tracing from the rostral ventrolateral medulla resulted in the greatest numbers of double-labelled neurons. The identification of double-labelled neurons indicates that medullo-output neurons in the periaqueductal gray receive excitatory inputs predominantly from pressor compared to depressor sites in the anterior hypothalamus. These results are discussed in relation to the roles of the different longitudinal columns of the periaqueductal gray, and the organisation of their projections to the medulla, in the co-ordination of autonomic and sensory functions.
Hypothalamic magnocellular neurons constitute a good model of neurochemical plasticity, because a single neuron can express various combinations of neuropeptides and enzymes under different physiological conditions. Tyrosine hydroxylase has been shown to occur ectopically in various non-catecholaminergic neurons. We investigated the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and its possible role in the magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei in salt-loaded and lactating rats, using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, alone or combined, in light and electron microscopy. Our results demonstrated that almost 25% of the magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic nucleus and 15% in the paraventricular nucleus expressed tyrosine hydroxylase in salt-loaded rats, and 10% in the supraoptic nucleus of two-day lactating rats. Double labelling showed that this tyrosine hydroxylase was essentially synthesized in magnocellular neurons expressing vasopressin. The ultrastructural localization of tyrosine hydroxylase was less homogeneous in the cytoplasm of magnocellular neurons than in periventricular neurons. In lactating and salt-loaded rats, magnocellular neurons were devoid of the catecholamine biosynthesis markers aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, L-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine, dopamine and GTP-cyclohydrolase I. Tyrosine hydroxylase expression did not increase after rats were injected with reserpine. Our results indicate that the phenotype of the magnocellular neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase in lactating and salt-loaded rats is non-catecholaminergic, and suggest that this tyrosine hydroxylase might be involved in osmoregulation.
Expression profiles of rPer1 and rPer2 messenger RNAs, rat homologues of the Drosophila clock gene period, were examined in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus, a main locus of circadian oscillation, with special reference to the topographical compartmentation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Quantitative in situ hybridization of rPer1 and rPer2 messenger RNAs showed a robust circadian rhythm in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, with a characteristic peak/trough profile in each gene: the peak of rPer1 messenger RNA was in the daytime and that of rPer2 messenger RNA was at the transition time of day to night in both light-dark and constant dark conditions. Light exposure at circadian time 16 increased both rPer1 and rPer2 messenger RNAs in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In a detailed histological analysis, we found that light exposure at circadian time 16 induced the expression of rPer1 and rPer2 genes in neurons limited to the ventrolateral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, although the usual circadian rPer1 and rPer2 messenger RNA oscillation in light-dark and constant dark conditions occurred strongly in neurons in the dorsomedial part but weakly in neurons in the ventrolateral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. These rPer expression profiles indicate that the two major subpopulations of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus play different roles in the generation of circadian rhythm: a strong autonomous expression ability with no light response in dorsomedial neurons and a strong light responsiveness with a weak autonomous expression in ventrolateral neurons.
The spatial and temporal expression of subunit 1 of the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel was investigated using affinity-purified anti-fusion protein antibodies. Immunoreactivity was most prominent in the ciliary layer of the olfactory epithelium, but high protein expression was also seen along the entire length of olfactory receptor neuronal axons to the level of the glomeruli. Electron microscopy showed that the long, thin distal compartments of olfactory cilia labeled more prominently than their thicker proximal segments. This was true as soon as these distal parts began to develop. Using light microscopy, developmental expression of olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit 1 could be detected in discrete populations of olfactory receptor neurons by embryonic day 14. Other signaling molecules are expressed either later (Golf) or only at the level of the epithelial surface and not in axons (adenylyl cyclase type III). Following unilateral lesions of the olfactory bulb, olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit 1 immunoreactivity was present early and throughout developing olfactory receptor neurons; adenylyl cyclase type III immunoreactivity, in contrast, was detectable only later, and again present only in the cilial layer. These results support the hypothesis that this subunit of the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel may be involved in olfactory axon guidance, in addition to its well-described role in olfactory signal transduction.
During lactation in the rat, the suckling stimulus plays an important role in mediating alterations in hypothalamic neuroendocrine function associated with lactation. To provide the basis for understanding the neural circuitry that may transmit suckling-induced signals into the hypothalamus, the present study used the expression of the immediate-early gene product, cFos protein, as a marker for neuronal activation to identify neural populations in the brain of lactating female rats activated by the suckling stimulus. In addition, cFos expression induced by the exteroceptive sensory stimuli (olfactory, auditory, visual) associated with pup exposure alone was also determined. Thus, cFos patterns in response to the physical suckling stimulus, which would include exteroceptive sensory stimuli associated with pup exposure, were compared with the patterns induced in response to pup exposure alone, so that neuronal populations specifically activated by the suckling stimulus could be identified. After 90 min of suckling, several forebrain areas, including the lateral septum, medial preoptic area, periventricular preoptic area and supraoptic nucleus of hypothalamus, showed a significant increase in cFos expression, compared with non-suckled controls and pup exposure animals. In addition, in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, the medial amygdala and several cortical areas, cFos-positive cells were found in both suckling and pup exposure animals. In the brainstem, the suckling stimulus induced a significant increase in cFos expression in the ventrolateral medulla, locus coeruleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, lateral and ventrolateral portions of the caudal part of the periaqueductal gray, and caudal portion of the paralemniscal nucleus, compared with non-suckled controls and pup exposure animals. As expected, in several areas related with sensory input, such as reticular formation and pontine nucleus, cFos expression was found in both suckling and pup exposure animals. Moreover, when double-label immunocytochemistry was used to identify cFos- and catecholamine-positive neurons in the brainstem, it was found that catecholamine-positive neurons in the ventrolateral medulla and locus coeruleus showed a significant increase in cFos expression in response to suckling compared with non-resuckled and pup-exposure groups. Using cFos expression as a marker for neuronal activation, the present studies identified the neural populations in the brain that are activated by the suckling stimulus. By comparing the pattern of cFos expression observed in response to pup exposure alone or the suckling stimulus, the present studies differentiated the neural populations activated by the physical suckling stimulus from the populations activated by the exteroceptive sensory stimuli associated with pup exposure. These suckling-activated areas are likely candidates for playing an important role in transmitting the effects of the suckling stimulus into the hypothalamus to regulate neuroendocrine alterations associated with lactation.
Previous data from our laboratory indicate that 25 mM ibotenic acid induces intracellular calcifications in the rat basal forebrain. Because of the lack of specificity of ibotenic acid for a glutamate receptor subtype, a dose-response study with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate was undertaken and calcified areas (identified with Alizarin Red staining) as well as astro- and microglial reactions (by autoradiography with [3H]lazabemide and [3H]Ro 5-4864) were quantified at one month post-lesion. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate administered into the globus pallidus induced, in a dose-dependent manner, the formation of calcium deposits and the activation of both glial cells, the microglial reaction being particularly robust. From this study, a dose of 5.4 mM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate was selected for further experiments. [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate, [3H]dizocilpine maleate and [3H]PN 200-110 binding in vitro were performed to assess autoradiographically whether the tissue damage was associated with changes in glutamate receptors and calcium channel binding sites. In the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-treated animals, the specific binding of [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate was significantly reduced by 28% in the lesioned ventral pallidum, whereas it was unchanged in the globus pallidus and substantia innominata. In these three nuclei, calcifications developed and an increase in both glial markers was measured. In contrast, the binding of [3H]PN 200-110 and [3H]dizocilpine maleate were unaffected. Co-injection of 15 mM 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione, a selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate/kainate receptor antagonist, prevented the formation of calcium concretions, the microglial reaction and the decrease in [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate binding but it failed to inhibit totally the astroglial reaction induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate. This may suggest that the microglial reaction and calcification take place through different mechanisms from the astrogliosis associated with the neuronal loss. In conclusion, acute administration of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate in the rat globus pallidus elicits a dose-dependent calcification process associated with a chronic reaction of astrocytes and microglia. alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate-induced injury is accompanied by a slight reduction of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors in the ventral pallidum, whereas the binding of N-methyl-D-aspartate and L-type calcium channels receptors remains unchanged in any lesioned nucleus.
A recent series of studies in rats has demonstrated positively reinforcing and memory enhancing effects following lesions of the nucleus tuberomammillaris, which is the only known source of neuronal histamine. The aim of the present experiments was to assess whether inhibition of histaminergic neurotransmission in the ventral striatum has positively reinforcing effects. In Experiment 1 rats with chronically-implanted cannulae were injected with the H1 receptor blocker d-( + )-chlorpheniramine at doses of 0.1, 1.0 and 10.0 microg into the rostral or caudal parts of the nucleus accumbens, a brain region known to be involved in reward-related processes. Immediately after the treatment the animals were placed into one of four restricted quadrants of a circular open field (closed corral) for a single conditioning trial. During the drug-free test for conditioned place preference, when a choice among the four quadrants was provided, those rats injected with 10.0 microg chlorpheniramine in the caudal nucleus accumbens spent more time in the treatment corral, indicative of a positively rewarding drug action. In Experiment 2 the question was posed whether injection of chlorpheniramine into the nucleus accumbens influences electrical self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. For this purpose rats were chronically implanted with two bipolar electrodes aimed at the lateral-hypothalami and with two additional guide cannulae aimed either at the rostral or caudal nucleus accumbens. After having established reliable self-stimulation behavior at one of the two electrode sites the animals were allowed to self-stimulate for one hour (baseline). Then they were unilaterally injected with 10.0 microg chlorpheniramine or vehicle and allowed to self-stimulate for another hour (test). On the next day the same procedure took place, except for the difference that the animals received an injection aimed at the hemisphere not treated so far. Animals treated with chlorpheniramine in the caudal and in the rostral nucleus accumbens displayed higher rates of ipsihemispheric self-stimulation behavior. Moreover, the animals treated with the H1 receptor blocker in the caudal nucleus accumbens displayed higher rates of ipsihemispheric self-stimulation than those having received an injection in the rostral pole. Upon completion of this part of the experiment all animals received an additional intraperitoneal treatment with chlorpheniramine (20 mg/kg) or vehicle, respectively, and were tested in the same way described above. This treatment also resulted in an amplification of intracranial self-stimulation behavior. These results support the hypothesis that histaminergic neurotransmission is involved in the inhibitory control of a central system subserving reward-related processes. The present data also further highlight the nucleus accumbens as functionally heterogenous along its rostrocaudal axis, with the caudal-shell subregion being more sensitive to antihistaminic induced reward than the rostral entity.
Administration of the excitotoxin kainate produces seizure activity and selective neuronal death in various brain areas. We examined the degeneration pattern of hippocampal neurons following systemic injections of kainate in the hamster and the rat. As reported, treatment with kainate resulted in severe neuronal loss in the hilus and CA3 in the rat. While the hilar neurons were also highly vulnerable to kainate in the hamster, neurons in the CA1 area, but not CA3, were highly sensitive to kainate. In both animals, immunoreactivity to anti-p50 nuclear factor kappa B antibody was increased in nuclei of the hilar neurons within 4 h following administration of kainate. Kainate treatment also increased the nuclear factor kappa B immunoreactivity in hamster CA1 neurons and rat CA3 neurons 24 h later. Neurons showing intense nuclear factor kappa B signal were stained with acid fuchsin. Kainate also increased DNA binding activity of p50 and p65 nuclear factor kappa B in the nuclear extract of the hippocampal formation as analysed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay in the hamster, suggesting that activation of nuclear factor kappa B may contribute to kainate-induced hippocampal degeneration. Administration of 100 nmol dizocilpine maleate 3 h prior to kainate attenuated kainate-induced activation of nuclear factor kappa B and neuronal death in CA1 in the hamster. The present study provides evidence that the differential vulnerability of neurons in the rat and the hamster hippocampus to kainate is partly mediated by mechanisms involving N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent activation of nuclear factor kappa B.
In this study, we investigated the possible contribution of presynaptic group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor activation to changes in synaptic efficacy by means of analysis of glutamate release in hippocampal synaptosomes. Data were interpreted in the context of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor involvement in synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region of freely moving rats. In synaptosomes, 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine enhanced diacylglycerol formation and facilitated vesicular Ca(2+)-dependent glutamate release, whereas trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid had no effect on these processes. Trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid enhanced glutamate release, but in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. This effect was mimicked by the L-glutamate uptake inhibitor L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid. (R,S)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine blocked the effects of 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, but not trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid in synaptosomes. Short-term potentiation (100 Hz, three bursts of 10 stimuli, 0.1 ms stimulus duration, 10 s interburst interval) was induced in the CA1 region in vivo. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1S,3R-aminocyclopentane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid, or the group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists, 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine and trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid, dose-dependently facilitated short-term potentiation into long-term potentiation, which lasted &gt; 24 h. The facilitation was inhibited by the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, and the group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (S)-4-carboxy-phenylglycine, but not by the group 2 metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (R,S)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate monophenyl ester. L-Trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid dose-dependently facilitated short-term potentiation into long-term potentiation, which lasted &lt; 4 h. These data suggest that activation of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors results in presynaptic modulation of glutamate release. This effect may contribute to group 1 metabotropic glutamate modulation of the expression of long-term potentiation in vivo.
Numerous studies have suggested that excitatory projections from the ventral hippocampus to the nucleus accumbens modulate locomotor activity in rats. Furthermore, the ability of ventral hippocampal neurons to alter locomotor activity may involve the dense dopaminergic innervation found in the nucleus accumbens. The purpose of this study was to: (i) more fully characterize the locomotor effects of acute alterations in ventral hippocampal activity; (ii) ascertain the influence of dopamine agonists and antagonists on locomotor changes produced by altered ventral hippocampal activity; and (iii) use immediate early gene induction to determine whether dopamine antagonists alter the response of nucleus accumbens neurons to ventral hippocampal stimulation. By comparing a variety of excitatory amino acid agonists, it was found that ventral hippocampal infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate elevated locomotor activity in a subconvulsive manner, while other excitatory amino acid receptor agonists did not. Inactivation of the ventral hippocampus achieved by lidocaine infusion did not suppress ongoing locomotor activity, nor did it affect amphetamine-induced increases in locomotor activity. Increases in locomotor activity induced by ventral hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion were blocked by systemic administration of haloperidol (a D2 receptor antagonist), SCH-23390 (a D1 receptor antagonist) or reserpine. Cellular expression of the protein product of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was dramatically increased in the nucleus accumbens shell after ventral hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion, and haloperidol, SCH-23390 and reserpine attenuated this effect. These results suggest that the increases, but not decreases, in ventral hippocampal activity have a measurable effect on ongoing rates of locomotion, and that this effect requires both D1 and D2 receptors. Moreover, the studies of Fos expression suggest that dopamine receptor antagonists attenuate neuronal responses to ventral hippocampal stimulation within the nucleus accumbens, a brain region important in the generation and maintenance of locomotor activity.
The prefrontal cortex has traditionally been implicated in a variety of cognitive processes, including memory, attention and decision making. The detection of effects of prefrontal cortex lesions on attention has been shown to depend on the procedure used to assess the attentional process. We therefore investigated the effects of lesions of the prefrontal cortex in two different visual attention tasks, i.e. a three-choice serial reaction time task involving sustained and divided attention processes and a visual timing task involving sustained attention and response inhibition processes. In two rat strains that are frequently used in behavioural analysis, i.e. albino Wistar rats and pigmented Lister Hooded rats, lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex caused a deterioration of performance in both tasks, although the effect lasted much longer in the visual timing task. This latter task proved to be especially sensitive to detect the consequences of medial prefrontal cortex lesions, consisting of a loss of both attention control and response inhibition. In both attention tasks, Wistar rats performed less accurate and made more anticipatory responses than Listers. Strain differences could not entirely be attributed to possible visual deficits in albinos, which was also evident when locomotor activity in an open field and food-motivated behaviour in a hoarding paradigm were assessed. Due to slower habituation rates, Lister rats were more active and displayed little food hoarding behaviour. In Wistar rats, hoarding was disrupted by medial prefrontal cortex lesions, showing the effectiveness of the lesion. The results indicate that, although different rat strains provide different baseline levels of behaviour for testing lesion- or drug-induced behavioural changes, lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex do not only disrupt sustained attention processes, but also induce a strong impairment in response inhibition in both Wistar and Lister rats.
Impaired ability to &quot;gate out&quot; sensory and cognitive information is considered to be a central feature of schizophrenia and is manifested, among others, in disrupted prepulse inhibition and latent inhibition. The present study investigated, in rats, the effects of increasing dopamine receptor activation within the medial prefrontal cortex by local administration of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (9 microg/side) on prepulse inhibition and latent inhibition, as well as on spontaneous and amphetamine-induced activity. Apomorphine infusions decreased spontaneous locomotor activity and blocked amphetamine-induced increase in locomotor activity in the open field, which is in line with the suggestion that dopamine receptor activation in the medial prefrontal cortex inhibits mesolimbic dopamine activity. However, apomorphine infusions induced a disruption of prepulse inhibition, an effect associated with increased dopaminergic activity in the nucleus accumbens, and left the latent inhibition effect intact. While these results support previous evidence that the medial prefrontal cortex is a component of the neural circuitry mediating prepulse inhibition but plays no role in latent inhibition, they show that dopamine receptor activation in the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat produces behavioural outcomes that cannot be explained by postulating a simple reciprocal relationship between the mesocortical and mesolimbic dopamine systems.
Mesopontine cholinergic neurons influence midbrain dopaminergic neurons, and thalamic and cerebellar structures which have been implicated in the neuroanatomy of schizophrenia. It has been reported that there are approximately twice as many mesopontine cholinergic neurons in schizophrenics than in normals, using nicotinomide adenosine dinucleotide phosphatediaphorase histochemistry to identify the cholinergic neurons. The present study sought to replicate this finding by analysing mesopontine cholinergic neurons using an antibody against choline acetyltransferase. The mesopontine cholinergic neurons are located in the pars compacta and pars dissipata of the pedunculopontine nucleus, and in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Quantitative computer imaging techniques were used to map the distribution of mesopontine cholinergic neurons. In addition, all medium-sized and large neurons in a region of interest containing the middle portion of the pedunculopontine nucleus pars compacta were counted in Nissl-stained sections. There was no difference between schizophrenic and normal brains in terms of: (i) the rostral-caudal length of the cholinergic cell complex, approximately 10 mm; (ii) the estimated total number of cholinergic neurons in the combined pedunculopontine nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, approximately 20,000 cells unilaterally; and (iii) the combined number of cholinergic and non-cholinergic Nissl-stained neurons in the middle portion of the pedunculopontine nucleus. The present data do not support the previous observation of increased numbers of mesopontine cholinergic neurons in schizophrenia.
Neurochemical and functional abnormalities of the striatum have been reported in schizophrenic brains, but the cellular substrates of these changes are not known. We hypothesized that schizophrenia may involve an abnormality in one of the key modulators of striatal output, the cholinergic interneuron. We measured the densities of cholinergic neurons in the striatum in schizophrenic and control brains in a blind analysis, using as a marker of this cell population immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase, the synthetic enzyme of acetylcholine. As an independent marker, we used immunoreactivity for calretinin, a protein which is co-localized with choline acetyltransferase in virtually all of the cholinergic interneurons of the striatum. A significant decrease in choline acetyltransferase-positive and calretinin-positive cell densities was found in the schizophrenic cases compared with controls in the striatum as a whole [for the choline acetyltransferase-positive cells: controls: 3.21 +/- 0.48 cells/mm2 (mean +/- S.D.), schizophrenics: 2.43 +/- 0.68 cells(mm2; P &lt; 0.02]. The decrease was patchy in nature and most prominent in the ventral striatum (for the choline acetyltransferase-positive cells: controls: 3.47 +/- 0.59 cells/mm2, schizophrenics: 2.52 +/- 0.64 cells/ mm2; P &lt; 0.005) which included the ventral caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens region. Three of the schizophrenic cases with the lowest densities of cholinergic neurons had not been treated with neuroleptics for periods from more than a month to more than 20 years. A decrease in the number or function of the cholinergic interneurons of the striatum may disrupt activity in the ventral striatal-pallidal-thalamic-prefrontal cortex pathway and thereby contribute to abnormalities in function of the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia.
The obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is characterized by the occurrence of cyclic snoring and frequent apneic episodes during sleep, with consequent hypoxia and hypercapnia. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome is associated with excess daytime sleepiness, depression, and an increased incidence of ischemic cardiopathy, cardiac arrhythmias, systemic hypertension and brain infarction. Hypoglossal motoneurons, which innervate extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the tongue, play a key role in maintaining the patency of the upper airway and in the pathophysiology of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Based on data obtained by using extracellular recording techniques, there is a consensus that hypoglossal motoneurons cease to discharge during rapid eye movement sleep, because they are disfacilitated. Since other somatic motoneurons are known to be postsynaptically inhibited during rapid eye movement sleep, we sought to determine, by the use of intracellular recording techniques during cholinergically induced rapid eye movement sleep, whether postsynaptic inhibitory mechanisms act on hypoglossal motoneurons. We found that, during this state, a powerful glycinergic premotor inhibitory system acts to suppress hypoglossal motoneurons. This finding opens new avenues for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, and provides a foundation to explore the neural and pharmacological control of respiration-related motoneurons during rapid eye movement sleep.
A few hours after peripheral axons of cutaneous afferent neurons have been transected, some of their novel endings become excitable by physical or chemical stimuli. It has been assumed that these axon endings preferentially respond to those stimuli which have excited their previous receptive endings. We studied the prevalence of sensory properties among 784 unmyelinated sural nerve fibres which had been axotomized 2-24 h before, by applying mechanical and thermal forces to the nerve lesion site. Among 126 responding C-fibres, the majority was unimodal, responding exclusively to mechanical (31%), cold (23%) or heat (18%) stimuli. The remainder were either mechano-heat sensitive (10%), mechano-cold sensitive (6%) or heat and cold sensitive (12%). The distribution of sensory properties among acutely axotomized sural nerve C-fibres is therefore largely similar to the recently published distribution of receptor types among intact sural nerve C-fibre afferents. Thus, the hypothesis that responses of axotomized afferent fibres reflect their original receptive properties is corroborated. Knowledge of underlying transduction mechanisms may lead to specific pharmacological tools for suppression of ectopic discharges in unmyelinated axotomized afferents, which probably contribute to neuropathic pain states.
Vestibular compensation for the postural and oculomotor deficits following unilateral labyrinthectomy is a model of functional plasticity in the brain of adult vertebrates. The mechanisms involved in this recovery are still controversial. The post-lesional lack of vestibular input might be compensated by changes in the efficacy of the remaining sensory inputs involved in gaze and posture stabilization. However, the compensation process could also rapidly become independent of these external cues, and thus be detectable in vitro in preparations obtained from lesioned animals. In agreement with this hypothesis, we have shown recently that prominent traces of the compensation process appeared three days after the lesion on in vitro isolated brains taken from labyrinthectomized guinea-pigs, where the connectivity of the central vestibular-related networks is preserved. We report here that, one week after the lesion, a slight increase in the intrinsic, spontaneous activity of the deafferented, central vestibular neurons was found in brainstem slices. This increase became stronger in slices taken after one month of compensation, and was associated at this stage with a significant decrease in the intrinsic activity of the vestibular neurons on the contralesional side. Vestibular compensation could thus follow a &quot;top-down&quot; strategy: it would first rely on the external cues given by the intact sensory systems, then on an internal reorganization of the vestibular-related networks, and finally on changes in the intrinsic properties of the vestibular neurons themselves. Similar strategies may be used by the mammalian brain to compensate for other types of deafferentations or environmental changes.
The ability to manipulate the expression of genes within neurons provides unique opportunities to study the role of individual gene products in nervous system function. Virus vectors are a potentially rapid tool for the experimental manipulation of gene expression in the mammalian nervous system. However, a block to the use of virus vector systems in neurobiology is often the lack of cell-specific expression of the gene within the nervous system, and the immune and inflammatory responses to both the virus vector and the delivered gene. We have generated an adeno-associated virus vector that exploits the restricted expression pattern of the rat preprotachykinin-A promoter to support reporter gene expression. We demonstrate that this virus has a neuronal-specific expression pattern. Moreover, it is shown for the first time that the proximal rat preprotachykinin-A promoter is nerve growth factor inducible. This virus will be a useful tool to (i) modify neuronal phenotype by expressing therapeutic molecules or antisense nucleic acid and (ii) dissect the signal transduction pathways that regulate promoter function in vivo.
It is now well established that the membrane of synaptic vesicles is recycled following exocytosis. However, little is known concerning the identity of the primary or secondary endocytic structures and their molecular composition. Using cultured rat cerebellar granule cells we combined uptake of horseradish peroxidase as a fluid phase marker and immunogold labeling for a variety of presynaptic proteins to assess the molecular identity of the stimulation-induced endocytic compartments. Short periods (5 or 30 s) of stimulation with 50 mM KCl were followed by periods of recovery for up to 30 min. Stimulation resulted in the formation of horseradish-peroxidase-filled vacuoles in the axonal varicosities as the apparent primary endocytic compartment. Horseradish peroxidase-filled synaptic vesicles were formed when stimulated cells were allowed to recover in horseradish peroxidase-free culture medium. Horseradish peroxidase-filled vacuoles as wells as vesicles contained the synaptic vesicle membrane proteins VAMP II, synaptotagmin, SV2, and synaptophysin, the vesicle-associated proteins rab 3A and synapsin I, and in addition SNAP-25. No incorporation of vesicle proteins into the plasma membrane was observed. Horseradish peroxidase-filled vesicles and vacuoles generated on incubation of unstimulated granule cells with horseradish peroxidase for prolonged periods of time were equally immunolabeled. Renewed stimulation of prestimulated granule cells with either 100 mM KCl or 30 microM Ca2+ ionophore A23187 resulted in a reduction of horseradish peroxidase-filled vacuoles suggesting that the vacuolar membrane compartment was exocytosis-competent. Our results suggest that varicosities of cultured cerebellar granule cells possess a fast stimulation-induced pathway for recycling the entire synaptic vesicle membrane compartment. The primary endocytic compartment represents not a synaptic vesicle but a somewhat larger vesicle protein-containing vacuolar entity from which smaller vesicles of identical protein composition may be regenerated. Endocytic vacuoles and synaptic vesicles share membrane and membrane-associated proteins and presumably also major functional properties.
Expression of calcium channel alpha1 subunits in oocytes or cell lines has proven to be a powerful method in the analysis of structure-function relations, but these experimental systems are of limited value in the examination of neuron-specific functions such as transmitter release. Cell lines derived from neurons are often capable of these functions, but their intrinsic calcium channel alpha1 subunits are complicating factors in experimental design. We have examined the biophysical and molecular properties of calcium channels in a little studied neuroblastoma-glioma hybrid cell line, 140-3, a close relative of the NG108-15 cell line, to test whether this cell line might serve a role as an expression system for neural mechanisms. This cell was selected as it contains an intact transmitter release mechanism yet secretes little in response to depolarization. Patch-clamp recording revealed only a prominent low-threshold, rapidly inactivating calcium current with a single-channel conductance of approximately 7 pS that was identified as T type. A search for calcium channel alpha1 subunit messenger RNA in the 140-3 cells with three different tests only revealed alpha1C, whereas alpha1A-alpha1C were present in the parent NG108-15 line. We made a particular effort to search for alpha1E, since this subunit has been associated with a low-voltage-activated current. Our findings suggest that, since the principal nerve terminal-associated calcium channels (alpha1A, alpha1B, alpha1E) are absent in the 140-3 cell, this cell line may prove a particularly useful model for the analysis of the role of high-voltage-activated calcium channels in complex functions of neuronal cells.
We evaluated the influence of skin innervation on the epidermis in mice. The rich innervation of skin was demonstrated by immunocytochemistry with protein gene product 9.5, a ubiquitin carboxy hydrolase. Protein gene product-immunoreactive nerve fibers were in the epidermis, subepidermal plexus, dermal nerve trunks, and nerve terminals around sweat glands. Effects of denervation on the plantar surface of the hind foot was assessed by comparing the thickness of the epidermis, which was innervated by the sciatic nerve. Within 48 h after sectioning of the sciatic nerve, protein gene product (+)-nerves in the territory of the sciatic nerve were completely degenerated. There was a significant thinning of the denervated epidermis 72 h post-transection (30.5+/-1.1 vs 41.4+/-2.9 microm, 74+/-4% of the control side). The reduction in epidermal thickness persisted when skin remained denervated (69-75% of the control side). Incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine was reduced 24 h after denervation (71+/-6% of the control side). Reduction in bromodeoxyuridine-incorporation was most pronounced within 48 h after denervation (19+/-6% of the control side). Therefore, the reduction in bromodeoxyuridine-labeling followed a similar temporal course as the thinning of the epidermis (25-50%). Both epidermal thinning and reduced bromodeoxyuridine-labeling were reversed by epidermal reinnervation three months after denervation. Patterns of keratinocyte differentiation and programmed cell death were unaffected by skin denervation. These findings are consistent with the notion that skin innervation exerts influence on the proliferation of keratinocytes and the thickness of the epidermis, and offers a new look at the interaction between nociceptive nerves and their innervated targets.
Cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5) and its neuron-specific activator, p35, are essential for the proper migration of neurons. While the defects in p35 null mice are largely confined to the cerebral cortex, the anomalies in cdk5 nullizygous mice are also evident in the hippocampus and cerebellum. This suggested that additional cyclin-like activators, such as Munc-18, must be coexpressed with Cdk5 in some migrating neurons. Therefore, the expression patterns of munc-18 and cdk5 were determined in the developing mouse nervous system by in situ hybridization. In the embryonic day 11.5-13.5 developing neocortex, cdk5 was expressed in the proliferative zone and also in migratory and postmitotic neurons. In contrast, munc-18 messenger RNA was only detected in postmigratory, differentiated neurons. In the cerebellum and the hippocampus, cdk5 was expressed in proliferative, migrating and postmigratory neurons, while munc-18 was expressed in migrating and postmigratory neurons. This supports the hypothesis that Munc-18 could compensate for the loss of p35 in migrating neurons in the hippocampus and cerebellum, but not the cerebral cortex. Munc-18 levels increased substantially during late embryogenesis and into adulthood. Therefore, the function of Munc-18 is most likely relevant to mature neurons and any redundancy with p35 in migration is probably fortuitous.
Taurine release in the developing hippocampus is markedly potentiated in ischemia. The mechanisms of the ischemia-induced release were studied in hippocampal slices from seven-day-old mice using a superfusion system. The basal release of [3H]taurine was significantly increased in media under normal conditions, but the ischemia-evoked release decreased in Na+ -free media, indicating the participation of Na+ -dependent transport processes. The involvement of taurine transporters in the release was confirmed with the structural analogs, hypotaurine and beta-alanine. These amino acids potentiated the release by trans-stimulation, but not in Na+ -free media. In the absence of Ca2+, the basal taurine release was markedly increased in normoxia but diminished in ischemia, indicating that a part of basal taurine release in ischemia is Ca2+ dependent. On the other hand, the K+ stimulation of taurine release was preserved in Ca2+ -free medium. The phospholipase and protein kinase inhibitors had no effect on ischemia-induced taurine release, nor did the chloride channel blockers 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate (2 mM) and diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate (0.1 mM) affect the release in ischemia. The increase in extracellular levels of taurine in the immature hippocampus in ischemia may serve as an important protective mechanism against excitotoxicity, to which the developing brain is particularly vulnerable, and contribute to the resistance of the immature brain to hypoxia.
In this study, we describe for the first time the occurrence, within the central nervous system of the rat, of a dehydroascorbate reductase analogous to the one we recently described in the liver. Dehydroascorbate reductase plays a pivotal role in regenerating ascorbic acid from its oxidation product, dehydroascorbate. In a first set of experiments, we showed that a dehydroascorbate reductase activity is present in brain cytosol; immunoblotting analysis confirmed the presence of an immunoreactive cytosolic protein in selected brain areas. Immunotitration showed that approximately 65% of dehydroascorbate reductase activity of brain cytosol which was recovered in the ammonium sulphate fraction can be attributed to this enzyme. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that a variety of brain areas expresses the enzyme. Immunoreactivity was confined to the gray matter. Amongst the several brain regions, the cerebellum appears to be the most densely stained. The enzyme was also abundant in the hippocampus and the olfactory cortex. The lesion of norepinephrine terminals following systemic administration of DSP-4 markedly decreased immunoreactivity in the cerebellum. Apart from the possible co-localization of the enzyme with norepinephrine, the relative content of dehydroascorbate reductase in different brain regions might be crucial in conditioning regional sensitivity to free radical-induced brain damage. Given the scarcity of protective mechanisms demonstrated in the brain, the discovery of a new enzyme with antioxidant properties might represent a starting-point to increase our knowledge about the antioxidant mechanisms operating in several central nervous system disorders.
Axonal regeneration by chronically-injured supraspinal neurons can be enhanced by neurotrophic factor treatment at the site of injury, although the number of regenerating neurons decreases as the interval between spinal cord injury and treatment increases. This study investigated whether this decline in regenerative response could be due to continued loss of neurons during the post-injury period. Adult rats received a cervical hemisection lesion and axotomized neurons were labeled by retrograde transport of True Blue from the lesion site. Animals were killed one, four or eight weeks after injury and surviving neurons (True Blue-labeled) were counted in the red nucleus and lateral vestibular nucleus. The neuron number in the lateral vestibular nucleus was stable for eight weeks after spinal cord injury, while survival in the red nucleus decreased by 25% between four and eight weeks. To test how neurons respond to a second injury with or without trophic factor treatment, at four, eight, 14 or 22 weeks after injury the lesion cavity was enlarged by 0.5 mm in a rostral direction. Gel foam saturated with ciliary neurotrophic factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor was placed into the cavity. Animals were killed four weeks later. Re-injury of the spinal cord caused a significant decrease in neuron survival in both the red nucleus and lateral vestibular nucleus, the effects of which were lessened by treatment with ciliary neurotrophic factor or brain-derived neurotrophic factor for the red nucleus and with ciliary neurotrophic factor for the lateral vestibular nucleus, when re-injured at four or eight weeks. Basic fibroblast growth factor did not affect neuron survival at any time post-injury. Ciliary neurotrophic factor was not effective with longer delays (14 or 22 weeks) between the initial injury and re-injury. These results indicate a delayed pattern of secondary neuronal cell loss after spinal cord injury that is exaggerated by re-injury, but which can be ameliorated by treatment with neurotrophic factors.
Consistent with previous studies on cell lines and non-neuronal cells, specific inhibitors of protein kinase C induced mouse primary cultured neocortical neurons to undergo apoptosis. To examine the complementary hypothesis that activating protein kinase C would attenuate neuronal apoptosis, the cultures were exposed for 1 h to phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate, which activated protein kinase C as evidenced by downstream enhancement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Exposure to phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate, or another active phorbol ester, phorbol-12,13-didecanoate, but not to the inactive ester, 4alpha-phorbol-12,13-didecanoate, markedly attenuated neuronal apoptosis induced by serum deprivation. Phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate also attenuated neuronal apoptosis induced by exposure to beta-amyloid peptide 1-42, or oxygen-glucose deprivation in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists. The neuroprotective effects of phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate were blocked by brief (non-toxic) concurrent exposure to the specific protein kinase C inhibitors, but not by a specific mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 inhibitor. Phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate blocked the induction of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activity and specific inhibition of this kinase by SB 203580 attenuated serum deprivation-induced apoptosis. c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 activity was high at rest and not modified by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate treatment. These data strengthen the idea that protein kinase C is a key modulator of several forms of central neuronal apoptosis, in part acting through inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase regulated pathways.
We have investigated the role of oxidative damage in peripheral nerve ischaemia-reperfusion injury using a rat sciatic nerve model. After 5 h ischaemia blood flow to the sciatic nerve was restarted and markers of oxidative damage measured after various times of reperfusion. As a marker of protein oxidative damage, protein carbonyl formation was measured using a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Protein carbonyl content was unaffected by ischaemia alone, but increased by 55% after 12-18 h reperfusion, correlating with the onset of nerve pathology. Pretreatment with the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol prevented these abnormalities, suggesting that xanthine oxidase activity is proximal to oxidative damage during reperfusion injury. To determine whether formation of the potent oxidant peroxynitrite from nitric oxide and superoxide contributed to ischaemia-reperfusion injury, we measured the accumulation of 3-nitrotyrosine residues in proteins. Only one protein of 49,000 mol. wt contained significant amounts of 3-nitrotyrosine residues which was shown to be glial fibrillary acidic protein, an abundant cytoskeletal protein in Schwann cells. However glial fibrillary acidic protein contained 3-nitrotyrosine residues prior to ischaemia-reperfusion, and the amount of nitrated tyrosine residues in total glial fibrillary acidic protein did not increase significantly during reperfusion, therefore it was not possible to draw conclusions about the role of peroxynitrite in nerve reperfusion injury.
We have previously demonstrated that neurons in laminae III and IV of the spinal dorsal horn which possess the neurokinin-1 receptor and have long dorsal dendrites receive a major synaptic input from substance P-containing primary afferents and a more limited input from myelinated afferents. In the present study we have carried out a quantitative analysis of the contacts which cells of this type receive from two other classes of unmyelinated primary afferent: those which contain somatostatin and those without neuropeptides. We found that although boutons belonging to both of these types of afferent do form contacts with neurons of this type, the contacts are far less numerous than those formed by substance P-containing afferents. In laminae I and II, the density of contacts which dendrites of these cells received from somatostatin-containing afferents was 1.2/100 microm and that from non-peptidergic C afferents was 2.0/100 microm, which is far lower than our previous estimate of 18.8/100 microm from substance P-containing fibres in these laminae. These results indicate that although the dendrites of large neurons in laminae III and IV which possess the neurokinin-1 receptor pass through regions of the dorsal horn in which many types of primary afferent terminate, their synaptic input from primary afferents is organized in a highly selective manner.
The role of nitric oxide in long-term potentiation of the nicotinic pathway of synaptic transmission in the isolated superior cervical ganglia of rat was studied. Long-term potentiation was induced by a brief tetanizing pulse (tetanus, 20 Hz/20 s) to the preganglionic nerve. The amplitude of the extracellularly recorded postganglionic compound action potential was used as an index of synaptic transmission. Pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 microM) or L-N(G)-nitro-arginine (10 microM) 30 min before tetanus, inhibited long-term potentiation. The inactive enantiomer of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (10 microM), failed to inhibit the long-term potentiation when given 30 min before the tetanus. Washout of L-N(G)-nitro-arginine, but not N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, resulted in complete recovery of long-term potentiation. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor had no significant effect on the basal ganglionic neurotransmission or post-tetanic potentiation. Furthermore, established long-term potentiation was blocked by superfusion of ganglia with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester 1 h after a tetanus. Pretreatment of ganglia with the nitric oxide donor, sodium nitroprusside (100 microM), or the nitric oxide synthase substrate, L-arginine (1 mM), completely prevented the inhibitory effects of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester on the tetanus-induced long-term potentiation. These findings present evidence for a requirement of nitric oxide for the maintenance but not induction of long-term potentiation in rat isolated superior cervical ganglia.
An electropharmacological analysis of the type(s) of calcium channel controlling neurotransmitter release in preganglionic sympathetic nerve terminals in the guinea-pig anterior pelvic ganglion has been carried out. Conventional intracellular recording techniques were used to record excitatory postsynaptic potentials as a measure of neurotransmitter release. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials were abolished by hexamethonium (30-100 microM) and are therefore mediated by acetylcholine acting at nicotinic receptors. In studies of more than 150 cells, the N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (100-300 nM) failed to block the initiation of the nerve impulse by the excitatory postsynaptic potential. In single-cell studies, omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM) sometimes altered the configuration of the excitatory postsynaptic potential/cell body nerve action potential complex, but on only one occasion was the excitatory postsynaptic potential reduced below the threshold required to initiate the action potential. Nifedipine (10 microM), omega-agatoxin IVA (100 nM) and omega-conotoxin MVIIC (300 nM), applied alone or in combination with omega-conotoxin GVIA (300 nM), were also ineffective. However, excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by trains of stimuli (0.1-0.5 Hz) were markedly reduced or abolished by the non-specific calcium channel blocker omega-grammotoxin SIA (300 nM). When trains of stimuli were delivered at higher frequencies (4 Hz), the block induced by omega-grammotoxin SIA could be overcome, and excitatory postsynaptic potentials were able to initiate action potentials even when omega-conotoxin GVIA, omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC were also present. The calcium channel(s) controlling acetylcholine release was (were) blocked by low concentrations of cadmium ions (30 microM) at all stimulation frequencies studied (0.1-50 Hz). Thus, the dominant calcium channels controlling acetylcholine release in sympathetic ganglia are not the L, N, P or Q types. At low frequencies of stimulation, omega-grammotoxin SIA-sensitive calcium channels play a dominant role in acetylcholine release, but at higher stimulation frequencies yet another pharmacologically distinct calcium channel (or subtype) supports neurotransmitter release.
Intracellular calcium signalling was studied in the dorsal horn from neurons of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes versus control animals. The cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured in Fura-2 acetoxymethyl ester-loaded dorsal horn neurons from acutely isolated spinal cord slices using a fluorescence technique. The recovery of depolarization-induced [Ca2+]i increase was delayed in diabetic neurons compared with normal animals. In normal neurons, [Ca2+]i after the end of KCl depolarization recovered to the basal level monoexponentially with a time constant of 8.0+/-0.5 s (n = 23), while diabetic neurons showed two exponentials in the [Ca2+]i recovery. The time constants of these exponentials were 7.2+/-0.5 and 23.0+/-0.6 s (n = 19), respectively. The amplitude of calcium release from caffeine-sensitive endoplasmic reticulum calcium stores became significantly smaller in diabetic neurons. The amplitudes of [Ca2+]i transients evoked by 30 mM caffeine were 268+/-29 nM (n = 13) and 31+/-9 nM (n = 17) in control and diabetic neurons, respectively. We conclude that streptozotocin-induced diabetes is associated with prominent changes in the mechanisms responsible for [Ca2+]i regulation, which presumably include a slowdown of Ca2+ elimination from the cytoplasm by the endoplasmic reticulum.
In this paper, we describe two types of putative facial motoneuron based on their electrophysiological properties and on their firing frequency adaptation as recorded in rat brainstem slices. Type I motoneurons (n = 33, 61%) were characterized by a sustained spike firing during depolarizing current injections and a marked depolarizing sag (inward rectification) during hyperpolarizing pulses. The time-course and voltage-dependence of the inward rectification together with the finding that it was blocked by Cs+ are consistent with the involvement of a Na+ -and K+ -mediated Q current. Type II motoneurons (n = 21, 39%) were identified by a fast spike firing adaptation. Type II cells showed a less pronounced inward rectification with hyperpolarizing current pulses and a higher discharge rate than type I cells during depolarizing current pulses. These distinct discharge properties imply the activation of a Ca2+ -dependent K+ current, because when carbachol was added to the bath, or the slice was exposed to a Ca2+ -free solution, a decrease was noticed in the firing frequency adaptation. The two types of motoneuron were further differentiated by the initial delay of the first spike, observed only in type I cells, which was blocked by bath application of 4-aminopyridine, indicating the presence of a K+ -mediated A current. The addition of 4-aminopyridine to the bath also increased the firing rate due to a decrease of the post-spike afterhyperpolarization. However, the two types of motoneuron were not morphologically differentiated. Facial motoneurons exhibited rhythmic membrane potential oscillations (8-20 Hz) at depolarized membrane potentials or during the silence following spike frequency adaptation. It is suggested that the intrinsic properties of these two types of facial motoneuron may be relevant in the government of distinct facial muscle activities. The fact that their discharge rate and the level of spike frequency adaptation were modified by altering some K+ currents suggests a potential plasticity in the modulation of motoneuron firing activities depending upon functional motor needs.
This study investigated the effects of ATP, and related compounds, on the activity of neurons within the rostral ventrolateral medulla, an area of fundamental importance in reflex control of the cardiovascular system. Extracellular recordings were made from single neurons in anaesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated rats. Ionophoretic application of alpha,beta-methylene-ATP, adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), UTP, 2-methylthio-ATP and ATP altered the ongoing activity in the majority of neurons (&gt;74% of neurons), generally causing increases in the firing rate. Nine of 11 cells with presumed spinal projection were excited by ATP and/or the P2X-selective agonist alpha,beta-methylene-ATP. Desensitization of the excitatory responses to alpha,beta-methylene-ATP was observed in four of 20 rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons. For the remainder of the rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons, the increase in firing rate evoked by alpha,beta-methylene-ATP, and by the other purine compounds tested, did not undergo desensitization. Suramin, a P2 receptor antagonist, blocked excitatory responses to adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) or alpha,beta-methylene-ATP in five of 16 neurons. These results indicate that ATP can modulate the activity of neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla via actions at P2 purine receptors. The data suggest that both P2X and P2Y receptors are involved, and that the functional expression of these receptors within the rostral ventrolateral medulla is not uniform.
An experimental system that combines optical imaging of voltage-sensitive dyes with an in vitro isolated cerebellum preparation is described. The optical imaging system is based on a photodiode array and two rather simple amplification stages. The isolated cerebellum preparation preserves the integrity of the neuronal circuitry, thus allowing the exploration of the path of information flow. In this study, we characterize the nature and sources of the optical signal evoked in the cerebellar cortex by surface stimulation. We show that this signal reflects inhibitory and excitatory synaptic potentials generated by cell bodies and dendrites of cortical neurons, whereas action potentials of the parallel fibers are not detected by the system. The spatial distribution of the optical signals agrees with the classical view of cerebellar activity following surface stimulation. Hence, this experimental system provides a powerful means to explore the functional organization, in time and space, of the cerebellar cortex.
In experiments on the preparation of a frog perfused brain (Rana ridibunda), field and intracellular potentials were recorded from neurons of the vestibular nuclear complex following stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve and different levels of the spinal cord. Stimulation of the vestibular nerve evoked mono- and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials and orthodromic action potentials. In parallel, an antidromic activation of vestibular neurons sending their axons to the labyrinth was recorded. Vestibulospinal neurons sending their axons to the cervical (C neurons) and lumbar (L neurons) enlargements of the spinal cord were identified by their antidromic activation. A rather high conduction velocity along vestibulospinal fibres (mean 15.47 m/s) was observed. A somatotopic arrangement of the vestibulospinal system was established in spite of extremely large overlapping zones for the fore- and hindlimb representations in the vestibular nuclear complex. The hindlimbs were represented more poorly than the forelimbs. Antidromic potentials of C and L neurons were recorded in the medial, descending and with the highest density in the lateral vestibular nuclei (Deiters' nucleus). C neurons were evenly distributed in the other vestibular nuclei studied, while L neurons were located predominantly in the caudal parts of the vestibular nuclear complex. The multiplicity of the origin of the vestibulospinal axons was established. Peculiarities of the functional correlation between the vestibular input and vestibulospinal system are discussed.
In decerebrate cats after acute hemilabyrinthectomy, the response sensitivity of extracellularly recorded vestibular nuclear neurons on the lesioned and labyrinth-intact sides were examined quantitatively during constant velocity off-vertical axis rotations with an aim to elucidate the functional contribution of otolithic inputs to the ipsilateral and contralateral vestibular nuclei. The bidirectional response sensitivity, delta, was determined as the ratio of the gain during clockwise to that during counterclockwise rotations. A continuum of response sensitivity was identified: one-dimensional neurons showed symmetrically bidirectional response patterns, while two-dimensional neurons showed asymmetrically bidirectional patterns that in some cases approached unidirectional patterns with change in velocity. The proportion of two-dimensional neurons was significantly increased after acute hemilabyrinthectomy. Two-dimensional neurons that responded only to one direction of rotation in at least one of the velocities tested were described as unidirectional neurons. This unidirectional response pattern was observed in one-third of the entire neuronal population studied, but not in cats with both labyrinths intact, thus suggesting that such prominent broadly tuned responses are normally masked by converging otolithic inputs from the contralateral side. These neurons were found in higher proportion on the lesioned side than on the labyrinth-intact side. Among the 70% of unidirectional neurons that exhibited bidirectional response at some velocities and unidirectional response at others, prominent shifts in delta values (i.e. between 0/infinity and finite values) with velocity can be computed for each neuron. The shifts in delta values correlated with large shifts in the response dynamics and spatial orientation as the response pattern changed with velocity. The response orientations of the unidirectional neurons pointed in all directions on the horizontal plane. When all the two-dimensional neurons (i.e. both the unidirectionally and bidirectionally responsive ones) were pooled, imbalances in the distribution of the response orientations and in response gain were found between the ipsilateral-side-down/head-down half-circle and the contralateral-side-down/head-up half-circle on the labyrinth-intact side, but not on the lesioned side. These results, derived from spatiotemporal processing of gravitational signals, reveal a novel dimension of imbalance between neuronal populations in the two vestibular nuclear complexes after acute lesion of one labyrinth. This feature would provide, on the one hand, deranged cues of spatial orientation and direction during slow head excursions and, on the other, a framework for the dynamic behavioral deficits associated with hemilabyrinthectomy.
In spite of the conventional belief that neurotransmitter uptake occurs at the synapses, we demonstrated previously that serotonin transporters and the high-affinity uptake of serotonin were not confined to the terminals but rather occurred throughout the axons [Zhou F. C. et al. (1998) Brain Res. 805, 241-254]. In the present study, the detailed distribution of serotonin transporters over various parts of the neuron was illustrated and analysed morphometrically using a pre-embedding immunogold method with a characterized serotonin transporter antibody at the electron microscopic level. Our findings reveal a highly polarized distribution of serotonin transporters between axons and soma-dendrites in two aspects. (1) On the plasma membrane, serotonin transporter-immunogold is extremely low on soma-dendrites and synaptic junctions, but consistently dense along the axons and perisynaptic area. (2) In contrast, serotonin transporter labeling in the cytoplasm is concentrated in soma and dendrites, particularly on the membranes of rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complexes and tubulovesicular structures, but low in the axoplasm. The extensive distribution of serotonin transporter along the axolemma suggests a broad range of uptake sites beyond synaptic junctions, and is consistent with the notion that the major mode of transmission for serotonin neurons is through volume (extrasynaptic) transmission. The highly polarized distribution also indicates that the major serotonin uptake sites are on axons and not on soma-dendrites.
Despite intense investigation, the demonstration of morphological plasticity in the external zone of the median eminence concerning the gonadotropin-releasing hormone system has never been reported. In this study, we investigate whether dynamic transformations of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone nerve terminals and/or tanycytes in the external zone of the median eminence of the hypothalamus occurred during the rat estrous cycle, by following individual gonadotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive nerve terminals on serial ultrathin sections observed by electron microscopy. Female rats were killed at 16.00 diestrus II (n = 3), i.e. when estrogen levels are basal and gonadotropin-releasing hormone release is low, and at 16.00 proestrus (n = 4), i.e. when estrogen levels peak and the preovulatory gonadotropin-releasing hormone surge occurs. Our results show that, in the median eminence obtained from proestrus rats, 12+/-2% of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone nerve terminals were observed to make physical contact with the parenchymatous basal lamina, i.e. the pericapillary space. In the median eminence obtained from diestrus II rats, no contacts were observed. On proestrus, numerous physical contacts between gonadotropin-releasing hormone nerve terminals and the basal lamina occurred by evagination of the basal lamina and/or by emerging processes from gonadotropin-releasing hormone nerve terminals. The quantification of the evagination of the basal lamina revealed that the basal lamina was at least twofold more tortuous in appearance during proestrus. These results demonstrate for the first time the existence of dynamic plastic changes in the external zone of the median eminence, allowing gonadotropin-releasing hormone nerve terminals to contact the pericapillary space on the day of proestrus, thus facilitating the release of the neurohormone into the pituitary portal blood.
The impact of stress on the transcription of rat adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase genes was examined. Nuclear run-on assays revealed that repeated immobilization stress elicited marked (about threefold) increases in the relative rates of transcription, being sustained for at least one day. Parallel changes in the steady-state messenger RNA levels for tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase were also observed. A single episode of stress triggered similar enhancements in their relative transcription rates. Depending on the duration of the stress signal, the effect on gene transcription varied in its persistence. After very short (5 min) immobilization, there was a marked transient rise in the transcription of both genes, without an accumulation of the corresponding mRNAs. Longer episodes of stress (30 min) increased the relative rate of tyrosine hydroxylase transcription for hours, causing elevations in the steady-state messenger RNA levels. In contrast, although dopamine beta-hydroxylase transcription was elevated to a similar extent by 30-min immobilization stress, the effect was transient and not reflected in significant accumulation of its messenger RNA. The results of our studies emphasize that the stress-evoked increases in the expression of the genes encoding adrenomedullary catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes involve transcriptional activation. Depending on the duration and reiteration of the stress signal, different transcriptional mechanisms may be employed.
The role of brain corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors in modulating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and sympathoadrenal responses to acute immobilization stress was studied in conscious rats under central corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor blockade by intracerebroventricular injection of a peptide corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonist. Blood for catecholamines, adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone levels was collected through vascular catheters, and brains were removed at 3 h for in situ hybridization for tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in the locus coeruleus, and corticotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Central corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor blockade reduced the early increases in plasma epinephrine and dopamine, but not norepinephrine, during stress. Immobilization stress increased tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in the locus coeruleus by 36% in controls, but not in corticotropin-releasing hormone antagonist-injected rats. In control rats, corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA and type 1 corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA in the paraventricular nucleus increased after stress (P&lt;0.01), and these responses were attenuated by central corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor blockade. In contrast, central corticotropin-releasing hormone antagonist potentiated plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone responses, but slightly attenuated plasma corticosterone responses to stress. The inhibition of plasma catecholamine and locus coeruleus tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA responses to stress by central corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor blockade supports the notion that central corticotropin-releasing hormone regulates sympathoadrenal responses during stress. The attenuation of stress-induced corticotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA responses by central corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor blockade suggests direct or indirect positive feedback effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor ligands on corticotropin-releasing hormone expression, whereas additional mechanisms potentiate adrenocorticotropic hormone responses at the pituitary level. In addition, changes in neural activity by central corticotropin-releasing hormone are likely to modulate adrenocortical responsiveness during stress.
We examined modulation of ionic currents by Zn2+ in acutely dissociated neurons from the rat's horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Application of 50 microM Zn2+ increased the peak amplitude of the transiently activated potassium current, I(A) (at + 30 mV), from 2.20+/-0.08 to 2.57+/-0.11 nA (n = 27). This response was reversible and could be repeated in 0 Ca2+/1 microM tetrodotoxin (n = 15). Zn2+ shifted the inactivation curve to the right, resulting in a shift in the half-inactivation voltage from 76.4+/-2.2 to -53.4+/-2.0 mV (n = 11), with no effect on the voltage dependence of activation gating (n = 15). There was no significant difference in the time to peak under control conditions (7.43+/-0.35 ms, n = 14) and in the presence of Zn2+ (8.20+/-0.57 ms, n = 14). Similarly, the time constant of decay of I(A) (tau(d)) at + 30 mV showed no difference (control: 38.68+/-3.68 ms, n = 15; Zn2+: 38.48+/-2.85 ms, n = 15). I(A) was blocked by 0.5-1 mM 4-aminopyridine. In contrast to its effects on I(A), Zn2+ reduced the amplitude of the delayed rectifier potassium current (I(K)). The reduction of outward K+ currents was reproducible when cells were perfused with 1 microM tetrodotoxin in a 0 Ca2+ external solution. The amplitude of the steady-state outward currents at +30 mV under these conditions was reduced from 6.40+/-0.23 (control) to 5.76+/-0.18 nA in the presence of Zn2+ (n = 16). The amplitudes of peak sodium currents (INa) were not significantly influenced (n = 10), whereas barium currents (I(Ba)) passing through calcium channels were potently modulated. Zn2+ reversibly reduced I(Ba) at -10 mV by approximately 85% from -2.06+/-0.14 nA under control conditions to -0.30+/-0.10 nA in the presence of Zn2+ (n = 14). Further analyses of Zn2+ effects on specific calcium channels reveals that it suppresses all types of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents. Under current-clamp conditions, application of Zn2+ resulted in an increase in excitability and loss of accommodation (n = 13), which appears to be mediated through its effects on Ca2+-dependent conductances.
Identified cholinergic and a subtype of non-cholinergic, fast-firing neurons were recorded intracellularly in vitro from slices of guinea-pig brain. Recorded neurons were within the boundaries of the medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band of the forebrain. The effects of superfused neurotensin and neurotensin receptor antagonists were measured under single-electrode current clamp. Neurotensin consistently caused a dose-dependent, slow depolarization of cholinergic neurons that was accompanied by an increase in membrane resistance and a block of the long-duration (1-10 s) post-spike afterhyperpolarization when present. Neurotensin also blocked a shorter duration, slow afterhyperpolarization, but only in a minority of cholinergic neurons. When present, inhibition of the slow afterhyperpolarization changed the spike pattern from single spikes to short bursts. Inhibition of post-spike afterhyperpolarizations by neurotensin reversed more slowly than did other effects of neurotensin. Tetrodotoxin did not prevent the depolarizing effect of neurotensin. The non-selective neurotensin receptor antagonist, SR142948A, blocked the depolarizing effect of neurotensin but the low-affinity receptor antagonist, levocabastine, did not. A subgroup of noncholinergic, fast-firing neurons (23%) was also depolarized by neurotensin, an effect antagonized by SR142948A but not levocabastine. Neurotensin did not effect post-spike voltage transients or change the firing pattern of non-cholinergic neurons. These data suggest that neurotensin causes a slow depolarization and increased excitability of cholinergic and some noncholinergic neurons in an area of the brain that projects to the hippocampus. Neurotensin type 1 receptors appear to mediate these effects. Neurotensin may modulate hippocampal-dependent learning and memory processes through its effects on septohippocampal neurons.
Organotypic co-cultures of the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus were examined to determine the role of the entorhinal fibers in the dendritic development and formation of spines of dentate granule cells. Quantitative analysis of Golgi-impregnated granule cells in single hippocampal cultures and co-cultures with the entorhinal cortex revealed that the presence of entorhinal fibers promoted the elongation and differentiation of the target granule cell dendrites. This was accompanied by an increase in the total number of spines. The contribution of neuronal activity to this afferent-mediated dendritic development was tested by chronic application of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin for 20 days in vitro. Tracing with biocytin showed that the formation of the entorhinohippocampal pathway was unaffected by the blockade of neuronal activity. The dendritic arbor of cultured granule cells and the number of dendritic spines did not differ between tetrodotoxin-treated slices and untreated controls. However, there was a significant increase in the relative number of filiform spines on granule cell dendrites in tetrodotoxin-treated co-cultures. Such filiform spines are a characteristic feature of immature neurons. These results suggest the cooperation of two mechanisms in the dendritic development of dentate granule cells: the specific afferent-mediated dendritic arborization and the activity-dependent maturation of spines.
Sprouting of the mossy fiber axons of the dentate granule cells is a structural neuronal plasticity found in the mature brain of epileptic humans and experimental animals. Mossy fiber sprouting typically arises in experimental animals after repeated seizures and may contribute to the hyperexcitability of the epileptic brain. Investigation of the molecular triggers and spatial cues involved in mossy fiber sprouting has been hampered by the lack of an optimal in vitro model for studying this rearrangement. For an in vitro model to be feasible, the circuitry and receptors involved in convulsant-induced mossy fiber sprouting would have to be localized near the granule cells, rather than being dependent on long-range brain interconnections. However, it is not known whether this is the case. We report here that that application of the convulsant, kainic acid, to organotypic hippocampal explant cultures induces seizures, neuronal cell death, and subsequent dramatic mossy fiber sprouting with a similar laminar preference and time-course to that seen in intact animals. Prolonged (48 h) but not transient (4 h) kainic acid treatment caused regionally selective neuronal cell death. Cultures treated with kainic acid for a prolonged period displayed a time- and dose-dependent increase in supragranular Timm staining reflective of increased mossy fiber innervation to this area. Direct visualization of mossy fiber axons with neurobiotin-labeling revealed that mossy fibers in kainic acid-treated cultures exhibited a dramatic increase in supragranular axonal branch points and synaptic boutons. The cellular and molecular determinants required for kainic acid-induced cell death and subsequent mossy fiber reorganization thus appear to be intrinsic to the hippocampal slice preparation, and are preserved in culture. Given the ease with which functional inhibitors or pharmacological agents may be utilized in this system, slice cultures may provide a powerful model in which to study the molecular components involved in triggering mossy fiber outgrowth and underlying its laminar specificity. Elucidation of these molecular pathways will likely have both specific utility in clarifying the functional consequences of mossy fiber sprouting, as well as general utility in understanding of synaptic reorganization in the mature central nervous system.
Spontaneous activity and responses to sensory stimuli were analysed in the hippocampal CA1 neurons of chronic unanesthetized rabbits before and after reversible functional blockade of the median raphe nucleus and medial septal area by local microinjections of anesthetic lidocaine. This evoked, correspondingly, persistent theta rhythm and its complete blockade for about 30 min. The results were compared to the neuronal data obtained earlier in the experiments with cholinergic drugs modulating expression of theta rhythm. Intra-median raphe nucleus injection of lidocaine evoked uniform increase of discharge rate in the hippocampal neurons with low and high spontaneous activity. Theta modulation of neuronal activity had increased regularity and frequency (by 0.5-2.0 Hz) and appeared in additional group of the neurons simultaneously with expression of persistent theta in the hippocampal electroencephalogram. Sensory responsiveness of the hippocampal neurons was drastically decreased (45% of the responses preserved). Reactions of all types were blocked, diminished, or inverted, but inhibitory responses were the most severely affected. Injection of lidocaine into medial septal area also blocked all brain stem afferents ascending to the hippocampus via medial septal area, thus, totally depriving hippocampus of brainstem-septal input. However, besides the total absence of theta modulation, spontaneous activity in majority of neurons was not significantly changed. Responsiveness to sensory stimuli also remained relatively high (77% of the responses preserved); on-effects were especially resistant to medial septal area blockade. Comparison of spontaneous and evoked activity in two theta states (physostigmine and median raphe nucleus blockade) revealed striking similarity of all characteristics, which suggested that theta-suppressing influences of median raphe nucleus (presumably serotonergic) are realized primarily through the control of cholinergic septo-hippocampal theta-generating mechanism. However, as the frequency of theta rhythm does not depend on it, an additional effect of disinhibition of activating reticular formation by the median raphe nucleus suppression is suggested. The data confirm that theta rhythm may be regarded as active filter in the information processing by the hippocampal neurons.
Oscillations in neuronal networks are assumed to serve various physiological functions, from coordination of motor patterns to perceptual binding of sensory information. Here, we describe an ultra-slow oscillation (0.025 Hz) in the hippocampus. Extracellular and intracellular activity was recorded from the CA1 and subicular regions in rats of the Wistar and Sprague-Dawley strains, anesthetized with urethane. In a subgroup of Wistar rats (23%), spontaneous afterdischarges (4.7+/-1.6 s) occurred regularly at 40.8+/-15.7 s. The afterdischarge was initiated by a fast increase of population synchrony (100-250 Hz oscillation; &quot;tonic&quot; phase), followed by large-amplitude rhythmic waves and associated action potentials at gamma and beta frequency (15-50 Hz; &quot;clonic&quot; phase). The afterdischarges were bilaterally synchronous and terminated relatively abruptly without post-ictal depression. Single-pulse stimulation of the commissural input could trigger afterdischarges, but only at times when they were about to occur. Commissural stimulation evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in pyramidal cells. However, when the stimulus triggered an afterdischarge, the inhibitory postsynaptic potential was absent and the cells remained depolarized during most of the afterdischarge. Afterdischarges were not observed in the Sprague-Dawley rats. Long-term analysis of interneuronal activity in intact, drug-free rats also revealed periodic excitability changes in the hippocampal network at 0.025 Hz. These findings indicate the presence of an ultra-slow oscillation in the hippocampal formation. The ultra-slow clock induced afterdischarges in susceptible animals. We hypothesize that a transient failure of GABAergic inhibition in a subset of Wistar rats is responsible for the emergence of epileptiform patterns.
The amygdala is a complex forebrain structure proposed to play a pivotal role in fear conditioning circuitry. In this study, c-Fos immunomapping was applied to investigate the functional activation of particular amygdalar nuclei following a 50-trial training session of two-way active avoidance reaction. To dissect distinctive responses displayed by the animals and to cluster them into groups of correlated behaviors, factor analysis was employed. The training procedure resulted in an increase of c-Fos expression within the cortical, medial, lateral and basolateral, but not central, nuclei. The expression in the cortical nucleus correlated negatively with grooming behavior, whereas c-Fos immunolabeling of the other three subdivisions of the amygdala could be associated with the number of intertrial responses. No correlation was observed between c-Fos expression and avoidance reactions performed or the amount of shock received by the animal. The results obtained with c-Fos mapping of various regions of rat amygdala, combined with a fine dissection of behavioral repertoire, imply that there are specific functional links between particular parts of the structure and distinctive behaviors that reflect various emotional states of the animal.
Behavioral sensitization to amphetamine is expressed as a progressive enhancement of the behavioral activating effects of the drug when repeated injections are performed as well as a long-lasting hypersensitivity to later environmental or pharmacological challenges. The mesoaccumbens dopamine system has been proposed to be the major candidate so far responsible for the induction and expression of this process, which are dependent on the action of amphetamine in the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens, respectively. The development of this process has been proposed to be the result of an interaction between somatodendritically released dopamine and dopaminergic D1 receptors localized on different inputs to the ventral tegmental area, including glutamate afferents arising in part from mesocorticolimbic areas such as the medial prefrontal cortex and the amygdala. Three groups of experiments were designed to test the role of each of these components in the behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. First, the intervention of the glutamatergic transmission of the ventral tegmental area in the induction of sensitization to amphetamine was tested. The effects of an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 3-(R-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid. on the behavioral sensitization induced by amphetamine administered repeatedly in the ventral tegmental area was tested. It was found that the blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with 3-(R-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid coadministered with amphetamine in the ventral tegmental area dose-dependently prevented the induction of sensitization. In a second step, the role of the structures which send glutamatergic inputs to the ventral tegmental area in the process of behavioral sensitization was tested. We evaluated the effects of ibotenic acid lesion of the medial prefrontal cortex and the amygdala on behavioral sensitization induced by peripheral or intra-ventral tegmental area administration of amphetamine. We found that ibotenic acid lesion of the medial prefrontal cortex blocked the behavioral sensitization induced by both intra-ventral tegmental area and peripheral treatment with amphetamine. In contrast, ibotenic acid lesion of the amygdala produced no effect on behavioral sensitization induced peripherally or centrally. These experiments confirmed (i) that the ventral tegmental area, where dopaminergic cell bodies are located, is a critical site for the induction of behavioral sensitization, (ii) that this process implicates the glutamatergic transmission in the ventral tegmental area, and (iii) that the medial prefrontal cortex is crucially implicated merely because of its direct glutamatergic inputs on to ventral tegmental area neurons. Together, these results reinforce the view that the behavioral sensitization to amphetamine implicates not only the mesoaccumbens dopaminergic neurons, but also other structures of the mesocorticolimbic system, such as the medial prefrontal cortex and more specifically its glutamatergic component.
To elucidate the function of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate types of glutamate receptors in the primary visual cortex of the adult cat, we studied the effects of the iontophoretically applied glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and D-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Antagonists were applied with ejecting currents that selectively blocked non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Among 93 cells in which stable recordings were obtained, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione reduced the visual response in all cells. The average response magnitude during 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione administration was reduced to 11.7% of the control (average ejecting current: 41.2 nA). The effect of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione was obvious throughout all cortical layers. The effect of D-amino-5-phosphonovalerate on the visual response was tested in 14 cells and it was also effective in blocking the visual response: the average response magnitude during D-amino-5-phosphonovalerate administration was 45.0% of the control (average ejecting current: 41.4 nA). The effect of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione on the response was compared in individual cells at both high and low firing rates in order to determine whether a differential effect exists on the level of firing activity of cells due to secondary inactivation of voltage-dependent N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. However, no indication of response dependency on firing rate was seen with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. We suggest that excitatory transmission at the geniculocortical and corticocortical synapses seems to be strongly dependent on non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors throughout the primary visual cortex of the adult cat, and that both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate type glutamate receptors function additively.
The laminar binding distribution of three nicotinic receptor agonists, [3H](-)nicotine, [3H]cytisine, and [3H]epibatidine, and their relation to the [3H]vesamicol binding, which is known to represent the vesicular acetylcholine transport sites, was performed employing in vitro autoradiography on the medial temporal cortex (Brodmann area 21). Autopsied brain tissue from nine Alzheimer patients and seven age-matched controls were used. The binding pattern of the three nicotinic ligands in the normal cortex was in general similar, showing binding maxima in the cortical layers I, III and V. The binding of [3H](-)nicotine, [3H]cytisine, and [3H]epibatidine was lower in the older controls and more uniform throughout the layers as compared with younger controls. There was a significant age-related decrease in the binding of the three nicotinic ligands within the controls (age range: 58 to 89 years; P[3H](-)nicotine = 0.002, P[3H]epibatidine = 0.010, P[3H]cytisine = 0.037). In the older controls, the [3H]epibatidine binding was much decreased as compared with that of [3H](-)nicotine and [3H]cytisine. This may indicate a higher selectivity of [3H]epibatidine for a nicotinic receptor subtype that is particularly affected by aging. The laminar binding pattern of [3H]vesamicol showed one maximum in the outer cortical layers II/III. The [3H]vesamicol binding did not change with aging. The binding of all ligands was significantly decreased in all layers of the temporal cortex in Alzheimer's disease, but the [3H]vesamicol binding decreased only half as much as the nicotinic receptors. Also, choline acetyltransferase activity was percentually more reduced than [3H]vesamicol binding in Alzheimer's disease. The cortical laminar binding pattern of all 3H-ligands was largely absent in the Alzheimer's disease cases. The less severe loss of vesicular acetylcholine transport sites as compared with the loss of the nicotinic receptors and choline acetyltransferase activity may suggest that vesamicol binding sites might be more preserved in presynaptic terminals still existing and thereby expressing compensatory capacity to maintain cholinergic activity.
Somatostatin is mainly expressed by sparsely occurring amacrine and interplexiform cells in the retina. In this study, we characterized the expression and cellular localization of one of the somatostatin subtype (sst) receptors, sst2A, in the rat retina. The presence of sst2A receptor messenger RNA in retinal extracts was demonstrated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using specific primers to detect the sst2 receptor and its isoforms, sst2A and sst2B. Specific sst2A receptor immunoreactivity was mainly localized to the plasma membrane of several neuronal cell types. In the outer retina, immunoreactivity was localized to cone photoreceptors, horizontal cells, and rod and cone bipolar cells. Double-label experiments showed the co-localization of sst2A receptor and protein kinase C (alpha and beta), a rod bipolar cell marker, and of sst2A receptor and Calbindin-D28k, a horizontal cell marker. In the inner retina, sst2A receptor immunoreactivity occurred in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive amacrine cells; most were of medium to large size. These findings indicate that somatostatin may act at a distance, in a paracrine manner, on several cell types that express the sst2A receptor, and therefore exert a broad modulatory influence on both scotopic and photopic visual pathways.
The tachykinins are a family of peptides with putative neurotransmitter roles in the nervous system. They mediate their effects via neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptors. There has been increasing interest in the therapeutic application of the tachykinin neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists in the treatment of pain and emesis, and more recently in depression. However, the central role of neurokinin-1 receptors is not well understood. The aims of the present study were to determine the behavioural responses of guinea-pigs, and the distribution of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig brain, following intracerebroventricular administration of the neurokinin-1 receptor-selective agonist, [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P. The effects of pretreatment with the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, SR 140333, were also investigated. Administration of [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P induced increased locomotor activity, as well as face washing, grooming and wet-dog shake behaviours, all of which were inhibited by the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, SR 140333, indicating the involvement of neurokinin-1 receptors. In order to localize the brain regions activated by [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P, the distribution of neurons expressing Fos-like immunoreactivity was examined. [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P induced increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in widespread areas, including the frontal cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, area postrema and nucleus of the solitary tract. SR 140333 reduced Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P in most areas. Thus, brain regions associated with emotion, sensation, learning and memory, autonomic regulation and emesis were activated by stimulation of neurokinin-1 receptors. The present data have added a functional domain to previous neurokinin-1 receptor localization studies by describing the extensive regions of the CNS that may be activated by stimulation of these receptors, and the potential of neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists to inhibit activation of these regions.
Agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding allows the visualization of receptor-activated G-proteins, thus revealing the anatomical localization of functional receptor activity. In the present study, agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was used to demonstrate mu and kappa1 opioid-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in tissue sections and membranes from cynomolgus monkey brain using DAMGO and U50,488H, respectively. Concentrations of agonists required to produce maximal stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding were determined in membranes from the frontal poles of the brain. Receptor specificity was verified in both membranes and sections by inhibiting agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding with the appropriate antagonist. Mu opioid-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was high in areas including the amygdala, ventral striatum, caudate, putamen, medial thalamus and hypothalamus. Dense mu-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was also found in brainstem nuclei including the interpeduncular nucleus, parabrachial nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Kappa1 opioid-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was high in limbic and association cortex, ventral striatum, caudate, putamen, globus pallidus, claustrum, amygdala, hypothalamus and substantia nigra. These results demonstrate the applicability of [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography to examine receptor-activated G-proteins in the primate brain and reveal functional mu and kappa1 opioid receptor activity that may contribute to the reported central nervous system effects of opiates.
While investigating differences in the pattern of gene expression in functionally distinct areas of the rat caudate-putamen employing differential display, we identified a gene that is highly enriched in tissue adjacent to the lateral ventricle. To characterize the gene, a complementary DNA containing the complete coding sequence was obtained and sequenced. In addition, radiolabelled DNA and riboprobes were generated to examine the expression levels and anatomical distribution of the identified gene in the brain. The sequencing data suggests that the identified gene is a member of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein family and likely represents the rat homolog of CArG-binding protein A initially isolated from mouse C2 myogenic cells. CArG-binding protein A is widely distributed and moderately expressed in the rat brain and present within both neurons and astrocytes. Since the CArG box motif forms the core of the serum response element and the serum response element is involved in immediate early gene regulation, the expression level of CArG-binding protein A was examined following treatment of PC12 cells with nerve growth factor and correlated with changes in c-fos and zif268 expression. The results show that CArG-binding protein A is up-regulated following nerve growth factor treatment and that the up-regulation of CArG-binding protein A can be correlated with the down-regulation of c-fos and zif268. The results of the current study leads us to suggest that CArG-binding protein A may be involved in brain development and the regulation of the serum response element.
A putative transcription factor induced in vitro by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and transforming growth factor-beta was recently cloned and characterized [Yajima S. et al. (1997) J. Neurosci. 17, 8657-8666]. The messenger RNA of this protein, termed murine GDNF-inducible transcription factor (mGIF, hereafter referred to as GIF), is localized within cortical and hippocampal regions of brain, suggesting that GIF might be regulated by perturbations of these brain regions. In an effort to learn more about the role of GIF in vivo, we examined GIF messenger RNA in the brains of rats treated with the glutamatergic agonist kainic acid. This treatment is known to induce seizures and alter the messenger RNA expression of several growth factors, including GDNF, in several brain regions. Rats were given intraperitoneal saline (1 ml/kg) or kainic acid (15 mg/kg) and were killed at various time-points for in situ hybridization of brain sections with a GIF messenger RNA riboprobe. In saline-treated rats, GIF messenger RNA was present at low levels in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and hippocampal remnants such as the taenia tecta. Kainic acid treatment induced robust increases in GIF messenger RNA in several brain regions, including cerebral cortex, hippocampus, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, and several nuclei of the amygdala and hypothalamus. Most brain regions showed the greatest increase in GIF messenger RNA 4-6 h after kainic acid administration and a return towards normal levels at 48 h. The CA3 region of hippocampus, however, showed a more rapid increase in GIF messenger RNA that was also evident 48 h after kainic acid administration. These results demonstrate that GIF messenger RNA can be regulated in vivo, and that this novel factor warrants further study as a central mediator of GDNF and perhaps other neurotrophic factors.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor has recently been shown to promote the axonal regrowth of retinal ganglion cells into a peripheral nerve graft following an intracranial transection of the optic nerve (approximately 7 mm from the optic disc). It is unclear whether the enhancement of axonal regrowth by ciliary neurotrophic factor application correlates with the enhancement of survival of retinal ganglion cells and/or the up-regulation of expression of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA in retinas. The present study evaluated the regenerative capacity of retinal ganglion cells following intraorbital transection of the optic nerve (approximately 1.5 mm from the optic disc) and the attachment of a peripheral nerve to the ocular stump of the optic nerve. In addition, we have determined the survival of retinal ganglion cells and the expression of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA in ciliary neurotrophic factor-treated retinas following optic nerve transection. The results showed that in the ciliary neurotrophic factor-treated retinas, the number of retinal ganglion cells which had regrown axons into a peripheral nerve is about four times more than the control. In the axotomized retinas, ciliary neurotrophic factor initiated sprouting of axon-like processes at 14 and 28 days post-axotomy and up-regulated the expression level of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA at 7, 14 and 28 days post-axotomy. However, ciliary neurotrophic factor did not prevent the death of axotomized retinal ganglion cells. We suggest that one possible mechanism for the axonal regeneration of axotomized retinal ganglion cells by ciliary neurotrophic factor could be mediated by the up-regulation of growth-associated protein-43 gene expression and not by increasing the pool of surviving retinal ganglion cells after axotomy.
Pain is a multi-dimensional experience including sensory-discriminative and affective-motivational components. The attribution of such components to a corresponding cerebral neuronal substrate in the brain refers to conclusions drawn from electrical brain stimulation, lesion studies, topographic mappings and metabolic imaging. Increases in neuronal metabolic activity in supraspinal brain regions, suggested to be involved in the central processing of pain, have previously been shown in various animal studies. The present investigation is the first to describe supraspinal structures which show increased metabolic activity during ongoing monoarthritic pain at multiple time-points. Experimental chronic monoarthritis of a hindlimb induced by complete Freund's adjuvant is one of the most used models in studies of neuronal plasticity associated with chronic pain. Such animals show typical symptoms of hyperalgesia and allodynia for a prolonged period. Metabolic activity changes in supraspinal brain regions during monoarthritis were assessed using the quantitative [14C]-2deoxyglucose technique at two, four, 14 days of the disease and, furthermore, in a group of 14-day monoarthritic rats which were mechanically stimulated by repeated extensions of the inflamed joint. Local glucose utilization was determined ipsi- and contralateral to the arthritic hindpaw in more than 50 brain regions at various supraspinal levels, and compared with saline-injected controls. At two and 14 days of monoarthritis significant bilateral increases in glucose utilization were seen in many brain structures, including brainstem, thalamic, limbic and cortical regions. Within the brainstem, animals with 14-day monoarthritis showed a higher number of regions with increased metabolic activity compared with two days. No differences between ipsi- and contralateral sides were detected in any of the experimental groups. Average increases ranged from 20 to 40% compared with controls and maximum values were detected in specific brain regions, such as the anterior pretectal nucleus, the anterior cingulate cortex and the nucleus accumbens. Interestingly, at four days of monoarthritis, the glucose utilization values were in the control range in almost all regions studied. Moreover, in monoarthritic rats receiving an additional noxious mechanical stimulation, the rates of glucose utilization were also comparable to controls in all brain areas investigated. Such patterns of brain metabolic activity agreed with concomitant changes in the lumbar spinal cord, described in the accompanying report. The present data show that a large array of supraspinal structures displays elevated metabolic activity during painful monoarthritis, with a non-linear profile for the time-points investigated. This observation most probably reflects mechanisms of transmission and modulation of nociceptive input arising from the monoarthritis and accompanying its development.
