



Two patients with chroic neurological deficit due to multiple sclerosis have been treated by percutaneous continuous dorsal-column stimulation. Motor, sensory, and bladder function improved significantly.




1. The mode of activation of nerve cells by extracellular stimuli was investigated while recording from a selected cell with one electrode, and applying current pulses around this cell with another electrode. The analysis was done on motoneurones and on spinal border cells from lower lumbar segments in the cat. 2. Directly evoked action potentials were defined by their appearance in an all-or-none fashion with stable latencies of less than 0-5 ms. The lowest thresholds for their generation were 0-15-0-20 muA in the spinal border cells and 0-35-0-40 muA in the motoneurones. In the main series on motoneurones a correlation has been established between different positions of the extracellular stimulating electrode in relation to the cells and the thresholds for the direct excitation of these cells. The position of the electrode were defined on the basis of an analysis of the IS and SD components of the action potentials recorded extracellularly around the cell when evoked by current pulses applied through the intracellular electrode; both the amplitudes of these IS and SD components and their timing with the IS and SD spikes, which were simultaneously recorded with the intracellular electrode, were then taken into account. The lowest thresholds (less than 2 muA) for the direct activation of cells were found nearest the initial segment of the axon. Their values increased to about 5 mu A at near-soma positions and to greater than 10 muA at near-dendrites positions about 150 mum away. 3. Transsynaptically evoked action potentials which were clearly set up by the preceding e.p.s.p.s appeared with latencies greater than 0-7 ms. When single current pulses were used, the lowest thresholds for transsynaptic spike activation were usually greater than 5-10 muA but they considerably decreased with repetitive stimuli. These thresholds were higher than the thresholds for the direct activation of cells within the region of the initial segment, of the same order of magnitude near the soma, and lower when the stimulating electrode was nearer the dendrites than the soma and generally at all larger distances from the cells. 4. All the observations on direct excitation of cells by extracellular stimuli (generation of the IS spike before the SD spike, lowest thresholds near the region of the initial segment of the axon, similar rates of increase in these thresholds with distance as for fibres) lead to the conclusion that the effects of the extracellular stimuli are exerted primarily via spread of current to the initial segment of the axon and its depolarization. 5. Late extracellular negativities presumably related to dendritic activation were observed in a few cells. These negativities were synchronous with late components of the intracellulary recorded action potentials.
Tissue fractionation was used as an analytical tool to study the subcellular distribution of an adenosine triphosphatase activated by Mg2+ in adrenal medullae of the pig and ox and in whole adrenals of the rat. By measuring adenosine triphosphatase and various enzymes in the fractions obtained by differential centrifugation, the distribution pattern of adenosine triphosphatase was found to differ markedly from that of markers like catecholamines, dopamine beta-hydroxylase or cytochrome oxidase. In the pig and ox the distribution of inosine diphosphatase paralleled that of adenosine triphosphatase. After equilibration through sucrose density gradients, no adenosine triphosphatase activity was detected in the chromaffin granules in the rat. However, in bovine adrenal medullae, a large part of the adenosine triphosphatase activity equilibrated in that area of the gradient in which the chromaffin granules were found. This adenosine triphosphatase distribution pattern was an artefact produced by applying a too concentrated sample to the gradient. When a more diluted sample of bovine tissue was used no adenosine triphosphatase activity was found to be associated with the chromaffin granules. The present results lead to a reconsideration of the role of the adenosine triphosphatase in some processes in which the chromaffin granules are involved. Moreover, the degree of purity of many chromaffin granule preparations is again questioned.
Combined neuroanatomical and electrophysiological experiments were performed to test the hypothesis that axon collaterals of neurons in the cerebellar nuclei project to the cerebellar cortex in cats. The anatomical studies demonstrated that (a) following the injection of tritiated leucine into the deep cerebellar nuclei, labeled fibers could be traced into the granular layer of the cerebellar cortex, and (b) following the injection of horseradish peroxidase into the cerebellar cortex, retrogradely labeled horseradish peroxidase-positive neurons were identified in the deep nuclei. The electrophysiological experiments confirmed the anatomical findings. Neurons in the dentate and interposed nuclei, identified by their antidromic activation from the brachium conjunctivum, could also be activated antidromically from the cerebellar surface. Collision experiments demonstrated that projections from the deep cerebellar nuclei to the cerebellar cortex are in part collaterals of efferent neurons projecting through the brachium conjunctivum. Care was taken to ensure that all recordings were obtained from the region of cell somata in order to minimize the likelihood of recording from neuronal elements passing through the cerebellar nuclei. These combined neuroanatomical and electrophysiological studies provide strong evidence supporting the existence of a collateral system from cerebellar output neurons to the cerebellar cortex. The existence of this collateral system emphasizes that the cerebellar cortex and cerebellar nuclei may comprise a functional unit in which these collaterals may serve as a substrate for feedback control of the cerebellar cortex by the cerebellar output.
Serotonin has been detected in the rat vas deferens. Increase in the serotonin concentration by exposure of the rat vas deferens to L-tryptophan occurs in vitro. p-chlorophenylalanine partly blocks the increase in serotonin concentration induced by tryptophan in vitro but not in vivo. Chronic sympathetic denervation induces an increase in 5-HT concentration. Responses of the vas deferens to transmural stimulation are depressed by pretreatment of rats with p-chlorophenylalanine, and the depression is reversed by incubation in vitro with 5-hydroxytryptophan or serotonin. Serotonin can enhance the response to transmural stimulation at low concentrations but has no effect at higher concentrations. Physostigmine-induced enhancement of the response to stimulation is depressed only by higher concentrations of serotonin. The results raise the question whether endogenous serotonin can act as a modulator of neurotransmission in the rat vas deferens.
Cultures of 11 day old chick embryo pectoral muscle were used to study the effects of direct electrical stimulation and neurochemicals such as acetylcholine, acetyl-beta-methylcholine, tetrodotoxin, and d-tubocurarine on the acetylcholinesterase levels of muscle. The results suggest that excitation-contraction is an important factor in regulation of muscle acetylcholinesterase. Tetrodotoxin, acetylcholine and its analog acetyl-beta-methylcholine increased acetylcholinesterase levels and reduced spontaneous contractions. D-tubocurarine blocked the increase in acetylcholinesterase and the decrease in spontaneous contractions caused by acetyl-beta-methylcholine. Electrical stimulation decreased acetylcholinesterase and increased muscle contractions in normal and in diisopropylfluorophosphate treated cultures. Tetrodotoxin also affected the morphology of the muscle cells, as if it adversely affected normal growth and differentiation. Electrical stimulation did not increase muscle creatine kinase.
The lateral belts of the myelin sheath wind helically around the paranodal region of the axon. The lateral belt coil leaves an imprint on the axon and thus confers a conspicuous, indented configuration to the freeze-fracture faces of the axolemma. The contact area between the axolemma and the lateral belt membrane is the site of an extensive and unusual cell junction (axo-glial junction). In thin sections the junctional membranes are undulated, the peaks in one membrane mirroring the peaks in the other. The transverse bands (intercellular septa) are in register with the undulations. The intercellular space measures about 30 A. In freeze-fracture replicas, the undulations are evident as alternating ridges and grooves which run strictly parallel and are oriented at an angle with respect to the helical path of the lateral belt. Both junctional membranes contain parallel rows of intramembrane particles which coincide with the ridges and grooves and, therefore, with the intercellular septa. The center-to-center distance between septa or, equivalently, between adjacent rows of particles measures approximately 250 A. Although the axo-glial junction possesses structurally symmetrical features, there exist important differences between the two junctional membranes. The intramembrane particles of the glial and the axonal membrane differ in cleaving properties. Furthermore, in some of the fibres the E face of the junctional axolemma displays a crystalline array which is not present in the fracture faces of the glial membrane. The axo-glial junction is limited to the paranodal region, although the inner belt of the myelin sheath may form occasional junctional spots with the internodal region proper of the axolemma. The classification and the presumptive functions of the paranodal axo-glial junction are briefly discussed.
The isolated neurotoxins taipoxin and notexin from the venoms of the Elapidae, Oxyuranus scutellatus and Notechis scutatus scutatus respectively cause a neuromuscular block when administered to the mouse in vivo or to the phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm preparation in vitro. The block is preceded by a latency period during which the toxins bind irreversibly to the nerve. The period is shortened by nerve activity. The frequency of the miniature end-plate potentials is gradually reduced, almost to zero, and their amplitude distribution is altered; small and very large miniature endplate potentials appearing. Ultrastructurally the endplates are altered in the presynaptic portion but not in the postsynaptic part. In an early stage of poisoning the axolemma has an increased number of omega-shaped indentations similar in size to synaptic vesicles. At a later stage, when the animals die of respiratory paralysis, the axolemmal indentations are more numerous and the synaptic vesicles greatly reduced in number, the remaining vesicles having a variable and frequently larger than normal size. When impulse activity in the phrenic nerve is stopped by cutting the nerve before the administration of toxin there is no reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles, only the appearance of an increased number of axolemmal indentations. It is suggested that taipoxin and notexin irreversibly interfere with the formation of synaptic vesicles by arresting vesicle membrane recycling at the level of the axolemma. When the pre-existing store of vesicles is depleted, by nerve activity, a neuromuscular block results.
To obtain more information about the transmitter involved in catecholaminergic inhibition of ACTH secretion, the site of this inhibition, and the receptors involved, the secretion of ACTH was studied in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs that were surgically stressed and treated with drugs which modify central catecholaminergic transmission. The index of ACTH secretion was adrenal venous output of corticoid hormones. Intravenous L-dopa inhibited ACTH secretion, and this inhibition was not modified by blockade of peripheral decarboxylation of L-dopa with carbidopa. Intravenous or centrally administered clonidine inhibited stress-induced ACTH secretion, whereas centrally administered apomorphine did not. When given into the third ventricle, phenoxybenzamine (but not phentolamine) blocked the inhibitory effect of L-dopa and clonidine. Pimozide had no effect. L-propranolol caused a small but significant decrease in stress-induced ACTH secretion. Intraventricular procaine blocked the stress response. The data support the conclusion that the site of catecholaminergic inhibition of ACTH secretion is central, 'inside the blood-brain barrier', instead of the pituitary or the median eminence. They indicate that dopamine is not the mediator involved, and suggest that it is probably norepinephrine, although epinephrine is not ruled out. The receptor on which the released catecholamines act, presumably on the surface of the cells that secrete the hypothalamic hormone that regulates ACTH secretion, appears to be a type of alpha-adrenergic receptor.




The historical development of the nomenclature used to describe peripheral nerve fibres is described. Some of the properties of nerve fibres and their maturation are discusses. It is suggested that when grouping fibres by their conduction velocities the original terminology introduced by Erlanger and Gasser41 (i.e. A-alpha, beta, gamma, delta, B and C) should be used for efferent nerve fibres, while the nomenclature introduced by Lloyd44 (i.e. groups I,II, III and IV) should be applied to afferent fibres. The terms B, 'gamma efferent', Ia and Ib have specific implications with regard to their source or distribution irrespective of the conduction velocities of the fibres contributing to these groups.
Recent work in neurophysiology has begun to close the paradigmatic gap between neurophysiology and the psychology of embodied behavior and movement. The present paper surveys these developments, traces the origins of the split between neurophysiology and neuropsychology and suggests that recent work by Pribram may provide a link between the psychology of consciousness, the neurophysiology of movement, and the growing body of work on nonverbal communication.

Recent interest in the neural processing of complex cutaneous stimuli such as moving stimuli has necessitated more versatile stimulating devices. This article describes the construction and application of a relatively inexpensive instrument, utilizing equipment readily available in most neurophysiological laboratories, which provides a variety of moving cutaneous stimuli of selected velocities, excursions, and directions. The electronic portion of the instrument consists of a logically controlled varable rate integrator wired to conform to the electrical and mechanical characteristics of a Grass P5 plug-in. This circuitry operates the remainder of the instrument which consists of a P5 driver amplifier used to drive the pen motor mechanism that provides the moving cutaneous stimulus.










The most important research findings in the field of neuro-physiology of the masticatory system are described, e.g. the clinico-neurological aspects of the swallowing reflex, cortical and subcortical control systems interfering with mastication and especially the two masticatory reflexes taking place at the level of the brain stem, the jaw-opening reflex and the jaw-jerk reflex. A short neuro-anatomic and electrophysiological description of the nucl. tractus mesencephalici, the nucl. supratrigeminalis and the dental pressosensors completes this survey. It concludes with a discussion of possible pathological reflex circles in the pathogenesis of myorthropathies.

This paper is the outcome of an extensive retrospective study of the clinical and radiological manifestations of a large number of craniopharyngiomas from five leading neuroscience centres in the U.K. The literature about this tumour has been reviewed with particular reference to its origin and radiological manifestations.
This paper describes a proportional controlled thermoregulator circuit. The instrument controls D.C. current in the heating device, precluding the introduction of radiated interference by the heater. This circuit is capable of regulating the temperature of a typical decerebrated cat to within 0.1 degrees C. A dual channel temperature regulator can be constructed for about $ 300.







Neuroplegia was born from a physiopathological study of states of shock and research on inhibition of the autonomic reaction to aggression. Over the last 25 years, the experimental facts have become accumulated in favour of the first theory of H. Laborit, i.e. that this so-called defence reaction defended our lives only through conservation of motor activity in the environment. When this motor activity is inefficacious or useless, the neuroendocrine reaction may lead, during the acute phase, to states of shock and to chronic psychosomatic pathology. On this general theme, inhibition of this reaction by neuroplegic drugs, among which the phenothiazine derivatives have played a very important role, has led in numerous surgical and medical disciplines, to basic research and therapeutic consequences. Thus, in anesthetics, it was at the origin of potentialised anesthesia, then neuroleptanalgesia. In general intensive care, it is used in various ways in the study and treatment of states of shock. In psychiatry, it has initiated neuro-psychopharmacology and the neuro-physiological and biochemical study of the nervous system in its response to the psycho-social environment. It has found its place in anesthesia and in obstetric pathology. But above all, has led pharmacologists to the study of metabolic and biochemical activities. The result of an interdisciplinary approach, neuroplegia has on the contrary, often been the origin of an interdisciplinary development of our physiological and physiopathological knowledge. Today this development seems to better understand its mode of action at various levels of organisation of living systems. One may thus say that neuroplegia, apart from its therapeutic interest, has been a good working instrument and led to better understanding of numerous biological disciplines.













A short biographical note about Friedrich-Christian Rosenthal, a German anatomist, disciple of Reil, born in Greifswald on the 3rd of June 1780, died prematurely in the same town on the 5th of December 1829, leaving unfinished an important work on the anatomy of the brain and cranial nerves. His name is still associated with the spiral canal of the inner ear and to the basal cerebral vein.


























A new photostimulator and an infrared videopupillograph are described. The light output from the photostimulator is quantitatively variable, and the beam of light is focused in the plane of the pupil to a spot smaller than the narrowest pupil, thus affording open loop conditions. The videopupillograph gives a direct and continuous measure of the area of the pupil. The importance of these features in quantitative neurophysiological studies is discussed.
An attempt has been made to relate clinical thinking to available experimental evidence of the physiological background to temporomandibular joint dysfunction. There is little or no evidence that the condition results from displacement of the mandibular condyles. The contention that muscle hyperactivity is a primary cause receives some experimental support, but there is no clear evidence that malocclusion of the teeth leads, through reflex mechanisms, to maintained hyperactivity. Instead there is an increasing weight of evidence that hyperactivity of jaw closing muscles may originate in the central nervous system. It is concluded that such centrally induced activity may be sufficient to cause muscle damage, which leads to disturbed function, local pain and tenderness and to pain referred to adjacent structures.







A method for calculation of the square surface area of the cerebral cortex is proposed which represents a combination of the method of averaged reconstruction after a continuous series of histological sections and the stereological method of determination of the length of any curve disposed on the surface. A comparative analysis of the proposed method with curvometrical and stereological (after Hennig's formula) method used earlier for this purpose is made taking as an example the calculation of the neocortex square surface area of some mammals. The results of calculation of the surface by the proposed method were found to coincide with curvometrical data within the range of 5% while the data obtained by stereological method of determination of the absolute square surface area differ from curvometrical data by more than 22%. The proposed method is very convenient and allows considerable acceleration in obtaining results.
A novel course in undergraduate neurosciences is described in this paper. The course features a 'problem-box' and use of an educational prescription, each designed to foster the continual development of problem solving and self-directed study skills. The use of a wide range of evaluation tools, stimulated patients, questionnaires, tutorial evaluations, and interviews indicated that it was successful in its attempt. The philosophy of the design of problem-boxes and the problem-solving approach are discussed.
An instrument has been developed for positioning microelectrodes near neurons in the exposed pulsating cerebral cortex of man or animals. The electrode moves with the cortex and maintains a fixed relationship with the desired neuron. Stable extracellular single cell recordings have been obtained for 17.5 min from an exposed human brain that pulsated 1.5 mm at the surface.
A dipping cone attachment for use with a long-working-distance objective is described. The device eliminates degradation of the microscope image which occurs when microelectrodes are applied to single muscle fibers in vitro.
A device is described to maintain restricted areas of skin at any temperature between 5 and 45 degrees C. Changes in temperature of controlled intensity up to 10 degrees C at rates from 0.03 degrees C to 2 degrees C/s can be delivered in either the warm or cool directions. The stimulator, which is in contact with the skin, is sufficiently simple so that a number of them can be constructed, each with a different contact area up to 18.2 cm2. The current control apparatus that operates a Peltier device in the stimulator is a feedback control system that maintains a precisely controlled temperature at the stimulator-skin interface. Safety features make it suitable and safe for use in human psychophysical studies and subhuman behavioral measurements of temperature sensitivity. Electrostatic shielding makes it compatible with the electronic instruments used in electrophysiological studies of the temperature sense.






Reciprocal innervation plays a crucial role in the fine motor control exhibited in body movements and this is especially true for the precise ocular rotations demanded of the extrinsic muscles of the eye. Although Galen, in 157 AD, was knowledgeable in human anatomy and muscle function, it was Descarted, who in 1626 first conceived of model for the nervous system controller, of a muscular mechanism for movement of the extra-ocular plant, and of reciprocal innervation as the linking principle to provide for control of agonist and antagonist muscles. Bell, in 1826, and Sherrington in 1893, clearly demonstrated reciprocal innervation in their experimental animals. Additional qualitative neurophysiological evidence supporting the concept of reciprocal innervation has been provided by clinical case reports, by electromyographic recording from the extraocular muscles, and by monitoring single unit activity in the extraocular motor nuclei. Recently the applicatio of bioengineering concepts, such as time optimal control and quantitative models to elucidate the nature of the neural signals sent by the brain to command eye movements have further emphasized the importance of Descartes' &quot;Law of Reciprocal Innervation.&quot;




By means of the most used methods at present of time series analysis, the authors describe a modular package allowing a non-specialised user to process by himself experimental results. Probability sets may be calculated, drawn and statistically tested from direct or transformed data. The use of this package is made easier by means of an automation table which chooses the necessary parameters and memorises responses so as to avoid superfluous problems. The FORTRAN IV coded program is run on a PDP 10 under time-sharing for the analysis of the data concerning action potentials in neurophysiology.
Drawing upon recent advances in neuroscience for examples, the thesis is defended that, in contrast to a Kuhnian view of proress by overturning whole sciences, progress amounting to revolution in our understanding of nervous systems is happening by the accumulation of many discrete discoveries, and that this process may be expected to continue for a long time. Twelve propositions are put forward illustrative of ideas developed during and influenced by C. L. Prosser's career, all in the segment of neuroscience concerned with subsystem organization. They range from the generally accepted to the frankly polemical and the merely heuristic. (1) Ongoing background activity has different forms. (2) Codes, both spike and graded, are several. (3) Integrative variables in neuron function are several. (4) Identifiable cells may be widespread. (5) Neuronal circuits for behavior are known. (6) Redundancy is usually overlap. (7) Reliability can be high. (8) Recognition neurons may be common and complex. (9) Command neurons may be common and complex. (10) Pattern is often central in origin. (11) Hierarchies and switches may be common. (12) Subsystem function is an intellectual challenge. Each of these is briefly elaborated and its logical relation to the others suggested. The role of discrete discovery is thus illustrated--in the generation of new conceptual frameworks that gradually become interrelated and cumulatively change profoundly our picture of what's going on in the brain.




A photo-electric device designed to monitor simultaneously vertical and horizontal eye movements within a 20 degrees range is presented with illustrating experimental data. Four small infrared detecting cells are mounted on a light spectacle-like frame together with a miniature true infrared (9000 A) emitting diode. This original design which eliminates separate source illumination artifacts is extremely light, preserves maximum vision field size, and has particularly straightforward operation. The instrument resolution is less than 1 minute of arc with a 1000 c/sec bandwidth and a 5% linearity over the maximum operating range.




We have applied a technique involving multi-channel linear filtering to the problem of sorting and identifying singly unit neuronal activity in records containing several simultaneously active units. The technique is effective even when the waveforms of two or more nerve impulses are superimposed. We have applied it successfully to data involving up to 6 units, and in theory it is applicable to substantially more. Current limitations are that the waveform of the impulse from each unit must first be determined by identifying and averaging several isolated examples, and that the number of recording electrodes must approximate the number of units present.

Some simple circuitry is described which has been successfully used in conjunction with a small laboratory computer for &quot;on-line&quot; measurements of the force of contraction of single motor units in cat gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. Our approach emphasizes use of a sample and hold device to allow high amplification of small forces developed during single motor unit contractions which are often superimposed on relatively large whole muscle passive forces. Two digitally controlled selectable gain amplifiers are used to ensure proper modulation of the computer's ADC and to enable automatic scaling of the measured variables. An analog peak detector is incorporated into the unit such that peak force measurements can be made with the minimum of computer software. The principles governing the present design are directly applicable to the measurement of intracellularly recorded postsynaptic potentials and a variety of other physiological variables which require accurate measurement of a small transient signal superimposed on a large &quot;control&quot; or &quot;resting&quot; signal.
Chronic recording is possible from nerve fibers which have grown through holes in an insulating medium (regeneration electrodes) or which are enclosed by an insulating sheath (cuff electrodes). Use of three electrodes in a balanced configuration permits good rejection of electromyographic (EMG) signals and other sources of electrical interference (fluorescent lights, 60 Hz signals from the mains, etc.). Equations are derived and tested for predicting the amplitude and form of the signals expected for a given cuff length and diameter. These equations can be used to design electrode units optimally for a given application. Finally, the use of transformers permits the neural signals to be carefully matched to the recording apparatus and further optimizes the neural signal-to-noise and signal-to-EMG ratios. Use of these methods in several physiological and clinical applications, as well as potential abuses, are discussed.



As a result largely of dissatisfaction with existing treatment methods for narcotic addiction, there has been considerable recent interest in various non-pharmacological approaches to treatment. Acupuncture, transcendental meditation, electrosleep, biofeedback and hypnotism all have generated considerable interest and seem to be effective in a number of cases. Although apparently quite different, all of these approaches seek to induce a state of relaxation which in turn appears to exert specific neurophysiological changes in the brain. These treatment methods not only help for some addicts, but should contribute to our overall understanding of the addiction process.



A technique is described which allows neurons to be voltage clamped with a single microelectrode, and the advantages of this circuit with respect to conventional bridge techniques are discussed. In this circuit, the single microelectrode is rapidly switched from a current passing to a recording mode. The circuitry consists of: (1) an electronic switch; (2) a high impedance, ultralow input capacity amplifier; (3) a sample-and-hold module; (4) conventional voltage clamping circuitry. The closed electronic switch allows current to flow through the electrode. The switch then opens, and the electrode is in a recording mode. The low input capacity of the preamplifier allows the artifact from the current pulse to rapidly abate, after which time the circuit samples the membrane potential. This cycle is repeated at rates up to 10 kHz. The voltage clamping amplifier senses the output of the sample-and-hold module and adjusts the current pulse amplitude to maintain the desired membrane potential. The system was evaluated in Aplysia neurons by inserting two microelectrodes into a cell. One electrode was used to clamp the cell and the other to independently monitor membrane potential at a remote location in the soma.
An apparatus was devised which utilizes local cooling to reversibly interrupt the axonal transport of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) in rabbit sciatic nerves in vitro. Lowering the temperature of a short region of nerve to between 1 and 3 degrees C, while keeping the remainder at 37 degrees C, caused DBH activity to accumulate in and proximal to the cooled region. This accumulation was evident after 0.5 hr of cooling and increased in a nearly linear fashion with time for about 3 hr. The cooling-induced interruption in transport was rapidly reversed when nerves were rewarmed to 37 degrees C. Upon rewarming after local cooling for 1.5 hr, a peak of accumulated DBH activity migrated toward the distal end of the nerve at a velocity of 300 +/- 17 mm/day. This velocity was maintained for as long as the peak could be followed and was four times greater than the average velocity estimated from the rate of accumulation of DBH activity above a ligature at the distal end of these same nerves. It is concluded that ligation experiments grossly underestimate the true velocity of axonal transport of DBH and that the present technique offers great advantages in permitting direct study of the migration of separate axonal compartments of transported materials.









The data of research which has been carried out for years, are summarized. They are presented in a succession conforming to the A.A. Ukhtomsky views on the gradual enlargement of amplitude of muscles contraction, on capacity for work, and on fatigue. In the early postnatal period the phenomenon of gradual enlargement of amplitude of muscles contraction does not yet exist. It only appears after realizaiton of standing posture, when skeletal muscles transit from the type of tonic activity to the phasic--tetanic type. This phenomenon is due to that the first contractions induce hyperrelaxation which leads to the subsequent higher amplitude of contraction. The steady state of work capacity of neuromuscular system without any changes of amplitude, in the conditions of undisturbed circulation in the organism as a whole, can be maintained in all the periods of age for a long time without any signs of fatigue. This phenomenon takes place during the intervals between the contraction activity, the anabolic process having ample time to be completed. Such a form of work capacity is called stability. If the anabolic processes are unable to be completed during the intervals between the contractions, their amplitude gradually decreases reflecting the beginning of fatigue. The contractile activity which is going on during the fatigue state, is called endurance.

The author gives a critical and hystorical review of the existing in biology theories which on the molecular and electronic levels explain a number of mechanisms of vital phenomena such as excitation, muscle contraction etc. The author discusses in the hystorical aspect the problem of formation of electronic and biological semi-conductivity (as the author names it) called to explain the vital mechanisms. He shows is which way this theory can explain the process of excitation.

The multiplicity of frequently conflicting views in the psychiatry of today inspires the wish for a uniform way thinking about the thorough knowledge and the many hypotheses that have become almost boundlessly vast. Such ideas of models as have played a part for quite some time in the mathematical and natural sciences, and of late in the sociology, are also to be found in the field of psychiatry, without however always being called so expressis verbis. Guided by the historical development an attempt has been made to expose model-like ideas about the etiology and pathogenesis of endogenic psychoses, first of all of schizophrenia, as they have become decisive for modern psychiatry. It appears that in the abbreviation of the &quot;model&quot; the basis for a discussion already overdue is to be found.













We hypothesize that anesthetic agents exert their effects through an inhibition of oxidation of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) in the synaptic regions of the brain. This inhibition could lead to gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) accumulation in the synaptic cleft and to hyperpolarization of the post-synaptic membrane. The resulting reduction in synaptic transmission then would manifest itself as the anesthetic state, reducing the work performed by the brain so that cerebral respiration is reduced and cerebral metabolite energy is conserved.


The theoretical basis of current source-density (CSD) analysis in the central nervous system is described. Equations relating CSD, the current flow vector, and the extracellular field potential are given. It is shown that the CSD provides superior resolution of neuronal events when compared to conventional field-potential analysis. Expressions for the CSD in rectangular Cartesian coordinates are derived, including the general case of anisotropic, inhomogeneous conductive tissue, and a coordinate system rotated with respect to the principal axes (APPENDIX). The minimum number of spatial dimensions for accurate CSD analysis is discussed. The conductivity tensor was experimentally measured in frog and toad cerebella. All three principal components of the tensor were evaluated and their spatial gradients determined to be negligible. It was also shown that the conductivity was independent of potential. Thus the anuran cerebellum is anisotropic, homogeneous, and ohmic. On the basis of these results the appropriate mathematical expression for the CSD was selected.
This paper represents a systematic, semirigorous attempt to optimize the technique of current source-density (CSD) analysis experimentally. We compared different spatial differentiation formulas in terms of accuracy, aliasing, and smoothing, and provide experimental and theoretical rationale for their use. Sources of error have also been investigated. Expressions were derived to enable one to estimate the relative magnitude of errors due to electrical noise, uncertainty in tip position of recording electrodes, and error in the conductivity tensor. Corresponding experiments illlustrating the validity of such estimates are also presented. Methods to determine the optimum interelectrode spacing are given, based on computations of spatial energy-density spectra in the anuran cerebellum. The application of the technique of CSD analysis developed in this, and the accompanying paper, to the vestibulocerebellar input in the toad cerebellum provided significantly better temporal and spatial resolution of neuronal events than conventional field-potential analysis. Considerations germane to the optimum application of this technique to other neural structures are also discussed.



















Dogs were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital, relaxed with succinyl choline and were kept under artificial ventilation. Both carotid bifurcations were denervated and the Vagus nerves were cut in the neck. Regional blood flow in the skin and the intestine, cardiac output, heart rate and arterial pressure were determined before, during and after spinal cord heating and cooling. Further experiments were performed in which, in addition, sympathetic effects on the heart were excluded by exstirpation of the caudal cervical and stellate ganglia or by beta-receptor blockade. The cardiovascular responses were compared with those obtained in a preceding investigation from dogs with intact baroreceptors and vagus nerves. As in intact dogs, appropiate thermoregulatory adjustments of skin blood flow were induced by thermal stimulation of the spinal cord after baroreceptor denervation and vagotomy. However, blood pressure homeostasis was lost. The pattern of cardiovascular ajustments during heating consisted in cutaneous vasodilatation intestinal vasoconstriction and, due to sympathetic activation an increase of heart rate and cardiac output. This pattern was qualitatively identical with that intact animals. During spinal cord cooling the cardiovascular response pattern consisted in cutaneous vasoconstriction, intestinal vasoconstriction and, depending on cooling intensity, a reduced or unchanged sympathetic influence on the heart. This pattern differed considerably from what in intact animals but basic features were still present as indicated by opposite changes of cardiac and vascular sympathetic tone during cooling. It is concluded that the baroreceptor signals play no primary role in the generation of differential vasomotor responses under the present experimental conditions. This confirms assumptions made on the basis of observations in animals with intact baroreceptor input. However, baroreceptor signals contribute significantly to blood pressure homeostasis which is normally maintained during spinal thermal stimulation.


An activity integrator circuit designed to detect and operantly reinforce patterns of neural and muscular activity is described. An integrator voltage proportional to the weighted sum of multiple input signals reaches a threshold level when the requisite response pattern is emitted. A variety of response patterns may be differentially reinforced, depending on the nature of the integrated signals.






The design of a durable chronic unit recording device with movable microelectrode suitable for cats and monkeys is presented. Sufficiently rugged to remain on cats for weeks during exploration of a single electrode tract, the device also features: choice of stereotaxic coordinates over a large horizontal area at recording time; good stereotaxic precision; capability to hold a single unit for days; excellent insulation between the recording circuit and the animal; and simplicity of design and materials which allows fabrication of numerous devices in one lab.





This paper briefly discusses some of the serious problems in current psychoanalytic metapsychology and the need for a new general theoretical frame of reference. It highlights the lack of explanatory power and the primitive nature of current metapsychology. The paper suggests the usefulness of an information processing and systems model which is consistent with neurophysiology.
Freud reformulated his model of the psychic apparatus because certain clinical observations did not fit into the earlier framework of his theory. In the new theory, he emphasized the role each element plays in psychic conflict. Because Freud philosophically was committed to a materialistic, nonteleological, biologically based theory, he carried over into the new formulations some of the metapsychological assumptions of the earlier theory. It is suggested that this transposition is responsible for some of the confusion concerning the application of the structural theory. It is proposed that if a more strict usage of the concept of metapsychology with more precise conceptualization is employed, some of the problems connected with the application of the structural theory may be overcome.


























































































Forty-one epileptics with normal or nonspecific EEG changes were subjected to methohexital and pentylenetetrazol activations (Group I). Fifteen epileptic patients with specific epileptiform discharges were subjected to methohexital activation procedures (Group II). The present study showed that, though it is a safe agent, methohexital is not an effective electroencephalographic activator for the epileptic population. In this study, it activated only 7% of the epileptics with normal records or minimal and nonspecific EEG abnormalities and it activated only 33.3% of epileptics who had previously demonstrated a specific paroxysmal epileptiform discharge in a routine recording.












































































































































A simple method by which the relative performance of the two cerebral hemispheres, and cooperation between the hemispheres, may be assessed in a clinical setting is discussed. The apparatus, which allows the findings of neuropsychological investigations of hemisphere performance in the normal and split-brain subject to be applied in the clinic, is described, together with the results of a preliminary trial and some clinical results.



























An automated climbing apparatus to test locomotor capacity in rodents is described along with programming circuitry and a description of the printed circuit process. Past application is noted and in addition future uses are suggested.

















































































Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity is present in mouse neuroblastoma C-1300 tumors. The activity is proportional to the weight of the tumor. Serum activity is markedly increased in mice that bear the tumors. Treatment of mice with 5-bromodeoxyuridine causes marked inhibition of tumor growth and decrease of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity in the serum. The histochemical studies reveal that 1-5% of the cells in mouse C-1300 neuroblastoma tumors contain catecholamines and that catecholamine-containing processes terminate mainly around blood vessels of the tumor. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase is present in clonal neuroblastoma cell lines. The cell line with the greater tendency to form axon-like processes has a higher activity of this enzyme.








Spectral and polarization sensitivity measurements were made at several levels (retina, first and third optic ganglion, cervical connective, behavior) of the dipteran visual nervous system. At all levels, it was possible to reveal contributions from the retinular cell subsystem cells 1 to 6 or the retinular cell subsystem cells 7 and 8 or both. Only retinular cells 1 to 6 were directly studied, and all possessed the same spectral sensitivity characterized by two approximately equal sensitivity peaks at 350 and 480 nm. All units of both the sustaining and on-off variety in the first optic ganglion exhibited the same spectral sensitivity as that of retinular cells 1 to 6. It was possible to demonstrate for motion detection and optomotor responses two different spectral sensitivities depending upon the spatial wavelength of the stimulus. For long spatial wavelengths, the spectral sensitivity agreed with retinular cells 1 to 6; however, the spectral sensitivity at short spatial wavelengths was characterized by a single peak at 465 nm reflecting contributions from the (7, 8) subsystem. Although the two subsystems exhibited different spectral sensitivities, the difference was small and no indication of color discrimination mechanisms was observed. Although all retinular cells 1 to 6 exhibited a preferred polarization plane, sustaining and on-off units did not. Likewise, motion detection and optomotor responses were insensitive to the polarization plane for long spatial wavelength stimuli; however, sensitivity to select polarization planes was observed for short spatial wavelengths.











1. The soleus (slow twitch), flexors digitorum and hallucis longus muscles (fast twitch) of the cat were denervated. Isometric contractions and electrical responses were examined 2-160 days after the operation.2. In the first week the time course of the twitch and the ratio of tetanus tension to twitch tension were normal in both muscles. The maximum rate of rise of tension in the tetanus was reduced in fast muscles.3. In the second week all the twitches showed a normal contraction phase but relaxations were interrupted by a repetitive after-contraction. This became less marked after longer periods of denervation.4. During the third and subsequent weeks, the contraction and relaxation phases of the twitches in all muscles became slower than normal. These changes were greater in fast muscles which, nevertheless, remained quite distinct from soleus. The ratio of tetanus tension to twitch tension fell below normal. It is suggested that these changes are brought about by more complete activation of the contractile proteins in a twitch. In flexor hallucis longus the rate of rise of tension in isometric tetani was found to be further reduced. No change was found in soleus.5. In extracellular and intracellular records the initial response was a single action potential. An after-discharge occurred in a proportion of fibres during the relaxation phase of the twitch.6. The intracellularly recorded action potential was smaller and had a longer duration than that of normal muscle. Refractory period increased. Conduction velocity decreased. These changes were greater in fast muscle and differences between fast and slow twitch muscle were less marked than in normal muscle. Fibrillation potentials occurred at the same rate in fast and slow muscle.7. The mechanisms of the mechanical changes are discussed and the possible relevance to the question of motor nerve influence on muscle is indicated.
1. This report is concerned with the question of whether the alpha and delta groups of myelinated A fibres show conduction failure at different temperatures.2. The experiments were done on cat saphenous nerve in vitro. Stimuli were applied to both ends of the nerve and biphasic recordings were taken adjacent to an 11 mm segment of nerve, whose temperature was varied. Before cooling commenced, the stimuli were adjusted so that the action potential which passed through the cold zone and was recorded, collided with the action potential initiated at the opposite end of the nerve.3. Upon cooling the nerve, it was always observed that the delta peak of the action potential which had been previously occluded by collision reappeared at a temperature at which the alpha peak remained occluded.4. The reappearance of the delta peak was reversible upon warming the nerve and was not affected by increasing the interstimulus interval.5. The mean temperature for reappearance of the delta peak was 13.5 degrees C, for reappearance of the alpha peak, 5.3 degrees C.6. In any given nerve, the blocking temperature was replicable and was dependent on the temperature of the cooled segment rather than the gradient between that segment and the remainder of the nerve.7. We conclude that in cat saphenous nerve, the delta group of myelinated A fibres shows conduction failure at a higher temperature than does the alpha group.

1. The extracellular field potentials of the olfactory cortex evoked by stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract (l.o.t.) were studied in in vitro preparations from the olfactory cortex. The field potentials comprised an initial diphasic wave - the l.o.t. compound action potential - followed by a negative wave of about 10 msec duration which in turn was followed by a low amplitude positive wave of long duration (100 msec or more). In this paper, the size of the negative field potential (extracellularly recorded EPSP) has been studied during and after periods of repetitive stimulation of the l.o.t.2. If two identical volleys were delivered to the l.o.t. the second evoked EPSP was not the same size as the conditioning EPSP. At brief conditioning intervals (up to 10 msec) the second (test) EPSP was smaller than the control. For conditioning intervals between 10 and 200 msec, the test EPSP was potentiated over the control. For long conditioning intervals (300 msec up to 5 sec) the test EPSP was again slightly smaller than the control EPSP. After a brief conditioning train, the depression of a test EPSP (elicited 300 msec or more after the conditioning train) was more pronounced and lasted longer. These changes of test EPSP size were attributed to the presence of two opposing processes: an initial potentiation superimposed on a more prolonged but less pronounced depression.3. During prolonged repetitive stimulation the final steady amplitude of an EPSP varied with the frequency of stimulation. At low frequencies (0.5-2/sec) the steady EPSP amplitude was 90-95% of the initial control amplitude. At moderate frequencies (5-20/sec) the steady EPSP amplitude was greater than the initial control. At high frequencies (above 20/sec) the steady amplitude of the EPSPs declined with increasing frequency of stimulation. Potentiation of EPSPs was observed early in a train of impulses when the stimulation frequency was 5-70/sec.4. After a large number of stimuli at frequencies from 20 to 100/sec the amplitude of individual, infrequently evoked, EPSPs passed through a phase of depression that lasted about 30 sec. This depression was followed by a phase of potentiation (post-tetanic potentiation). The amplitude and duration of post-tetanic potentiation appeared to depend on the characteristics of the conditioning train.5. The discussion compares the results obtained with those obtained for other mammalian synapses. It is suggested that the transmitter in the presynaptic terminals could be in three parts, (a) immediately available transmitter (b) conditionally available transmitter requiring a single nerve impulse for its availability and (c) main depot transmitter which replenishes the other two stores. Potentiation and depression of evoked EPSPs were interpreted in terms of changes in the amount of transmitter released by the test volley. According to this analysis, a fixed proportion (about 10%) of the immediately available transmitter is released by each nerve impulse.
1. Unit activity was recorded from single and few fibre preparations in a cardiac branch of the right vagus nerve of the cat.2. Increases in blood pressure mediated solely by the right carotid sinus nerve produced bradycardia when all other nerves to the heart had been cut. Myelinated fibres in the cardiac branch of the right vagus nerve were reflexly activated by the same procedure.3. The fibres were silent when blood pressure was below 140-150 mm Hg. As the pressure began to rise, they discharged phasically with the cardiac cycle. At pressures greater than 180 mm Hg, the discharge was continuous attaining maximum rates of 40/sec.4. Stimulation of carotid body chemoreceptors also reflexly excited these fibres, as did stimulation of baroreceptors in both the left carotid sinus and aortic arch. Afferent fibres in the left vagus discharging in response to changes in blood pressure reflexly excited the cardiac efferent fibres. Increases in phrenic motoneurone discharge coincided with inhibition of these fibres. Electrical stimulation of the glossopharyngeal nerve also produced inhibition.

1. Nerve impulses were recorded from afferents from non-contracting spindles from the isolated extensor longus dig. IV muscle of the frog during small sinusoidal changes in muscle length at frequencies from 0.001 to 100 Hz. A computer of average transients was used to average the spike distribution during a number of cycles, and hence to determine the spindle response in impulses/sec at different phases of the cycle.2. At any one frequency the response could be described by a sinusoid, whose amplitude was approximately proportional to the amplitude of the stretch and whose phase was approximately constant, together with a non-linearity dependent principally upon non-linearities in the static response.3. The frequency response was estimated from the sinusoid responses. In conventional terms, it consisted of a straight line of positive slope below 2 Hz and a maximum between 7 and 16 Hz.4. The slope of the frequency response was dependent on the mean length of the preparation, typically varying from zero to about 0.5 (3 db/octave) over the physiological range of the passive muscle. The shape of the peak appeared to depend on the mean firing frequency.5. The responses to ramp stretches of one second duration and up to 2 mm in amplitude were also measured. Responses predicted from the sinusoid measurements were the same shape as the measured responses, but were larger by a factor of about 1.4.6. The shapes of both the frequency responses and the responses to ramps were hardly affected by an operation that removed most of the polar parts of the spindles.7. The results are discussed in terms of internal spindle mechanisms.
1. The influence of diastolic interval on ionic currents that may determine the action potential duration in cardiac Purkinje fibres was investigated. As the diastolic interval is shortened from about 5 sec, the first effect on the action potential is to reduce and then abolish the notch at the beginning of the plateau.2. This effect corresponds to the influence of diastolic interval on the magnitude of a transient outward chloride current known as the ;dynamic current'.3. Further shortening of the diastolic interval produces a slight shortening of the action potential until intervals less than about 500 msec are used. The action potential then becomes considerably shorter. The ;time constant' of decay of this major influence of one action potential on the duration of the subsequent action potential is about 200 msec.4. This effect corresponds to the time course of decay of an outward (mainly K) current known as i(x1).5. It is shown that variations in the magnitude of i(x1) may be responsible for the alternation in action potential duration at the beginning of a train of stimuli known as ;electrical alternans'.6. The results in general are consistent with the view that i(x1) is the main current involved in determining the interval-duration relation although they cannot exclude the possibility that an inward current with a reavailability time course similar to the decay time course of i(x1) might also be involved.
















































































Rabbit-brain fractions enriched in neuronal cell bodies and in glial cells accumulated norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid, substances believed to serve as neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. Both neurons and glia were able to concentrate the monoamine transmitters about 4-fold from a medium containing 0.1-1 muM concentrations. However, the glial-cell fraction concentrated aminobutyrate over a 100-fold from the medium, in contrast to the neuronal fraction, which concentrated this amino acid only 4-fold. The uptake of aminobutyrate by glial cells was 30-50% of that of synaptosome preparations. Its uptake in all fractions was temperature sensitive, sensitive to metabolic inhibitors, and exhibited K(m) values of 0.72 muM for the neuronal fraction, 0.42 muM for the synaptosomal fraction, and 0.27 muM for the glial-cell fraction. These results are interpreted as evidence that the glial cell is involved in limiting the extracellular build-up of substances that might trigger synaptic transmission by removing any transmitters that may diffuse out of the synaptic cleft during the transmission of impulses. The possible function of the enormous ability of glia and synaptosomes to accumulate aminobutyrate is discussed in light of the actions and distribution of this substance in the central nervous system.












































Correlated anatomical and electrophysiological results demonstrate that sensory neurons, which differentiate de novo within the epidermis of regenerate abdominal cerci of crickets, enter the terminal ganglion and form functional central connections even when regeneration of the cerci is delayed through the greater part of postembryonic development. Stimulation of regenerate cerci evokes activity in giant interneurons which is normal by several physiological criteria.




















The importance of the gonads for the display of sexual behavior has been realized for hundreds of years, yet only within the last century has active research in this area been conducted. The present communication surveys the literature concerned with the role of gonadal hormones in the activation, maintenance, and control of sexual behavior in the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta)and human. To place this topic in perspective the survey begins with a description of the normative aspects of sexual behavior and the endocrine events which correlate with the cyclic behaviors of the female. Building on this base the survey then focuses on descriptions of the effects on sexual behavior of the removal of hormones in adulthood and of the replacement of these hormones with either heteroor homotypic hormones.











































































A neurophysiological study of a behavioral phenotype caused by a sex-linked single gene mutation has been performed with gynandromorphs, mosaic for the mutant gene, Hyperkinetic(1P) (Hk(1P)), in Drosophila melanogaster. The male tissue of this gynandromorph is hemizygous for Hk(1P), while the female tissue is heterozygous. The characteristic neural activity caused by the Hk(1P) gene can be recorded only in the presumptive male region of the thoracic ganglion. Motor regions of one side were found to function independently of their counterparts in the opposite side of the thoracic ganglion and were unaffected by the genotype of other parts of the body. Thus, expression of the Hk(1P) gene is autonomous in the genetic sense, and each side of the ganglion is independent of the other side. Also, there is a high correlation between the external genotype and the genotype of underlying neural tissue of the thorax.





Threshold energies were determined for brief flashes as a function of their duration in order to determine the maximum duration for which the flash intensity and duration could be varied reciprocally without affecting detectability (the Bunsen-Roscoe effect). A pair of threshold-level flashes for which reciprocity obtained in the determination of threshold were shown to be discriminable from each other at several imperfectly detectable energy levels. Thus equal detectability of flashes of equal energy does not imply identical neural responses to such stimuli. It is suggested that the summation reflects primarily the operation of the detection mechanism rather than of the peripheral visual mechanism. Some general implications for the interpretation of threshold measures are also discussed.










































The structure and dendritic connections of an identified crustacean motoneuron were analyzed by intracellular injection of dye. Some processes of the neuron end in the ganglionic neuropil, but most terminate on axons which pass through the ganglion in specific, identifiable tracts. The former processes are ipsilateral to the soma, while the latter, as well as their connections, display bilateral symmetry. Structural and functional evidence suggests that the demonstrated contacts are synaptic junctions, and that the approach can therefore be used to study patterns of synaptic organization in complex neural networks.






























Experiments were carried out to investigate possible interactions of tetrodotoxin (TTX) with lipid molecules isolated from nerve fiber plasma membranes of the squid Dosidicus gigas. TTX has a highly selective ability to block the channel normally used by Na(+) to cross the axolemma during nervous impulse conduction. In order to investigate the interaction each lipid sample was spread on 5 x 10(-7)M TTX and TTX-free 0.15 M NaCl solutions adjusted to pH 7.4 with 7 x 10(-3)M phosphate buffer. The surface pressure-area diagrams of the lipid monolayers revealed that TTX interacts only with cholesterol. The expansion of the cholesterol monolayers at 5 x 10(-7)M TTX was 2 A(2)/molecule at zero pressure for the experiments at 20 degrees C and 2.5 A(2)/molecule for those at 25 degrees C. Similar results were obtained in KCl subphases. The apparent dissociation constant of the cholesterol-TTX complex calculated from dose-response experiments is 2.6 x 10(-7)M. Experiments at pH 10.1 revealed that the zwitter ionic form of TTX is less active. Experiments with cholesterol derivatives (cholesteryl acetate, cholesterol methyl ether, cholestanol, and cholestanyl acetate) indicate that for the interaction with TTX a partial negatively charged group at C-3 and a double bond between C-5 and C-6 on the steroid nucleus are required. Tetrodonic acid, a biologically inactive derivative of TTX, does not interact with cholesterol. The results lead us to propose that cholesterol is part of the Na(+) channel.



































In this paper some of the philosophical problems of the history of neurophysiology are discussed, paying special attention to the credit going to Hegel, Rene Decart, to the Russian materialistic school, led by I. P. Pavlov and others. Of particular interest is the interpretation of the following problems: the historical consistency of the appearance of the basic conceptions with which the pre-Pavlov neurophysiology was chiefly concerned, the logical subordination of its categories and ideas, the creation of the basic concepts in the study of the higher nervous activity by I. P. Pavlov, their logical and practical substantiation and the like. An attempt is made, proceeding from dialectic materialism positions, for interpretation of the problems posed, which are of paramount theoretic and practical importance for science and life.














































High-resolution electron microscopy is integrated with physicochemical methods in order to investigate the following preparations of the giant nerve fibers of the squid (Loligo pealii L.): (1) Thin sections of fibers fixed in four different fixatives; (2) fresh axoplasm stained negatively in solutions of different pH and composition; (3) chemically isolated threadlike elements of the axoplasm. A continuous, three-dimensional network can be identified in all these preparations of the axoplasm. The network is composed of coiled or looped unit-filaments approximately 30 A wide. The unit-filaments are intercoiled in strands approximately 70-250 A wide. The strands are oriented longitudinally in the axoplasm, often having a sinuous course and cross-associations. Microtubules are surrounded by intercoiled unit-filaments and filamentous strands. Calcium ions cause loosening and disintegration of the network configuration. UO(2) (++) ions of a 1% uranyl acetate solution at pH 4.4 display a specific affinity for filamentous protein structures of the squid giant nerve fiber axoplasm, segregating the filamentous elements of the axoplasm in a coiled, threadlike preparation. The uranyl ions combine probably with the carboxyl groups of the main amino acids of the protein-glutamic and aspartic acids. It is proposed that by coiling/decoiling and folding/unfolding of the unit-filaments, shifts in physicochemical properties of the axoplasm are maintained.







































