The visinin-like protein (VSNL) subfamily, including VILIP-1 (the founder protein), VILIP-2, VILIP-3, hippocalcin, and neurocalcin delta, constitute a highly homologous subfamily of neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) proteins. Comparative studies have shown that VSNLs are expressed predominantly in the brain with restricted expression patterns in various subsets of neurons but are also found in peripheral organs. In addition, the proteins display differences in their calcium affinities, in their membrane-binding kinetics, and in the intracellular targets to which they associate after calcium binding. Even though the proteins use a similar calcium-myristoyl switch mechanism to translocate to cellular membranes, they show calcium-dependent localization to various subcellular compartments when expressed in the same neuron. These distinct calcium-myristoyl switch properties might be explained by specificity for defined phospholipids and membrane-bound targets; this enables VSNLs to modulate various cellular signal transduction pathways, including cyclic nucleotide and MAPK signaling. An emerging theme is the direct or indirect effect of VSNLs on gene expression and their interaction with components of membrane trafficking complexes, with a possible role in membrane trafficking of different receptors and ion channels, such as glutamate receptors of the kainate and AMPA subtype, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, and Ca(2+)-channels. One hypothesis is that the highly homologous VSNLs have evolved to fulfil specialized functions in membrane trafficking and thereby affect neuronal signaling and differentiation in defined subsets of neurons. VSNLs are involved in differentiation processes showing a tumor-invasion-suppressor function in peripheral organs. Finally, VSNLs play neuroprotective and neurotoxic roles and have been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases.
It is a general belief that patients with medication overuse headache (MOH) need withdrawal of acute headache medication before they respond to prophylactic medication. In this 1-year open-labelled, multicentre study intention-to-treat analyses were performed on 56 patients with MOH. These were randomly assigned to receive prophylactic treatment from the start without detoxification, undergo a standard out-patient detoxification programme without prophylactic treatment from the start, or no specific treatment (5-month follow-up). The primary outcome measure, change in headache days per month, did not differ significantly between groups. However, the prophylaxis group had the greatest decrease in headache days compared with baseline, and also a significantly more pronounced reduction in total headache index (headache days/month x headache intensity x headache hours) at months 3 (P = 0.003) and 12 (P = 0.017) compared with the withdrawal group. At month 12, 53% of patients in the prophylaxis group had &gt; or = 50% reduction in monthly headache days compared with 25% in the withdrawal group (P = 0.081). Early introduction of preventive treatment without a previous detoxification programme reduced total headache suffering more effectively compared with abrupt withdrawal. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00159588).
Little is known about the hormonal effects of puberty on the anatomy of the developing human brain. In a voxel-based morphometry study, sex-related differences in gray matter (GM) volume were examined in 46 subjects aged 8-15 years. Males had larger GM volumes in the left amygdala, whereas females had larger right striatal and bilateral hippocampal GM volumes than males. Sexually dimorphic areas were related to Tanner stages (TS) of pubertal development and to circulating level of steroid hormones in a subsample of 30 subjects. Regardless of sex, amygdala and hippocampal volumes varied as a function of TS and were associated with circulating testosterone (TEST) levels. By contrast, striatal GM volumes were unrelated to pubertal development and circulating steroid hormones. Whole-brain regression analyses revealed positive associations between circulating estrogen levels and parahippocampal GM volumes as well as between TEST levels and diencephalic brain structures. In addition, a negative association was found between circulating TEST and left parietal GM volumes. These data suggest that GM development in certain brain regions is associated with sexual maturation and that pubertal hormones might have organizational effects on the developing human brain.
Recent studies have emphasized the importance of dopamine projections to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) for working memory (WM) function, although this system has rarely been studied in humans in vivo. However, dopamine and PFC activity can be directly measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), respectively. In this study, we examined WM capacity, dopamine, and PFC function in healthy older participants in order to test the hypothesis that there is a relationship between these 3 factors. We used the PET tracer 6-[18F]fluoro-L-m-tyrosine to measure dopamine synthesis capacity in the striatum (caudate, putamen), and event-related fMRI to measure brain activation during different epochs (cue, delay, probe) of a WM task. Caudate (but not putamen) dopamine correlated positively with WM capacity, whereas putamen (but not caudate) dopamine correlated positively with motor speed. In addition, delay-related fMRI activation in a left inferior prefrontal region was related to both caudate dopamine and task accuracy, suggesting that this may be a critical site for the integration of WM maintenance processes. These results provide new evidence that striatal dopaminergic function is related to PFC-dependent functions, particularly brain activation and behavioral performance during WM tasks.
Human motor skills can be acquired by observation without the benefit of immediate physical practice. The current study tested if physical rehearsal and observational learning share common neural substrates within an action observation network (AON) including premotor and inferior parietal regions, that is, areas activated both for execution and observation of similar actions. Participants trained for 5 days on dance sequences set to music videos. Each day they physically rehearsed one set of dance sequences (&quot;danced&quot;), and passively watched a different set of sequences (&quot;watched&quot;). Functional magnetic resonance imaging was obtained prior to and immediately following the 5 days of training. After training, a subset of the AON showed a degree of common activity for observational and physical learning. Activity in these premotor and parietal regions was sustained during observation of sequences that were danced or watched, but declined for unfamiliar sequences relative to the pretraining scan session. These imaging data demonstrate the emergence of action resonance processes in the human brain based on observational learning without physical practice and identify commonalities in the neural substrates for physical and observational learning.
The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has been proposed to play a critical role in exerting top-down influences on occipital visual areas. By inducing activity in the PPC (angular gyrus) using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), and using the phosphene threshold as a measure of visual cortical excitability, we investigated the functional role of this region in modulating the activity of the visual cortex. When triple-pulses of TMS were applied over the PPC unilaterally, the intensity of stimulation required to elicit a phosphene from the visual cortex (area V1/V2) was reduced, indicating an increase in visual cortical excitability. The increased excitability that was observed with unilateral TMS was abolished when TMS was applied over the PPC bilaterally. Our results provide a demonstration of the top-down modulation exerted by the PPC on the visual cortex and show that these effects are subject to interhemispheric competition.
Social values are composed of social concepts (e.g., &quot;generosity&quot;) and context-dependent moral sentiments (e.g., &quot;pride&quot;). The neural basis of this intricate cognitive architecture has not been investigated thus far. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging while subjects imagined their own actions toward another person (self-agency) which either conformed or were counter to a social value and were associated with pride or guilt, respectively. Imagined actions of another person toward the subjects (other-agency) in accordance with or counter to a value were associated with gratitude or indignation/anger. As hypothesized, superior anterior temporal lobe (aTL) activity increased with conceptual detail in all conditions. During self-agency, activity in the anterior ventromedial prefrontal cortex correlated with pride and guilt, whereas activity in the subgenual cingulate solely correlated with guilt. In contrast, indignation/anger activated lateral orbitofrontal-insular cortices. Pride and gratitude additionally evoked mesolimbic and basal forebrain activations. Our results demonstrate that social values emerge from coactivation of stable abstract social conceptual representations in the superior aTL and context-dependent moral sentiments encoded in fronto-mesolimbic regions. This neural architecture may provide the basis of our ability to communicate about the meaning of social values across cultural contexts without limiting our flexibility to adapt their emotional interpretation.
Immunotherapeutic strategies under consideration for type 1 diabetes include modification of the autoimmune response through antigen-specific routes. Administration of short peptides representing T cell epitopes targeted by patients with the disease represents one approach. This study evaluated safety and mechanistic outcomes during first-in-man intradermal administration of a human leucocyte antigen-DR4 (HLA-DR4)-restricted peptide epitope of proinsulin (C19-A3). This randomized, open-label study assessed two major theoretical risks of peptide immunotherapy, namely induction of allergic hypersensitivity and exacerbation of the proinflammatory autoimmune response, using clinical assessment and mechanistic assays in vitro. Patients with long-standing type 1 diabetes and HLA-DRB1*0401 genotype received 30 microg (n = 18) or 300 microg (n = 18) of peptide in three equal doses at 0, 1 and 2 months or no intervention (n = 12). Proinsulin peptide immunotherapy in the dosing regimen used is well tolerated and free from risk of systemic hypersensitivity and induction/reactivation of proinsulin-specific, proinflammatory T cells. Peptide-specific T cells secreting the immune suppressive cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 were observed at month 3 in four of 18 patients in the low-dose group (versus one of 12 in the control group; P = not significant). Mean IL-10 response to peptide in the low-dose group increased between 0 and 3 months (P = 0.05 after stimulation with 5 microM peptide in vitro) and then declined to baseline levels between 3 and 6 months (P = 0.01 at 10 microM peptide in vitro). These studies pave the way for future investigations in new-onset patients designed to examine whether proinsulin peptide immunotherapy has beneficial effects on markers of T cell autoimmunity and preservation of beta cell mass.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common inflammatory disease of the central nervous system with a poorly defined and complex immunopathogenesis. Although initiated by reactive T cells, persistent inflammation is evident throughout the disease course. A contribution from complement has long been suspected, based on the results of pathological and functional studies which have demonstrated complement activation products in MS brain and biological fluids. However, the extent and nature of complement activation and its contribution to disease phenotype and long-term outcome remain unclear. Furthermore, functional polymorphisms in components and regulators of the complement system which cause dysregulation, and are known to contribute to other autoimmune inflammatory disorders, have not been investigated to date in MS in any detail. In this paper we review evidence from pathological, animal model and human functional and genetic studies, implicating activation of complement in MS. We also evaluate the potential of complement components and regulators and their polymorphic variants as biomarkers of disease, and suggest appropriate directions for future research.


The Open Trial Selective Reminding Test (OT-SRT) is a modification of the SRT that also evaluates new learning abilities. The examinee is asked to learn a list of 10 words over a maximum of 15 trials. Using a criterion-referenced approach, the list is repeatedly administered until a criterion of complete recall on two consecutive trials is achieved. Training to criterion provides a better assessment of learning ability than the traditional fixed trial list-learning paradigm. Recall and recognition is then tested 30 and 90 minutes following the learning trials. This paper presents normative data on the OT-SRT for 117 healthy controls (Study 1) and 151 participants with clinically definite multiple sclerosis (Study 2).
Although adverse environments are well known to be a risk factor for psychopathology, many individuals respond adaptively to such environments. There is growing interest in the underlying mechanisms involved in such resilience. Several cognitive-affective processes may be involved, and these may be mediated by particular neuronal circuits and neurochemical systems. This article summarizes some of the relevant work on the role of fear conditioning, reward processing, and social behavior in resilience. There is a growing body of data on how particular gene-environment interactions affect these processes, and thus underpin resilience. Ultimately, a better understanding of the mechanisms underpinning resilience may lead to novel interventions.
The common occurrence and high level of morbidity and burden associated with social anxiety disorder (SAD) are gaining widespread recognition. Interest in understanding and treating the disorder has also grown in response to large-scale investigations that have demonstrated high levels of efficacy with both pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatments. Such trials indicate that many patients with generalized SAD (roughly 40% to 60%) respond (eg, Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement rating 1 or 2) after an adequate treatment trial, despite having suffered with disabling symptoms for most of their adult lives. First-line therapy options include the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and the dual-acting serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine. Second-line options consist of anticonvulsants (gabapentin, pregabalin, valproic acid) and benzodiazepines (clonazepam). Reversible and irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (moclobemide and phenelzine, respectively), while effective, are not widely used. Nonpharmacologic approaches, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), are also effective for SAD. Newer treatment strategies such as levetiracetam, atypical antipsychotics, or D-cycloserine in combination with CBT appear promising but require further investigation. Finding a well-tolerated, safe, and effective treatment for each individual patient is crucial as most will require ongoing treatment in order to maintain benefits, prevent SAD relapse, and to experience optimal outcomes in the long term.

A major issue in today's neuroscience is how the brain complex and highly flexible organization emerges from its individual components. Robustness of neuronal properties with weak linkages between regulatory processes are suggested to account for the adaptive, tunable, multistable dynamics, the coding schemes and the complexity of neuronal functional (sub)systems. Interneurons and neurotransmitter diversity, resonance phenomena due to properties of the cell or network, time/frequency-dependent activation of dedicated neuronal assemblies, code- and frequency-specific oscillations interact in determining the brain functional setup and operations. Despite the scientific relevance, comprehensive theories are not yet available, but the scenario--however incomplete and incompletely characterized--is promising and warrants further investigation.


Professionally significant enhancement of music and dance performance and mood has followed training with an EEG-neurofeedback protocol which increases the ratio of theta to alpha waves using auditory feedback with eyes closed. While originally the protocol was designed to induce hypnogogia, a state historically associated with creativity, the outcome was psychological integration, while subsequent applications focusing on raising the theta-alpha ratio, reduced depression and anxiety in alcoholism and resolved post traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD). In optimal performance studies we confirmed associations with creativity in musical performance, but effects also included technique and communication. We extended efficacy to dance and social anxiety. Diversity of outcome has a counterpart in wide ranging associations between theta oscillations and behaviour in cognitive and affective neuroscience: in animals with sensory-motor activity in exploration, effort, working memory, learning, retention and REM sleep; in man with meditative concentration, reduced anxiety and sympathetic autonomic activation, as well as task demands in virtual spatial navigation, focussed and sustained attention, working and recognition memory, and having implications for synaptic plasticity and long term potentiation. Neuroanatomical circuitry involves the ascending mescencephalic-cortical arousal system, and limbic circuits subserving cognitive as well as affective/motivational functions. Working memory and meditative bliss, representing cognitive and affective domains, respectively, involve coupling between frontal and posterior cortices, exemplify a role for theta and alpha waves in mediating the interaction between distal and widely distributed connections. It is posited that this mediation in part underpins the integrational attributes of alpha-theta training in optimal performance and psychotherapy, creative associations in hypnogogia, and enhancement of technical, communication and artistic domains of performance in the arts.
We present experimental and numerical evidence of control and synchronization of burst events in modulated CO(2) lasers. Bursts appear randomly in each laser as trains of large amplitude spikes intercalated by a small amplitude chaotic regime. Experimental data and model display the frequency locking of bursts in a suitable interval of coupling strengths. The analogy with neuronal bursting will also be discussed in view of the role of bursting synchronization in cognitive functions.
We examine the recent finding that neurons in spinal motor circuits enter a high conductance state during functional network activity. The underlying concomitant increase in random inhibitory and excitatory synaptic activity leads to stochastic signal processing. The possible advantages of this metabolically costly organization are analyzed by comparing with synaptically less intense networks driven by the intrinsic response properties of the network neurons.
In plants, numerous parameters of both biotic and abiotic environments are continuously monitored. Specialized cells are evolutionary-optimized for effective translation of sensory input into developmental and motoric output. Importantly, diverse physical forces, influences, and insults induce immediate electric responses in plants. Recent advances in plant cell biology, molecular biology, and sensory ecology will be discussed in the framework of recently initiated new discipline of plant sciences, namely plant neurobiology.
The study of arousal and attention could be of prominent importance for elucidating both fundamental and practical aspects of the mind-brain puzzle. Defined as &quot;general activation of mind&quot; (Kahnemann in Attention and effort. Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, 1973), or &quot;general operation of consciousness&quot; (Thacher and John in Functional neuroscience: foundations of cognitive processing. Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1977), arousal can be considered as a starting point of fundamental research on consciousness. Similar role could be assigned to attention, which can be defined by substituting the attributes &quot;general&quot; with &quot;focused&quot;. Concerning the practical applications, the empirically established correlation between neuronal oscillations and arousal/attention levels is widely used in research and clinics, including neurofeedback, brain-computer communication, etc. However, the neurophysical mechanism underlying this correlation is still not clear enough. In this paper, after reviewing some present classical and quantum approaches, a transition probability concept of arousal based on field-dipole quantum interactions and information entropy is elaborated. The obtained analytical expressions and numerical values correspond to classical empirical results for arousal and attention, including the characteristic frequency dependence and intervals. Simultaneously, the fundamental (substrate) role of EEG spectrum has been enlightened, whereby the attention appears to be a bridge between arousal and the content of consciousness. Finally, some clinical implications, including the brain-rate parameter as an indicator of arousal and attention levels, are provided.
The analysis of time is vitiated very often by circularity: several disciplines, such as psychology, linguistics, and neurosciences, analyze time by using concepts or terms which already contain in themselves, or are based, on the experience and notion of time (as when, for example, time is defined as &quot;duration&quot;, or when our ability to estimate durations is explained by resorting to the notion of an internal clock). Some detailed examples of circularity in the analysis of time are given here and examined. A way out of circularity is then given: it is represented by the proposal of attentional semantics (AS) of considering words and their meanings in terms of the aim they serve, and the means and processes developed and implemented in order to achieve that aim. According to AS, the main aim of words is that of indicating to, and eliciting in, the listener or reader a specific conscious experience: namely, the conscious experience referred to by their meanings. Words achieve their main aim by conveying the condensed instructions on the attentional operations one has to perform if one wants to consciously experience what is expressed through and by them. By describing the conscious experiences elicited by words in terms of the attentional operations that are responsible for the production of such conscious experiences, AS offers an a-linguistic counterpart to language, and therefore an effective way out of circularity. Following in footsteps of Mach (Contributions to the analysis of the sensations, 1890), but slightly revising his hypothesis, AS defines time-sensation as the perception of the effort made, or alternatively the nervous energy expended, by the organ of attention when performing a &quot;temporal activity&quot; (for instance, estimating duration), that is, when one's own attention is focused in a continuous and incremental way on the conscious product of the (&quot;non-temporal&quot;) activity performed by means of another portion of one's attention.
The experience of causation is a pervasive product of the human mind. Moreover, the experience of causing an event alters subjective time: actions are perceived as temporally shifted towards their effects [Haggard, P., Clark, S., &amp; Kalogeras, J. (2002). Voluntary action and conscious awareness. Nature Neuroscience, 5(4), 382-385]. This temporal shift depends partly on advance prediction of the effects of action, and partly on inferential &quot;postdictive&quot; explanations of sensory effects of action. We investigated whether a single factor of statistical contingency could explain both these aspects of causal experience. We studied the time at which people perceived a simple manual action to occur, when statistical contingency indicated a causal relation between action and effect, and when no such relation was indicated. Both predictive and inferential &quot;postdictive&quot; shifts in the time of action depended on strong contingency between action and effect. The experience of agency involves a process of causal learning based on statistical contingency.
We present data indicating that visual awareness for a basic perceptual feature (colour) can be influenced by the relation between the feature and the semantic properties of the stimulus. We examined semantic interference from the meaning of a colour word (''RED&quot;) on simple colour (ink related) detection responses in a patient with simultagnosia due to bilateral parietal lesions. We found that colour detection was influenced by the congruency between the meaning of the word and the relevant ink colour, with impaired performance when the word and the colour mismatched (on incongruent trials). This result held even when remote associations between meaning and colour were used (i.e. the word ''PEA&quot; influenced detection of the ink colour red). The results are consistent with a late locus of conscious visual experience that is derived at post-semantic levels. The implications for the understanding of the role of parietal cortex in object binding and visual awareness are discussed.

In the current event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we sought to trace back Stroop-interference to circumscribed properties of task-irrelevant word information - response-incompatibility, semantic incongruency and task-reference - that we conceive as conflict factors. Thereby, we particularly wanted to disentangle intermingled contributions of semantic conflict and response conflict to the overall Stroop-interference effect. To delineate neural substrates of single factors, we referred to the logics of cognitive subtraction and cognitive conjunction. Moreover, in a second step, we conducted correlation analyses to determine the relationship between neural activations and behavioral interference costs (i.e., conflict-related reaction time (RT) slowing) so as to further elucidate the functional role of the respective brain regions in conflict processing. Response-incompatibility was associated with activation in the left premotor cortex which can be interpreted as indicating motor competition or conflict, i.e., the presence of competing response tendencies. Accordingly, this activation was positively correlated with behavioral conflict costs. Semantic incongruency exhibited specific activation in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), the bilateral insula, and thalamus as well as in left somatosensory cortex. As supported by the consistent negative correlation with behavioral conflict costs, these activations most probably reflect strengthened control efforts to overcome interference and to ensure adequate task performance. Finally, task-reference elicited activation in the left temporo-polar cortex (TPC) and the right medial superior as well as in left rostroventral prefrontal cortex (rvPFC, sub-threshold activation). As strongly supported by prior studies' findings, this neural activation pattern may underlie residual semantic processing of the task-irrelevant word information.
In the present work, we report repeated out-of-body experiences (OBEs) in a patient with tetraplegia and severe somatosensory loss due to multiple sclerosis and predominant involvement of the cervical spinal cord. OBEs were experienced on a daily basis and induced by cannabis treatment that was started for severe spasticity with painful cramps and cloni. In order to investigate the link between OBEs and mental own-body imagery, the patient was asked to imagine himself in the position and visual perspective that is generally reported during OBEs, using front- and back-facing schematic human stimuli. Performance was measured before and after cannabis consumption. First, our data reveal that the patient was less accurate for back-facing than front-facing stimuli. This was found before and after cannabis consumption and is the opposite pattern to what is generally observed in healthy participants and in our control subjects (who did not use cannabis). We refer to this as lesion effect and argue that this relative facilitation for stimuli reflecting the position and visual perspective that is generally reported during OBEs might be due to recurrent and spontaneous own-body transformations during the patient's frequent OBEs. Secondly, we found a cannabis effect, namely a performance improvement in the back-facing condition while performance in the front-facing condition remained unchanged, after cannabis administration. We argue that cannabis administration may interfere with own-body imagery when reflecting the actual body position and only when associated with brain damage. Based on these data we propose an extended neurological model for own-body illusions including multisensory and sensorimotor mechanisms, cannabis consumption, and cortical and subcortical processing.
Commercial priorities have been identified as negative factors in drug development. We trace the problem to inattention to sound clinical pharmacology practices. When properly applied, clinical pharmacology and associated drug development sciences can, hand in hand, facilitate success in commercial drug development.
The vast majority of the studies performed so far and aimed at elucidating DNA repair mechanisms has been performed in mitotic cells, such as transformed or cancer cell lines. Therefore, our understanding of DNA repair mechanisms in post-mitotic cells, such as neurons, remains one of the most exciting areas for future investigations. Markers of DNA damage, particularly oxidative DNA damage, have been largely found in brain regions, peripheral tissues, and biological fluids of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Moreover, recent studies from our and other groups in individuals affected by Mild Cognitive Impairment provided evidence that oxidative DNA damage is one of the earliest detectable events within the progression from a normal brain to dementia. Almost one decade ago a decrease in the DNA base excision repair (BER) activity was observed in post mortem brain regions of AD individuals, leading to the hypothesis that the brain in AD might be subjected to the double insult of increased DNA damage, as well as deficiencies of DNA repair pathways. Subsequent studies have provided accumulating evidence of impaired DNA repair in AD. Moreover, functional variants and polymorphisms of DNA repair genes have been the focus of several cancer association studies, but only in recent years some of them have been investigated as possible AD risk factors. The few studies performed so far suggest that some variants might play a role in AD pathogenesis and deserve further investigations. Here, we summarize the current knowledge of DNA damage and repair in AD pathogenesis.

Ranibizumab (Lucentis) is a Fab-Antibody with high affinity for VEGF, and is being designed to bind to all VEGF isoforms. This quality makes it a powerful drug for VEGF inhibition. Diseases of retinal and choroidal blood vessels are the most prevalent causes of moderate and severe vision loss in developed countries. Vascular endothelial growth factor plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of many of these diseases. Results of the pilot studies showed that intraocular injections of ranibizumab (Lucentis) decrease the mean retinal thickness and improve the BCVA in all the subjects. Proliferative diabetic retinopathy, currently treated with destructive laser photocoagulation, represents another potential target for anti-VEGF therapy. The early experience in animal models with proliferative retinopathy and neovascular glaucoma shows that posterior and anterior neovascularizations are very sensitive to anti-VEGF therapy. The outcome of two phase III clinical trials will increase our knowledge of the role of Lucentis in the treatment of DME.
Diabetic retinopathy, a secondary microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus is the leading cause of blindness in the Unites States amongst individuals age 20 to 64. Two major retinal problems cause most of the diabetes-related vision loss: diabetic macular edema and complications from abnormal retinal blood vessel growth, angiogenesis. Secondary to angiogenesis, increased retinal blood flow is of pathogenic importance in the progression of diabetic retinopathy. Understanding the role of hyperglycemia seems to be the most critical factor in regulating retinal blood flow, as increased levels of blood glucose are thought to have a structural and physiological effect on retinal capillaries causing them to be both functionally and anatomically incompetent. High blood glucose induces hypoxia in retinal tissues, thus leading to the production of VEGF-A (vascular endothelial growth factor protein). Hypoxia is a key regulator of VEGF-induced ocular neovascularization. Secondary to the induction of VEGF by hypoxia, angiogenesis can be controlled by angiogenic inducers and inhibitors. The balance between VEGF and angiogenic inhibitors may determine the proliferation of angiogenesis in diabetic retinopathy. Since VEGF-A is a powerful angiogenic inducer, utilizing anti-VEGF treatments has proved to be a successful protocol in the treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy.
The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) identified important risk factors for progression to high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) including retinopathy severity, decreased visual acuity, and high levels of hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c). Additional risk factors for progression to PDR are decreased hematocrit and increased serum lipids. The long-term benefit of improving glycemic control was evaluated by three large studies: the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), the Stockholm Interventional Study, and the UK prospective study. Several small studies, notably the Kuwamoto study, also evaluated the relationship between the glycemic control and diabetic retinopathy. Intensive glycemic control reduces the risk of any retinopathy by approximately 27%. Intensive therapy is most effective when initiated early in the course of the diabetes, demonstrating a beneficial effect over the course and progression of retinopathy. The long term benefits of the intensive glycemic control greatly outweigh the risk of &quot;early worsening.&quot; Lowering elevated serum lipid levels has been shown to decrease the risk of cardiovascular morbidity. The ETDRS data suggest that lipid lowering may also decrease the risk of hard exudate formation and associated vision loss in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Preservation of vision may be an additional motivating factor for lowering serum lipid levels in persons with diabetic retinopathy and elevated serum lipid levels.
Stroke and traumatic brain injuries often lead to cerebral edema and persistent elevations in intracranial pressure (ICP) that can be life threatening. Thus, rodent models would benefit from a simple and reliable method to measure ICP in awake, mobile animals. Up to now most techniques have been limited to anesthetized or immobile animals, which is not practical for following the prolonged elevations in ICP that follow stroke and traumatic brain injury. With an initial set of data, we describe a simple method that uses blood pressure telemetry sensors, which are commercially available (Data Sciences Int.) to measure ICP in freely moving rats for several days following implantation. Basically, an epidural cannula is secured to the skull and connected to the catheter of the telemetry probe, which is then secured inside a protective plastic shield on the skull. We confirm the sensitivity of our measurements by experimentally modifying ICP by either the Valsalva maneuver (abdominal compression) or a large ischemic brain injury. The Valsalva maneuver caused a small brief spike in ICP (lasting about 2-3 sec), whereas a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion substantially increased ICP (up to 50 mmHg) for approximately 3 days post-surgery. In summary, the current method allows for ICP to be continuously monitored in rats for several days, and thus is suitable for studies investigating mechanisms of raised ICP and in testing experimental treatments that mitigate it.
An increasing number of applications use nanospecie-fluorescent labeling technology; however, no established guidelines are available to warrant their safety for potential clinical use. Here, rTg4510 transgenic mice and their littermate controls were injected with fluorogold, a nanospecie tracer, or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) targeted to the right amygdala. No significant abnormal behavior was detected in any mice injected with PBS. After fluorogold injection, however, rTg4510 mice displayed persistent left-sided neurological deficits and left circling behavior for up to 14 days post-injection, while control mice demonstrated a transient syndrome. Mortality occurred only in rTg4510 mice and statistically significant differences appeared independent of age. An immunofluorescent study revealed TUNEL positive cells that were heavily and extensively distributed in the periamygdalar region that overlapped with the fluorogold deposit region in rTg4510 mice, whereas control mice showed only sporadic distribution of TUNEL-positive cells. Co-localization of TUNEL and caspase-3 active peptide immunoreactivity was identified in a subset of the cells, indicating an involvement of caspase-dependent apoptotic mechanisms. In conclusion, fluorogold induces damage in the central nervous system most noticeably in mice over-expressing human mutant tau.
The development and distribution of secondary brain lesions, subsequent to ischemic stroke, are of considerable clinical interest but so far only a limited number of studies have investigated the distribution and development of these secondary lesions in detail. In this study, we used an animal model of focal ischemia caused by extradural compression of the sensorimotor cortex. This paradigm of focal ischemia was shown to produce a consistent pattern of secondary lesions located distally from the primary lesion. Functionally the primary brain lesion produced a transient neurological deficit, which was evaluated by daily beam walking tests. Morphological changes were assessed in parallel after the ischemic event using Fluoro-Jade (FJ) staining as a marker of neuronal cell death. Secondary brain lesions were observed in the thalamus as well as in the hippocampus. The first sign of the slowly developing secondary brain lesions was present on day 3 with subsequent lesions being identified until day 16 after the primary ischemia. In addition to the identification of neuronal cell death by the FJ assays, immunostaining for parvalbumin (PA), a marker of GABAergic interneurons, revealed a loss of PA-staining in the pyramidal layer of CA1 on day 3, thus showing a similar time pattern for loss of PA-staining as for the loss of FJ stained cells. Based upon our present results, we suggest that the current animal model of focal ischemia represents a valuable tool for studies concerning the development of secondary remote brain lesions and their association to impaired motor and cognitive functions.

In vitro studies have been essential to describe the molecular details of bacteria-host cell interactions in general and the functions of bacterial effector proteins in particular. Recent advancements in in vivo imaging techniques are facilitating the next logical step to visualize the dynamic infection process as it happens within the living host while analyzing the role of bacterial effector proteins in vivo. Data obtained from this emerging field of 'tissue microbiology', combined with the massive knowledge base generated from research in 'cellular microbiology' will eventually provide a complete picture of the complex infection process.

The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is important in processing rewards and other behavioral outcomes. Here, we review from a computational perspective recent progress in understanding this complex function. OFC neurons appear to represent abstract outcome values, which may facilitate the comparison of options, as well as concrete outcome attributes, such as flavor or location, which may enable predictive cues to access current outcome values in the face of dynamic modulation by internal state, context and learning. OFC can use reinforcement learning to generate outcome predictions; it can also generate outcome predictions using other mechanisms, including the evaluation of decision confidence or uncertainty. OFC neurons encode not only the mean expected outcome but also the variance, consistent with the idea that OFC uses a probabilistic population code to represent outcomes. We suggest that further attention to the nature of its representations and algorithms will be critical to further elucidating OFC function.
Primates must navigate complex social landscapes in their daily lives: gathering information from and about others, competing with others for food and mates, and cooperating to obtain rewards as well. Gaze-following often provides important clues as to what others see, know, or will do; using information about social attention is thus crucial for primates to be competent social actors. However, the cognitive bases of the gaze-following behaviors that primates exhibit appear to vary widely across species. The ultimate challenge of such analyses will therefore be to understand why such different cognitive mechanisms have evolved across species.

The importance of glutamate in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior has been established. New molecular and neurochemical adaptations in the glutamatergic system which drive cocaine relapse have been identified, such as the ability of CB1 receptor stimulation to reduce basal glutamate levels and the involvement of the GluR1 receptor subunit in reinstatement. Furthermore, it is apparent that similar glutamatergic neuroadaptations arise after self-administration of cocaine, heroin, nicotine, and alcohol. For example, reinstatement to cocaine, nicotine, and alcohol can be prevented both by the stimulation of group II mGluR receptors and by the blockade of group I mGluR receptors. The similarities in the neurochemistry behind relapse to these varied drug classes indicate that drugs that target the glutamate system could be effective at treating relapse to multiple types of drugs.
Chronic daily headache (CDH) affects approximately 4% of the population and exerts a significant degree of disability on its sufferers. Chronic migraine (CM) is a subset of CDH that represents migraine without aura occurring on 15 or more days per month for at least 3 months. Although numerous risk factors are associated with the development of CM, the pathophysiology governing its genesis is largely unknown. The role of neurotransmitters, such as glutamate, as well as disruptions of antinociceptive systems and structures, are implicated in CM and are supported by the fact that treatments targeting these abnormalities are effective.
Proteins are targets of oxidative modification. This unit describes detailed procedures for the analysis of popular indices of protein oxidation including protein carbonyl formation, loss of protein thiols, and nitrotyrosine and dityrosine formation, as well as isoaspartate formation. Procedures are detailed for the analysis of protein carbonyls labeled with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, tritiated sodium borohydride, and biotin-hydrazide, followed by detection measurements that are based on the distinguishing feature of each labeling chemical. Methods are outlined for the determination of protein cysteine oxidation by quantifying the loss of free protein thiols using radiolabeled [(14)C]-iodoacetamide. Protocols are described for the measurement of protein dityrosine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, as are the details for the detection of protein nitrotyrosine by a competitive ELISA approach. Finally, methods are described for the quantification of protein-bound isoaspartate using protein-L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase that converts aberrant L-isoaspartyl residues in peptides and proteins to normal aspartyl residues.
Dissociation occurs in about two thirds of people with borderline personality disorder (BPD) but is still not well understood by clinicians. In the past decade, however, research has used new measures of dissociation that provide some of the detail that clinicians need to understand and treat the dissociative symptoms of patients with BPD. In particular, this review examines BPD's comorbidity with the dissociative disorders, the neurobiology of dissociation in BPD, the role of trauma and disorganized attachment in the etiology of dissociation in BPD, and the clinical assessment and treatment of dissociation in BPD.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate alexithymia, dissociative experiences, and Internet addiction (IA) in a nonclinical sample of 312 undergraduate students, identifying predictive factors associated with the possible risk of developing IA. We found that alexithymics had more consistent dissociative experiences, lower self-esteem, and higher obsessive-compulsive symptoms than nonalexithymics. In addition, alexithymics reported a higher potential risk for IA when compared to nonalexithymics. Difficulty in identifying feelings, higher dissociative experiences, lower self-esteem, and higher impulse dysregulation were associated with higher IA. Thus, a combination of alexithymia, dissociative experiences, low self-esteem, and impulse dysregulation may be a risk factor for IA, at least in a nonclinical sample.
External guidance cues play a role in controlling neuronal cell turning in the developing brain, but little is known about whether intrinsic programs are also involved in controlling the turning. In this study, we examined whether granule cells undergo autonomous changes in the direction of migration in the microexplant cultures of the early postnatal mouse cerebellum. We found that granule cells exhibit spontaneous and periodical turning without cell-cell contact and in the absence of external guidance cues. The frequency of turning was increased by stimulating the Ca(2+) influx and the internal Ca(2+) release, or inhibiting the cAMP signaling pathway, while the frequency was reduced by inhibiting the Ca(2+) influx. Granule cell turning in vitro was classified into four distinct modes, which were characterized by the morphological changes in the leading process and the trailing process, such as bifurcating, turning, withdrawing, and changing the polarity. The occurrence of the 1st and 2nd modes of turning was differentially affected by altering the Ca(2+) and cAMP signaling pathways. Collectively, the results demonstrate that intrinsic programs regulate the autonomous turning of cerebellar granule cells in vitro. Furthermore, the results suggest that extrinsic signals play a role as essential modulators of intrinsic programs.
Semaphorins are a large class of proteins that function throughout the nervous system to guide axons. It had previously been shown that Semaphorin 5A (Sema5A) was a bifunctional axon guidance cue for mammalian midbrain neurons. We found that zebrafish sema5A was expressed in myotomes during the period of motor axon outgrowth. To determine whether Sema5A functioned in motor axon guidance, we knocked down Sema5A, which resulted in two phenotypes: a delay in motor axon extension into the ventral myotome and aberrant branching of these motor axons. Both phenotypes were rescued by injection of full-length rat Sema5A mRNA. However, adding back RNA encoding the sema domain alone significantly rescued the branching phenotype in sema5A morphants. Conversely, adding back RNA encoding the thrombospondin repeat (TSR) domain alone into sema5A morphants exclusively rescued delay in ventral motor axon extension. Together, these data show that Sema5A is a bifunctional axon guidance cue for vertebrate motor axons in vivo. The TSR domain promotes growth of developing motor axons into the ventral myotome whereas the sema domain mediates repulsion and keeps these motor axons from branching into surrounding myotome regions.
The availability of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) -deficient mice has permitted studying the role of endogenous FGF-2. Several studies have reported that neocortical but not hippocampal neurons are lost in FGF-2-deficient mice. Here, we show that neuronal densities within the basolateral amygdala are unaltered in FGF-2-/- mice. Moreover, we provide evidence that FGF-2 mutant mice display no obvious alterations in the catecholaminergic or cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus. With regard to the formation of dendritic spines, our studies reveal that endogenous FGF-2 is not essential for hippocampal spinogenesis; however, FGF-2 affects the length of individual spines. Such alterations in spine morphology may be related to disturbances in mental capacities or alterations in neuronal plasticity. Of interest, in this context, animal models of mental retardation develop no alterations in hippocampal spine densities, but display higher numbers of long dendritic spines. Thus, FGF-2 may also affect learning and memory by altering spine morphology.
In recent years, the meso-diencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons have been extensively studied for their association with Parkinson's disease. Thus far, specification of the dopaminergic phenotype of mdDA neurons is largely attributed to the orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1. In this study, we provide evidence for extensive interplay between Nurr1 and the homeobox transcription factor Pitx3 in vivo. Both Nurr1 and Pitx3 interact with the co-repressor PSF and occupy the promoters of Nurr1 target genes in concert. Moreover, in vivo expression analysis reveals that Nurr1 alone is not sufficient to drive the dopaminergic phenotype in mdDA neurons but requires Pitx3 for full activation of target gene expression. In the absence of Pitx3, Nurr1 is kept in a repressed state through interaction with the co-repressor SMRT. Highly resembling the effect of ligand activation of nuclear receptors, recruitment of Pitx3 modulates the Nurr1 transcriptional complex by decreasing the interaction with SMRT, which acts through HDACs to keep promoters in a repressed deacetylated state. Indeed, interference with HDAC-mediated repression in Pitx3(-/-) embryos efficiently reactivates the expression of Nurr1 target genes, bypassing the necessity for Pitx3. These data position Pitx3 as an essential potentiator of Nurr1 in specifying the dopaminergic phenotype, providing novel insights into mechanisms underlying development of mdDA neurons in vivo, and the programming of stem cells as a future cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease.


First-rank symptoms of schizophrenia have been related to an impaired sense of agency (the sense of causing and controlling an action). The sense of agency is considered as one of the two components of self-recognition, the other component being the sense of body (awareness of one's body). The present study aimed at evaluating whether first-rank symptoms can be considered as a general impairment in self-recognition that will also concern the sense of body. A group of schizophrenic patients with first-rank symptoms, a group of schizophrenic patients without first-rank symptoms and a group of normal subjects were compared in a self-recognition task where they first had to execute hand movements simultaneously with the experimenter and subsequently to indicate the position either of their own or the experimenter's hand. The visualized locations of the hands could rotate by 0 degrees , 90 degrees , -90 degrees or 180 degrees from their real locations. This rotation allowed us to induce a distorted sense of body since there was a visual discontinuity between the patient's hand and the rest of his/her body. If patients present a perturbed sense of body we would expect a greater impairment in discriminating between their own hand and the experimenter's hand as the rotation values increased. This preliminary study shows that patients with first-rank symptoms are more impaired than normal subjects in distinguishing between their own hands and the experimenter's hands when the visualization of the locations of their hands were rotated respective to their real locations. However, both group of patients performed equally, thus showing that sense of body impairment is not specific to first-rank symptoms. These symptoms, compared to other symptoms of schizophrenia do not reflect general self-recognition impairment but rather a specific impairment of the sense of agency.

Repeated exposure to a moderately intense stressor typically produces attenuation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response (habituation) on re-presentation of the same stressor; however, if a novel stressor is presented to the same animals, the HPA axis response may be augmented (sensitization). The extent to which this adaptation is also evident within neural activity patterns is unknown. This study tested whether repeated ferret odor (FO) exposure, a moderately intense psychological stressor for rats, leads to both same-stressor habituation and novel-stressor sensitization of the HPA axis response and neuronal activity as determined by immediate early gene induction (c-fos mRNA). Rats were presented with FO in their home cages for 30 min a day for up to 2 wk and subsequently challenged with FO or restraint. Rats displayed HPA axis activity habituation and widespread habituation of c-fos mRNA expression (in situ hybridization) throughout the brain in as few as three repeated presentations of FO. However, repeated FO exposure led to a more gradual development of sensitized HPA-axis and c-fos mRNA responses to restraint that were not fully evident until after 14 d of prior FO exposure. The sensitized response was evident in many of the same brain regions that displayed habituation, including primary sensory cortices and the prefrontal cortex. The shared spatial expression but distinct temporal development of habituation and sensitization neural response patterns suggests two independent processes with opposing influences across overlapping brain systems.
Pax4 is a homeobox gene that is known to be involved in embryonic development of the endocrine pancreas. In this tissue, Pax4 counters the effects of the related protein, Pax6. Pax6 is essential for development of the pineal gland. In this study we report that Pax4 is strongly expressed in the pineal gland and retina of the rat. Pineal Pax4 transcripts are low in the fetus and increase postnatally; Pax6 exhibits an inverse pattern of expression, being more strongly expressed in the fetus. In the adult the abundance of Pax4 mRNA exhibits a diurnal rhythm in the pineal gland with maximal levels occurring late during the light period. Sympathetic denervation of the pineal gland by superior cervical ganglionectomy prevents the nocturnal decrease in pineal Pax4 mRNA. At night the pineal gland is adrenergically stimulated by release of norepinephrine from the sympathetic innervation; here, we found that treatment with adrenergic agonists suppresses pineal Pax4 expression in vivo and in vitro. This suppression appears to be mediated by cAMP, a second messenger of norepinephrine in the pineal gland, based on the observation that treatment with a cAMP mimic reduces pineal Pax4 mRNA levels. These findings suggest that the nocturnal decrease in pineal Pax4 mRNA is controlled by the sympathetic neural pathway that controls pineal function acting via an adrenergic-cAMP mechanism. The daily changes in Pax4 expression may influence gene expression in the pineal gland.


This study evaluated the potential effect of antiepileptic drug (AED) nonadherence on the risk of subsequent seizure. Retrospective insurance claims from the United States were analyzed. Inclusion criteria were: age 21-64 years, diagnosis of epilepsy or nonfebrile convulsions, 2 AED prescriptions, and insurance enrollment for 6 months pre- and 60 days post-AED initiation. Seizure was defined as a hospital or emergency admission associated with epilepsy or nonfebrile convulsions. Observation began 7 days post-drug initiation, ending with the first of the following: seizure, insurance disenrollment, or 365 days post-drug initiation. Adherence was measured using the medication possession ratio (MPR), with MPR &lt;0.8 defining nonadherence. Seizure risk was assessed using an extended Cox proportional hazards model. Of 18,073 subjects identified, 2467 (14%) had 1 seizure. Mean follow-up was 133 days among subjects with event and 305 days for patients without event. Seizure risk was 21% higher among nonadherers (hazard ratio=1.205, P=0.0002) than adherers.





Musicians exhibit enhanced perception of emotion in speech, although the biological foundations for this advantage remain unconfirmed. In order to gain a better understanding for the influences of musical experience on neural processing of emotionally salient sounds, we recorded brainstem potentials to affective human vocal sounds. Musicians showed enhanced time-domain response magnitude to the most spectrally complex portion of the stimulus and decreased magnitude to the more periodic, less complex portion. Enhanced phase-locking to stimulus periodicity was likewise seen in musicians' responses to the complex portion. These results suggest that auditory expertise engenders both enhancement and efficiency of subcortical neural responses that are intricately connected with acoustic features important for the communication of emotional states. Our findings provide the first biological evidence for behavioral observations indicating that musical training enhances the perception of vocally expressed emotion in addition to establishing a subcortical role in the auditory processing of emotional cues.
We have previously reported that rehabilitative reaching training initiated 4 days following an incomplete cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) in adult rats promotes plasticity and task-specific recovery. This training, however, also resulted in impairments in an untrained task. Here we examined whether delaying the rehabilitative training following cervical SCI is still effective in promoting task-specific recovery, but circumvents impairments in an untrained task, comparable to what has been reported in stroke models. Therefore, reaching training for a period of 6 weeks was initiated at Day 12 following a cervical dorso-lateral quadrant lesion. Thereupon the rats' ability to reach and to walk on a horizontal ladder (i.e. the untrained task) was assessed, and 8 weeks post-injury cortical map changes were investigated through microstimulation. Further, we examined changes in phospho protein kinase A (pPKA) levels following an immediate and a delayed onset of reaching training in rats with cervical SCI. We found that delayed rehabilitative training was comparably effective as immediate training in promoting task-specific recovery and sprouting of injured axons. Importantly, delayed training did not impair the performance on horizontal ladder walking. Strikingly, only delayed reaching training restored cortical PKA levels that had dropped significantly over 2 weeks post-injury. Additionally, delayed training did not influence cortical map changes following injury, but decreased white matter damage. In conclusion, our results show that a short delay in the onset of training in a forelimb task significantly alters our outcome measures, which should be considered in future rehabilitative approaches.
Galantamine is currently used in the treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although its action is mostly directed at the regulation of cholinergic transmission, galantamine can also afford neuroprotection against amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), which is involved in AD pathogenesis. In this study, we used cultured rat cortical neurons treated with two forms of Abeta(1-40), fresh and previously aged (enriched in fibrils). First, we confirmed that galantamine prevented neurodegeneration induced by both peptide forms in a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, we observed that when neurons were co-incubated with fresh Abeta(1-40) plus galantamine, the amount of amyloid aggregates was reduced. As oxidative conditions influence Abeta aggregation, we investigated whether galantamine prevents oxidative stress induced by this peptide. The data show that either fresh or aged Abeta(1-40) significantly increased the amount of reactive oxygen species and lipoperoxidation, these effects being prevented by galantamine. In Abeta(1-40)-treated neurons, the depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) seems to be related to the decrease in glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities(.) These alterations in the GSH antioxidant system were prevented by galantamine. Overall, these results constitute the first evidence that galantamine can prevent the neuronal oxidative damage induced by Abeta, providing an in vitro basis for the beneficial actions of galantamine in the AD neurodegenerative process.

When damaged perinatally, as in congenital hemiplegia (CH), the corticospinal tract usually undergoes an extensive reorganization, such as the stabilization of normally transient projections to the ipsilateral spinal cord. Whether the reorganization of the corticospinal projections occurring in CH patients is also accompanied by a topographical rearrangement of the hand representations in the primary motor cortex (M1) remains unclear. To address this issue, we mapped, for both hands, the representation of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (1DI) in 12 CH patients by using transcranial magnetic stimulation co-registered onto individual three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging; these maps were compared with those gathered in age-matched controls (n = 11). In the damaged hemisphere of CH patients, the representation of the paretic 1DI was either found in the hand knob of M1 (n = 5), shifted caudally (n = 5), or missing (n = 2). In the intact hemisphere of six CH patients, an additional, ipsilateral, representation of the paretic 1DI was found in the hand knob, where it overlapped exactly the representation of the non-paretic 1DI. In the other six CH patients, the ipsilateral representation of the paretic 1DI was either shifted caudally (n = 2) or was lacking (n = 4). Surprisingly, in these two subgroups of patients, the representation of the contralateral non-paretic 1DI was found in a more medio-dorsal position than in controls. The present study demonstrates that, besides the well-known reorganization of the corticospinal projections, early brain injuries may also lead to a topographical rearrangement of the representations of both the paretic and non-paretic hands in M1.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate the role of the hippocampus, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in a contextual conditioning and extinction paradigm provoking anxiety. Twenty-one healthy persons participated in a differential context conditioning procedure with two different background colours as contexts. During acquisition increased activity to the conditioned stimulus (CS+) relative to the CS- was found in the left hippocampus and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). The amygdala, insula and inferior frontal cortex were differentially active during late acquisition. Extinction was accompanied by enhanced activation to CS+ vs. CS- in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC). The results are in accordance with animal studies and provide evidence for the important role of the hippocampus in contextual learning in humans. Connectivity analyses revealed correlated activity between the left posterior hippocampus and dACC (BA32) during early acquisition and the dACC, left posterior hippocampus and right amygdala during extinction. These data are consistent with theoretical models that propose an inhibitory effect of the mPFC on the amygdala. The interaction of the mPFC with the hippocampus may reflect the context-specificity of extinction learning.
In order to process speech and music, the auditory cortex must learn to process patterns of sounds. Our previous studies showed that with a stream consisting of a repeating (standard) sound, younger infants show an increase in the amplitude of a positive slow wave in response to occasional changes (deviants) in pitch or duration, whereas older infants show a faster negative response that resembles mismatch negativity (MMN) in adults (Trainor et al., 2001, 2003; He et al., 2007). MMN reflects an automatic change-detection process that does not require attention, conscious awareness or behavioural response for its elicitation (Picton et al., 2000; Ntnen et al., 2007). It is an important tool for understanding auditory perception because MMN reflects a change-detection mechanism, and not simply that repetition of a stimulus results in a refractory state of sensory neural circuits while occasional changes to a new sound activate new non-refractory neural circuits (Ntnen et al., 2005). For example, MMN is elicited by a change in the pattern of a repeating note sequence, even when no new notes are introduced that could activate new sensory circuits (Alain et al., 1994, 1999;Schrger et al., 1996). In the present study, we show that in response to a change in the pattern of two repeating tones, MMN in 4-month-olds remains robust whereas the 2-month-old response does not. This indicates that the MMN response to a change in pattern at 4 months reflects the activation of a change-detection mechanism similarly as in adults.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPArs), which mediate fast excitatory glutamatergic transmission, are tetramers made from four subunits (GluR1-4 or GluRA-D). Although synaptic AMPArs are not normally detected by immunocytochemistry in perfusion-fixed tissue, they can be revealed by using antigen retrieval with pepsin. All AMPAr-positive synapses in spinal cord are thought to contain GluR2, while the other subunits have specific laminar distributions. GluR4 can be alternatively spliced such that it has a long or short cytoplasmic tail. We have reported that &lt;10% of AMPAr-containing synapses in lamina II have the long form of GluR4, and that these are often arranged in dorsoventrally orientated clusters. In this study, we test the hypothesis that GluR4-containing receptors are associated with dorsal dendrites of projection neurons in laminae III and IV that express the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r). Immunostaining for NK1r was carried out before antigen retrieval, and sections were then reacted to reveal GluR2 and either GluR4 (long form), GluR3 or GluR1. All NK1r-positive lamina III/IV neurons had numerous GluR2-immunoreactive puncta in their dendritic plasma membranes, and virtually all (97%) of the puncta tested were labelled (usually strongly) with the GluR4 antibody. Sizes of puncta varied, but many were elongated and they were significantly larger than nearby puncta that were not associated with the NK1r cells. None of the GluR2 puncta on these cells was positive for GluR1, while 85% were GluR3-immunoreactive. These results show that synaptic AMPArs on the dendrites of the lamina III/IV NK1r projection neurons contain GluR2, GluR3 and GluR4, but not GluR1 subunits.
We tested the hypothesis that fluctuations in the levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an endogenous antagonist of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor, modulate extracellular ACh levels in the medial prefrontal cortex in rats. Decreases in cortical KYNA levels were achieved by local perfusion of S-ESBA, a selective inhibitor of the astrocytic enzyme kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), which catalyses the formation of KYNA from its precursor L-kynurenine. At 5 mm, S-ESBA caused a 30% reduction in extracellular KYNA levels, which was accompanied by a two-threefold increase in basal cortical ACh levels. Co-perfusion of KYNA in the endogenous range (100 nm), which by itself tended to reduce basal ACh levels, blocked the ability of S-ESBA to raise extracellular ACh levels. KYNA perfusion (100 nm) also prevented the evoked ACh release caused by d-amphetamine (2.0 mg/kg). This effect was duplicated by the systemic administration of kynurenine (50 mg/kg), which resulted in a significant increase in cortical KYNA formation. Jointly, these data indicate that astrocytes, by producing and releasing KYNA, have the ability to modulate cortical cholinergic neurotransmission under both basal and stimulated conditions. As cortical KYNA levels are elevated in individuals with schizophrenia, and in light of the established role of cortical ACh in executive functions, our findings suggest that drugs capable of attenuating the production of KYNA may be of benefit in the treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Compensatory synaptic plasticity is reported in muscle and the central nervous system of motor neuron disease patients, and transgenic SOD1 mice, but direct ultrastructural evidence for spinal motoneurons is lacking. Prompted by our observation in spinal cords from autopsied patients suggesting selective enlargement of the ultrastructurally distinctive C-type terminal synapsing with spinal motoneurons, we examined the ultrastructural synaptology of lumbar motoneurons during disease progression in age- and sex-matched wild-type mice, transgenic G93A SOD1 mice, and mice overexpressing normal human SOD1 (Wt(SOD1)). Prescribed criteria classified presynaptic terminals of motoneurons into five ultrastructural classes (S, F, T, M, and C). Computerized morphometry on electronmicrographs was used to measure their appositional lengths, coverage of the motoneuron membrane, and sizes of postsynaptic structures. No terminal degeneration occurred in wild-type or Wt(SOD1) mice. In transgenic mice, degeneration of motoneurons and S-terminals and F-terminals commenced presymptomatically (10 weeks), and continued into the symptomatic stage (18 weeks). However, C-terminals were preserved. Morphometry confirmed significant reductions in frequency and membrane coverage for S-terminals and F-terminals between 10 and 18 weeks, but a maintained frequency of C-terminals coupled with increased appositional length and coverage of the motoneuron membrane. Increased C-terminal size was matched by growth of its characterizing postsynaptic cistern and Nissl body. The results reveal selective preservation and increased presynaptic territory of the C-type terminal. As C-terminals derive from cholinergic intrasegmental propriospinal interneurons and may modulate motoneuron excitability, their increased presynaptic territory on surviving motoneurons of transgenic SOD1 mice may represent a means of maintaining excitability, compensating for the loss of overall presynaptic input.
To handle the rich repertoire of behavioural goals, the CNS has to control the many degrees of freedom of the musculoskeletal system in a flexible manner. This problem can be drastically simplified if muscle synergies serve as the to-be-controlled building blocks of motor performance, instead of the individual degrees of freedom. Muscle synergies have been identified as coherent activation patterns of a group of muscles in space or time, but the neural mechanisms underlying their formation remain largely unknown. Here we evaluated the hypothesis that synergies are reflected in common input to different contributing muscles, and investigated modulations in motor unit (MU) synchronization of homologous muscles during a rhythmic balance task. If common input is related to muscle synergies, the resultant MU synchronization should not be static but task dependent and, in the present context, vary in time. Coherence between surface electromyographic signals of bilateral leg muscles revealed MU synchronization in two distinct frequency bands. MU synchronization was not constant but modulated within a movement cycle, and its time course resembled the activation patterns of the muscles. These results are congruent with a linkage between MU synchronization and muscle synergies, and suggest that MU synchronization provides an expedient method for studying synergy-related neural mechanisms.
Due to the many similarities in mechanisms of action, targets and effects, progesterone (P4), estrogen and neurotrophins have been implicated in synaptic plasticity as well as in neuroprotection and neurodegeneration. In this study, we examined the interactions between 17beta-estradiol (E2) and P4 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on both plasticity and excitotoxicity in rat cultured hippocampal slices. First, we evaluated the neuroprotective effects of E2 and P4 against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) toxicity in cultured rat hippocampal slices. As previously reported, pretreatment with 10 nm E2 (24 h) was neuroprotective against NMDA toxicity. However, P4 (10 nm) added 20 h after E2 treatment for 4 h reversed its protective effect. In addition, the same E2 treatment resulted in an increase in BDNF protein levels as well as in activation of its receptor, TrkB, while addition of P4 attenuated E2-mediated increase in BDNF and TrkB levels. Furthermore, E2-mediated neuroprotection was eliminated by a BDNF scavenger, TrkB-Fc. Our results indicate that E2 neuroprotective effects are mediated through the BDNF pathway and that, under certain conditions, P4 antagonizes the protective effect of estrogen.
The underlying mechanisms explaining brain volume changes in schizophrenia are not yet understood, but psychosis might be related to these changes. Forty-eight patients with first-episode schizophrenia underwent Magnetic Resonance Imaging brain scanning at inclusion and after five years. An association was found between longer duration of psychosis, larger gray matter volume decrease and larger ventricular volume increase. These findings strongly suggest that psychosis contributes to brain volume reductions found in schizophrenia.
There is evidence that antidepressant drug treatment during a critical period of postnatal development renders mice susceptible to depression- and anxiety-related behaviour in adulthood. The mechanism of how early antidepressant treatment brings about long-term effects in emotional behaviour is not yet understood, but neurotrophins, particularly brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), have been implicated in this context. We examined the long-term effects of a transient early postnatal fluoxetine treatment on depression- and anxiety-related behaviours as well as gene expression of BDNF and its receptor TrkB in C57BL/6J mice. Treatment with fluoxetine between postnatal days P4 and P21 resulted in a significant loss of body weight and long-lasting behavioural inhibition in adult mice in response to stressful events such as the light-dark or open field tests. Postnatal fluoxetine exposure also decreased behavioural despair in the forced swim test. Both body weight and behavioural alterations were restored by chronic fluoxetine treatment in adulthood. The behavioral alterations were accompanied by changes in hippocampal BDNF mRNA. Specifically, we show that early-life fluoxetine exposure resulted in the long-term upregulation of BDNF expression in adult mice. However, chromatin immunoprecipitation studies did not reveal any changes in the acetylation or trimethylation of histone H3 at the BDNF promoters. Our experiments show that behavioural and molecular changes induced by early postnatal fluoxetine administration are reversed by chronic fluoxetine treatment of adult mice to control levels.
We examined the pattern of cytokine secretion across the 24-hr day for women with widespread pain and tenderness having the diagnosis of fibromyalgia (FM) and matched healthy controls. Subjects were given time to habituate to being in a clinical research laboratory environment and then were sampled for cytokines without their being disturbed for a 24-hr period including an 8-hr sleep period. Cytokine levels were uniformly low but characterized by bursts of secretion. Bursting occurred either in singlets or in doublets with a range from 88 to 131 mins between doublet bursts. There was an element of synchronization of these bursts with most occurring at the beginning of sampling. FM patients showed a shift to increased IL-10 in the nighttime compared to controls. The relation between this anti-inflammatory cytokine to the pro-inflammatory cytokines studied also differed between groups: FM patients showed an increased ratio of IL-10 burst amplitude to that of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-8, and TNF-alpha. We interpret this to indicate a skew away from the normal balance favoring pro-inflammatory cytokines in controls toward one favoring an anti-inflammatory response in FM. These changes toward anti-inflammatory predominance in FM may explain their common complaint of disturbed sleep because these cytokines are known to disrupt sleep.
A visuo-motor adaptation task was used to investigate the effects of this adaptation on the auditory-motor representation during reaching movements. We show that, following exposure to a rotated screen cursor-hand relationship, the movement paths during auditory conditions exhibited a similar pattern of aftereffects as those observed during movements to visual targets, indicating that the newly formed model of visuo-motor transformations for hand movement was available to the auditory-motor network for planning the hand movements. This plasticity in human sound localization does not require active cross-modal experience, and retention tests indicated that the newly formed internal model does not reside primarily within the central auditory system as suggested in past studies examining the plasticity of sound localization to distorted spatial vision.
The reduction in saccade latency when the fixation point is removed (fixation offset effect-FOE) reflects the degree to which fixation neurons are under influence by a stimulus at fixation. Strategic manipulations of oculomotor readiness that bring these neurons under endogenous control reduce the magnitude of the FOE. Using an aging foreperiod paradigm, and the FOE as a marker for cortical control of reflexive fixation, we showed that, for both prosaccades and antisaccades, increasing preparation across the foreperiod reduced both saccade latency and the FOE. Consistent with Los's trace conditioning account, these effects reflected greater preparation for trials when the current short foreperiod was preceded by a trial with a short foreperiod. The FOE was also smaller for antisaccades than for prosaccades demonstrating strategic modulation. However, the effects of trace conditioning were comparable in the two tasks, demonstrating that strategic and unconscious priming effects both independently modulate the control of ocular fixation.
The perception of actions performed by others activates one's own motor system. Recent studies disagree as to whether this effect is specific to actions performed by other humans, an issue complicated by differences in perceptual salience between human and non-human stimuli. We addressed this issue by examining the automatic imitation of actions stimulated by viewing a virtual, computer-generated, hand. This stimulus was held constant across conditions, but participants' attention to the virtualness of the hand was manipulated by informing some participants during instructions that they would see a &quot;computer-generated model of a hand,&quot; while making no mention of this to others. In spite of this attentional manipulation, participants in both conditions were generally aware of the virtualness of the hand. Nevertheless, automatic imitation of the virtual hand was significantly reduced--but not eliminated--when participants were told they would see a virtual hand. These results demonstrate that attention modulates the &quot;human bias&quot; of automatic imitation to non-human actors.
Saccadic latencies have long been known to depend on the relative timing of the appearance of the new target, and offset of the original fixation target. Previous studies have tended to conclude that two separate effects are at work, one equivalent to competitive inhibition from the fixation target, and the other due to its offset providing a warning that shortens latency. In this study, we propose a simpler explanation, based on a well-established model of reaction time, LATER (linear approach to threshold with ergodic rate), that in addition to predicting mean latencies also--more challengingly--predicts latency distributions. We show that observed distributions, using gap, step and appearance tasks under three conditions of prior probability, can be accurately predicted by using a pair of LATER units, one corresponding to fixation target offset and the other to peripheral target onset. Because fixation offset is probabilistically associated with target appearance, when the fixation unit is activated it increases the target's decision signal (that represents probability) in a fixed proportion, speeding responses. In contrast, when the fixation target remains present, the fixation unit is not activated, and responses are slower. Both these effects generate characteristic changes in the shapes of the latency distributions that can be accurately predicted by the model.
The paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigm is increasingly employed to examine intracortical inhibitory processes in different motor tasks. Short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) has been shown to vary with the size of the MEP elicited by the test TMS pulse. This suggests that factors that alter MEP size, such as changes in cortical excitability, may confound the interpretation of SICI. However, the effect of excitability on SICI has not been systematically investigated. The present study examined SICI in 11 volunteers. The effect of test TMS intensities ranging from 90 to 150% resting motor threshold (RMT) on SICI was examined in three excitability states in the right first dorsal interosseous muscle: rest, isometric abduction of the left index finger (Contra) and isometric abduction of the right index finger (Active). For all excitability states SICI was not observed when test TMS intensity was less than 110% resting motor threshold. This was true even for the Active condition in which 90 and 100% test TMS intensities elicited large and consistent MEPs. For all conditions moderately suprathreshold test TMS intensities (110-120% RMT) yielded the greatest measure of SICI; increasing test TMS intensities resulted in a progressive reduction in the estimate of SICI. These results suggest that estimates of SICI are systematically affected by the intensity of the test TMS pulse, regardless of excitability state. The results suggest that SICI should be examined using a constant test TMS intensity regardless of changes in cortical excitability and test MEP size.
When the visual background is moving while subject fixate a visual target, optokinetic eye movements (OKN) are suppressed and the after response, called optokinetic after nystagmus (OKAN), occurring at the stimuli offset is often inverted as compared to the situation when the OKN movements are allowed. In this study, we investigated whether this reversal of OKAN results from a perceptual or extra-retinal feedback in relation with the pursuit system and/or the vestibular indirect system. Optokinesis performance was studied in normal subjects in four experiments always using the same background motion (1) to characterize the OKN and OKAN performance elicited by the whole visual field motion while fixating or not a central visual target, (2) to investigate the 3D characteristics of the OKAN reversal by using different orientations of the visual stimulation, (3) to correlate the occurrence of an inverted OKAN with functional asymmetry of the visuo-vestibular system, by studying the effects of ocular fixation deviations and finally (4) to examine the effects of the depth plane of gaze fixation on the OKAN characteristics. In Experiments 1 and 2, we observed that the visual fixation during full-field motion induced either a dumping effect or an inversion of the OKAN response that could occur in the different planes of eye movements. The time constant was significantly increased in the inverted after-responses as compared to the not inverted ones. In Experiment 3, we found that the occurrence of an OKAN reversal after eye movement inhibition was significantly related to the presence of right/left asymmetrical OKAN responses. Moreover, the OKAN time constant was strikingly dependent on the eye fixation position during the visual stimulation and this time constant/eye position relation diverged between OKAN responses with and without inversion. Finally, Experiment 4 showed that the OKAN inversion tended to disappear when the visual target to fixate was in the near space as compared to the far space included in the background. These results argue in favor of an extraretinal influence in relation to the dynamics of the vestibulo-motor system, rather than for a perceptual influence on the inverted OKAN mechanisms. More precisely, we postulate that the reversal of OKAN could be linked to an inhibition issued from pursuit signals combined with an asymmetrical activity in the VSM vestibular complex.
Reduced levels of hippocampal acetylcholine are a common finding in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, but it remains unclear what role this depletion plays in the development of dementia. It is possible that the reduced levels of acetylcholine increases the vulnerability of hippocampal neurons to future insults which could lead to neuronal death and cognitive impairment. One insult that is commonly observed in the demented elderly and often co-exists with Alzheimer's disease is stroke. In the current experiment, we used the immunotoxin 192 IgG-Saporin to specifically lesion the cholinergic neurons of the medial septum that project to the hippocampus. We then explored the effects of small, localised strokes in the hippocampus on spatial learning and memory. The combination of cholinergic depletion and stroke resulted in significant impairment on the spatial water maze compared to the performance of rats receiving either factor alone. Quantification of hippocampal damage revealed no difference in the overall lesion size of stroke-only or combined (cholinergic depletion and stroke) rats, suggesting that a more subtle mechanism is responsible for the observed impairment. We propose that healthy hippocampal neurons may normally be able to withstand, and compensate for a small ischemic insult. However, in the absence of cholinergic projections from the medial septum, these compensatory processes in the hippocampus may be compromised resulting in the spatial learning impairment reported here. This suggests an association between the cholinergic depletion observed during aging and the potential for functional recovery following stroke.
Recent evidence suggests a role for cerebellum in pathophysiology of dystonia. Here we explored, the cerebellar modulation of motor cortex in patients with focal upper limb dystonia. Eight patients and eight controls underwent a transcranial magnetic stimulation protocol to study the cerebellar-brain-inhibition (CBI): a conditioning cerebellar stimulus (CCS) was followed 5 ms after by the contralateral motor cortex stimulation (test stimulus: TS). We explored the effects of CBI on MEP amplitude, short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) measures. At baseline no differences in TS-MEP amplitude, SICI or ICF were found between patients and controls. Cerebellar-conditioning significantly reduced TS-MEP amplitude, increased ICF, and decreased SICI in control subjects. In contrast, no changes in these neurophysiological measures were observed in the motor cortex of patients, regardless of which side was tested. If further confirmed, these findings suggest a reduced cerebellar modulation of motor cortex excitability in patients with focal dystonia.
Cortical hyperexcitability has been observed in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) patients. Familial ALS accounts for 10% of all cases and mutations of the Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene have been identified in about 20% of the familial cases. The aim of this study was to investigate whether in a mouse model of ALS the cortical neurons developed hyperexcitability due to intrinsic properties of the single cell. We first examined the passive membrane properties and the pattern of repetitive firing in cultured cortical neurons from Control mice and transgenic mice expressing high levels of the human mutated protein (Gly(93)--&gt;Ala, G93A). The former did not display significantly differing values between Control and G93A cortical neurons. However, the threshold potential and time of the first action potential decreased significantly and the firing frequency increased significantly in the G93A compared to Control neurons. The analysis of the voltage-dependent sodium currents revealed that the fast transient sodium current was unaffected by the SOD1 mutation whereas the persistent sodium current was significantly higher in the mutated neurons. Finally, Riluzole, a selective blocker of the persistent sodium current at low concentrations, decreased the firing frequency in G93A neurons, strongly indicating an involvement of this current in the observed hyperexcitability. These are the first data that demonstrate an intrinsic hyperexcitability in the G93A cortical neurons due to a higher current density of the persistent sodium current in the mutated neurons and open up new prospects of understanding ALS disease etiopathology.
An altered glutamatergic input at corticostriatal synapses has been shown in experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present work, we analyzed the membrane and synaptic responses of striatal neurons to metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor activation in two different mouse models of inherited PD, linked to mutations in PINK1 or Parkin genes. Both in PINK1 and Parkin knockout ((-/-)) mice, activation of group I mGlu receptors by 3,5-DHPG caused a membrane depolarization coupled to an increase in firing frequency in striatal cholinergic interneurons that was comparable to the response observed in the respective wild-type (WT) interneurons. The sensitivity to group II and III mGlu receptors was tested on cortically-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) recorded from medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Both LY379268 and L-AP4, agonists for group II and III, respectively, had no effect on intrinsic membrane properties, but dose-dependently reduced the amplitude of corticostriatal EPSPs. However, both in PINK1(-/-) and Parkin(-/-) mice, LY379268, but not L-AP4, exhibited a greater potency as compared to WT in depressing EPSP amplitude. Accordingly, the dose-response curve for the response to LY379268 in both knockout mice was shifted leftward. Moreover, consistent with a presynaptic site of action, both LY379268 and L-AP4 increased the paired-pulse ratio either in PINK1(-/-) and Parkin(-/-) or in WT mice. Acute pretreatment with L-dopa did not rescue the enhanced sensitivity to LY379268. Together, these results suggest that the selective increase in sensitivity of striatal group II mGlu receptors represents an adaptive change in mice in which an altered dopamine metabolism has been documented.
Bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) are able to confer beneficial effects after transplantation into animals with ischemic brain injuries. This effect is probably mainly caused by the release of trophic factors, though the possibility of dead neural cells being replaced by BMSCs cannot be excluded. The aim of this study was to determine whether the neuroprotective effects in question are dependent on direct cell-cell contacts between BMSCs and injured tissue. We therefore investigated that interplay in an in vitro model of hippocampal organotypic slice cultures (OHCs), in order to avoid the interference due to immunological rejection processes following transplantation in vivo. To perform ischemic injury in vitro, OHCs were made subject to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). The possible direct or indirect neuroprotective effects induced by BMSCs were evaluated 24 h after injury by reference to two experimental paradigms using ischemic injured hippocampal slices: (i) cell transplantation on the top of OGD-treated OHC, (ii) co-cultivation of cell culture with OHC space separated for 24 h. In both paradigms, the BMSC treatment induced comparable and significant neuroprotection in OGD-injured OHCs. This effect increased after treatment with serum-deprived BMSCs, enriched with cells expressing nestin and GFAP. Comparing cell transplantation and cell co-cultivation with injured tissue, we concluded that the neuroprotective effect of BMSCs evoked shortly after ischemia (24 h) does not depend on cell-cell contacts. Additionally OGD-treated OHC was found to stimulate co-cultured BMSCs into expressing higher levels of bFGF and NGF. Finally, ischemic hippocampal slices increased the expression of nestin and GFAP in co-cultivated BMSCs, as well as changing their morphology.
Activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the spinal dorsal horn has been shown to be essential for the initiation of central sensitization and the hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons in chronic pain. However, whether the spinal NR2B-containing NMDA (NMDA-2B) receptors are involved still remains largely unclear. Using behavioral test and in vivo extracellular electrophysiological recording in L5 spinal nerve-ligated (SNL) neuropathic rats, we investigate the roles of spinal cord NMDA-2B receptors in the development of neuropathic pain. Our study showed that intrathecal (i.t.) injection of Ro 25-6981, a selective NMDA-2B receptor antagonist, had a dose-dependent anti-allodynic effect without causing motor dysfunction. Furthermore, i.t. application of another NMDA-2B receptor antagonist ifenprodil prior to SNL also significantly inhibited the mechanical allodynia but not the thermal hyperalgesia. These data suggest that NMDA-2B receptors at the spinal cord level play an important role in the development of neuropathic pain, especially at the early stage following nerve injury. In addition, spinal administration of Ro 25-6981 not only had a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on the C-fiber responses of dorsal horn wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in both normal and SNL rats, but also significantly inhibited the long-term potentiation (LTP) in the C-fiber responses of WDR neurons induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) applied to the sciatic nerve. These results indicate that activation of the dorsal horn NMDA-2B receptors may be crucial for the spinal nociceptive synaptic transmission and for the development of long-lasting spinal hyperexcitability following nerve injury. In conclusion, the spinal cord NMDA-2B receptors play a role in the development of central sensitization and neuropathic pain via the induction of LTP in dorsal horn nociceptive synaptic transmission. Therefore, the spinal cord NMDA-2B receptor is likely to be a target for clinical pain therapy.
Recently, hippocampal neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene therapy has been shown to effectively suppress both acute and chronic seizures in animal model of epilepsy, thus representing a promising novel antiepileptic treatment strategy, particularly for patients with intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). However, our previous studies show that recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV)-NPY treatment in naive rats attenuates long-term potentiation (LTP) and transiently impairs hippocampal learning process, indicating that negative effect on memory function could be a potential side effect of NPY gene therapy. Here we report how rAAV vector-mediated overexpression of NPY in the hippocampus affects rapid kindling, and subsequently explore how synaptic plasticity and transmission is affected by kindling and NPY overexpression by field recordings in CA1 stratum radiatum of brain slices. In animals injected with rAAV-NPY, we show that rapid kindling-induced hippocampal seizures in vivo are effectively suppressed as compared to rAAV-empty injected (control) rats. Six to nine weeks later, basal synaptic transmission and short-term synaptic plasticity are unchanged after rapid kindling, while LTP is significantly attenuated in vitro. Importantly, transgene NPY overexpression has no effect on short-term synaptic plasticity, and does not further compromise LTP in kindled animals. These data suggest that epileptic seizure-induced impairment of memory function in the hippocampus may not be further affected by rAAV-NPY treatment, and may be considered less critical for clinical application in epilepsy patients already experiencing memory disturbances.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motoneuron degeneration. Although viral delivery of IGF-I has shown therapeutic efficacy in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS, clinical trials of IGF-I in ALS patients have led to conflicting results. Here we examine the effects of an IGF-I splice variant, mechano-growth factor (MGF) which has previously been shown to have greater neuroprotective effects than IGF-I in a number of models of neurodegeneration. A mammalian expression plasmid containing either MGF or, for comparison, the IGF-I cDNA sequence was delivered to the hindlimb muscles of SOD1(G93A) mice at 70 days of age, at symptom onset. Treatment with either IGF-I or MGF resulted in a significant improvement in hindlimb muscle strength, and an increase in motor unit and motoneuron survival. Significantly more motoneurons survived in MGF treated mice.
The rat vas deferens was removed and either transplanted alongside the soleus muscle or into the bed of the soleus muscle that had previously been removed, and in this case the soleus nerve was connected to the transplant. The vas deferens reinnervated by the somatomotor nerve recovered the best. Contractions to transmural electrical stimulation could not be elicited from the denervated vas deferens, although noradrenaline and acetylcholine elicited contractions. The reinnervated vas deferens produced good contractile responses to transmural stimulation, and these were substantially reduced by a cholinergic muscarinic blocking agent, hyoscine, as compared to only a small reduction in the control vas deferens. Neostigmine potentiated the contraction of the transplanted vas deferens to a greater extent than that of the control. This indicated that a substantial component of the contractile response was produced by cholinergic fibres. Consistent with this was the finding that, while guanethidine blocked a greater proportion of the contraction in the control vas deferens, the contraction of the reinnervated transplant was less affected. Acetylcholine elicited a strong contraction in control vas deferens, but only a small response was obtained in the reinnervated transplant. However, the response to noradrenaline was greater in the transplant than in the control vas deferens. These results indicate that cholinergic nerves normally supplying skeletal muscle can reinnervate smooth muscle and that the alien somatomotor innervation altered the responsiveness of the smooth muscle of the vas deferens. Morphological studies confirm the shift from adrenergic to cholinergic fibres in the reinnervated vas deferens.
In this study we report that primary cultures of rat fetal neurons contain subpopulations of cells that may be sensitive or resistant to HIV-1 Tat neurotoxicity. We demonstrate that rapid binding/uptake of Tat 1-86 for 2 h was sufficient to trigger caspase activation and neurodegeneration in rat fetal midbrain cell cultures. The uptake of Tat was followed by an increase in MCP1 (CCL2) immunoreactivity. Approximately 70% of neurons were able to survive transient or continuous (7 days) Tat exposure. The surviving neurons did not contain bound/internalized Tat, but were able to interact with Tat after medium replacement. These neurons were resistant to Tat toxicity. In neurons that resisted the toxic effects of continuous and repeated Tat treatment, levels of NR2A subunit of the NMDA receptor complex were significantly lower than in controls. We suggest that the subunit composition of NMDAR complexes may be important for the sensitivity of neurons to Tat toxicity.


Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which activates the extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, increases formation of prions in scrapie-infected gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GT1-1) cells. This indicates that conversion of the cellular prion protein PrP(C) to its pathogenic isoform, PrP(Sc), can be regulated by physiological stimuli acting on specific signal transduction pathways. In the present study, we examined the involvement of different mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades and the cAMP-PKA pathway in formation of proteinase K-resistant PrP(Sc) (rPrP(Sc)). Long-term depolarization of GT1-1 cells infected with the Rocky Mountain Laboratory strain of scrapie increased the formation of rPrP(Sc). This effect was associated to ERK activation and was blocked by the MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126. Treatment with forskolin caused a similar increase in rPrP(Sc) formation that was prevented by the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89. Both depolarization and forskolin treatment were accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the S6 ribosomal protein, while phosphorylation of histone H3 occurred only after forskolin treatment. Inhibitors of p38- and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) promoted the formation of rPrP(Sc), in contrast to the clearance of rPrP(Sc) produced by inhibitors of the ERK pathway. Thus, the ERK and the p38-JNK MAP kinase pathways appear to exert opposing effects on rPrP(Sc) formation, suggesting that balances between these intracellular signaling cascades may regulate replication of prions.
The mammalian nervous system is relatively autonomous in lipid metabolism. In particular, Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system, and oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in the central nervous system, are highly active in lipid synthesis. Previously, enzymatic lipid synthesis in the liver has been demonstrated to be under the control of the sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP) transcription factors. Here, we put forward the view that SREBP transcription factors in glia cells control the synthesis of lipids involved in various glia-neuron interactions, thereby affecting a range of neuronal functions. This minireview compiles current knowledge on the involvement of Schwann cell SREBPs in myelination of axons in the peripheral nervous system, and proposes a role for astrocyte SREBPs in neuronal functioning in the central nervous system.
Walking track analysis was first described by de Medinaceli et al. This technique has been significantly modified to provide methods of indexing nerve function that are more valid. Moreover, it has been questioned by several authors. The aim of the present review is to offer a combined knowledge about walking track analysis for scientists who deal with neuroscience.
There is a bidirectional relation between the central nervous system and the digestive tract, i.e., the brain-gut axis. Numerous data argue for a dysfunction of the brain-gut axis in the pathophysiology of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Visceral hypersensitivity is a marker of IBS as well as of an abnormality of the brain-gut axis. This visceral hypersensitivity is peripheral and/or central in origin and may be the consequence of digestive inflammation or an anomaly of the nociceptive message treatment at the spinal and/or supraspinal level. Stress is involved in the genesis and maintenance of IBS. Disturbances of the autonomic nervous system are observed in IBS as a consequence of brain-gut axis dysfunction. The contribution of the neurosciences, in particular brain imaging techniques, has contributed to the better understanding of IBS physiopathology. The better knowledge of brain-gut axis dysfunction has therapeutic implications, either through drugs and/or cognitive and behavioral therapies.
Dystrophia myotonica type 1 (DM1), the most common muscular dystrophy in adults, results from expansion of a CTG repeat in the 3'-untranslated region of the dystrophia myotonica protein kinase gene (DMPK). Correction of the mutant DMPK transcript is a potential therapeutic strategy in DM1. We investigated the efficacy of artificial trans-splicing molecules (ATMs) to target and correct DMPK transcripts. ATMs designed to target intron 14 of DMPK pre-mRNA transcripts were tested for their ability to trans-splice the transcripts of a DMPK mini-gene construct and the endogenous DMPK transcripts of human myosarcoma cells (CCL-136). On agarose gel electrophoresis analysis, six of eight ATMs showed trans-splicing efficacy when applied to DMPK mini-gene construct transcripts, of which three were able to trans-splice endogenous DMPK pre-mRNA transcripts in myosarcoma cells, with trans-splicing efficiency ranging from 1.81 to 7.41%. These findings confirm that artificial trans-splicing can repair DMPK pre-mRNA and provide proof-of-principle evidence for this approach as potential therapeutic strategy for DM1.

It has been suggested that genes impact on the degree to which minor daily stressors cause variation in the intensity of subtle paranoid experiences. The objective of the present study was to test the hypothesis that catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val(158)Met and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val(66)Met in part mediate genetic effects on paranoid reactivity to minor stressors. In a general population sample of 579 young adult female twins, on the one hand, appraisals of (1) event-related stress and (2) social stress and, on the other hand, feelings of paranoia in the flow of daily life were assessed using momentary assessment technology for five consecutive days. Multilevel regression analyses were used to examine moderation of daily life stress-induced paranoia by COMT Val(158)Met and BDNF Val(66)Met genotypes. Catechol-O-methyltransferase Val carriers displayed more feelings of paranoia in response to event stress compared with Met carriers. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor Met carriers showed more social-stress-induced paranoia than individuals with the Val/Val genotype. Thus, paranoia in the flow of daily life may be the result of gene-environment interactions that can be traced to different types of stress being moderated by different types of genetic variation.
The generation of motor activity levels is under tight neural control to execute essential behaviors, such as movement toward food or for social interaction. To identify novel neurobiological mechanisms underlying motor activity levels, we studied a panel of chromosome substitution (CS) strains derived from mice with high (C57BL/6J strain) or low motor activity levels (A/J strain) using automated home cage behavioral registration. In this study, we genetically mapped the expression of baseline motor activity levels (horizontal distance moved) to mouse chromosome 1. Further genetic mapping of this trait revealed an 8.3-Mb quantitative trait locus (QTL) interval. This locus is distinct from the QTL interval for open-field anxiety-related motor behavior on this chromosome. By data mining, an existing phenotypic and genotypic data set of 2445 genetically heterogeneous mice (http://gscan.well.ox.ac.uk/), we confirmed linkage to the peak marker at 79 970 253 bp and refined the QTL to a 312-kb interval containing a single gene (A830043J08Rik). Sequence analysis showed a nucleotide deletion in the 3' untranslated region of the Riken gene. Genome-wide microarray gene expression profiling in brains of discordant F(2) individuals from CS strain 1 showed a significant upregulation of Epha4 in low-active F(2) individuals. Inclusion of a genetic marker for Epha4 confirmed that this gene is located outside of the QTL interval. Both Epha4 and A830043J08Rik are expressed in brain motor circuits, and similar to Epha4 mutants, we found linkage between reduced motor neurons number and A/J chromosome 1. Our findings provide a novel QTL and a potential downstream target underlying motor circuitry development and the expression of physical activity levels.
To establish a genetic tool for manipulating the neural stem/progenitor cell (NSC) lineage in a temporally controlled manner, we generated a transgenic mouse line carrying an NSC-specific nestin promoter/enhancer expressing a fusion protein encoding Cre recombinase coupled to modified estrogen receptor ligand-binding domain (ER(T2)). In the background of the Cre reporter mouse strain Rosa26(lacZ), we show that the fusion CreER(T2) recombinase is normally silent but can be activated by the estrogen analog tamoxifen both in utero, in infancy, and in adulthood. As assayed by beta-galactosidase activity in embryonic stages, tamoxifen activates Cre recombinase exclusively in neurogenic cells and their progeny. This property persists in adult mice, but Cre activity can also be detected in granule neurons and Bergmann glia at the anterior of the cerebellum, in piriform cortex, optic nerve, and some peripheral ganglia. No obvious Cre activity was observed outside of the nervous system. Thus, the nestin regulated inducible Cre mouse line provides a powerful tool for studying the physiology and lineage of NSCs.
The Italian scheme of External Quality Assessment for beta-thalassemia started in 2001 as part of a project twice funded by the Italian Ministry of Health and coordinated by the Istituto Superiore di Sanit. To date, five trials have been performed (2001-2004 and 2006). The aim of the Italian scheme is to help public laboratories in improving and reaching a high standard of quality when performing a molecular test. Many laboratories took part in the 5-year project, and their participation was constant during the whole period. The aims of this paper are to describe the genotyping and reporting results as well as focusing on the techniques and the testing strategies adopted to detect mutations. Almost 99% of the alleles analyzed were correctly detected by laboratories, while 0.33% of the analyses gave a wrong result. Reverse dot blot was the most used technique, and it was always used in the strategies adopted by laboratories to detect mutations. The reports sent by laboratories showed incompleteness and heterogeneity; thus, a new model for written reports has been introduced since 2004. It will be interesting to monitor the effects of the reporting model and the output of this educational action in the future.
During development individual cells in tissues undergo complex cell-shape changes to drive the morphogenetic movements required to form tissues. Cell shape is determined by the cytoskeleton and cell-shape changes critically depend on a tight spatial and temporal control of cytoskeletal behavior. We have used the formation of the salivary glands in the Drosophila embryo, a process of tubulogenesis, as an assay for identifying factors that impinge on cell shape and the cytoskeleton. To this end we have performed a gain-of-function screen in the salivary glands, using a collection of fly lines carrying EP-element insertions that allow the overexpression of downstream-located genes using the UAS-Gal4 system. We used a salivary-gland-specific fork head-Gal4 line to restrict expression to the salivary glands, in combination with reporters of cell shape and the cytoskeleton. We identified a number of genes known to affect salivary gland formation, confirming the effectiveness of the screen. In addition, we found many genes not implicated previously in this process, some having known functions in other tissues. We report the initial characterization of a subset of genes, including chickadee, rhomboid1, egalitarian, bitesize, and capricious, through comparison of gain- and loss-of-function phenotypes.
In an effort to define novel transcriptional regulatory elements, microarray cotransfection was used to functionally characterize conserved non-coding sequences (CNSs) of three immediate early genes: c-fos, JunB and EGR-1. Cotransfection of fluorescent CNS reporter constructs and expression vectors for constitutively active signaling proteins demonstrated that many of the CNSs alter both the basal and regulated expressions of reporter constructs, but the effects of these CNSs were usually specific for their homologous promoter. One CNS located in the first intron of the c-fos gene conferred regulation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) and Raf. Mutagenesis and cotransfection experiments showed that PKA regulation of this c-fos intronic element was mediated by two adjacent CRE-like sequences and the transcription factor CREB. In the context of a reporter containing previously characterized regulatory elements, the novel intronic sequence contributed 50% of the transcriptional response to PKA. These studies suggest that microarray transfection studies may be useful in functional characterization of conserved genomic sequences on a larger scale.
Regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis plays a critical role in oligodendrocyte function and survival. Cannabinoid CB(1) and CB(2) receptors have been shown to regulate Ca(2+) levels and/or K(+) currents in a variety of cell types. In this study we investigated the effect of cannabinoid compounds on the Ca(2+) influx elicited in cultured oligodendrocytes by transient membrane depolarization with an elevated extracellular K(+) concentration (50 mM). The CB(1) receptor agonist arachidonoyl-chloro-ethanolamide (ACEA) elicited a concentration-dependent inhibition of depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) transients in oligodendroglial somata with a maximal effect (94+/-3)% and an EC(50) of 1.3+/-0.03 microM. This activity was mimicked by the CB(1)/CB(2) agonist CP55,940, as well as by the endocannabinoids N-arachidonoyl-ethanolamine (anandamide, AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), whereas the CB(2) receptor selective agonist JWH133 was ineffective. The CB(1) receptor antagonist AM251 (1 microM) also reduced the Ca(2+) response evoked by high extracellular K(+) and did not prevent the inhibition elicited by ACEA (3 microM). Nevertheless, the ability of ACEA and AEA to reduce depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) transients was significantly reduced in oligodendrocytes from CB(1) receptor knockout mice, as well as by pretreatment with pertussis toxin. Bath application of the inwardly rectifying K(+) channels (Kir channels) blockers BaCl(2) (300 microM) and CsCl(2) (1 mM) reduced the size of voltage-induced Ca(2+) influx and partially prevented the inhibitory effect of ACEA. Our results indicate that cannabinoids inhibit depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) transients in oligodendrocytes via CB(1) receptor-independent and -dependent mechanisms that involve the activation of PTX-sensitive G(i/o) proteins and the blockade of Kir channels.
NG2(+) cells in the adult CNS are a heterogeneous population. The extent to which the subpopulation of NG2(+) cells that function as oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) respond to spinal cord injury (SCI) and recapitulate their normal developmental progression remains unclear. We used the CNP-EGFP mouse, in which oligodendrocyte lineage cells express EGFP, to study NG2(+) cells in the normal and injured spinal cord. In white matter of uninjured mice, bipolar EGFP(+)NG2(+) cells and multipolar EGFP(neg)NG2(+) cells were identified. After SCI, EGFP(+)NG2(+) cell proliferation in residual white matter peaked at 3 days post injury (DPI) rostral to the epicenter, while EGFP(neg)NG2(+) cell proliferation peaked at 7 DPI at the epicenter. The expression of transcription factors, Olig2, Sox10, and Sox17, and the basic electrophysiological membrane parameters and potassium current phenotype of the EGFP(+)NG2(+) population after injury were consistent with those of proliferative OPCs during development. EGFP(neg)NG2(+) cells did not express transcription factors involved in oligodendrogenesis. EGFP(+)CC1(+) oligodendrocytes at 6 weeks included cells that incorporated BrdU during the peak of EGFP(+)NG2(+) cell proliferation. EGFP(neg)CC1(+) oligodendrocytes were never observed. Treatment with glial growth factor 2 and fibroblast growth factor 2 enhanced oligodendrogenesis and increased the number of EGFP(neg)NG2(+) cells. Therefore, based on EGFP and transcription factor expression, spatiotemporal proliferation patterns, and response to growth factors, two populations of NG2(+) cells can be identified that react to SCI. The EGFP(+)NG2(+) cells undergo cellular and physiological changes in response to SCI that are similar to those that occur in early postnatal NG2(+) cells during developmental oligodendrogenesis.
Decision making lies at the heart of our personal and professional lives. Yet the daunting reality is that enormously important decisions made by intelligent, responsible people with the best information and intentions are nevertheless hopelessly flawed at times. In part, that's due to the way our brains work. Modern neuroscience teaches us that two hard-wired processes in the brain--pattern recognition and emotional tagging--are critical to decision making. Both are normally reliable; indeed, they provide us with an evolutionary advantage. But in certain circumstances, either one can trip us up and skew our judgment. In this article, Campbell and Whitehead, directors at the Ashridge Strategic Management Centre, together with Finkelstein, of Dartmouth's Tuck School, describe the conditions that promote errors of judgment and explore how organizations can build safeguards against them into the decision-making process. In their analysis, the authors delineate three &quot;red-flag conditions&quot; that are responsible either for distorting emotional tagging or for encouraging people to see false patterns: conflicts of interest; attachments to people, places, or things; and the presence of misleading memories, which seem, but really are not, relevant and comparable to the current situation. Using a global chemical company as an example, the authors describe the steps leaders can take to counteract those biases: inject fresh experience or analysis, introduce further debate and more challenges to their thinking, and impose stronger governance. Rather than rely on the wisdom of experienced chairmen, the humility of CEOs, or the standard organizational checks and balances, the authors urge, everyone involved in important decisions should explicitly consider whether red flags exist and, if they do, lobby for appropriate safeguards.

The triptan era has been a time of remarkable progress for migraine diagnosis and treatment. In this paper, we review some of the advances achieved in migraine science during this era focusing on 3 themes: lessons from clinical practice, lessons from epidemiology and lessons from pathophysiology. Science has shown that migraine is a disorder of the brain, and that the key events happen in the the trigeminal neuronal pathways, not on blood vessels. Clinical science has led to the observation that migraine sometimes progresses or remits. This in turn led to longitudinal epidemiologic studies focusing on factors that determine migraine prognosis. In addition, these studies raised questions about the mechanisms of migraine progression, including the role of allodynia, obesity, inflammation, and medications as determinants of progression. This in turn opens a new set of scientific questions about the neurobiologic determinants of migraine, as well as of its clinical course, and exciting opportunities to develop new therapies for this highly disabling brain disorder.


The objective of the present study was to identify efferent and afferent transmitters of motoneurons of the tensor tympani muscle (MoTTM) to gain more insight into the neuronal regulation of the muscle. To identify MoTTM, we injected the fluorescent neuronal tracer Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the muscle after preparation of the middle ear in adult rats. Upon terminal uptake and retrograde neuronal transport, we observed FG in neurons located lateral and ventrolateral to the motor trigeminal nucleus ipsilateral to the injection site. Immunohistochemical studies of these motoneurons showed that apparently all contained choline acetyltransferase, demonstrating their motoneuronal character. Different portions of these cell bodies were immunoreactive to bombesin (33%), cholecystokinin (37%), endorphin (100%), leu-enkephalin (25%) or neuronal nitric oxide synthase (32%). MoTTM containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, tyrosine hydroxylase, substance P, neuropeptide Y or serotonin were not found. While calcitonin gene-related peptide was not detected in the region under study, nerve fibers immunoreactive to tyrosine hydroxylase, substance P, neuropeptide Y or serotonin were observed in close spatial relationship to MoTTM, suggesting that these neurons are under aminergic and neuropeptidergic influence. Our results demonstrating the neurochemistry of motoneuron input and output of the rat tensor tympany muscle may prove useful also for the general understanding of motoneuron function and regulation.
An extensive cortical network consisting of structures in the medial temporal lobe (hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex), lateral parietal cortex, retrosplenial cortex, and medial prefrontal cortex has recently attracted attention in cognitive neuroscience research, linking the network to both episodic memory and spatial processing. It has been suggested that its function may be best characterized as supporting the processing of contextual associations (context network). In this study, we explored whether the role of this network in contextual processing extends to associations that are evoked in a spontaneous manner. In a novel memory encoding task, participants indicated whether they encoded pictures (objects and novel faces) based on an evoked association or based on a perceptual feature. Memory encoding with subjective associations enhanced memory formation relative to feature-based encoding, and this effect was more pronounced for rapidly evoked associations. Functional magnetic resonance imaging during encoding yielded significant activations in all regions of the context network, i.e., medial prefrontal cortex, lateral parietal cortex, retrosplenial cortex, and posterior medial temporal lobe for the associative vs. feature-based comparisons. The low number of misses did not permit the analysis of a subsequent memory contrast. Our data suggest that the context network, which includes the posterior hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex, might support the linkage of external stimuli to long-term memory representations.
If personhood is the quality or condition of being an individual person, &quot;brainhood&quot; could name the quality or condition of being a brain. This ontological quality would define the &quot;cerebral subject&quot; that has, at least in industrialized and highly medicalized societies, gained numerous social inscriptions since the mid-20th century. This article explores the historical development of brainhood. It suggests that the brain is necessarily the location of the &quot;modern self,&quot; and that, consequently, the cerebral subject is the anthropological figure inherent to modernity (at least insofar as modernity gives supreme value to the individual as autonomous agent of choice and initiative). It further argues that the ideology of brainhood impelled neuroscientific investigation much more than it resulted from it, and sketches how an expanding constellation of neurocultural discourses and practices embodies and sustains that ideology.
Mammalian species can be defined as diurnal or nocturnal, depending on the temporal niche during which they are active. Even if general activity occurs during nighttime in nocturnal rodents, there is a patchwork of general activity patterns in diurnal rodents, including frequent bimodality (so-called crepuscular pattern, i.e., dawn and dusk peaks of activity) and a switch to a nocturnal pattern under certain circumstances. This raises the question of whether crepuscular species have a bimodal or diurnal - as opposed to nocturnal - physiology. To this end, we investigated several daily behavioral, hormonal and neurochemical rhythms in the diurnal Sudanian grass rat (Arvicanthis ansorgei) and the nocturnal Long-Evans rat (Rattus norvegicus). Daily rhythms of general activity, wheel-running activity and body temperature, with or without blocked wheel, were diurnal and bimodal for A. ansorgei, and nocturnal and unimodal for Long-Evans rats. Moreover, A. ansorgei and Long-Evans rats exposed to light-dark cycles were respectively more and less active, compared to conditions of constant darkness. In contrast to other diurnal rodents, wheel availability in A. ansorgei did not switch their general activity pattern. Daily, unimodal rhythm of plasma leptin was in phase-opposition between the two rodent species. In the hippocampus, a daily, unimodal rhythm of serotonin in A. ansorgei occurred 7 h earlier than that in Long-Evans rats, whereas a daily, unimodal rhythm of dopamine was unexpectedly concomitant in both species. Multiparameter analysis demonstrates that in spite of bimodal rhythms linked with locomotor activity, A. ansorgei have a diurnally oriented physiology.
Anabolic androgenic steroid (AAS) treatment throughout adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The present study was conducted to investigate the role of the dopaminergic system in the modulation of AAS-induced aggressive behavior. Hamsters were administered AAS during adolescence, scored for offensive aggression using the resident-intruder paradigm, and then examined for alterations in DA immunoreactivity in brain regions implicated in the aggressive phenotype, including the anterior hypothalamus (AH), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the medial and central amygdala (MeA and CeA), the lateral septum (LS) and the ventrolateral hypothalamus (VLH). When compared with non-aggressive sesame-oil-treated controls, aggressive AAS-treated animals showed increased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in anterior hypothalamic subnuclei, namely the nucleus circularis (NC) and medial supraoptic nucleus (mSON). In addition, AAS-treated animals showed altered D(2) receptor expression in the AH and the VLH, as measured by D(2)-immunoreactivity. Together these results suggest that alterations in DA synthesis and function together with modifications in D(2) receptor expression in the AH may underlie neuroplastic events which facilitate AAS-induced aggression.
Editors of scientific journals are ethically bound to provide a fair and impartial peer-review process and to protect the rights of contributing authors to publish research results. If, however, a dispute arises among investigators regarding data ownership and the right to publish, the ethical responsibilities of journal editors become more complex. The editors of Human Brain Mapping recently had the unusual experience of learning of an ongoing dispute regarding data-access rights pertaining to a manuscript already accepted for publication. Herein the editors describe the nature of the dispute, the steps taken to explore and resolve the conflict, and discuss the ethical principles that govern such circumstances. Drawing on this experience and with the goal of avoiding future controversies, the editors have formulated a Data Rights Policy and a Data Rights Procedure for Human Brain Mapping. Human Brain Mapping adopts this policy effective immediately and respectfully suggests that other journals consider adopting this or similar policies.
The default mode network (DMN), based in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), exhibits higher metabolic activity at rest than during performance of externally oriented cognitive tasks. Recent studies have suggested that competitive relationships between the DMN and various task-positive networks involved in task performance are intrinsically represented in the brain in the form of strong negative correlations (anticorrelations) between spontaneous fluctuations in these networks. Most neuroimaging studies characterize the DMN as a homogenous network, thus few have examined the differential contributions of DMN components to such competitive relationships. Here, we examined functional differentiation within the DMN, with an emphasis on understanding competitive relationships between this and other networks. We used a seed correlation approach on resting-state data to assess differences in functional connectivity between these two regions and their anticorrelated networks. While the positively correlated networks for the vmPFC and PCC seeds largely overlapped, the anticorrelated networks for each showed striking differences. Activity in vmPFC negatively predicted activity in parietal visual spatial and temporal attention networks, whereas activity in PCC negatively predicted activity in prefrontal-based motor control circuits. Granger causality analyses suggest that vmPFC and PCC exert greater influence on their anticorrelated networks than the other way around, suggesting that these two default mode nodes may directly modulate activity in task-positive networks. Thus, the two major nodes comprising the DMN are differentiated with respect to the specific brain systems with which they interact, suggesting greater heterogeneity within this network than is commonly appreciated.
Lesion studies on nonhuman primates utilizing recognition memory tests have shown that the orbitofrontal cortex is critical for the encoding of novel information, and anatomical studies have shown that the orbitofrontal cortex forms part of a mnemonic circuit that connects limbic medial temporal areas with higher-order lateral frontal cortical regions. Furthermore, functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated increased activity in the orbitofrontal cortex of the human brain during the encoding of novel visual and auditory information. The present positron emission tomography study examined brain activity related to the encoding of tactile information. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) in normal human subjects during the tactile exploration of novel stimuli from a related set of textures and patterns, as well as from a set of aversive tactile stimuli, was compared with CBF during a control condition involving familiar tactile stimuli. The results demonstrate that the right rostral orbitofrontal cortex is involved in the active encoding of novel tactile information, while a more caudal region of the orbitofrontal cortex, which is more closely connected with limbic and autonomic regions of the brain, was activated when subjects explored novel aversive tactile stimuli. These results suggest that the orbitofrontal cortex, through its connections with the limbic areas of the medial temporal lobe, influences the processing of incoming information and thus contributes to its encoding.
Although preparation of voluntary movement has been extensively studied, very few human neuroimaging studies have examined preparation of an intentional reaction to a motor perturbation. This latter type of preparation is fundamental for adaptive motor capabilities in everyday life because it allows a desired motor output to be maintained despite changes in external forces. Using fMRI, we studied how the sensorimotor cortical network is implicated in preparing to react to a mechanical motor perturbation. While maintaining a given wrist angle against a small force, subjects were instructed to prepare a reaction to a subsequent wrist angle displacement. This reaction consisted of, either resisting the imposed movement, or remaining passive. During the preparation of both reactions we found an early implication of M1 and S1 but no implication at all of the higher order motor area preSMA. This is clearly different from what has been found for voluntary movement preparation. These results show that the sensorimotor network activation during preparation of voluntary motor acts depends on whether one expects a motor perturbation to occur: when external forces can interfere with ongoing motor acts, the primary sensorimotor areas must be ready to react as quickly as possible to perturbations that could prevent the goal of the ongoing motor act from being achieved.
Distinct regions in the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) preferentially support the processing of different word-types (e.g., real words, pseudowords) and tasks (e.g., lexical decisions, phonological decisions) in visual word recognition. However, the functional connectivity underlying the task-related specialisation of regions in the left IFG is not yet well understood. In this study we investigated the neural mechanisms driving the interaction of WORD-TYPE (real word vs. pseudoword) and TASK (lexical vs. phonological decision) in Brodmann's area (BA) 45 in the left IFG using dynamic causal modelling (DCM). Four different models were compared, all of which included left BA44, left BA45, and left inferior temporal gyrus (ITG). In each model, the visual presentation of words and pseudowords is assumed to directly evoke activity in the ITG and is then thought to be subsequently propagated to BA45 and to BA44 via direct intrinsic connections. The models differed with regard to which connections were modulated by the different tasks. Both tasks were assumed to either modulate the ITG_BA45 connection (Model #1), or the BA44_BA45 connection (Model #2), or both connections in parallel (Model #3). In Model #4 lexical decisions modulated the ITG_BA45 connection, whereas phonological decisions modulated the BA44_BA45 connection. Bayesian model selection revealed a superiority of Model #1. In this model, the strength of the ITG_BA45 connection was enhanced during lexical decisions. This model is in line with the hypothesis that left BA 45 supports explicit lexical decisions during visual word recognition based on lexical access in the ITG.
Spatial Independent component analysis (sICA) has been widely used to analyze functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. The well accepted implicit assumption is the spatially statistical independency of intrinsic sources identified by sICA, making the sICA applications difficult for data in which there exist interdependent sources and confounding factors. This interdependency can arise, for instance, from fMRI studies investigating two tasks in a single session. In this study, we introduced a linear projection approach and considered its utilization as a tool to separate task-related components from two-task fMRI data. The robustness and feasibility of the method are substantiated through simulation on computer data and fMRI real rest data. Both simulated and real two-task fMRI experiments demonstrated that sICA in combination with the projection method succeeded in separating spatially dependent components and had better detection power than pure model-based method when estimating activation induced by each task as well as both tasks.
Fluid intelligence (gf) refers to abstract reasoning and problem solving abilities. It is considered a human higher cognitive factor central to general intelligence (g). The regions of the cortex supporting gf have been revealed by recent bioimaging studies and valuable hypothesis on the neural correlates of individual differences have been proposed. However, little is known about the interaction between individual variability in gf and variation in cortical activity following task complexity increase. To further investigate this, two samples of participants (high-IQ, N = 8; low-IQ, N = 10) with significant differences in gf underwent two reasoning (moderate and complex) tasks and a control task adapted from the Raven progressive matrices. Functional magnetic resonance was used and the recorded signal analyzed between and within the groups. The present study revealed two opposite patterns of neural activity variation which were probably a reflection of the overall differences in cognitive resource modulation: when complexity increased, high-IQ subjects showed a signal enhancement in some frontal and parietal regions, whereas low-IQ subjects revealed a decreased activity in the same areas. Moreover, a direct comparison between the groups' activation patterns revealed a greater neural activity in the low-IQ sample when conducting moderate task, with a strong involvement of medial and lateral frontal regions thus suggesting that the recruitment of executive functioning might be different between the groups. This study provides evidence for neural differences in facing reasoning complexity among subjects with different gf level that are mediated by specific patterns of activation of the underlying fronto-parietal network.
Extrastriate, parietal, and frontal brain regions are differentially involved in distinct kinds of body movements and motor cognition. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated the neural mechanisms underlying the observation and mental imagery of meaningful face and limb movements with or without objects. The supplementary motor area was differentially recruited by the mental imagery of movements while there were differential responses of the extrastriate body area (EBA) during the observation conditions. Contrary to most previous reports, the EBA responded to face movements, albeit to a lesser degree than to limb movements. The medial wall of the intraparietal sulcus and adjacent intraparietal cortex was selectively recruited by the processing of meaningful upper limb movements, irrespective of whether these were object-related or not. Besides reach and grasp movements, the intraparietal sulcus may thus be involved in limb gesture processing, that is, in an important aspect of human social communication. We conclude that subregions of a frontal-parietal network differentially interact during the cognitive processing of body movements according to the specific motor-related task at hand and the particular movement features involved.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become an important tool in Neuroscience due to its noninvasive and high spatial resolution properties compared to other methods like PET or EEG. Characterization of the neural connectivity has been the aim of several cognitive researches, as the interactions among cortical areas lie at the heart of many brain dysfunctions and mental disorders. Several methods like correlation analysis, structural equation modeling, and dynamic causal models have been proposed to quantify connectivity strength. An important concept related to connectivity modeling is Granger causality, which is one of the most popular definitions for the measure of directional dependence between time series. In this article, we propose the application of the partial directed coherence (PDC) for the connectivity analysis of multisubject fMRI data using multivariate bootstrap. PDC is a frequency domain counterpart of Granger causality and has become a very prominent tool in EEG studies. The achieved frequency decomposition of connectivity is useful in separating interactions from neural modules from those originating in scanner noise, breath, and heart beating. Real fMRI dataset of six subjects executing a language processing protocol was used for the analysis of connectivity.
We studied six unrelated children with depletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). They presented with Leigh syndrome, infantile hepatocerebral mtDNA depletion syndrome, or Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome. Several genes have been implicated in mtDNA depletion. Screening of candidate genes indicated that all six patients were compound heterozygous for missense mutations in the gene for the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase gamma (POLG). Three of the identified mutations, c.3328C&gt;T (p.H1110Y), c.3401A&gt;G (p.H1134R), and c.3406G&gt;A (p.E1136K), have not been reported earlier. To investigate the functional consequences of the mutations, we carried out a series of biochemical assays in cultured fibroblasts. These studies revealed that fibroblast cultures from the patients with infantile hepatocerebral mtDNA depletion syndrome progressively lost their mtDNA during culturing, whereas fibroblast cultures from patients presenting with Leigh syndrome or Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome had reduced but stable levels of mtDNA. DNA polymerase gamma activity was below the normal range in all patient cultures, except for one; however, this culture showed low levels of the heterodimeric enzyme and poor DNA polymerase gamma processivity. Parental fibroblast cultures had normal catalytic efficiency of DNA polymerase gamma, consistent with the observation that all carriers are asymptomatic. Thus, we report the first patient with Leigh syndrome caused by POLG mutations. The cell culture experiments established the pathogenicity of the identified POLG mutations and helped to define the molecular mechanisms responsible for mtDNA depletion in the patients' tissues. The assays may facilitate the identification of those patients in whom screening for POLG mutations would be most appropriate.
Auditory evoked cortical potentials (AECPs) have been consolidated as a diagnostic tool in audiology. Further applications of this technique are in experimental neuropsychology, neuroscience, and psychiatry, e.g., for the attention deficit disorder, schizophrenia, or for studying the tinnitus decompensation. In particular, numerous psychophysiological studies have emphasized their dynamic characteristics in relation to exogenous and endogenous attention. However, the effect of corticothalamic feedback dynamics to neural correlates of focal and nonfocal attention and its large-scale effect reflected in AECPs is far from being understood. To address this issue, we model neural correlates of auditory selective attention reflected in AECPs by using corticothalamic feedback dynamics. In our framework, we make use of a well-known multiscale model of evoked potentials, for which we define for the first time a neurofunctional map of relevant corticothalamic loops to the hearing path. Such loops are in turn are coupled to our proposed probabilistic scheme of auditory selective attention. It is concluded that our model represents a promising approach to gain a deeper understanding of the neurodynamics of auditory attention and might be used as an efficient forward model to support hypotheses that are obtained in experimental paradigms involving AECPs.



In the last decade information has accumulated on the potential anti-prion activity of polycyclic compounds. Initially we showed that the antitumoral idodoxorubicin reduced the infectivity in experimental scrapie. On the basis of the chemical homology with anthracyclines, we rapidly moved to tetracyclines, compounds that are safer and widely used as antibiotics in clinical practice. The tetracyclines, essentially doxycycline and minocycline, were characterized as a therapeutical tool in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) through the cell-free condition, in cellular and animal models and they are now being investigated clinically with this indication. Tetracyclines interact with aggregates obtained by synthetic PrP peptides or pathological PrP (PrPsc) extracted from TSE brains, and they destabilize the structure of amyloid fibrils, reducing their resistance to digestion by proteinase K. Tetracyclines also interact with peptide oligomeric structures and inhibit the protein misfolding associated with PrPsc formation. These activities have been accompanied by a reduction of infectivity, verified by doxycycline treatment in experimental scrapie, and some curative effects after either peripheral or intracerebral infection. The anti-amyloidogenic activity of tetracyclines was tested in other forms of peripheral and central amyloidosis, with interesting results. This article analyzes the development of tetracyclines as a therapeutic tool in TSE in the light of recent results obtained in our laboratories.
Several investigations have shown that pentoxifylline possesses broad-spectrum antiviral activity against a range of RNA and DNA viruses. However, its ability to inhibit Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) replication has not yet been studied. The present study was designed to investigate the antiviral activity of pentoxifylline against JEV in vitro and in vivo. The activity of pentoxifylline against JEV was evaluated in vitro using cytopathic effect inhibition and plaque reduction assays. Pentoxifylline was able to inhibit JEV replication in a dose-dependent manner at a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 50.3microg/mL (0.00018microM) and a therapeutic index (TI) of 10. Experiments to study the mechanism of antiviral action of pentoxifylline using in vitro translation of viral mRNA suggested that the drug did not interfere either with early or late protein synthesis but most likely exerted its action on virus assembly and/or release. Furthermore, the in vivo study showed that pentoxifylline at a concentration of 100mg/kg and 200mg/kg body weight was able to protect completely mice challenged with 50 x 50% lethal dose (LD(50)) of JEV.
Speech reception tests are commonly administered by manually scoring the oral response of the subject. This requires a test supervisor to be continuously present. To avoid this, a subject can type the response, after which it can be scored automatically. However, spelling errors may then be counted as recognition errors, influencing the test results. We demonstrate an autocorrection approach based on two scoring algorithms to cope with spelling errors. The first algorithm deals with sentences and is based on word scores. The second algorithm deals with single words and is based on phoneme scores. Both algorithms were evaluated with a corpus of typed answers based on three different Dutch speech materials. The percentage of differences between automatic and manual scoring was determined, in addition to the mean difference in speech recognition threshold. The sentence correction algorithm performed at a higher accuracy than commonly obtained with these speech materials. The word correction algorithm performed better than the human operator. Both algorithms can be used in practice and allow speech reception tests with open set speech materials over the internet.
The recent upsurge of research on adolescent rats raises the issue of the extent to which different methods of rodent procurement might affect results. Here, we examined the effects of acute and repeated dosing with two antipsychotics, haloperidol and clozapine, and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol [Experiments 1 and 2, respectively] in adolescent rats of both sexes that differed in shipping status (i.e., shipped from a commercial breeder at weaning or bred in-house). In each experiment, test drugs produced effects that were characteristic for their respective classes in previous studies with adult rodents. Both haloperidol and clozapine produced catalepsy and haloperidol decreased locomotion in shipped and bred rats of both sexes, with sensitization to haloperidol-induced catalepsy developing with repeated dosing. The most prominent between-status difference in this experiment was greater sensitivity of the shipped rats to haloperidol-induced changes in locomotor activity over a wider dose range, an effect that was especially evident in females. In Experiment 2, vehicle levels of motor activity were decreased in bred rats (which did not occur in Experiment 1), resulting in flattening of the Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol dose-effect curve for this measure in bred rats of each sex. Acutely, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol produced antinociception, hypothermia and catalepsy in both groups of rats, with tolerance developing after repeated dosing. Status-related differences were sex-dependent. Whereas bred female rats were more sensitive to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol's antinociceptive effects, shipped male rats were more sensitive to its antinociceptive effects as well as to its hypothermic and cataleptic effects. Together, the results of these descriptive experiments suggest that between-status differences tend to be quantitative rather than qualitative. Further, these results suggest that careful attention to issues related to rodent procurement during adolescence is warranted and may help to account for divergent findings in different labs.
The present study designed to investigate the development of nociceptive circuits upon formalin-induced pain in congenital hypothyroid pups during the first three postnatal weeks. Following induction of maternal hypothyroidism, the offspring pups were received right intraplantar injection of different formalin concentrations at 7, 15, and 23 days of age. Significant reduction in weight gain was observed in PTU-treated offspring from postnatal days 15 up to 23 (P&lt;0.001). No difference was observed between normal and hypothyroid PND7 pups in total pain intensity score with 0.3% solution of formalin. However, normal pups showed higher total pain score (P&lt;0.01) during the first phase of 1% formalin injection. PND15 normal pups showed a biphasic pain response with a concentration of 2% formalin injection. Obvious persistence of higher pain intensity was observed in hypothyroid pups after interphase through the 2nd phase (P2) and recovery phase (P3), (P&lt;0.001). PND23 hypothyroid rats showed slightly biphasic pattern of pain behavior with persistence of lower pain intensity during P2 (2.5% formalin, P&lt;0.05), (10% formalin, P&lt;0.001) without any further decline during P3 (P&lt;0.01, P&lt;0.001 respectively). In general, the number of flexes+shakes in hypothyroid pups was higher than normal pups in both the early and late phases of the test. Licking activity was intensively expressed only in normal pups during phase 2 at the age of 23 days. In contrast to acute pain, hypothyroidism results to pain hypersensitivity in two weeks old rats whereas weaned rats were hyposensitive to tonic nociceptive stimulation without showing the subsequent recovery phase.
The small protein otospiralin has initially been identified as an inner ear specific molecule. However, compelling evidence from high throughput sequencing projects suggested that otospiralin is likely expressed in the central nervous system. Here, we tested this hypothesis using a combination of molecular biology, immunological, and histological techniques, and found that otospiralin is expressed in numerous regions of the central nervous system in mouse. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry revealed that otospiralin is widely expressed in neuronal cell bodies and glia. Ultrastructural observations in the cerebral cortex located the small protein in close proximity to membranous organelles in perikarya, the inner face of post-synaptic neuronal membranes, and in astrocytic processes. These results are in agreement with the predicted structure of the protein which revealed a single N-terminal transmembrane helix domain followed by a C-terminus cytosolic tail. Interestingly, 2 weeks after a mechanical trauma in the cerebral cortex, otospiralin expression increased in reactive astrocytes located within the vicinity of the site of injury, but not in neurons. Collectively, our observations suggest that otospiralin is possibly involved in signaling pathways, and could play a role in repair mechanisms subsequent to an injury in the central nervous system.
In human alcoholics, the cell density is decreased in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and other brain areas. This may be due to persistent activation of cell death pathways. To address this hypothesis, we examined the status of cell death machinery in the dorsolateral PFC in alcoholics. Protein and mRNA expression levels of several key pro- and anti-apoptotic genes were compared in post-mortem samples of 14 male human alcoholics and 14 male controls. The findings do not support the hypothesis. On the contrary, they show that several components of intrinsic apoptotic pathway are decreased in alcoholics. No differences were evident in the motor cortex, which is less damaged in alcoholics and was analysed for comparison. Thus, cell death mechanisms may be dysregulated by inhibition of intrinsic apoptotic pathway in the PFC in human alcoholics. This inhibition may reflect molecular adaptations that counteract alcohol neurotoxicity in cells that survive after many years of alcohol exposure and withdrawal.
Neurons of the amygdala respond to a variety of stressors. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) receives dense norepinephrine (NE) innervation from the locus coeruleus, and stressful and conditioned stimuli cause increases in NE levels within the BLA. Furthermore, chronic stress exposure leads to sensitization of the stress response. The actions of NE in different structures involved in the stress circuit have been shown to play a role in this sensitization response. Here, we examine how chronic cold stress alters NE modulation of spontaneous and evoked activity in the BLA. In controls, NE inhibited spontaneous firing in the majority of BLA neurons, with some neurons showing excitation at lower doses and inhibition at higher doses of NE. NE also decreased the responsiveness of these neurons to electrical stimulation of the entorhinal and sensory association cortices. After chronic cold exposure, NE caused increases in spontaneous activity in a larger proportion of BLA neurons than in controls, and now produced a facilitation of responses evoked by stimulation of entorhinal and sensory association cortical inputs. These studies show that chronic cold exposure leads to an increase in the excitatory effects of NE on BLA neuronal activity, and suggest a mechanism by which organisms may display an enhancement of hormonal, autonomic, and behavioural responses to acute stressful stimuli after chronic stress exposure.
Decreased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus are implicated in the pathophysiology of major depression, although the mechanism has yet to be characterized. Epigenetic studies revealed that DNA methylation and histone modifications at the promoter of exons of the BDNF gene are the pivotal factors in the regulation of BDNF transcription. Histone acetylation regulates gene transcription through chromatin remodelling. We examined the influence of a single immobilization stress (SIS) at 2 h and 24 h afterwards on the levels of total BDNF mRNA with each exon mRNA by quantitative real-time PCR, acetylated histone at the promoters of the BDNF gene by chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by real-time PCR, and BDNF protein by ELISA in the rat hippocampus. SIS significantly decreased the levels of total BDNF mRNA with significantly reduced levels of exons I and IV mRNA followed by a significant reduction in BDNF protein 4 h after SIS. Significant decreases in the levels of acetylated histone H3, but not H4, were found at the promoters of exons I, IV, and VI. In contrast, no marked changes in the levels of either acetylated histone or BDNF mRNA and protein were found 24 h after SIS. This study demonstrated the involvement of histone acetylation in the regulation of BDNF transcription by SIS, and the plastic change in histone acetylation after SIS. These findings suggest that stress affects BDNF gene transcription via epigenetic regulation, and glucocorticoid may be involved in this regulation.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the potential role of 5-HT1A receptors in the antidepressant-like effect and antinociceptive effect of venlafaxine. With this aim, the effect of either a selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist (WAY-100635; N-2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexane carboxamide) or a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist (8-OH-DPAT; 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamine) tetralin hydrobromide) was investigated in mice in combination with venlafaxine by means of the forced swimming test, a paradigm aimed at screening potential antidepressants, and the hot-plate test, a phasic pain model. Surprisingly, the results showed that WAY-100635 produced a large decrease in the antidepressant-like effect of venlafaxine, while 8-OH-DPAT rendered effective a non-effective dose of this antidepressant. However, in the hot-plate test WAY-100635 significantly enhanced the antinociceptive effect of venlafaxine, whereas 8-OH-DPAT counteracted its antinociceptive effect. These findings show that 5-HT1A receptors play differing roles in modulating the antidepressant-like and antinociceptive effects of venlafaxine in the models investigated. The results imply that blockade of the 5-HT1A receptors in the forebrain will counteract the favourable (antidepressant-like) effect at raphe nuclei level, and consequently, the overall effect evidenced is an antagonism. This suggests a predominant role of 5-HT1A receptors located in the forebrain area for the antidepressant-like effect. In contrast, the antinociceptive effect of venlafaxine is probably potentiated due to the blockade of somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptors in the same raphe nuclei, facilitating the descending monoaminergic pain control system.
While sudden (startling) sensory stimuli are generally thought of as inducing sympathetic excitation, in humans there is a short-lasting inhibition of limb muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). This study is the first to examine and contrast the effects of acoustic startle and the prepulse inhibition of startle (PPI) on MSNA, blood pressure, heart rate, and eye blinks. Startle elicited a two-component withdrawal of MSNA: an early inhibition of one sympathetic burst followed by a second inhibition. PPI abolished the early, but not the late MSNA inhibition. Prepulse stimuli alone had no early inhibitory effects on MSNA. Early MSNA inhibition, which may occur at latencies of approximately 100 ms, appears to be part of a CNS-generated startle reflex which subserves automatic defensive responses to potential threats. The late MSNA inhibition coincided with the stimulus-induced blood pressure increase and is probably an inhibitory reflex response.



High pressure, which induces central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction (high-pressure neurological syndrome) depresses synaptic transmission at all synapses examined to date. Several lines of evidence indicate an inhibitory effect of pressure on Ca(2+) entry into the presynaptic terminal. In the present work we studied for the first time the effect of pressure on the cerebellar climbing fiber (CF) synaptic responses. Pressure modulation of cerebellar synaptic plasticity was tested in both the CF and parallel fiber (PF) pathways using paired-pulse protocols. CF synapses, which normally operate at a high baseline release probability, demonstrate paired-pulse depression (PPD). High pressure reduced CF synaptic responses at 5.1 and 10.1 MPa but did not affect its PPD. High extracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](o)) could not antagonize the effect of pressure on the CF response, whereas low [Ca(2+)](o), in contrast to pressure, decreased both the response amplitude and the observed PPD. PF synapses, which usually operate at low release probability, exhibit paired-pulse facilitation (PPF). Pressure increased PF PPF at all interstimulus intervals (ISIs) tested (20-200 ms). Several Ca(2+) channel blockers as well as low [Ca(2+)](o) could mimic the effect of pressure on the PF response but significantly increased the PPF only at the 20-ms ISI. These results, together with previous data, show that the CF synapse is relatively resistant to pressure. The lack of pressure effect on CF PPD is surprising and may suggest that the PPD is not directly linked to synaptic depletion, as generally suggested. The increase in PPF of the PF at pressure, which is mimicked by Ca(2+) channel blockers or low [Ca(2+)](o), further supports pressure involvement in synaptic release mechanism(s). These results also indicate that pressure effects may be selective for various types of synapses in the CNS.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of neurodevelopmental disorders with a strong genetic etiology. Cytogenetic abnormalities have been detected in 5-10% of the patients with autism. In this study, we present the clinical, cytogenetic and array-comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH) evaluation of a 13-year-old male with severe developmental delay, facial dysmorphic features, autism and self mutilation. The patient was found to carry a de novo duplication of chromosome region 8p21 of minimally 6.14 and maximally 6.58 Mb as ascertained by bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based array-CGH. Hitherto, only a few patients with autism with cytogenetically visible duplications involving the chromosome 8p21 region have been described, but the extent of these duplications has not been determined at the molecular level. This represents the smallest rearrangement of chromosomal region 8p21 as yet found in a patient with autism. For 11 of the 36 genes with known functions located within this duplication clear transcription in the brain was found. Of those the STMN4 and DPYSL2 genes are the most likely candidate genes to be involved in neuronal development, and, if altered in gene-dosage, in the autistic phenotype of our patient.

Induction of the heat shock response (HSR), determined by hsp70-luciferase reporter and HSP70 protein expression, is attenuated as a function of age of the IMR-90 human diploid fibroblasts. To better understand the underlying mechanism, we evaluated changes in the regulation and function of the HSF1 transcription factor. We show that the activation of HSF1 both in vivo and in vitro was decreased as a function of age, and this was attributable to a change in the regulation of HSF1 as the abundance of HSF1 protein and mRNA was unaffected. HSF1 was primarily cytosolic in young cells maintained at 37 degrees C, and heat shock promoted its quantitative nuclear translocation and trimerization. In old cells, some HSF1 was nuclear sequestered at 37 degrees C, and heat shock failed to promote the quantitative trimerization of HSF1. These changes in HSF1 could be reproduced by treating young cells with H2O2 to stunt them into premature senescence. Flow cytometry measurement of peroxide content showed higher levels in old cells and H2O2-induced premature senescent cells as compared to young cells. Experiments using isoelectric focusing and Western blot showed age-dependent changes in the mobility of HSF1 in a pattern consistent with its S-glutathiolation and S-nitrosylation; these changes could be mimicked by treating young cells with H2O2. Our results demonstrated dynamic age-dependent changes in the regulation but not the amount of HSF1. These changes are likely mediated by oxidative events that promote reversible and irreversible modification of HSF1 including S-glutathiolation and S-nitrosylation.
Substrate rigidity plays crucial roles in regulating cellular functions, such as cell spreading, traction forces, and stem cell differentiation. However, it is not clear how substrate rigidity influences early cell signaling events such as calcium in living cells. Using highly sensitive Ca(2+) biosensors based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), we investigated the molecular mechanism by which substrate rigidity affects calcium signaling in human mesenchymal stem cells (HMSCs). Spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations were observed inside the cytoplasm and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) using the FRET biosensors targeted at subcellular locations in cells plated on rigid dishes. Lowering the substrate stiffness to 1 kPa significantly inhibited both the magnitudes and frequencies of the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) oscillation in comparison to stiffer or rigid substrate. This Ca(2+) oscillation was shown to be dependent on ROCK, a downstream effector molecule of RhoA, but independent of actin filaments, microtubules, myosin light chain kinase, or myosin activity. Lysophosphatidic acid, which activates RhoA, also inhibited the frequency of the Ca(2+) oscillation. Consistently, either a constitutive active mutant of RhoA (RhoA-V14) or a dominant negative mutant of RhoA (RhoA-N19) inhibited the Ca(2+) oscillation. Further experiments revealed that HMSCs cultured on gels with low elastic moduli displayed low RhoA activities. Therefore, our results demonstrate that RhoA and its downstream molecule ROCK may mediate the substrate rigidity-regulated Ca(2+) oscillation, which determines the physiological functions of HMSCs.
Regenerative responses after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) were investigated in the immature (P9) and juvenile (P21) mouse striatum and cortex by postischemic 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine labeling and phenotyping of labeled cells 4 weeks later. HI stimulated the formation of new cells in striatum and cortex in immature, growing brains (P9), but when brain growth was finished (P21) proliferation could be stimulated only in striatum, not in cortex. However, the relative increase was higher in P21 (460%) than P9 striatum (50%), though starting from a lower level at P21. Starting from this lower level, HI-induced proliferation in P21 striatum reached the same level as in P9 striatum, but not higher. Phenotyping revealed that low levels of neurogenesis were still present in nonischemic P9 cortex and striatum, but only in striatum at P21. Ischemia-induced neurogenesis was found only in P9 striatum. Ischemia-induced gliogenesis occurred in P9 and P21 striatum as well as P9 cortex, but not in P21 cortex. Hence, the regenerative response was stronger in striatum than cortex, and stronger in P9 than P21 cortex. The biggest ischemia-induced change was the 49-fold increase in P21 striatal microglia, and this was accompanied by increased inflammation, as judged by the size and numbers of CCL2- and interleukin-18-positive cells.
The way in which sex hormones influence cognitive and affective brain development is poorly understood. Despite increasing knowledge in the area of pediatric mood disorders, little is known about the influence of sex hormones on the regulation of emotion. Animal studies and preliminary human studies suggest a strong impact of testosterone on limbic structures such as the hippocampus and amygdala. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine emotional processing in familial male-precocious puberty (FMPP), an extremely rare gonadotropin-independent form of precocious puberty characterized by early excess testosterone secretion. We compared this group (n = 7, mean age = 13 +/- 3.3 years) to healthy age and sex-matched controls (n = 14, mean age = 13 +/- 2.3 years). Participants were presented with emotional and neutral face stimuli and were required either to judge the hostility of the presented face, their subjective level of anxiety, or the width of the nose of the presented faces (nonemotional condition). In a fourth, passive viewing condition, no responses were required. Boys with FMPP responded faster to fearful faces during perception of threat compared to unaffected controls. Concurrently, fMRI data revealed significant differences in hippocampus activation in response to fearful faces relative to baseline whereas controls showed no differences. In contrast, no significant activation of the amygdala was found. These data are consistent with previous studies of the effects of sex hormones on brain function and support the role of testosterone on emotional development.

In China, HIV shifts the lifestyle of not only parents living with HIV/AIDS, but also their children, partners, and extended families. We examined factors related to the quality of life of parents living with HIV and the relation between family functioning and individual quality of life. Interviews were conducted with a total of 116 parents living with HIV/AIDS. Analyses of variance, Pearson correlations, and multiple regression analyses were performed to examine the relation between family functioning and quality of life. We found a significant association between family functioning and individual quality of life for parents living with HIV. In particular, family sociability had a strong relationship with the quality of life of parents living with HIV. Parents living with HIV from families where both parents are HIV-positive reported a lower level of family sociability than those from families with only one HIV-positive parent. HIV disclosure, family sociability, and number of children per family were found to be significant predictors of overall quality of life for the population. Study findings underscore the importance of developing interventions that improve family functioning for people living with HIV/AIDS in China.
Cytomegalovirus lumbosacral polyradiculopathy is a well-documented complication of human immunodeficiency virus in adults who have a CD4 count of less than 40/microL. Patients present with an acute ascending flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs with areflexia, paresthesia, and urinary and bowel symptoms. However, it appears to be rare in children with congenitally acquired immune deficiency syndrome. We report a 9-year-old child with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection who presented with cytomegalovirus polyradiculopathy and made an excellent response to cytomegalovirus treatment.
Two of the most successful and widely used tests developed by Arthur Benton and colleagues are the Facial Recognition Test (FRT) and Judgment of Line Orientation Test (JLO), which probe visuoperceptual and visuospatial functions typically associated with right hemisphere structures, especially parietal, occipitoparietal, and occipitotemporal structures. Taking advantage of a large database of focal lesion patients (the Iowa Neurological Patient Registry), we used a new lesion-deficit mapping technique to investigate the neuroanatomical correlates of FRT and JLO performance. For the FRT, there were 201 patients with relevant data; of these, 38 were impaired on the FRT, and failure was most strongly associated with lesions in the right posterior-inferior parietal and right ventral occipitotemporal (fusiform gyrus) areas. For the JLO, there were 181 patients with relevant data; of these, 23 were impaired on the JLO, and failure was most strongly associated with lesions in the right posterior parietal region. These findings put new empirical teeth in the localizing value of the FRT and JLO tests, and they extend and sharpen previous work that had pointed to right posterior structures as being important for FRT and JLO performance
The association between poorly controlled diabetes and higher risk of polyneuropathy is well established. The American Diabetes Association recommends that glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) should be less than 7%. Most previous studies, which reported HbA1c correlation with polyneuropathy, used higher HbA1c cut points and focused on neurologically symptomatic patients. This study evaluated the correlation of HbA1c levels, using the 7% cut point, with abnormal nerve conduction studies in diabetic patients in the subclinical stage of polyneuropathy. Fifty neurologically asymptomatic diabetic patients were included. HbA1c was measured at time of inclusion and 3 months later followed by nerve conduction studies. Univariate and multivariate analyses with logistic regression models were used to study the association of different patient characteristics with abnormal nerve conduction studies. Fifteen women and 35 men were studied. Half of patients had elevated HbA1c and half had HbA1c &lt;7%. Twenty-six patients (52%) had subclinical neuropathy (18 men, 8 women). In multivariate analysis, HbA1c was the most important factor predicting higher risk of subclinical neuropathy [adjusted odds ratio 10.71 (2.49, 46.01), P &lt; 0.005]. Therefore, nerve conduction studies abnormalities commonly exist in diabetic patients in the subclinical stages of polyneuropathy, and are highly correlated to HbA1c levels. Therapies for diabetic neuropathy should target the early stages of the disease.
We aimed to use array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) to identify chromosomal loci that contribute to the pathogenesis of ruptured intracranial aneurysms (IAs) in a Korean population and to confirm the results using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Twenty-three patients with ruptured IAs were enrolled in this study. Array CGH revealed copy number aberrations in 19 chromosomal regions. Chromosomal gains were identified at a high frequency in regions 1p12, 4q24, 5p15.31, 5p15.33, 6p12.2, 6q22.33, 7p21.1, 9q22.1, 10q24.32, 10q26.3, 12q13.13, 17p12, 18q12.3, 18q23, 19p13.3, 20q13.33, 21q11.2, and 21q22.3, whereas chromosomal losses were identified at 15q11.2 and 22q11.21. Real-time PCR confirmed the results of the array CGH studies of the COL6A2, GRIN3B, MUC17, and PRODH genes. This is the first study to identify candidate regions by array CGH in patients with IAs. The identification of genes that may predispose an individual to the development of IAs may lead to a better understanding of the mechanism of IA formation. Multicenter studies comparing cohorts of patients of different ethnicities are needed to better understand the mechanism of IA formation.
Akinetic crisis (AC) is a much-feared complication of Parkinson's disease (PD) which may appear upon abrupt cessation or malabsorption of dopaminergic medication due to gastrointestinal tract disorders or acute surgery. Intravenous infusion of amantadine sulphate or subcutaneous administration of apomorphine are established treatment strategies for AC. We speculate whether the use of a non-invasive transdermal application form (patch) of a dopaminergic drug (rotigotine) may represent a useful alternative treatment option. We describe the successful treatment of severe AC using rotigotine in a PD patient with gastro-oesophageal ulcers which precluded administration of any oral medication. This case demonstrates that a rotigotine patch might be effective in the treatment of AC. We suggest that rotigotine may represent a useful treatment option due to its favourable receptor profile and unique application form. In particular, it may be helpful in situations that might provoke AC, such as acute surgery. However, experience of the use of the rotigotine patch in this clinical setting is rather sparse and the patch is currently not approved for this indication.

Evidence-based psychiatry seeks the best research evidence for use in patient care. Recent research suggests that problems with accuracy, precision, bias, and other sources of unreliability potentially interfere with the validity of psychiatry's evidence base. Because many negative clinical research studies go unpublished, awareness and fuller understanding of these problems are blocked by lack of access to relevant data. Based on the importance of scientific soundness of neuropsychiatric research and patient care, we argue for increased attentiveness by investigators and practitioners to how clinical trials (CTs) interdependently estimate the efficacy of treatments and the effectiveness of methods as fair tests of efficacy. Deference by CT investigators to real-world practice conditions at research sites because of the unreliability introduced into data by these practices does not ensure unbiased evaluations of treatment efficacy. We argue for more systematic attention to sources of unreliability in CT investigations and increased commitments to assure the validity of the neuropsychiatric evidence base. These recommendations aim to determine neuropsychiatric drug efficacy with greater certainty to better quantify the clinical importance of drug-associated effects and to provide CT-evidenced guidance for practitioners to most effectively use drug efficacy in patient care.
Neuropsychological and functional imaging studies have suggested a general right hemisphere advantage for processing global visual information and a left hemisphere advantage for processing local information. In contrast, a recent transcranial magnetic stimulation study [Mevorach, C., Humphreys, G. W., &amp; Shalev, L. Opposite biases in salience-based selection for the left and right posterior parietal cortex. Nature Neuroscience, 9, 740-742, 2006b] demonstrated that functional lateralization of selection in the parietal cortices on the basis of the relative salience of stimuli might provide an alternative explanation for previous results. In the present study, we applied a whole-brain analysis of the functional magnetic resonance signal when participants responded to either the local or the global levels of hierarchical figures. The task (respond to local or global) was crossed with the saliency of the target level (local salient, global salient) to provide, for the first time, a direct contrast between brain activation related to the stimulus level and that related to relative saliency. We found evidence for lateralization of salience-based selection but not for selection based on the level of processing. Activation along the left intraparietal sulcus (IPS) was found when a low saliency stimulus had to be selected irrespective of its level. A control task showed that this was not simply an effect of task difficulty. The data suggest a specific role for regions along the left IPS in salience-based selection, supporting the argument that previous reports of lateralized responses to local and global stimuli were contaminated by effects of saliency.
The possible impact upon human visual cortex from saccades to remembered target locations was investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A specific location in the upper-right or upper-left visual quadrant served as the saccadic target. After a delay of 2,400 msec, an auditory signal indicated whether to execute a saccade to that location (go trial) or to cancel the saccade and remain centrally fixated (no-go). Group fMRI analysis revealed activation specific to the remembered target location for executed saccades, in the contralateral lingual gyrus. No-go trials produced similar, albeit significantly reduced, effects. Individual retinotopic mapping confirmed that on go trials, quadrant-specific activations arose in those parts of ventral V1, V2, and V3 that coded the target location for the saccade, whereas on no-go trials, only the corresponding parts of V2 and V3 were significantly activated. These results indicate that a spatial-motor saccadic task (i.e., making an eye movement to a remembered location) is sufficient to activate retinotopic visual cortex spatially corresponding to the target location, and that this activation is also present (though reduced) when no saccade is executed. We discuss the implications of finding that saccades to remembered locations can affect early visual cortex, not just those structures conventionally associated with eye movements, in relation to recent ideas about attention, spatial working memory, and the notion that recently activated representations can be &quot;refreshed&quot; when needed.
Down syndrome (DS) is a neurological disorder causing impaired learning and memory. Partial trisomy 16 mice (Ts65Dn) are a genetic model for DS. Previously, we demonstrated widespread alterations of pre- and postsynaptic elements and physiological abnormalities in Ts65Dn mice. The average diameter of presynaptic boutons and spines in the neocortex and hippocampus was enlarged. Failed induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) due to excessive inhibition was observed. In this paper we investigate the morphological substrate for excessive inhibition in Ts65Dn. We used electron microscopy (EM) to characterize synapses, confocal microscopy to analyze colocalization of the general marker for synaptic vesicle protein with specific protein markers for inhibitory and excitatory synapses, and densitometry to characterize the distribution of the receptor and several proteins essential for synaptic clustering of neurotransmitter receptors. EM analysis of synapses in the Ts65Dn vs. 2N showed that synaptic opposition lengths were significantly greater for symmetric synapses (approximately 18%), but not for asymmetric ones. Overall, a significant increase in colocalization coefficients of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)65/p38 immunoreactivity (IR) (approximately 27%) and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT)/p38 IR (approximately 41%) was found, but not in vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1)/p38 IR. A significant overall decrease of IR in the hippocampus of Ts65Dn mice compared with 2N mice for glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2; approximately 13%) and anti-gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor beta2/3 subunit (approximately 20%) was also found. The study of proteins essential for synaptic clustering of receptors revealed a significant increase in puncta size for neuroligin 2 (approximately 13%) and GABA(A) receptor-associated protein (GABARAP; approximately 13%), but not for neuroligin 1 and gephyrin. The results demonstrate a significant alteration of inhibitory synapses in the fascia dentata of Ts65Dn mice.
The ascending projections to the lateral lemniscal nuclei and the inferior colliculus were investigated in the albino rat by using Fluoro-Gold, either alone or in combination with other retrograde tract tracers. Injections were made into the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC), the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL), the intermediate nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (INLL), or the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL). The ICC receives both ipsilateral and contralateral projections from the DNLL and the lateral superior olive, major ipsilateral projections from the INLL, VNLL, medial superior olive, and superior paraolivary nucleus, and major contralateral projections from both dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus. The DNLL receives a similar pattern of projections from the auditory lower brainstem nuclei. The INLL, in contrast, receives its major projections from the ipsilateral VNLL, lateral superior olive, medial superior olive, superior paraolivary nucleus, and medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, but does not receive a heavy projection from the contralateral lateral superior olive. It receives a major contralateral projection from the ventral cochlear nucleus, but a much lighter projection from the contralateral dorsal cochlear nucleus. The VNLL receives projections from the ipsilateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body and the contralateral ventral cochlear nucleus, but does not receive projections from the medial or lateral superior olives, the superior paraolivary nucleus, or the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Thus, the three primary subdivisions of the rat's lateral lemniscus can be distinguished from each other on the basis of their distinctive projection patterns.
Parametric and non-parametric modeling methods are combined to study the short-term plasticity (STP) of synapses in the central nervous system (CNS). The nonlinear dynamics of STP are modeled by means: (1) previously proposed parametric models based on mechanistic hypotheses and/or specific dynamical processes, and (2) non-parametric models (in the form of Volterra kernels) that transforms the presynaptic signals into postsynaptic signals. In order to synergistically use the two approaches, we estimate the Volterra kernels of the parametric models of STP for four types of synapses using synthetic broadband input-output data. Results show that the non-parametric models accurately and efficiently replicate the input-output transformations of the parametric models. Volterra kernels provide a general and quantitative representation of the STP.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a key regulator of the mammalian stress response, mediating a wide variety of stress-associated behaviors including stress-induced inhibition of reproductive function. To investigate the potential direct action of CRH on pituitary gonadotrope function, we examined CRH receptor expression and second messenger signaling in alpha T3-1 cells, a murine gonadotrope-like cell line. Reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) studies demonstrated that alpha T3-1 cells express mRNA for the two CRH receptor subtypes, CRHR1 and CRHR2, with CRHR2alpha as the predominant CRHR2 isoform. Stimulation of the cells with CRH or urocortin (UCN) resulted in rapid, transient increases in the intracellular levels of cAMP that were completely blocked by the addition of alpha-helical CRH 9-41 or astressin, non-selective CRH receptor antagonists. Stimulation of the cells with CRHR2-specific ligands, urocortin 2 (UCN2) or urocortin 3 (UCN3), resulted in rapid increases in intracellular cAMP levels to 50-60% of the levels observed with UCN. Treatment with a selective CRHR2 antagonist, antisauvagine, completely blocked UCN3-mediated increases in cAMP and significantly reduced, but did not completely block UCN-mediated increases in cAMP, demonstrating that both CRHR1 and CRHR2 are functionally active in these gonadotrope-like cells. Finally, UCN treatment significantly increased the transcriptional activity of the glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit promoter as assessed by alpha-luciferase transfection assays. Together, these results demonstrate the functional signaling of CRH receptors in alpha T3-1 cells, suggesting that CRH may also modulate pituitary gonadotrope function in vivo.
In studies of sexual selection, larger size is often argued to increase male fitness, and relatively smaller males are explained by genetic and/or environmental variation. We demonstrate that a size-development life-history trade-off could underlie the maintenance of a broad, unimodal distribution of size in male redback spiders (Latrodectus hasselti). Larger males are superior in direct competition, but redback males mature rapidly at small size in the presence of females. In field enclosures, we simulated two competitive contexts favouring development of divergent male sizes. Relatively smaller males lost when competing directly, but had 10 times higher fitness than relatively larger males when given the temporal advantage of rapid development. Linear selection gradients confirmed the reversal of selection on size, showing that it is critical to consider life-history decisions underlying the development of traits related to fitness.
The large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (BK(Ca)) channel of smooth muscle is unusually sensitive to Ca(2+) as compared with the BK(Ca) channels of brain and skeletal muscle. This is due to the tissue-specific expression of the BK(Ca) auxiliary subunit beta1, whose presence dramatically increases both the potency and efficacy of Ca(2+) in promoting channel opening. beta1 contains no Ca(2+) binding sites of its own, and thus the mechanism by which it increases the BK(Ca) channel's Ca(2+) sensitivity has been of some interest. Previously, we demonstrated that beta1 stabilizes voltage sensor activation, such that activation occurs at more negative voltages with beta1 present. This decreases the work that Ca(2+) must do to open the channel and thereby increases the channel's apparent Ca(2+) affinity without altering the real affinities of the channel's Ca(2+) binding sites. To explain the full effect of beta1 on the channel's Ca(2+) sensitivity, however, we also proposed that there must be effects of beta1 on Ca(2+) binding. Here, to test this hypothesis, we have used high-resolution Ca(2+) dose-response curves together with binding site-specific mutations to measure the effects of beta1 on Ca(2+) binding. We find that coexpression of beta1 alters Ca(2+) binding at both of the BK(Ca) channel's two types of high-affinity Ca(2+) binding sites, primarily increasing the affinity of the RCK1 sites when the channel is open and decreasing the affinity of the Ca(2+) bowl sites when the channel is closed. Both of these modifications increase the difference in affinity between open and closed, such that Ca(2+) binding at either site has a larger effect on channel opening when beta1 is present.
Parkinson's disease (PD) primarily affects older adults, who manage their symptoms with complex medicine regimens. This mixed-methods study evaluated the usefulness and usability of follow-up telehealth medication counseling with a sample of community-based PD patients. Patients taking three or more medications for Parkinson's disease were randomly assigned to the teaching modalities of videophone or telephone. A self-care standardized medication educational session lasting 20 to 30 minutes was conducted, and patient and nurse usefulness of the intervention was evaluated by responses to a 15-question Likert scale and elicited comments. Patients' satisfaction with the intervention involved patterns of time, education, and technology. Videophone users were more satisfied with the equipment and counseling. Videophones were considered easy access to supportive, expert neuroscience nurses. Overall, videophone counseling sessions were significantly more useful than the telephone sessions (t[34] = 0.896, p = 0.004, 95% confidence interval = 1.90 to 3.12). Nurses found visualization via videophone significantly more useful for medication and self-management interactions.
The purpose of this review was to provide a critical evaluation of medical literature on so-called &quot;cardiac cephalgia&quot; or &quot;cardiac cephalalgia&quot;. The 2004 International Classification of Headache Disorders codes cardiac cephalgia to 10.6 in the group of secondary headaches attributed to disorder of homoeostasis. This headache is hardly recognizable and is associated to an ischaemic cardiovascular event, of which it may be the only manifestation in 27% of cases. It usually occurs after exertion. Sometimes routine examinations, cardiac enzymes, ECG and even exercise stress test prove negative. In such cases, only a coronary angiogram can provide sufficient evidence for diagnosis. Cardiac cephalgia manifests itself without a specific pattern of clinical features: indeed, in this headache subtype there is a high variability of clinical manifestations between different patients and also within the same patient. It &quot;mimics&quot; sometimes a form of migraine either accompanied or not by autonomic symptoms, sometimes a form of tension-type headache; on other occasions, it exhibits characteristics that can hardly be interpreted as typical of primary headache. Pain location is highly variable. When the headache occurs as the only manifestation of an acute coronary event, the clues for suspicion are a) older age at onset, b) no past medical history of headache, c) presence of risk factors for vascular disorders and d) onset of headache under stress. Knowledge of cardiac cephalgia is scarce, due to its rare clinical occurrence and to the scant importance given to headache as a symptom concomitantly with an ischaemic cardiac event.
We have investigated the cerebral activation centre in four patients with episodic cluster headache (CH) with functional magnetic resonance imaging (f-MRI). The patients underwent MRI scans for anatomical and functional data acquisition in the asymptomatic state, during a headache attack and after subcutaneous administration of sumatriptan. Anatomical images were acquired by means of 3D-MPRAGE sequences and f-MRI images were obtained by means of echo-planar imaging. Data was analysed using the BrainVoyager QX version 1.7.81 software package. In all patients, the data showed significant hypothalamic activation of the hypothalamus ipsilateral to the pain side, attributable to a headache attack. Overall, we have demonstrated the anatomical location of central nervous system activation by means the first f-MRI study in CH patients. f-MRI offers a good balance of spatial and temporal resolution, and this method of study appears appropriate for investigating the pathogenetic aspects of primary headaches. Positron emission tomography and f-MRI may be regarded as little or no importance in a clinical context, they do, however, offer great potential for the exploration of headache physiopathology and the effects of pharmacological treatment.
The importance of lowering blood pressure (BP) in hypertensive subjects is well known but the relationship between hypertension and cognitive function is controversial. This article reviews the role of hypertension in the aetiology of cognitive impairment and the relationships between BP, cerebral perfusion and cognition. It also summarizes findings of studies addressing the effect of antihypertensive therapy and cognition. An electronic database search of MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library and extensive manual searching of articles were conducted to identify studies that have used objective measurements of BP and neuropsychological tests to investigate the relationship among hypertension, cognitive function and/or antihypertensive treatment. In total, 28 cross-sectional studies, 22 longitudinal studies and 8 randomized placebo-controlled trials met the inclusion criteria. Cross-sectional studies showed mixed relationships between higher BP and cognition, with many studies showing no correlation or even J- or U-shaped associations. The majority of longitudinal studies demonstrated elevated BP to be associated with cognitive decline. Randomized studies demonstrated heterogeneous and, sometimes conflicting, effects of BP lowering on cognitive function. Suggested reasons for this heterogeneity include multiple mechanisms by which hypertension affects the brain, the variety of cognitive instruments used for assessment and differences in antihypertensive treatments. Although lowering the BP is beneficial in most patients with vascular risk factors, the effects of BP reduction on cognition remain unclear. Given the predicted upswing in people with cognitive impairments, the time is right for randomized clinical trials with specific cognitive end points to examine the relationship between cognitive function and hypertension and guide practice.
Gertrude Stein is an icon of American literature whose scientific and medical background has become shrouded in obscurity. As an undergraduate at Radcliffe she was strongly influenced by William James and published two papers on motor automatism in the Psychological Review. As a medical student at Johns Hopkins University, her research on the nucleus of Darkschewitsch was quoted in Lewellys F Barker's acclaimed textbook on neuroanatomy; Stein's first book appearance. The background of the Russian neurologist Liverji O Darkschewitsch, little known in the West, is explored particularly in regard to his relationship and collaboration with Sigmund Freud whose letters provide considerable insight. Gertrude Stein failed to graduate with her class of 1901 at Johns Hopkins and soon after departed for an expatriate life in Europe devoted to art and literature.
Transferrin receptors (TfR) are overexpressed in brain tumors, but the pathological relevance has not been fully explored. Here, we show that TfR is an important downstream effector of ets transcription factors that promotes glioma proliferation and increases glioma-evoked neuronal death. TfR mediates iron accumulation and reactive oxygen formation and thereby enhanced proliferation in clonal human glioma lines, as shown by the following experiments: (1) downregulating TfR expression reduced proliferation in vitro and in vivo; (2) forced TfR expression in low-grade glioma accelerated proliferation to the level of high-grade glioma; (3) iron and oxidant chelators attenuated tumor proliferation in vitro and tumor size in vivo. TfR-induced oxidant accumulation modified cellular signaling by inactivating a protein tyrosine phosphatase (low-molecular-weight protein tyrosine phosphatase), activating mitogen-activated protein kinase and Akt and by inactivating p21/cdkn1a and pRB. Inactivation of these cell cycle regulators facilitated S-phase entry. Besides its effect on proliferation, TfR also boosted glutamate release, which caused N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor-mediated reduction of neuron cell mass. Our results indicate that TfR promotes glioma progression by two mechanisms, an increase in proliferation rate and glutamate production, the latter mechanism providing space for the progressing tumor mass.
In a brain-computer interface (BCI) utilizing a process control strategy, the signal from the cortex is used to control the fine motor details normally handled by other parts of the brain. In a BCI utilizing a goal selection strategy, the signal from the cortex is used to determine the overall end goal of the user, and the BCI controls the fine motor details. A BCI based on goal selection may be an easier and more natural system than one based on process control. Although goal selection in theory may surpass process control, the two have never been directly compared, as we are reporting here. Eight young healthy human subjects participated in the present study, three trained and five nave in BCI usage. Scalp-recorded electroencephalograms (EEG) were used to control a computer cursor during five different paradigms. The paradigms were similar in their underlying signal processing and used the same control signal. However, three were based on goal selection, and two on process control. For both the trained and nave populations, goal selection had more hits per run, was faster, more accurate (for seven out of eight subjects) and had a higher information transfer rate than process control. Goal selection outperformed process control in every measure studied in the present investigation.
We show that the dynamical multistability of a network of bursting subthalamic neurons, caused by synaptic plasticity has a strong impact on the stimulus-response properties when exposed to weak and short desynchronizing stimuli. Intriguingly, such stimuli can reliably shift the network from a stable state with pathological synchrony and connectivity to a stable desynchronized state with down-regulated connectivity. However, unlike in the case of stronger coordinated reset stimulation, after termination of weaker stimulation the network may undergo a transient rebound of synchrony. When the coordinated reset stimulation is even weaker and/or shorter, so that a single stimulation epoch is not effective, the network dynamics and connectivity can still be reshaped in a cumulative manner by repetitive stimulation delivery.
Huntington's disease is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder caused by an aberrant polyglutamine expansion in the amino terminus of the huntingtin protein. The resultant mutant huntingtin form aggregates in neurons and causes neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in many ways including transcriptional dysregulation. Here, we report that the expression of mutant huntingtin in the mouse neuroblastoma cell results in massive transcriptional induction of several chemokines including monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and murine chemokine (KC). The mutant huntingtin expressing cells also exhibit proteasomal dysfunction and down-regulation of NF-kappaB activity in a time-dependent manner and both these phenomena regulate the expression of MCP-1 and KC. The expression of MCP-1 and KC are increased in the mutant huntingtin expressing cells in response to mild proteasome inhibition. However, the expression of MCP-1 and KC and proteasome activity are not altered and inflammation is rarely observed in the brain of 12-week-old Huntington's disease transgenic mice in comparison with their age-matched controls. Our result suggests that the mutant huntingtin-induced proteasomal dysfunction can up-regulate the expression of MCP-1 and KC in the neuronal cells and therefore might trigger the inflammation process.
In the dopamine-depleted striatum, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling is implicated in the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. To gain insights on its role in this disorder, we examined the effects of L-DOPA on the state of phosphorylation of ERK and downstream target proteins in striatopallidal and striatonigral medium spiny neurons (MSNs). For this purpose, we employed mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the promoters for the dopamine D(2) receptor (Drd2-EGFP mice) or the dopamine D(1) receptor (Drd1a-EGFP mice), which are expressed in striatopallidal and striatonigral MSNs, respectively. In 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned Drd2-EGFP mice, L-DOPA increased the phosphorylation of ERK, mitogen- and stress-activated kinase 1 and histone H3, selectively in EGFP-negative MSNs. Conversely, a complete co-localization between EGFP and these phosphoproteins was observed in Drd1a-EGFP mice. The effect of L-DOPA was prevented by blockade of dopamine D(1) receptors. The same pattern of activation of ERK signaling was observed in dyskinetic mice, after repeated administration of L-DOPA. Our results demonstrate that in the dopamine-depleted striatum, L-DOPA activates ERK signaling specifically in striatonigral MSNs. This regulation may result in ERK-dependent changes in striatal plasticity leading to dyskinesia.
Neuromodulation is a fundamental process in the brain that regulates synaptic transmission, neuronal network activity and behavior. Emerging evidence demonstrates that astrocytes, a major population of glial cells in the brain, play previously unrecognized functions in neuronal modulation. Astrocytes can detect the level of neuronal activity and release chemical transmitters to influence neuronal function. For example, recent findings show that astrocytes play crucial roles in the control of Hebbian plasticity, the regulation of neuronal excitability and the induction of homeostatic plasticity. This review discusses the importance of astrocyte-to-neuron signaling in different aspects of neuronal function from the activity of single synapses to that of neuronal networks.
A point mutation (P56S) in the vapb gene encoding an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-integrated membrane protein [vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB)] causes autosomal-dominant amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In our earlier study, we showed that VAPB may be involved in the IRE1/XBP1 signaling of the unfolded protein response, an ER reaction to inhibit accumulation of unfolded/ misfolded proteins, while P56S-VAPB formed insoluble aggregates and lost the ability to mediate the pathway (lossof- function), and suggested that P56S-VAPB promoted the aggregation of co-expressed wild-type (wt)-VAPB. In this study, a yeast inositol-auxotrophy assay has confirmed that P56S-VAPB is functionally a null mutant in vivo. The interaction between P56S-VAPB and wt-VAPB takes place with a high affinity through the major sperm protein domain in addition to the interaction through the C-terminal transmembrane domain. Consequently, wt-VAPB is speculated to preferentially interact with co-expressed P56S-VAPB, leading to the recruitment of wt-VAPB into cytosolic aggregates and the attenuation of its normal function. We have also found that expression of P56S-VAPB increases the vulnerability of NSC34 motoneuronal cells to ER stress-induced death. These results lead us to hypothesize that the total loss of VAPB function in unfolded protein response, induced by one P56S mutant allele, may contribute to the development of P56SVAPB- induced amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1, EC 1.15.1.1) cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; with aggregated forms of mutant protein accumulating in spinal cord tissues of transgenic mouse models and human patients. Mice over-expressing wild-type human SOD1 (WT hSOD1) do not develop amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-like disease, but co-expression of WT enzyme at high levels with mutant SOD1 accelerates the onset of motor neuron disease compared with mice expressing mutant hSOD1 alone. Spinal cords of mice expressing both proteins contain aggregated forms of mutant protein and, in some cases, evidence of co-aggregation of WT hSOD1 enzyme. In the present study, we used a cell culture model of mutant SOD1 aggregation to examine how the presence of WT SOD1 affects mutant protein aggregation, finding that co-expression of WT SOD1, hSOD1 or mouse SOD1, delayed the formation of mutant hSOD1 aggregates; in essence appearing to slow the aggregation rate. In some combinations of WT and mutant hSOD1 co-expression, the aggregates that did eventually form appeared to contain WT hSOD1 protein. However, WT mouse SOD1 did not co-aggregate with mutant hSOD1 despite displaying a similar ability to slow mutant hSOD1 aggregation. Together, these studies indicate that WT SOD1 (human or mouse), when expressed at levels equivalent to the mutant protein, modulates the aggregation of mutant SOD1.
The hormone leptin crosses the blood brain barrier and regulates numerous neuronal functions, including hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Here we show that application of leptin resulted in the reversal of long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses. The ability of leptin to depotentiate CA1 synapses was concentration-dependent and it displayed a distinct temporal profile. Leptin-induced depotentiation was not associated with any change in the paired pulse facilitation ratio or the coefficient of variance, indicating a post-synaptic locus of expression. Moreover, the synaptic activation of NMDA receptors was required for leptin-induced depotentiation as the effects of leptin were blocked by the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, D-aminophosphovaleric acid (D-AP5). The signaling mechanisms underlying leptin-induced depotentiation involved activation of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, but were independent of c-jun NH(2) terminal kinase. Furthermore, leptin-induced depotentiation was accompanied by a reduction in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor rectification indicating that loss of glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2)-lacking AMPA receptors underlies this process. These data indicate that leptin reverses hippocampal LTP via a process involving calcineurin-dependent internalization of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors which further highlights the key role for this hormone in regulating hippocampal synaptic plasticity and neuronal development.
Serine/threonine protein phosphatases are important mediators of general cellular function as well as neurodegenerative processes. We have previously shown inhibition of protein phosphatases to be as neurotoxic as glutamate-induced neuronal death but resistant to neuroprotection by estrogens. In this study, the mechanism by which phosphatase inhibition via okadaic acid (OA) induced neurotoxicity is explored. Neurons were exposed to OA or glutamate in the presence or absence of various protein kinases inhibitors, and/or one of four estrogens. Both OA and glutamate induced cell death via increased reactive oxygen species, protein carbonylation, lipid peroxidation, caspase-3 activity, and mitochondrial dysfunction. All estrogens attenuated glutamate-mediated responses, but not OA-induced responses. In addition, inhibition of protein kinase C and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway was neuroprotective against glutamate but not OA toxicity. Interestingly, inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway with PD98096 or U0126 caused a decrease in reactive oxygen species production suggesting that activation of ERK1/2 could further exacerbate the oxidative stress caused by glutamate-induced toxicity; however, these inhibitors had no effect on OA-induced toxicity. Collectively, these results indicate that both glutamate and OA neurotoxicities are mediated by persistent activation of ERK1/2 and/or protein kinase C and a resulting oxidative stress, and that protein phosphatase activity is an important and necessary aspect of estrogen-mediated neuroprotection.
Larval zebrafish offers a good model to approach brain disease mechanisms, as structural abnormalities of their small brains can be correlated to quantifiable behavior. In this study, the structural alterations in one diencephalic dopaminergic nucleus induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), a toxin inducing Parkinson's disease in humans, and those found in several neuronal groups after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), the pretoxin, were associated with decreased swimming speed. Detailed cell counts of dopaminergic groups indicated a transient decline of tyrosine hydroxylase expressing neurons up to about 50% after MPTP. The MPTP effect was partly sensitive to monoamine oxidase inhibitor deprenyl. Detailed analysis of the developing catecholaminergic cell groups suggests that the cell groups emerged at their final positions and no obvious significant migration from the original positions was seen. One 5-HT neuron group was also affected by MPTP treatment, whereas other groups remained intact, suggesting that the effect is selective. New nomenclature for developing catecholaminergic cell groups corresponding to adult groups is introduced. The diencephalic cell population consisting of groups 5,6 and 11 was sensitive to both MPTP and MPP+ and in this respect resembles mammalian substantia nigra. The results suggest that MPTP and MPP+ induce a transient functional deficit and motility disorder in larval zebrafish.
The excitatory tone to gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones is a critical component underlying the pubertal increase in GnRH secretion. However, the homeostatic mechanisms modulating the response of GnRH neurones to excitatory inputs remain poorly understood. A basic mechanism of neuronal homeostasis is the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase-dependent restoration of Na(+) and K(+) transmembrane gradients after neuronal excitation. This activity is reduced in a mouse model of Rett syndrome (RTT), a neurodevelopmental disorder in which expression of FXYD1, a modulator of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity, is increased. We now report that the initiation, but not the completion of puberty, is advanced in girls with RTT, and that, in rodents, FXYD1 may contribute to the neuroendocrine regulation of female puberty by modulating GnRH neuronal excitability. Fxyd1 mRNA abundance reaches maximal levels in the female rat hypothalamus by the fourth postnatal week of life (i.e., around the time when the mode of GnRH secretion acquires an adult pattern of release). Although Fxyd1 mRNA expression is low in the hypothalamus, approximately 50% of GnRH neurones contain Fxyd1 transcripts. Whole-cell patch recording of GnRH-EGFP neurones revealed that the neurones of Fxyd1-null female mice respond to somatic current injections with a lower number of action potentials than wild-type cells. Both the age at vaginal opening and at first oestrous were delayed in Fxyd1(-/-) mice, but adult reproductive capacity was normal. These results suggest that FXYD1 contributes to facilitating the advent of puberty by maintaining GnRH neuronal excitability to incoming transsynaptic stimulatory inputs.
Recently, we described that free corticosterone levels in the brain of male Wistar rats, as assessed by in vivo microdialysis, show an ultradian rhythm with a pulse frequency of 1.2 pulses/h. To establish whether gender influences brain free corticosterone rhythms, we studied free corticosterone levels in the female Wistar rat under baseline and stressful conditions using microdialysis in the hippocampus. Analysis of the data with the PULSAR algorithm revealed that hippocampal free corticosterone levels show a clear ultradian pattern in female rats with a pulse frequency of 1.16+/-0.05 pulses/h between 09.00 h and 21.00 h. Further analysis showed that the pulse amplitude is significantly higher during the late afternoon/early night (15.00-21.00 h) than during the morning/early afternoon (09.00-15.00 h) phase (0.13+/-0.03 versus 0.07+/-0.01 microg/dl, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). Pulse characteristics were extremely reproducible as demonstrated by the almost identical pulse parameters derived from two consecutive 24-h periods [pulse frequency: 1.13+/-0.09 and 1.19+/-0.08 pulses/h; pulse amplitude: 0.11+/-0.05 and 0.10+/-0.02 microg/dl for day 1 and day 2 (09.00-21.00 h) respectively, P &gt; 0.05]. Both exposure to a novel environment and forced swim stress increased hippocampal free corticosterone levels. However, the stress-induced rise reached higher levels and was more prolonged after forced swimming (area under the curve: 46.84+/-9.25 and 12.08+/-1.69 arbitrary units for forced swimming and novelty stress respectively, P = 0.01). Importantly, the ultradian rhythm was rapidly restored after termination of the stress response. This is the first demonstration that the female rat brain is exposed to free corticosterone levels that follow a circadian as well as an ultradian pattern and show almost identical pulse characteristics as recently reported in male animals. These observations are of significance for further investigations into the dynamics of glucocorticoid action in the brain of both genders.

To assess the possibility of an association between TNF gene polymorphisms and migraine without aura, a case-control study was performed in a Sardinian sample. Migraine without aura is a complex genetic disease in which susceptibility and environmental factors contribute towards its development. Several studies suggest that tumour necrosis factors (TNF) (TNF-alpha and lymphotoxin-alpha or TNF-ss) may be involved in the pathophysiology of migraine. The TNF-alpha and TNF-ss genes are located on chromosome 6p21.3 in the human leukocyte antigene (HLA) class III region. We evaluated 299 patients affected by migraine without aura (I.H.S. criteria 2004) and 278 migraine-free controls. The polymorphisms G308A of the TNF- alpha gene, and G252A of TNF-beta gene were determined by NcoI restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. We found a statistically significant difference in allele (p = 0.018; OR = 1.46 95 % CI: 1.066 to 2.023) and genotype (trend chi2 = 5.46, df = 1, p = 0.019) frequencies of TNF-beta gene, between cases and controls. Allele and genotype frequencies of TNF-alpha polymorphism did not differ significantly between the two groups. These data suggest that subjects with the TNFB2 allele have a low risk of developing migraine without aura and/or that the polymorphism of the TNF-beta gene is in linkage disequilibrium with other migraine responsible genes in the HLA region.

The terms amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or motor neuron disease (MND) refer to a condition characterized by motor system degeneration with relative preservation of other pathways. Although there have been advances in symptomatic treatment, ALS remains an incurable condition. Advances in ALS management prolong survival but simultaneously raise challenging ethical dilemmas for physicians, patients and their families. Here, we review current practice in the management of ALS including pharmacological treatment, nutritional management, respiratory care, and evolving strategies in the management of cognitive impairment.

Two patients with Parkinson's disease with pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) stimulation for gait impairments reported &quot;trembling vision&quot; during the setting of the electrical parameters, although there was no clinically observable abnormal eye movement. Oculomotor recordings revealed frequency locked voltage dependent vertical or oblique movements of the eye ipsilateral to the active contact, suggesting current spreading to the mesencephalic oculomotor fibres. These results emphasise the difficulty of stimulating this mesencephalic region.

Recent years have seen considerable evolution and increasing sophistication of our concepts of the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis. These new notions include the increased recognition of the importance of extralesional pathology, of the interplay between inflammation and neurodegenerative changes, pathophysiological heterogeneity and additional immune cell populations contributing to disease. These advances have driven the development and evaluation of new therapeutic strategies and outcome measures for clinical trials. A sizeable number of new immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive agents are under development and attracting great attention. These may offer potential advantages over existing treatments in terms of convenience and efficacy, but certain agents may raise safety concerns. In addition, neuroprotective and repair strategies are beginning to be considered. Not all of these agents will eventually be marketed but they will all help us gain insight into the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis and decipher the mechanisms that underlie its heterogeneity. The place that these therapies will come to occupy in future years will depend on their relative benefits and risks.
In multiple sclerosis, physiological repair mechanisms can help the nervous system to recover from tissue injury. Enhancing such repair mechanisms is an important, and increasingly realistic, therapeutic goal in multiple sclerosis. With respect to remyelination, several promising therapeutic avenues are currently being explored, including stem cell transplantation, LINGO-1, prolactin and glatiramer acetate. Glatiramer acetate is believed to act by the induction of specific populations of anti-inflammatory Th2 cells or Type 2 monocytes which infiltrate sites of injury in the nervous system where they release anti-inflammatory cytokines leading to bystander suppression of inflammation. In addition, these cells can release neurotrophic factors such as BDNF and IGF-1 which have been shown to stimulate the differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells and thus enhance remyelination. In addition, neurotrophic factors released in response to glatiramer acetate may stimulate the differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells into mature neurones that can replace neurones lost through the disease process. This repair capacity of glatiramer acetate may contribute to the long-term well-being of patients with multiple sclerosis treated with glatiramer acetate.
The recently developed Mcoln1(-/-) knockout mouse provides a novel model for analyzing mucolipin 1 function and mucolipidosis type IV disease. Here we characterize the neuropathology of Mcoln1(-/-) mouse at the end stage. Evidence of ganglioside accumulation, including increases in GM2, GM3, and GD3 and redistribution of GM1, was found throughout the central nervous system (CNS) independent of significant cholesterol accumulation. Unexpectedly, colocalization studies using immunofluorescence confocal microscopy revealed that GM1 and GM2 were present in separate vesicles within individual neurons. While GM2 was significantly colocalized with LAMP2, consistent with late-endosomal/lysosomal processing, some GM2-immunoreactivity occurred in LAMP2-negative sites, suggesting involvement of other vesicular systems. P62/Sequestosome 1 (P62/SQSTM1) inclusions were also identified in the CNS of the Mcoln1(-/-) mouse, suggesting deficiencies in protein degradation. Glial cell activation was increased in brain, and there was evidence of reduced myelination in cerebral and cerebellar white matter tracts. Autofluorescent material accumulated throughout the brains of the knockout mice. Finally, axonal spheroids were prevalent in white matter tracts and Purkinje cell axons. This neuropathological characterization of the Mcoln1(-/-) mouse provides an important step in understanding how mucolipin 1 loss of function affects the CNS and contributes to mucolipidosis type IV disease.
CD200 is a membrane glycoprotein that suppresses immune activity via its receptor, CD200R. CD200-CD200R interactions have recently been considered to contribute to the &quot;immune privileged&quot; status of the central nervous system (CNS). The mechanisms by which these interactions take place are not well understood in part because there is limited detailed information on the distribution of CD200 and CD200R in the CNS. Here, we used immunohistochemistry to characterize the distinct anatomical and cellular distribution of these molecules in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions and controls. CD200 was robustly expressed in gray matter areas including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, cerebellum, and spinal cord, where neurons appeared immunopositive. CD200 expression was also detected in oligodendrocytes, but not in astrocytes or microglia. In CNS samples from MS patients, CD200 expression was additionally observed on reactive astrocytes in chronic active plaque centers, despite our previous finding of an overall decrease ofCD200 expression in MS lesions. In contrast to CD200, the immunolocalization pattern of CD200R was very distinct, showing high expression on perivascular macrophages in both gray and white matter. Using flow cytometry, we also found that human primary microglia express low levels of CD200R. These data suggest that CD200-mediated immune suppression may occur not only via neuron-microglia interactions, but also via glia-glia interactions, especially in inflammatory conditions in which an immune-suppressive environment needs to be restored; this may occur as a result of increased CD200 expression on reactive astrocytes.
Quantitative understanding of the dynamics of particular cell types when responding to complex, natural inputs is an important prerequisite for understanding the operation of the cortical network. Different types of inhibitory neurons are connected by electrical synapses to nearby neurons of the same type, enabling the formation of synchronized assemblies of neurons with distinct dynamical behaviors. Under what conditions is spike timing in such cells determined by their intrinsic dynamics and when is it driven by the timing of external input? In this study, we have addressed this question using a systematic approach to characterizing the input-output relationships of three types of cortical interneurons (fast spiking [FS], low-threshold spiking [LTS], and nonpyramidal regular-spiking [NPRS] cells) in the rat somatosensory cortex, during fluctuating conductance input designed to mimic natural complex activity. We measured the shape of average conductance input trajectories preceding spikes and fitted a two-component linear model of neuronal responses, which included an autoregressive term from its own output, to gain insight into the input-output relationships of neurons. This clearly separated the contributions of stimulus and discharge history, in a cell-type dependent manner. Unlike LTS and NPRS cells, FS cells showed a remarkable switch in dynamics, from intrinsically driven spike timing to input-fluctuation-controlled spike timing, with the addition of even a small amount of inhibitory conductance. Such a switch could play a pivotal role in the function of FS cells in organizing coherent gamma oscillations in the local cortical network. Using both pharmacological perturbations and modeling, we show how this property is a consequence of the particular complement of voltage-dependent conductances in these cells.
The optic tectum is central for transforming incoming visual input into orienting behavior. Yet it is not well understood how this behavior is organized early in development and how it relates to the response properties of the developing visual system. We designed a novel behavioral assay to study the development of visually guided behavior in Xenopus laevis tadpoles. We found that, during early development, visual avoidance-an innate, tectally mediated behavior-is tuned to a specific stimulus size and is sensitive to changes in contrast. Using in vivo recordings we found that developmental changes in the spatial tuning of visual avoidance are mirrored by changes in tectal receptive field sharpness and the temporal properties of subthreshold visual responses, whereas contrast sensitivity is affected by the gain of the visual response. We also show that long- and short-term perturbations of visual response properties predictably alter behavioral output. We conclude that our assay for visual avoidance is a useful functional measure of the developmental state of the tectal circuitry. We use this assay to show that the developing visual system is tuned to facilitate behavioral output and that the system can be modulated by neural activity, allowing it to adapt to environmental changes it encounters during development.
Homeostatic synaptic plasticity allows neural circuits to function stably despite fluctuations to their inputs. Previous work has shown that excitatory synaptic strength increases globally when neuronal inputs are chronically silenced. A recent paper by Kim and Tsien describes a new type of synapse-specific homeostatic plasticity in which input silencing causes simultaneous strengthening and weakening of different populations of excitatory synapses within a hippocampal network. These seemingly antagonistic homeostatic adaptations maintain synaptic gain and preserve overall network stability by limiting harmful reverberatory bursting, which may underlie epileptic seizures.
Intensive treadmill training after incomplete spinal cord injury can improve functional walking abilities. To determine the changes in muscle activation patterns that are associated with improvements in walking, we measured the electromyography (EMG) of leg muscles in 17 individuals with incomplete spinal cord injury during similar walking conditions both before and after training. Specific differences were observed between subjects that eventually gained functional improvements in overground walking (responders), compared with subjects where treadmill training was ineffective (nonresponders). Although both groups developed a more regular and less clonic EMG pattern on the treadmill, it was only the tibialis anterior and hamstring muscles in the responders that displayed increases in EMG activation. Likewise, only the responders demonstrated decreases in burst duration and cocontraction of proximal (hamstrings and quadriceps) muscle activity. Surprisingly, the proximal muscle activity in the responders, unlike nonresponders, was three- to fourfold greater than that in uninjured control subjects walking at similar speeds and level of body weight support, suggesting that the ability to modify muscle activation patterns after injury may predict the ability of subjects to further compensate in response to motor training. In summary, increases in the amount and decreases in the duration of EMG activity of specific muscles are associated with functional recovery of walking skills after treadmill training in subjects that are able to modify muscle activity patterns following incomplete spinal cord injury.
The plasma membrane GABA transporter GAT1 is thought to mediate uptake of synaptically released GABA. In the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), GAT1 expression changes significantly during development and in schizophrenia. The consequences of such changes, however, are not well understood because GAT1's role has not been investigated in primate neocortical circuits. We thus studied the effects of the GAT1 blocker 1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-1-[2-[[(diphenylmethylene)amino]oxy]ethyl]-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride (NO711) on GABA transmission onto pyramidal neurons of monkey DLPFC. As in rat cortex, in monkey DLPFC NO711 did not substantially alter miniature GABA transmission, suggesting that GAT1 does not regulate single-synapse transmission. In rat cortical circuits, between-synapse GABA spillover produced by NO711 clearly prolongs the inhibitory postsynaptic currents, but whether NO711 also prolongs the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) is unclear. Moreover, whether spillover differentially affects perisomatic versus dendritic inputs has not been examined. Here we found that NO711 prolonged the GABAA receptor-mediated IPSPs (GABAAR-IPSPs) evoked by stimulating perisomatic synapses. Dendritic, but not perisomatic, synapse stimulation often elicited a postsynaptic GABAB receptor-mediated IPSP that was enhanced by NO711. Blocking GABAB receptors revealed that NO711 prolonged the GABAAR-IPSPs evoked by stimulation of dendrite-targeting inputs. We conclude that a major functional role for GAT1 in primate cortical circuits is to prevent the effects of GABA spillover when multiple synapses are simultaneously active. Furthermore, we report that, at least in monkey DLPFC, GAT1 similarly restricts GABA spillover onto perisomatic or dendritic inputs, critically controlling the spatiotemporal specificity of inhibitory inputs onto proximal or distal compartments of the pyramidal cell membrane.
Numerous studies have described different functional cell types in the frontal eye field (FEF), but the reliability of the distinction between these types has been uncertain. Studies in other brain areas have described specific differences in the width of action potentials recorded from different cell types. To substantiate the functionally defined cell types encountered in FEF, we measured the width of spikes of visual, movement, and visuomovement types of FEF neurons in macaque monkeys. We show that visuomovement neurons had the thinnest spikes, consistent with a role in local processing. Movement neurons had the widest spikes, consistent with their role in sending eye movement commands to subcortical structures such as the superior colliculus. Visual neurons had wider spikes than visuomovement neurons, consistent with their role in receiving projections from occipital and parietal cortex. These results show how structure and function of FEF can be linked to guide inferences about neuronal architecture.
The integration of auditory and visual information is required for the default mode of speech-face-to-face communication. As revealed by functional magnetic resonance imaging and electrophysiological studies, the regions in and around the superior temporal sulcus (STS) are implicated in this process. To provide greater insights into the network-level dynamics of the STS during audiovisual integration, we used a macaque model system to analyze the different frequency bands of local field potential (LFP) responses to the auditory and visual components of vocalizations. These vocalizations (like human speech) have a natural time delay between the onset of visible mouth movements and the onset of the voice (the &quot;time-to-voice&quot; or TTV). We show that the LFP responses to faces and voices elicit distinct bands of activity in the theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (8-14 Hz), and gamma (&gt;40 Hz) frequency ranges. Along with single neuron responses, the gamma band activity was greater for face stimuli than voice stimuli. Surprisingly, the opposite was true for the low-frequency bands-auditory responses were of a greater magnitude. Furthermore, gamma band responses in STS were sustained for dynamic faces but not so for voices (the opposite is true for auditory cortex). These data suggest that visual and auditory stimuli are processed in fundamentally different ways in the STS. Finally, we show that the three bands integrate faces and voices differently: theta band activity showed weak multisensory behavior regardless of TTV, the alpha band activity was enhanced for calls with short TTVs but showed little integration for longer TTVs, and finally, the gamma band activity was consistently enhanced for all TTVs. These data demonstrate that LFP activity from the STS can be segregated into distinct frequency bands which integrate audiovisual communication signals in an independent manner. These different bands may reflect different spatial scales of network processing during face-to-face communication.
The &quot;gap effect&quot; describes a phenomenon whereby saccadic reaction times are expedited by the removal of a visible fixation point prior to target presentation. Here we investigated whether processes controlling saccade cancellation are also subjected to a gap effect. Human subjects performed a countermanding experiment that required them to try to cancel an impending saccade in the presence of an imperative visual stop signal, across different fixation conditions. We found that saccadic cancellation latencies, estimated via derivation of the stop signal reaction time (SSRT), were approximately 40 ms shorter on trials with a 200-ms gap between fixation point removal and target presentation compared with when the fixation point remained illuminated. Follow-up experiments confirmed that the reduction in SSRTs were primarily due to removal of a foveal fixation point (as opposed to a generalized warning effect) and persisted with an auditory stop signal that controlled for potential differences in stop signal saliency across different fixation conditions. Saccadic RTs exhibited a gap effect in all experiments with reductions in RTs being due to both removal of a foveal fixation point and a generalized warning effect. Overall, our results demonstrate that processes controlling saccade cancellation can be expedited by a 200-ms gap. The simultaneous priming of both saccade cancellation and generation is of particular interest considering the mutually antagonistic relationship between the saccade fixation and generation networks in the oculomotor system.
Humans commonly use their hands to move and to interact with their environment by processing visual and proprioceptive information to determine the location of a goal-object and the initial hand position. It remains elusive, however, how the human brain fully uses this sensory information to generate accurate movements. In monkeys, it appears that frontal and parietal areas use and combine gaze and hand signals to generate movements, whereas in humans, prior work has separately assessed how the brain uses these two signals. Here we investigated whether and how the human brain integrates gaze orientation and hand position during simple visually triggered finger tapping. We hypothesized that parietal, frontal, and subcortical regions involved in movement production would also exhibit modulation of movement-related activation as a function of gaze and hand positions. We used functional MRI to measure brain activation while healthy young adults performed a visually cued finger movement and fixed gaze at each of three locations and held the arm in two different configurations. We found several areas that exhibited activation related to a mixture of these hand and gaze positions; these included the sensory-motor cortex, supramarginal gyrus, superior parietal lobule, superior frontal gyrus, anterior cingulate, and left cerebellum. We also found regions within the left insula, left cuneus, left midcingulate gyrus, left putamen, and right tempo-occipital junction with activation driven only by gaze orientation. Finally, clusters with hand position effects were found in the cerebellum bilaterally. Our results indicate that these areas integrate at least two signals to perform visual-motor actions and that these could be used to subserve sensory-motor transformations.
Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability annually, and one of the larger populations for which neuroscience nurses care. Differences in gender have been identified as a risk factor for stroke repeatedly throughout the literature. The purpose of this evidence-based literature review is to provide information to healthcare professionals regarding stroke and its relationship with estrogen, the major female sex hormone. Background information on the three types of stroke is outlined, and information on estrogen compounds and hormone replacement therapy is detailed. A review of articles relating estrogen and/or hormone replacement therapy with stroke was performed. Fifty-seven articles met the criteria for inclusion in the review, 19 articles support the use of estrogen and/or an estrogen-related compound in the prevention or treatment of stroke, 6 articles claim estrogen and/or estrogen-related compounds are risk factors for stroke, and 11 articles remain inconclusive with regard to an estrogen and stroke relationship.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) have some specified properties but are generally uncommitted and so can change their fate after exposure to environmental cues. It is unclear to what extent this NSC plasticity can be modulated by extrinsic cues and what are the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal fate determination. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a well-known mitogen for proliferating NSCs. However, its role in guiding stem cells for neuronal subtype specification is undefined. Here we report that in-vitro-expanded human fetal forebrain-derived NSCs can generate cholinergic neurons with spinal motor neuron properties when treated with bFGF within a specific time window. bFGF induces NSCs to express the motor neuron marker Hb9, which is blocked by specific FGF receptor inhibitors and bFGF neutralizing antibodies. This development of spinal motor neuron properties is independent of selective proliferation or survival and does not require high levels of MAPK activation. Thus our study indicates that bFGF can play an important role in modulating plasticity and neuronal fate of human NSCs and presumably has implications for exploring the full potential of brain NSCs for clinical applications, particularly in spinal motor neuron regeneration.
We assessed the presence of degenerating neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) of parkinsonian monkeys. For this purpose, we used two histological markers of cellular death, Fluoro Jade B (FJB) staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL). Eight monkeys were subacutelly treated with four to six 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) injections (1-1.5 mg/kg, cumulative dose) and sacrificed 1 week and 11 months after last MPTP injection. Eight additional monkeys were chronically exposed to MPTP (4.5-15.3 mg/kg, cumulative dose) and sacrificed 6-35 months after last MPTP dose. Three intact monkeys served as controls. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and TUNEL-positive cells was quantified in SNpc and VTA and colocalization of FJB-positive and TUNEL-positive cells with neuronal (TH, NeuN, MAP2) and glial markers (human ferritin, GFAP) assessed on doubly labelled tissue sections. Only MPTP monkeys with 1-week survival displayed few doubly FJB-TH-labelled cells. Both groups of subacute MPTP monkeys, but not chronic MPTP monkeys, showed a significant increased number of TUNEL-positive cells in SNpc. TUNEL-positive cells exhibited morphological features and histological markers indicative of glial cells, whereas TUNEL/NeuN or TUNEL/MAP-2 colocalization was not observed. Our results indicate that MPTP treatment produced a nonapoptotic cell death of dopaminergic cells and the activation of the apoptotic cascade in glial cells. More importantly, we failed to demonstrate the existence of a delayed neurodegenerative process in the dopaminergic neurons after concluding MPTP injection thus, casting doubt on the validity of the &quot;progressive model&quot; created by repeated MPTP administration to monkeys.
It has now been established that functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) depends on several parameters, including animal strain. Here we demonstrate that rats from the same strain (Wistar) but from two independent commercial suppliers present different motor, sensory, and autonomic outcomes after a standard model of SCI, the so-called compression model. Recovery is correlated with the extension of the lesion, and we show that the vertebral canal diameter varies between the two suppliers. To substantiate this point, we carried out another set of experiments, with the so-called contusion model, which requires bone ablation and thus whose extension is not related to vertebral canal diameter. We show that there is no difference between the two suppliers. The purpose of our communication is to alert researchers on how crucial it is to control experimental parameters as closely as possible and to establish a standard for animal experiment in order to avoid unexpected biases.
Rab3a, a small GTPase important for exocytosis, is uniquely up-regulated as oligodendrocytes enter terminal differentiation and initiate myelin biosynthesis. In this study, we analyze the role of this protein in oligodendrocyte morphological differentiation by using Rab3a overexpression and siRNAi-mediated Rab3a silencing. We found that Rab3a silencing delayed mature oligodendrocyte morphological differentiation but did not interfere with lineage progression of OL progenitors; this is consistent with the high levels of Rab3a expressed by mature oligodendrocytes compared with progenitor cells. Overexpression of GTP-bound, but not that of wild-type, Rab3a delayed OL morphological differentiation; this suggests that expression of a GTP-bound Rab3a mutant interferes with the normal function of endogenous Rab3a. We have also identified in oligodendrocytes two other exocytic small GTPases, Rab27B and RalA. Together, these findings indicate that Rab3a specifically stimulates morphological differentiation of mature oligodendrocytes and thus may be part of the necessary machinery for myelin membrane biogenesis.
We report on the structural and functional properties of the Helix contactin-related proteins (HCRPs), a family of closely related glycoproteins previously identified in the nervous system of the land snail Helix pomatia through antibodies against the mouse F3/contactin glycoprotein. We focus on HCRP1 and HCRP2, soluble FNIII domains-containing proteins of 90 and 45 kD bearing consensus motifs for both N- and O-glycosylation. Using the anti-HCRPs serum, we find secreted HCRPs in Helix nervous tissue isotonic extracts and in culture medium conditioned by Helix ganglia. In addition, we demonstrate expression of HCRPs on neuronal soma and on neurite extensions. Functionally, in Helix neurons, the antisense HCRP2 mRNA counteracts neurite elongation, and the recombinant HCRP2 protein exerts a strong positive effect on neurite growth when used as substrate. These data point to HCRPs as novel neurite growth-promoting molecules expressed in invertebrate nervous tissue.
A recent study by our group demonstrates pharmacologically that the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV(1)) is activated by intradermal injection of capsaicin to initiate neurogenic inflammation by the release of neuropeptides in the periphery. In this study, expression of TRPV(1), phosphorylated protein kinase C (p-PKC), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons was visualized by using immunofluorescence, real-time PCR, and Western blots to examine whether increases in TRPV(1) mRNA and protein levels evoked by capsaicin injection are subject to modulation by the activation of PKC and to analyze the role of this process in the pathogenesis of neurogenic inflammation. Capsaicin injection into the hindpaw skin of anesthetized rats evoked increases in the expression of TRPV(1), CGRP and p-PKC in mRNA and/or protein levels and in the number of single labeled TRPV(1), p-PKC, and CGRP neurons in ipsilateral L4-5 DRGs. Coexpressions of TRPV(1) with p-PKC and/or CGRP in DRG neurons were also significantly increased after CAP injection. These evoked expressions at both molecular and cellular levels were significantly inhibited after TRPV(1) receptors were blocked by 5'-iodoresiniferatoxin (5 microg) or PKC was inhibited by chelerythrine chloride (5 microg). Taken together, these results provide evidence that up-regulation of TRPV(1) mRNA and protein levels under inflammatory conditions evoked by capsaicin injection is subject to modulation by the PKC cascade in which increased CGRP level in DRG neurons may be related to the initiation of neurogenic inflammation. Thus, up-regulation of TRPV(1) receptors in DRG neurons seems critical for initiating acute neurogenic inflammation.



Carbendazim (methyl 2-benzimidazolecarbamate) is widely used as a systemic fungicide in human food production and appears to act on fungal tubulin. However, it also inhibits proliferation of human cancer cells, including drug- and multidrug-resistant and p53-deficient cell lines. Because of its promising preclinical anti-tumor activity, it has undergone phase I clinical trials and is under further clinical development. Although it weakly inhibits polymerization of brain microtubules and induces G(2)/M arrest in tumor cells, its mechanism of action in human cells has not been fully elucidated. We examined its mechanism of action in MCF7 human breast cancer cells and found that it inhibits proliferation (IC(50), 10 microM) and half-maximally arrests mitosis at a similar concentration (8 microM), in concert with suppression of microtubule dynamic instability without appreciable microtubule depolymerization. It induces mitotic spindle abnormalities and reduces the metaphase intercentromere distance of sister chromatids, indicating reduction of tension on kinetochores, thus leading to metaphase arrest. With microtubules assembled in vitro from pure tubulin, carbendazim also suppresses dynamic instability, reducing the dynamicity by 50% at 10 microM, with only minimal (21%) reduction of polymer mass. Carbendazim binds to mammalian tubulin (K(d), 42.8 +/- 4.0 microM). Unlike some benzimidazoles that bind to the colchicine site in tubulin, carbendazim neither competes with colchicine nor competes with vinblastine for binding to brain tubulin. Thus, carbendazim binds to an as yet unidentified site in tubulin and inhibits tumor cell proliferation by suppressing the growing and shortening phases of microtubule dynamic instability, thus inducing mitotic arrest.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a sensory neuropeptide that also has potent vasodilator activity. There are conflicting preclinical reports regarding the effect of CGRP receptor antagonism in the setting of myocardial ischemia. The present study was conducted in a canine model in which regional myocardial ischemia was reproducibly evoked by serial periods of atrial pacing (80 beats per min above baseline rate) in the presence of a 40% stenosis of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery. Ischemia severity was quantitated by changes in unipolar epicardial electrograms (EG) recorded in the area of ischemia. In validation studies, the calcium entry blocker diltiazem reduced ischemia severity (before versus after treatment: DeltaEG, 1.92 +/- 0.23 versus 0.54 +/- 0.24 mV; p &lt; 0.05) and tended to increase LAD flow (7.7 +/- 0.7 versus 9.4 +/- 1.4 ml/min; p = 0.10), whereas the coronary constrictor serotonin increased ischemia severity (before versus after treatment: DeltaEG, 2.11 +/- 0.44 versus 4.90 +/- 1.46 mV; p &lt; 0.05) concomitant with a reduction in LAD flow (9.1 +/- 1.1 versus 5.4 +/- 1.5 ml/min; p &lt; 0.05). A 30 microg/kg/min i.v. infusion test dose of the CGRP receptor antagonist CGRP((8-37)) was validated by demonstrating complete block of the depressor effects of exogenous i.v. 0.03 to 0.3 microg/kg CGRP. This dose of CGRP((8-37)), administered either intravenously or intra-atrially, had no effect on ischemia severity or paced LAD flow, indicating no intrinsic effect of CGRP receptor antagonism on the severity of acute myocardial ischemia. Likewise, the administration of a hemodynamically active dosing regimen of CGRP (0.03 microg/kg/min i.v.) had no effect on paced coronary flow or ischemia severity, suggesting no major role of CGRP in regulating ischemic blood flow.
To search for new neuroprotective compounds, novel benzylideneacetophenone compounds (JCI, (3E)-4-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)but-3-en-2-one; JC2, (1E)-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)hept-1-en-3-one; JC3, (2E)-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)phenylpro-2-en-l-one; JC4, (1E)-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-5-phenylpent-1-en-3-one; JC5, (1E)-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-phenylhex-1-en-3-one; JC6, (1E)-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl]-7-phenylhept-1-en-3-one) were synthesized, and their potential to prevent neurotoxicities were evaluated. All compounds (JC1-JC6) showed considerable effect on free radical scavenging, the inhibition of glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in cortical cells, and the suppression of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitric oxide (NO) generation in microglia. (2E)-3-(4-Hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-phenylpro-2-en-1-one (JC3) exhibited the most potent neuroprotective effect in ischemia model using organotypic hippocampal culture and middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Based on the above-mentioned results, the mechanisms underlying the biological activity of JC3, which exhibited potent antiexcitotoxic and anti-inflammatory effects, were determined using cortical neuronal cells and microglia. Compound JC3 exerted a neuroprotective effect on oxygen-glucose deprivation- and hydrogen peroxide-induced cytotoxicity in cultured cortical cells. In addition, it suppressed the generation of NO, proinflammatory cytokines, and reactive oxygen species in LPS-treated microglial cells. It also suppressed the activation of phosphorylated Janus tyrosine kinase 2/phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in activated microglia and in cortex and striatum after 3 days of the MCAO in mice. These results demonstrated that JC3 might affect a set of intracellular signaling cascades, including the Janus tyrosine kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription and MAPK pathways. This study suggests that benzylideneacetophenone derivative could be useful antineurotoxic agents.
Previous reports utilizing pharmacological antagonists implicate kainate receptor (KAR) activation in the development of morphine tolerance, dependence, conditioned place preference (CPP), and locomotor sensitization, but the role of glutamate receptor (GluR) 5-containing KAR in these effects remains unclear because of limited selectivity of the inhibitors employed. Therefore, we examined responses to systemic morphine treatment in mice expressing a constitutive deletion of GluR5 [GluR5 knockout (KO)]. Unlike wild-type (WT) littermates, GluR5 KO mice do not develop tolerance after repeated morphine administration by subcutaneous injection or via subcutaneous pellet implantation. In contrast, GluR5 KO mice do not differ from WT with respect to thermal or mechanical nociceptive thresholds, acute morphine antinociception, morphine disposition in the central nervous system (CNS), morphine physical dependence as revealed by naloxone-precipitated withdrawal or development of place preference and locomotor hyperresponsiveness after chronic morphine administration. It is surprising that continuous subcutaneous infusion of the GluR2/GluR5-preferring antagonist LY293558 [(3S,4aR,6R,8aR)-6-[2-(1(2)H-tetrazole-5-yl)ethyl]decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid] decreased the number of naloxone-precipitated jumps to a similar extent in WT and GluR5 KO mice. We observed opioid-induced hypersensitivity in both groups during morphine withdrawal as demonstrated by equivalent reductions in thermal and mechanical thresholds; however, this hypersensitivity was not evident during continuous systemic morphine infusion. These data collectively indicate that KARs containing the GluR5 subunit contribute to the development of morphine tolerance without affecting nociceptive thresholds, morphine analgesia, or disposition in CNS of morphine and its metabolite morphine-3-glucuronide. In addition, constitutive deletion of GluR5 does not alter the morphine-induced increase in locomotor activity or the acquisition of morphine reward as measured by a CPP paradigm.




Diffusion tensor imaging is an important method for noninvasively acquiring structural information of the human brain. For advanced fiber tracking, the acquisition of diffusion-weighted (DW) images has to be performed along many different spatial directions, resulting in long scan times. Therefore, the ultra-fast imaging method, echo-planar imaging (EPI), is mostly used, but this technique suffers from susceptibility-induced image artefacts and geometric distortions. These problems become even more pronounced at very high magnetic field strengths. In this regard, DW, single-shot STEAM is an interesting and rapid imaging alternative to EPI-based methods. DW single-shot STEAM enables the acquisition of artefact-free images albeit at the expense of a reduced signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), which can be compensated by utilizing high magnetic fields. Here, the application of DW single-shot STEAM at 4 Tesla is demonstrated. To optimize the SNR and the resolution properties, a new variable flip-angle computational algorithm is introduced enabling accurate signal evolution computation with a precise calculation of transverse coherences. Omission of radiofrequency (RF) spoiling results in an approximate twofold increase of the DW signal by integration of the stable refocused transverse magnetization. The advantage of the approach is shown in simulations and in vivo experiments.
During the past decade, scientific research has provided new insight into the development from an acute, localised musculoskeletal disorder towards chronic widespread pain/fibromyalgia (FM). Chronic widespread pain/FM is characterised by sensitisation of central pain pathways. An in-depth review of basic and clinical research was performed to design a theoretical framework for manual therapy in these patients. It is explained that manual therapy might be able to influence the process of chronicity in three different ways. (I) In order to prevent chronicity in (sub)acute musculoskeletal disorders, it seems crucial to limit the time course of afferent stimulation of peripheral nociceptors. (II) In the case of chronic widespread pain and established sensitisation of central pain pathways, relatively minor injuries/trauma at any locations are likely to sustain the process of central sensitisation and should be treated appropriately with manual therapy accounting for the decreased sensory threshold. Inappropriate pain beliefs should be addressed and exercise interventions should account for the process of central sensitisation. (III) However, manual therapists ignoring the processes involved in the development and maintenance of chronic widespread pain/FM may cause more harm then benefit to the patient by triggering or sustaining central sensitisation.

Diabetes-induced complications are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and increasing evidence suggests that diabetes has an adverse effect on male reproductive function. The STZ-induced diabetic rat was used as an animal model for the type 1 form of the disease with the aim of determining its effects in spermatogenesis and testicular mitochondrial function. Several aspects of mitochondrial function were measured, including respiratory and electric potential function, as well as mitochondrial calcium loading capacity. Additionally oxidative stress production, antioxidant levels and possible apoptotic alterations were also evaluated. We observed that diabetic animals present alterations in spermatogenesis in both the testis and epidydimus. However, and surprisingly, the overall results in mitochondrial parameters failed to reveal severe testicular mitochondrial dysfunction in diabetic animals, with the exception of a decrease in calcium load. Taken together, results suggest that in animal models that mimic untreated type 1 diabetes the severe effects of the condition on spermatogenesis are not directly mitochondrial-mediated.
Muscle activity contributes to formation of the neuromuscular junction and affects muscle metabolism and contractile properties through regulated gene expression. However, the mechanisms coordinating these diverse activity-regulated processes remain poorly characterized. Recently, it was reported that histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) can mediate denervation-induced myogenin and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene expression. Here, we report that HDAC4 is not only necessary for denervation-dependent induction of genes involved in synaptogenesis (nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase) but also for denervation-dependent suppression of genes involved in glycolysis (muscle-specific enolase and phosphofructokinase). In addition, HDAC4 differentially regulates genes involved in muscle fiber type specification by inducing myosin heavy chain IIA and suppressing myosin heavy chain IIB. Consistent with these regulated gene profiles, HDAC4 is enriched in fast oxidative fibers of innervated tibialis anterior muscle and HDAC4 knockdown enhances glycolysis in cultured myotubes. HDAC4 mediates gene induction indirectly by suppressing the expression of Dach2 and MITR that function as myogenin gene corepressors. In contrast, HDAC4 is directly recruited to myocyte enhancer factor 2 sites within target promoters to mediate gene suppression. Finally, we discovered an HDAC4/myogenin positive feedback loop that coordinates gene induction and repression underlying muscle phenotypic changes after muscle denervation.
Here, we have studied the effect of the tight junction protein zona occludens (ZO)-2 on cyclin D1 (CD1) protein expression. CD1 is essential for cell progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. We have found that in cultures of synchronized Madin-Darby canine kidney cells, ZO-2 inhibits cell proliferation at G0/G1 and decreases CD1 protein level. These effects occur in response to a diminished CD1 translation and an augmented CD1 degradation at the proteosome triggered by ZO-2. ZO-2 overexpression decreases the amount of Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta phosphorylated at Ser9 and represses beta-catenin target gene expression. We have also explored the expression of ZO-2 through the cell cycle and demonstrate that ZO-2 enters the nucleus at the late G1 phase and leaves the nucleus when the cell is in mitosis. These results thus explain why in confluent quiescent epithelia ZO-2 is absent from the nucleus and localizes at the cellular borders, whereas in sparse proliferating cultures ZO-2 is conspicuously present at the nucleus.
Interactions between Z-disc proteins regulate muscle functions and disruption of these interactions results in muscle disorders. Mutations in Z-disc components myotilin, ZASP/Cypher, and FATZ-2 (calsarcin-1/myozenin-2) are associated with myopathies. We report here that the myotilin and the FATZ (calsarcin/myozenin) families share high homology at their final C-terminal five amino acids. This C-terminal E[ST][DE][DE]L motif is present almost exclusively in these families and is evolutionary conserved. We show by in vitro and in vivo studies that proteins from the myotilin and FATZ (calsarcin/myozenin) families interact via this novel type of class III PDZ binding motif with the PDZ domains of ZASP/Cypher and other Enigma family members: ALP, CLP-36, and RIL. We show that the interactions can be modulated by phosphorylation. Calmodulin-dependent kinase II phosphorylates the C terminus of FATZ-3 (calsarcin-3/myozenin-3) and myotilin, whereas PKA phosphorylates that of FATZ-1 (calsarcin-2/myozenin-1) and FATZ-2 (calsarcin-1/myozenin-1). This is the first report of a binding motif common to both the myotilin and the FATZ (calsarcin/myozenin) families that is specific for interactions with Enigma family members.
Thg-1pit (Tsc22d4), a murine gene belonging to the TGF-beta1-stimulated clone 22 domain (TSC22D) family, is expressed in developing and adult cerebellar granule neurons and mature Purkinje cells. We have studied THG-1pit function in primary cultures of mouse cerebellar granule neurons maintained in vitro in the presence of a medium containing 25 mM K+ (differentiating condition) or 5 mM K+ (pro-apoptotic condition), and determined the effect of culture medium, TGF-beta1 and IGF-1 on THG-1pit expression and intracellular localization. Thg-1pit encoded a 42 kDa MW protein and other, higher MW and developmentally-regulated forms. Cell exposure to 5 mM K+ elicited early and/or late waves of Thg-1pit transcription, depending on the presence/absence of TGF-beta1, and caused THG-1pit to massively and transiently move from cytoplasm and neurites to the nucleus. THG-1pit nuclear entrance was concomitant to that of AIF, suggesting that THG-1pit is involved in the induction of granule neuron apoptosis.
The neuronal Ca2+-sensor protein VILIP-1, known to affect clathrin-dependent receptor trafficking, has been shown to interact with the cytoplasmic loop of the alpha4-subunit of the alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), which is the most abundant nAChR subtype with high-affinity for nicotine in the brain. The alpha4beta2 nAChR is crucial for nicotine addiction and the beneficial effects of nicotine on cognition. Its dysfunction has been implicated in frontal lobe epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Here we report that overexpression of VILIP-1 enhances ACh responsiveness, whereas siRNA against VILIP-1 reduces alpha4beta2 nAChR currents of hippocampal neurons. The underlying molecular mechanism likely involves enhanced constitutive exocytosis of alpha4beta2 nAChRs mediated by VILIP-1. The two interaction partners co-localize in a Ca2+-dependent manner with syntaxin-6, a Golgi-SNARE protein involved in trans-Golgi membrane trafficking. Thus, we speculate that regulation of VILIP-1-expression might modulate surface expression of ligand-gated ion channels, such as the alpha4beta2 nAChRs, possibly comprising a novel form of physiological up-regulation of ligand-gated ion channels.
Syndapin is a conserved dynamin-binding protein, with predicted function in synaptic-vesicle endocytosis. Here, we combine genetic mutational analysis with in vivo cell biological assays to ask whether Drosophila syndapin (Synd) is an essential component of synaptic-vesicle recycling. The only isoform of Drosophila syndapin (synd) is broadly expressed and at high levels in the nervous system. synd mutants are late-larval lethals, but fertile adult &quot;escapers&quot; frequently emerge. Contrary to expectation, we report that the Synd protein is predominantly postsynaptic, undetectable at presynaptic varicosities at Drosophila third-instar larval neuromuscular junctions. Electrophysiological and synaptopHluorin imaging in control, synd-deficient or synd-overexpressing motor neurons reveals that synd is dispensable for synaptic-vesicle endocytosis. Our work in Drosophila leads to the suggestion that syndapin may not be a general or essential component in dynamin-dependent synaptic-vesicle endocytosis.
Peripheral nerve transections cause much more neuronal death in embryonic and neonatal dorsal root ganglia (DRG) than in adult DRG. Here we used transgenic approaches to examine the hypothesis that NF-kappaB is an important intrinsic factor of adult DRG neurons for their in vivo capacity to survive after nerve injury. We generated transgenic mice expressing the NF-kappaB super-inhibitor (IkappaBalpha-SI), a multi-mutant form of IkappaBalpha, specifically in adult neurons. Adult DRG neurons in these transgenic animals are not abnormally susceptible to apoptosis after peripheral nerve injury, although there is a significant inhibition in the ability of NF-kappaB to translocate into their nucleus. We investigated the observed lack of NF-kappaB neuroprotective function at the level of NF-kappaB transcriptional activity using transgenic NF-kappaB/LacZ reporter mice. We show that the expression of the NF-kappaB reporter transgene is restricted in nave and injured DRG neurons. However, NF-kappaB transcriptional activity in adult DRG neurons is evident upon exposure to Trichostatin A (TSA) which is a specific inhibitor of histone deacetylases. Taken together our results illustrate that the functions of NF-kappaB are limited in adult primary sensory neurons due to a transcriptional repression mechanism mediated by histone deacetylases, and that intrinsic neuroprotective factors other than NF-kappaB are responsible for the resistance of adult DRG neurons to apoptosis in response to nerve injury.
The tolerant brain which is a consequence of adaptation to repeated nonlethal insults is accompanied by the upregulation of protective mechanisms and the downregulation of prodegenerative pathways. During the past 20 years, evidence has accumulated to suggest that protective mechanisms include increased production of chaperones, trophic factors, and other antiapoptotic proteins. In contrast, preconditioning can cause substantial dampening of the organism's metabolic state and decreased expression of proapoptotic proteins. Recent microarray analyses have also helped to document a role of several molecular pathways in the induction of the brain refractory state. The present review highlights some of these findings and suggests that a better understanding of these mechanisms will inform treatment of a number of neuropsychiatric disorders.
In a previous publication, using human 5-hydroxytryptamine(7) (h5-HT(7)) receptor-expressing human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells, we reported the rapid, potent inactivation of the h5-HT(7) receptor stimulation of cAMP production by three antagonists: risperidone, 9-OH-risperidone, and methiothepin (Smith et al., 2006). To better understand the drug-receptor interaction producing the inactivation, we 1) expanded the list of inactivating drugs, 2) determined the inactivating potencies and efficacies by performing concentration-response experiments, and 3) determined the potencies and efficacies of the inactivators as irreversible binding site inhibitors. Three new drugs were found to fully inactivate the h5-HT(7) receptor: lisuride, bromocryptine, and metergoline. As inactivators, these drugs displayed potencies of 1, 80, and 321 nM, respectively. Pretreatment of 5-HT(7)-expressing HEK cells with increasing concentrations of the inactivating drugs risperidone, 9-OH-risperidone, methiothepin, lisuride, bromocriptine, and metergoline potently inhibited radiolabeling of the h5-HT(7) receptor, with IC(50) values of 9, 5.5, 152, 3, 73, and 10 nM, respectively. We were surprised to find that maximal concentrations of risperidone and 9-OH-risperidone inhibited only 50% of the radiolabeling of h5-HT(7) receptors. These results indicate that risperidone and 9-OH risperidone may be producing 5-HT(7) receptor inactivation by different mechanisms than lisuride, bromocryptine, metergoline, and methiothepin. These results are not interpretable using the conventional model of G-protein-coupled receptor function. The complex seems capable of assuming a stable inactive conformation as a result of the interaction of certain antagonists. The rapid, potent inactivation of the receptor-G-protein complex by antagonists implies a constitutive, pre-existing complex between the h5-HT(7) receptor and a G-protein.

Cranial movement disorders are a common neurological problem. These disorders can be limited to the cranial muscles alone or manifest as part of a more generalized movement disorder. Cranial movement disorders can originate from the highest (motor cortex) to the lowest (cranial nerve and muscle) levels of the motor system. Owing to the lack of diagnostic tests and biomarkers for these disorders, their differential diagnosis can be difficult even for the experienced neurologist. Advances have, however, been made in the identification and treatment of these conditions, and most can be managed effectively with appropriate knowledge of the diagnostic signs and effective treatments. Here, we review the clinical features, pathophysiologies and therapies of the main movement disorders that affect the face, jaw, tongue and palate.
There has been much interest in pioneering neuroimaging experiments that study brain responses to sensory stimulation in patients in a minimally conscious or persistent vegetative state. Here, we discuss a recent study by Melanie Boly and her colleagues, in which brain responses to stimulation of the median nerve were measured by use of PET in healthy volunteers and in patients in either a minimally conscious or persistent vegetative state. The stimulation was considered to be painful by the volunteers but did not elicit behavioral responses in either of the two patient groups. Nevertheless, brain activation in patients in a minimally conscious (but not persistent vegetative) state was seen in areas very similar to those activated by the stimuli judged to be painful in healthy volunteers. Here, we discuss whether such data can be used to conclude that individuals with severe brain damage feel pain, and we consider the ethically appropriate clinical response to such important new data.

Perry syndrome consists of early-onset parkinsonism, depression, severe weight loss and hypoventilation, with brain pathology characterized by TDP-43 immunostaining. We carried out genome-wide linkage analysis and identified five disease-segregating mutations affecting the CAP-Gly domain of dynactin (encoded by DCTN1) in eight families with Perry syndrome; these mutations diminish microtubule binding and lead to intracytoplasmic inclusions. Our findings show that DCTN1 mutations, previously associated with motor neuron disease, can underlie the selective vulnerability of other neuronal populations in distinct neurodegenerative disorders.
By analyzing late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) in a genome-wide association study (313,504 SNPs, three series, 844 cases and 1,255 controls) and evaluating the 25 SNPs with the most significant allelic association in four additional series (1,547 cases and 1,209 controls), we identified a SNP (rs5984894) on Xq21.3 in PCDH11X that is strongly associated with LOAD in individuals of European descent from the United States. Analysis of rs5984894 by multivariable logistic regression adjusted for sex gave global P values of 5.7 x 10(-5) in stage 1, 4.8 x 10(-6) in stage 2 and 3.9 x 10(-12) in the combined data. Odds ratios were 1.75 (95% CI = 1.42-2.16) for female homozygotes (P = 2.0 x 10(-7)) and 1.26 (95% CI = 1.05-1.51) for female heterozygotes (P = 0.01) compared to female noncarriers. For male hemizygotes (P = 0.07) compared to male noncarriers, the odds ratio was 1.18 (95% CI = 0.99-1.41).


The intrinsic properties of neurons that enable them to maintain depolarized, persistently activated states in the absence of sustained input are poorly understood. In short-term memory tasks, individual prefrontal cortical (PFC) neurons can maintain persistent action potential output during delay periods between informative cues and behavioral responses. Dopamine and drugs of abuse alter PFC function and working memory, possibly by modulating intrinsic neuronal properties. Here we used patch-clamp recording of layer 5 PFC pyramidal neurons to identify a postsynaptic depolarization that was evoked by action potential bursts and mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). This depolarization occurred in the absence of recurrent synaptic activity and was reduced by a dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) protein kinase A pathway. After behavioral sensitization to cocaine, the depolarization was substantially diminished and D1R modulation was lost. We propose that burst-evoked intrinsic depolarization is a form of short-term cellular memory that is modulated by dopamine and cocaine experience.
Sleep before learning benefits memory encoding through unknown mechanisms. We found that even a mild sleep disruption that suppressed slow-wave activity and induced shallow sleep, but did not reduce total sleep time, was sufficient to affect subsequent successful encoding-related hippocampal activation and memory performance in healthy human subjects. Implicit learning was not affected. Our results suggest that the hippocampus is particularly sensitive to shallow, but intact, sleep.
Here, we characterized behavioral abnormalities induced by prolonged social isolation in adult rodents. Social isolation induced both anxiety- and anhedonia-like symptoms and decreased cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) activity in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcSh). All of these abnormalities were reversed by chronic, but not acute, antidepressant treatment. However, although the anxiety phenotype and its reversal by antidepressant treatment were CREB-dependent, the anhedonia-like symptoms were not mediated by CREB in NAcSh. We found that decreased CREB activity in NAcSh correlated with increased expression of certain K(+) channels and reduced electrical excitability of NAcSh neurons, which was sufficient to induce anxiety-like behaviors and was reversed by chronic antidepressant treatment. Together, our results describe a model that distinguishes anxiety- and depression-like behavioral phenotypes, establish a selective role of decreased CREB activity in NAcSh in anxiety-like behavior, and provide a mechanism by which antidepressant treatment alleviates anxiety symptoms after social isolation.
The development of the amygdala, a central structure of the limbic system, remains poorly understood. We found that two spatially distinct and early-specified telencephalic progenitor pools marked by the homeodomain transcription factor Dbx1 are major sources of neuronal cell diversity in the mature mouse amygdala. We found that Dbx1-positive cells of the ventral pallium generate the excitatory neurons of the basolateral complex and cortical amygdala nuclei. Moreover, Dbx1-derived cells comprise a previously unknown migratory stream that emanates from the preoptic area (POA), a ventral telencephalic domain adjacent to the diencephalic border. The Dbx1-positive, POA-derived population migrated specifically to the amygdala and, as defined by both immunochemical and electrophysiological criteria, generated a unique subclass of inhibitory neurons in the medial amygdala nucleus. Thus, this POA-derived population represents a previously unknown progenitor pool dedicated to the limbic system.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by an impaired ability to develop adaptive behaviors that can compete with cocaine seeking, implying a deficit in the ability to induce plasticity in cortico-accumbens circuitry crucial for regulating motivated behavior. We found that rats withdrawn from cocaine self-administration had a marked in vivo deficit in the ability to develop long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in the nucleus accumbens core subregion after stimulation of the prefrontal cortex. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) treatment prevents relapse in animal models and craving in humans by activating cystine-glutamate exchange and thereby stimulating extrasynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR). NAC treatment of rats restored the ability to induce LTP and LTD by indirectly stimulating mGluR2/3 and mGluR5, respectively. Our findings show that cocaine self-administration induces metaplasticity that inhibits further induction of synaptic plasticity, and this impairment can be reversed by NAC, a drug that also prevents relapse.
As the major components of the postsynaptic density of excitatory neuronal synapses, PDZ-domain-containing scaffold proteins regulate the clustering of surface glutamate receptors, organize synaptic signalling complexes, participate in the dynamic trafficking of receptors and ion channels, and coordinate cytoskeletal dynamics. These scaffold proteins often contain multiple PDZ domains, with or without other protein-binding modules, and they usually lack intrinsic enzymatic activities. Recent biochemical and structural studies have shown that tandemly arranged PDZ domains often serve as structural and functional supramodules that could regulate the organization and dynamics of synaptic protein complexes, thus contributing to the broad range of neuronal activity.
Endonuclease V (EndoV) initiates a major base-repair pathway for nitrosative deamination resulting from endogenous processes and increased by oxidative stress from mitochondrial dysfunction or inflammatory responses. We solved the crystal structures of Thermotoga maritima EndoV in complex with a hypoxanthine lesion substrate and with product DNA. The PYIP wedge motif acts as a minor groove-damage sensor for helical distortions and base mismatches and separates DNA strands at the lesion. EndoV incises DNA with an unusual offset nick 1 nucleotide 3' of the lesion, as the deaminated adenine is rotated approximately 90 degrees into a recognition pocket approximately 8 A from the catalytic site. Tight binding by the lesion-recognition pocket in addition to Mg(2+) and hydrogen-bonding interactions to the DNA ends stabilize the product complex, suggesting an orderly recruitment of downstream proteins in this base-repair pathway.
The ability to adapt behavior to maximize reward as a result of interactions with the environment is crucial for the survival of any higher organism. In the framework of reinforcement learning, temporal-difference learning algorithms provide an effective strategy for such goal-directed adaptation, but it is unclear to what extent these algorithms are compatible with neural computation. In this article, we present a spiking neural network model that implements actor-critic temporal-difference learning by combining local plasticity rules with a global reward signal. The network is capable of solving a nontrivial gridworld task with sparse rewards. We derive a quantitative mapping of plasticity parameters and synaptic weights to the corresponding variables in the standard algorithmic formulation and demonstrate that the network learns with a similar speed to its discrete time counterpart and attains the same equilibrium performance.
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) has become an increasingly important endpoint in cancer studies; however, the research into the HRQOL of patients with high-grade glioma (HGG) is sparse compared with that for patients with other neoplasms. Owing to the specific location and poor prognosis, it is more important and difficult to study HRQOL in patients with HGG than in those with other tumors; furthermore, the study of HRQOL in patients with HGG differs from that for patients with other tumors. In this review, we identified and compared the most frequently used instruments to assess HRQOL; analyzed specific facets and determinants of HRQOL (such as sex, tumor location and histological classification, depression, and cognitive function), as well as the association between HRQOL and survival; and appraised the effects of new treatments on HRQOL in patients with HGG from randomized controlled trials. Furthermore, we detected broadly existing problems and many contradictory outcomes and gave some proper interpretation and suggestions regarding them.
The inflammatory cytokines can initiate nerve cell degeneration and enhance the plaque production typically found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is an inflammatory cytokine, which can induce the expression of interferon-gamma. This interleukin shares similarities with the IL-1 family of proteins. Like IL-1 beta, IL-18 is cleaved by caspase-1 (ICE) to an active secreted form. We examined the expressions of IL-18, -1 beta and ICE in different brain regions from AD patients that were categorized with respect to the Braak stage, and age-matched with non-demented controls. The levels of total-RNA and protein of IL-18 and ICE were increased, especially in the frontal lobe of AD patients and this change was not modified by ApoE genotype. Immunohistochemistry of AD brain samples detected IL-18 in microglia, astrocytes, and surprisingly in neurons, and it is also co-localized not only with amyloid-beta plaques but also with tau. In CSF, elevated IL-18 level was detected only in men and it also correlated with CSF tau in MCI. IL-18 may thus be a potential biomarker for men. Plasma levels of IL-18 showed no correlation with the disease. In conclusion, amyloid-beta may induce the synthesis of IL-18, and IL-18 kinases involved in tau phosphorylation as a part of the amyloid-associated inflammatory reaction.
Olfactory deficiency has been reported in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in humans but is very poorly understood due to the lack of investigations in animal models of AD. Recent studies point to the noradrenergic system as an important target of the AD pathological process. In addition, noradrenalin has been shown to influence adult neurogenesis which is implicated in cognitive functions. We have therefore investigated the olfactory neurogenesis and cognitive performances in young transgenic Tg2576 mice in relation with the status of the noradrenergic and the cholinergic systems. Tg2576 showed a deficit in neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb evidenced by an increased death of newborn cells and a reduced expression of PSA-NCAM. The locus coeruleus degenerated in Tg2576 between the age of 6.5 and 8 months. These changes were associated with olfactory memory impairments. Our findings indicate that a noradrenergic deficiency could play a role in the early stages of the pathological process in this transgenic model and induce olfactory cognitive impairments through an alteration of olfactory neurogenesis.
The lack of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) causes fragile X syndrome, a common form of inherited mental retardation. Our previous studies revealed alterations in the differentiation of FMRP-deficient neural progenitors. Here, we show abnormalities in neurogenesis in the mouse and human embryonic FMRP-deficient brain as well as after in utero transfection of I304N mutated FMRP, which acts in a dominant negative manner in the wild-type mouse brain. Progenitors accumulated abnormally in the subventricular zone of the embryonic Fmr1-knockout (Fmr1-KO) mouse neocortex. An increased density of cells expressing sequentially an intermediate progenitor marker, T-box transcription factor (Tbr2), and a postmitotic neuron marker, T-brain 1 (Tbr1), indicated that the differentiation to glutamatergic cell lineages was particularly disturbed. These abnormalities were associated with an increased density of pyramidal cells of the layer V in the early postnatal neocortex suggesting a role for FMRP in the regulation of the differentiation of neocortical glutamatergic neurons.
Missense mutations in protein kinase Cgamma (gammaPKC) gene have been found in spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously demonstrated that mutant gammaPKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to aggregation and induces apoptosis in cultured cell lines. In the present study, we investigated whether mutant gammaPKC formed aggregates and how mutant gammaPKC affects the morphology and survival of cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs), which are degenerated in SCA14 patients. Adenovirus-transfected primary cultured PCs expressing mutant gammaPKC-GFP also had aggregates and underwent apoptosis. Long-term time-lapse observation revealed that PCs have a potential to eliminate aggregates of mutant gammaPKC-GFP. Mutant gammaPKC-GFP disturbed the development of PC dendrites and reduced synapse formation, regardless of the presence or absence of its aggregates. In PCs without aggregates, mutant gammaPKC-GFP formed soluble oligomers, resulting in reduced mobility and attenuated translocation of mutant gammaPKC-GFP upon stimulation. These molecular properties of mutant gammaPKC might affect the dendritic morphology in PCs, and be involved in the pathogenesis of SCA14.
Two different H1 sub-haplotypes at chromosome 17q21, H1C and H1E'A, have been associated with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and cortical basal degeneration (CBD). We analyzed the SNPs included in the H1C and H1E'A haplotypes in a large Spanish PSP/CBD series and their interaction with age at onset (AAO). Survival analysis of rs1880753 marker was consistently associated with disease risk and with an earlier age at onset under an additive model. Its location at 160 kb and 50 kb upstream of tau and CRHR1 genes, respectively, suggests that it might act as a cis-element that regulates gene expression. Rs45502095(H1) was also associated with AAO under a recessive model. Haplotype analysis failed to replicate the association of H1C and H1E'A haplotypes with PSP/CBD. However, we found a strong association of two H1 sub-haplotypes with PSP and CBD (H1E'C and H1Q), which include MAPT and CRHR1 genes where the risk variant for PSP/CBD could lie.
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is the most common cause of spinal cord dysfunction in adults in Western society. Paradoxically, relatively little is known about the pathobiological mechanisms associated with the progressive loss of neural tissue in the spinal cord of CSM patients. In this report we have utilized the twy/twy mutant mouse, which develops ossification of the ligamentum flavum at C2-C3 and exhibits progressive paralysis. This animal model represents an excellent in vivo model of CSM. This study reports novel evidence, which demonstrates that chronic extrinsic cervical spinal cord compression leads to Fas-mediated apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes which is associated with activation of caspase-8, -9 and -3 and progressive neurological deficits. While surgical decompression will remain the mainstay of management of CSM, molecular therapies, which target Fas-mediated apoptosis could show promise as a complementary approach to maximize neurological recovery in this common spinal cord condition.
The lateral intraparietal area (LIP), a portion of monkey posterior parietal cortex, has been implicated in spatial attention. We review recent evidence showing that LIP encodes a priority map of the external environment that specifies the momentary locus of attention and is activated in a variety of behavioral tasks. The priority map in LIP is shaped by task-specific motor, cognitive and motivational variables, the functional significance of which is not entirely understood. We suggest that these modulations represent teaching signals by which the brain learns to identify attentional priority of various stimuli based on the task-specific associations between these stimuli, the required action and expected outcome.
The gut-hormone ghrelin endogenously binds to the ghrelin receptor (GHS-R) to promote foraging and feeding behaviours mainly via the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC). GHS-Rs are also expressed in midbrain dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) suggesting that ghrelin may modulate the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. In support of this hypothesis, previous results have shown that intraventricular administration of ghrelin in rats increases DA levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). In the present study, the systemic doses of ghrelin capable of triggering central activation were first determined, and growth hormone (GH) levels were used as a marker of ghrelin-induced activation. Similar dose regimen was then used to measure ghrelin-induced effects on extracellular levels of monoamines in the shell and core subdivisions of the NAc using microdialysis in freely moving rats. We show that subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of ghrelin produced an increase in basal plasmatic ghrelin concentrations that was paralleled by enhanced GH secretion. In addition, a significant increase in extracellular levels of DA was observed specifically in the NAc shell, with no effect in the core subdivision. Extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels were also affected in the shell subregion, but without reaching statistical significance. Increased extracellular DA levels in the NAc shell have been typically associated with the acute reinforcing effects of addictive drugs. The present findings therefore suggest that systemic ghrelin may modulate the valence of reinforcers such as food and drugs of abuse by interfering with mesolimbic DA activity.
Gastrointestinal peptides and hormones are known to penetrate through the utero-placental barrier and regulate fetal development. In the present study, we tested permeation of maternal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to fetuses, using BDNF-gene deficient mice and exogenous BDNF administration. At embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5)-14.5, BDNF protein concentrations in the fetal brain of BDNF homozygous null mutant (bdnf (-/-)) were comparable to the levels seen in wild-type fetuses. After E17.5, BDNF protein levels in bdnf (-/-) fetal brain were still detectable but its levels were significantly decreased below those in wild-type brain. When recombinant BDNF protein was injected into pregnant wild-type mice carrying E14.5 embryos, BDNF protein levels in fetal brain were elevated dose-dependently. These findings suggest that maternal BDNF reaches the fetal brain through utero-placental barrier and might contribute to its development.
Spinal cord injury is very complicated, as there are factors in the body that inhibit its repair. Although regeneration of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) was once thought to be impossible, studies over the past two decades have shown that axonal growth after spinal cord injury can occur when provided with the correct substratum. Traditionally, tissue transplantation or peripheral nerve grafting are used to repair damaged or diseased regions of the CNS, but donor shortage and immunological problems associated with infectious disease are often encountered. Fortunately, recent advances in neuroscience, cell culture, and biomaterials provide optimistic future using new treatments for nerve injuries. Biomaterial scaffold creates substrate within which cells are instructed to form a tissue or an organ in a highly controlled way. The principal function of a scaffold is to direct cell behavior such as migration, proliferation, differentiation, maintenance of phenotype, and apoptosis by facilitating sensing and responding to the environment via cell-matrix and cell-cell communications. Therefore, having such abilities provides scaffolds seeded with a special type of cell as an important part of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine which spinal cord regeneration is an example of. Nevertheless, the vast number of biodegradable synthetic and natural biopolymers makes choosing the right one very difficult. In this review article, it was tried to provide an inclusive survey of biopolymers seeded with Schwann cells (SCs) to be used for axonal regeneration in the nervous system.
Resveratrol, a polyphenol found in red wine, peanuts, soy beans, and pomegranates, possesses a wide range of biological effects. Since resveratrol's properties seem ideal for treating neurodegenerative diseases, its ability to diminish amyloid plaques was tested. Mice were fed clinically feasible dosages of resveratrol for forty-five days. Neither resveratrol nor its conjugated metabolites were detectable in brain. Nevertheless, resveratrol diminished plaque formation in a region specific manner. The largest reductions in the percent area occupied by plaques were observed in medial cortex (-48%), striatum (-89%) and hypothalamus (-90%). The changes occurred without detectable activation of SIRT-1 or alterations in APP processing. However, brain glutathione declined 21% and brain cysteine increased 54%. The increased cysteine and decreased glutathione may be linked to the diminished plaque formation. This study supports the concept that onset of neurodegenerative disease may be delayed or mitigated with use of dietary chemo-preventive agents that protect against beta-amyloid plaque formation and oxidative stress.
Cumulative data on the effects of estrogen therapy (ET) on brain function in postmenopausal women suggests that ET influences cerebral metabolism and may protect against age-related declines in various domains of cognitive function. The beneficial cognitive effects of ET may relate to its modulation of the thalamic-striatum cholinergic and dopaminergic systems, as the activity of both neurotransmitter systems in the thalamus appears to be positively influenced by estrogen. In the current study, we attempted to evaluated regional cerebral brain metabolism utilizing [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in 11 healthy recently-postmenopausal women on ET (ET+) in comparison to 11 recently-postmenopausal and ET-nave women (ET-) in order to assess the effects of ET on cholinergic and dopaminergic system regulation. Results showed thalamo-basal ganglia connectivity among ET+ women but not among ET- women. The presence of connectivity in the thalamo-striatal pathway in recently postmenopausal women suggests estrogen effects in preserving integrity of the cholinergic and dopaminergic systems. The results also suggest that ET initiated at or near the menopausal transition may modulate brain aging by mediating complex sensory-motor functions.
In tertiary referral patients, there is association between altered sleep patterns, functional bowel disorders and altered gut motor function. Body mass index (BMI) is also associated with gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms including diarrhoea, and with sleep disturbances. Our hypothesis is that sleep disturbances are associated with GI symptoms, and this is not explained by BMI. A 48-item-validated questionnaire was mailed to 6939 community participants in Olmsted County, MN. The survey included GI symptoms, sleep disturbance, daily lifestyle and quality of life (QOL). Independent contributions of sleep disturbance to individual symptoms were assessed using logistic regression adjusting for age, gender, lifestyle and mental health status. The association of an overall sleep score with an overall symptom score was examined and the ability of both scores to predict SF-12 physical and mental functioning scores assessed in multiple linear regression models. Among 3228 respondents, 874 (27%) reported trouble staying asleep. There was a significant correlation of overall sleep scores with overall GI symptom scores (partial r = 0.28, P &lt; 0.001). Waking up once nightly at least four times a month was significantly associated with pain, nausea, dysphagia, diarrhoea, loose stools, urgency and a feeling of anal blockage. Trouble falling asleep was significantly associated with rectal urgency. Associations were independent of gender, age, lifestyle factors and BMI. Overall, sleep scores and GI symptom scores were both significant independent predictors of impaired QOL. In the community, reporting poor sleep is associated with upper and lower GI symptoms, but this is independent of BMI.
Abnormalities in the brain generally manifest on MRI as changes in shape (morphometry) or changes in the nature of the tissue (signal intensity). Voxel Based Morphometry (VBM) is a whole brain quantitative way of assessing morphometric changes. Voxel Based Relaxometry (VBR) directly assesses signal intensity changes in quantitative maps of T2 relaxation time, but this requires specialised multiple-echo acquisition sequences that are not usually available at clinical sites. This paper introduces and assesses an objective voxel-based statistical method for evaluation of signal intensity in groups of routinely acquired qualitative images. We call the method Voxel-Based Iterative Sensitivity (VBIS) analysis. It adaptively optimises the relative global scaling of images to maximise sensitivity to regional effects. We apply and validate the method of analysis for T2-weighted images of the human brain. To validate the method, it was directly compared with VBR by extracting T2-weighted images of a single echo from multi-echo T2 relaxometry acquisitions from a group of 24 patients with left hemisphere hippocampal sclerosis and 97 healthy controls. Expected signal abnormalities in the patients were detectable with VBIS-T2, confirming the feasibility of the technique. This opens the door to the use of a voxel-based analysis approach on the vast amount of T2-weighted image data that has been and is being acquired on MRI scanners. When a quantitative modality is not available, VBIS can be an effective way to quantify differences between groups. We expect the method could also assist quantitative analysis of other qualitative modalities such as T1-weighted MRI, SPECT and CT.
People experience relief whenever outcomes are better than they would have been, had an alternative course of action been chosen. Here we investigated the neuronal basis of relief with functional resonance imaging in a choice task in which the outcome of the chosen option and that of the unchosen option were revealed sequentially. We found parametric activation increases in anterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex with increasing relief (chosen outcomes better than unchosen outcomes). Conversely, anterior ventrolateral prefrontal activation was unrelated to the opposite of relief, increasing regret (chosen outcomes worse than unchosen outcomes). Furthermore, the anterior ventrolateral prefrontal activation was unrelated to primary gains and increased with relief irrespective of whether the chosen outcome was a loss or a gain. These results suggest that the anterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex encodes a higher-order reward signal that lies at the core of current theories of emotion.
We used the [F-18]FDG micro PET neuroimaging technique to investigate changes in brain activity induced by acute stress in rats. Animals were given immobilization stress for 1 or 2 h, or 1-h stress followed by 1-h recovery, after which their brains were scanned. Plasma corticosterone levels measured at various time points in separate groups of rats showed a rapid increase during stress and slower decrease after termination of the stress. Immobilization stress given for an hour activated the hypothalamus, entorhinal and insular/piriform cortices, and raphe pallidus nucleus. At the same time, the dorsal hippocampus, thalamus, other cortical areas (motor, somatosensory and barrel field), striatum, superior colliculus and cerebellum were deactivated. With 2-h immobilization stress, the activity of the hypothalamus, various cortical areas and dorsal hippocampus habituated during the second hour while that of the thalamus and cerebellum did not. During 1-h recovery, the hypothalamic activation and widespread cortical deactivation disappeared, but the dorsal hippocampus, thalamus and cerebellum still remained significantly deactivated. Additional brain areas such as the septum and prelimbic cortex now showed deactivation during recovery. Changes in glucose metabolism in the dorsal hippocampus and hypothalamus exhibited a highly significant negative correlation, supporting the view that the hippocampus is involved in regulating the stress response of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. The advantages and limitations of the [F-18]FDG micro PET used in this study are discussed.


The cell adhesion molecule N-CAM is localized to the adult neuromuscular junction but is also expressed in the extrajunctional membrane of denervated muscles concurrent with extrajunctional acetylcholine receptors. Here we used N-CAM immunohistochemistry to determine whether we could detect early denervation in hindlimb muscles of the G93A transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In denervated wild type mouse muscles, N-CAM immunoreactivity on the sarcolemma of all fiber types and within the sarcoplasm of only type IIA fibers was detected at day 2: approximately 30% of the muscle fibers in cross-section were fully circumscribed by N-CAM immunoreactivity and approximately 25% of fibers were incompletely circumscribed. The proportion of the latter fibers remained constant over the next 8 days as the proportions of the former fibers increased exponentially. Thereafter, fully circumscribed muscle fibers increased to a maximum by 30 days with a concomitant fall in the incompletely circumscribed fibers. Hence, early muscle denervation was detected by the incomplete circumscription of fiber membranes by N-CAM immunoreactivity with full circumscription and intracellular localization indicating more long-term denervation. In the G93A transgenic mouse, rapid denervation of fast-twitch muscles was readily detected by a corresponding proportion of muscle fibers in cross-section with positive N-CAM immunoreactivity. The proportions of incompletely and completely circumscribed muscle fibers corresponded well with the rate of decline in intact motor units and reduced muscle contractile forces. Progressively more fully circumscribed muscle fibers became evident with age. We conclude that the N-CAM immunoreactivity on muscle fiber membranes in muscle cross-sections provides a sensitive means of detecting early muscle fiber denervation.
Levodopa (LD) provides the most effective symptomatic treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Long-term treatment with LD, however, is often associated with the development of response fluctuations. Previous evidence suggests that the short half-life of LD is a major contributor to the development of response fluctuations and the wearing-off phenomenon in particular. Entacapone, a peripheral catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor has been shown to reduce OFF time and increase ON time in several therapeutic trials on PD patients treated with LD experiencing motor fluctuations. However, data are missing on the tolerability and efficacy of entacapone in elderly PD patients. This is of particular relevance, as most PD patients develop LD-related motor fluctuations after several years of disease duration. Here we report that addition of entacapone in a group of 45 elderly PD patients with LD-related motor fluctuations is well tolerated and efficacious in reducing the time, frequency and severity of the OFF periods. These data suggest that the drug can be used safely and efficaciously in elderly PD patients.
Ovarian carcinoma is a common gynecological malignancy. Distant metastases usually involve the liver and lung while neurological complications are rare. We describe the case of a 63-year-old woman diagnosed from an ovarian carcinoma with peritoneal seed, which was treated surgically and with chemotherapy. After 4 years she was admitted to our Department for the development of subacute right deafness, vertigo and imbalance. MRI revealed the presence of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis and an expansive formation in the right pontocerebellar angle, suggesting involvement of the right VIII cranial nerve. Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid disclosed the presence of neoplastic cells. Subsequently the patient rapidly deteriorated and eventually died. Involvement of VIII cranial nerve as the presentation of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis in ovarian carcinoma is rare. In the literature at least two other cases presented with deafness, suggesting that leptomeningeal carcinomatosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis when deafness appears in a cancer patient.
Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the thymidine phosphorylase gene (TYMP). We report here a patient compound heterozygous for two TYMP mutations: a novel g.4009G&gt;A transition affecting the consensus splice donor site of intron 9, and a previously reported g.675G&gt;C splice site mutation. The novel mutation causes exon 9 skipping but leaves the reading frame intact; however, TYMP protein was not detected by immunoblot analysis, suggesting that neither mutant allele is expressed as protein. The patient's fibroblasts showed gradual loss of the mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunit I of cytochrome-c oxidase, suggesting a progressive mitochondrial DNA defect in culture.


Oxidative stress is one of the predisposing factors in adult neurological disorders. We have examined the involvement of oxidative stress in child-onset neurodegenerative disorders, and here we review the findings from our analysis. In cases of Cockayne syndrome, the oxidative products of lipids and proteins were increased in the globus pallidus; however, oxidative nucleotide damage that coincided with reduced copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/ZnSOD) expression was observed in cases of xeroderma pigmentosum, and these patients also presented increased oxidative stress markers in urine samples. In spinal muscular atrophy, lipid peroxidation in conjunction with oxidative DNA damage was observed in motor neurons. Cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis presented oxidative nucleoside damage in cerebral cortical neurons at early disease stages, which were subsequently replaced by lipid peroxidation in glial cells of cerebral white matter. In relation to progressive myoclonic epilepsy, oxidative damage to DNA, proteins, and lipids appeared to coincide with cerebral and cerebellar cortical lesions of neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis. Patients with Lafora disease also presented an increase in oxidative stress markers for DNA and/or lipids in the brain and urine. These findings imply involvement of oxidative stress in developmental brain disorders; antioxidant agents could prove to be useful for treating patients with those disorders.
Exposure to ethanol during development triggers neuronal cell death and this is thought to play a central role in the pathophysiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). Studies suggest that ethanol-induced neurodegeneration during the period of synaptogenesis results from widespread potentiation of GABA(A) receptors and inhibition of NMDA receptors throughout the brain, with neocortical layer II being particularly sensitive. Here, we tested whether ethanol modulates the function of these receptors during this developmental period using patch-clamp electrophysiological and Ca(2+) imaging techniques in acute slices from postnatal day 7-9 rats. We focused on pyramidal neurons in layer II of the parietal cortex (with layer III as a control). Ethanol (70mM) increased spontaneous action potential-dependent GABA release in layer II (but not layer III) neurons without affecting postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors. Protein and mRNA expression for both the Cl(-) importer, NKCC1, and the Cl(-) exporter, KCC2, were detected in layer II/III neurons. Perforated-patch experiments demonstrated that E(Cl)((-)) is shifted to the right of E(m); activation of GABA(A) receptors with muscimol depolarized E(m), decreased action potential firing, and minimally increased [Ca(2+)](i). However, the ethanol-induced increase of GABAergic transmission did not affect neuronal excitability. Ethanol had no effect on currents exogenously evoked by NMDA or AMPA receptor-mediated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents. Acute application of ethanol in the absence of receptor antagonists minimally increased [Ca(2+)](i). These findings are inconsistent with the excessive inhibition model of ethanol-induced neurodegeneration, supporting the view that ethanol damages developing neurons via more complex mechanisms that vary among specific neuronal populations.
Ischemic stroke is the second most common cause of death worldwide and a major cause of disability. Intravenous thrombolysis with rt-PA remains the only available acute therapy in patients who present within 3h of stroke onset other than the recently approved mechanical MERCI device, substantiating the high unmet need in available stroke therapeutics. The development of successful therapeutic strategies remains challenging, as evidenced by the continued failures of new therapies in clinical trials. However, significant lessons have been learned and this knowledge is currently being incorporated into improved pre-clinical and clinical design. Furthermore, advancements in imaging technologies and continued progress in understanding biological pathways have established a prolonged presence of salvageable penumbral brain tissue and have begun to elucidate the natural repair response initiated by ischemic insult. We review important past and current approaches to drug development with an emphasis on implementing principles of translational research to achieve a rigorous conversion of knowledge from bench to bedside. We highlight current strategies to protect and repair brain tissue with the promise to provide longer therapeutic windows, preservation of multiple tissue compartments and improved clinical success.
Adenosine is an endogenous inhibitor of excitatory synaptic transmission with potent anticonvulsant properties in the mammalian brain. Given adenosine's important role in modulating synaptic transmission, several mechanisms exist to regulate its extracellular availability. One of these is the intracellular enzyme adenosine kinase (ADK), which phosphorylates adenosine to AMP. We have investigated the role that ADK plays in regulating the presence and effects of extracellular adenosine in area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices. Inhibition of ADK activity with 5'-iodotubercidin (IODO; 5 muM) raised extracellular adenosine, as measured with adenosine biosensors, and potently inhibited field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in an adenosine A(1)R-dependent manner. In nominally Mg(2+)-free aCSF, which facilitated the induction of electrically-evoked epileptiform activity, adenosine biosensor recordings revealed that seizures were accompanied by the transient release of adenosine. Under these conditions, IODO also inhibited the fEPSP and greatly suppressed epileptiform activity evoked by brief, high-frequency stimulation. During spontaneous seizures evoked by the A(1)R antagonist CPT, adenosine release was unaffected by IODO. This suggests that ADK activity does not limit activity-dependent adenosine release. On the basis of strong ADK immunoreactivity in GFAP-positive cells, astrocytes are likely to play a key role in regulating basal adenosine levels. It is this action of ADK on the basal adenosine tone that is permissive to seizure activity, and, by extension, other forms of activity-dependent neuronal activity such as synaptic plasticity.
Adenosine serves as a homeostatic factor, regulating hippocampal activity through A(1) receptor-mediated inhibition. Gamma frequency oscillations, associated with cognitive functions, emerge from increased network activity. Here we test the hypothesis that hippocampal gamma oscillations are modulated by ambient adenosine levels. In mouse hippocampal slices exogenous adenosine suppressed the power of both kainate-induced gamma oscillations and spontaneous gamma oscillations, observed in a subset of slices in normal aCSF. Kainate-induced gamma oscillation power was suppressed by the A(1) receptor agonist PIA and potentiated by the A(1) receptor antagonist 8-CPT to three times matched control values with an EC(50) of 1.1microM. 8-CPT also potentiated spontaneous gamma oscillation power to five times control values. The A(2A) receptor agonist CGS21680 potentiated kainate-induced gamma power to two times control values (EC(50) 0.3nM), but this effect was halved in the presence of 8-CPT. The A(2A) receptor antagonist ZM241385 suppressed kainate-induced gamma power. The non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine induced gamma oscillations in slices in control aCSF and potentiated both kainate-induced gamma and spontaneous gamma oscillations to three times control values (EC(50) 28muM). Decreasing endogenous adenosine levels with adenosine deaminase increased gamma oscillations. Increasing endogenous adenosine levels with the adenosine kinase inhibitor 5-iodotubericidin suppressed gamma oscillations. Partial hypoxia-induced suppression of gamma oscillations could be prevented by 8-CPT. These observations indicate that gamma oscillation strength is powerfully modulated by ambient levels of adenosine through A(1) receptors, opposed by A(2A) receptors. Increased gamma oscillation strength is likely to contribute to the beneficial cognitive effects of caffeine.
5-HT(7) receptors are involved in REM sleep and possibly in mood disorders. REM sleep suppression and antidepressant-like behavior is observed in 5-HT(7)(-/-) mice and in rats treated with 5-HT(7) receptor antagonists. We recently demonstrated that pharmacological blockade of 5-HT(7) receptors enhances REM sleep suppression and antidepressant-like behavior induced by citalopram in rodents. It has been hypothesized that the effect of citalopram on sleep is essentially mediated by the activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors. The present study investigates the impact of 5-HT(7) receptor gene deletion on the effect of various reuptake inhibitors on REM sleep and probes the role of 5-HT(1A) receptors in this response. Three SSRIs (citalopram, fluoxetine and paroxetine) but not the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine had a significantly stronger REM sleep suppressive effect in 5-HT(7)(-/-) mice compared to 5-HT(7)(+/+) mice. In contrast, REM sleep was similarly reduced in 5-HT(7)(+/+) mice and 5-HT(7)(-/-) mice after treatment with the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist ipsapirone. Furthermore, both 5-HT(7)(+/+) and 5-HT(7)(-/-) mice displayed the same increase in REM sleep duration produced by the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100635. These findings indicate that 5-HT(7) receptor deletion augments the effect of various SSRIs on REM sleep suppression and that this effect is distinct from those mediated via 5-HT(1A) receptors.
Previous published work with the novel anticonvulsant, analgesic and anti-anxiety medication, pregabalin (Lyrica), has shown that it has anxiolytic-like actions in several animal behavioral models. However, pregabalin is structurally and pharmacologically different from other classes of known anxiolytic drugs, and the mechanisms that alter brain activity to produce anxiolytic-like actions are not well understood. In an effort to determine more about the cellular mechanisms of pregabalin, we studied its effects on hippocampal theta activity of urethane-anesthetized rats that was elicited by electrical stimulation of the nucleus pontis oralis (nPO) in the brainstem. We found that systemic administration of pregabalin significantly reduced the frequency of stimulation-induced hippocampal theta activity similarly to the effects of diazepam. In addition, pregabalin (but not diazepam) significantly altered the stimulus intensity/frequency relationship, and increased slow delta oscillation (&lt;3.0Hz) in spontaneous hippocampal EEG in a dose-dependent manner. Our findings suggest that pregabalin may alter evoked theta frequency activity in the hippocampus by reducing neurotransmitter-mediated activation of either the septal nucleus or the hippocampus, and that its actions are unlikely to be mediated by direct activation of GABA neurotransmitter systems. These observations provide further insight to the action of pregabalin, and support the utilization of stimulation-induced theta model in discovery of novel anxiolytic drugs.
When epileptiform activity is acutely induced in vitro, transient partial blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated calcium influx leads to selective long-term depotentiation of the synapses involved in the epileptic activity as well as a reduction in the probability of further epileptiform activity. If such selective depotentiation occurred within foci of epileptic activity in vivo, the corresponding long-term reduction in seizure probability could form the basis for a novel treatment of epilepsy. Continuous radiotelemetric EEG monitoring demonstrated modest acute anticonvulsant effects but no long-term reductions in the probability of spontaneous seizures after transient partial blockade of NMDA receptors (NMDAR) during ictal and interictal activity in the kainate animal model of chronic epilepsy. In vitro, depotentiation was induced when NMDAR were partially blocked during epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices from control animals, but not in slices from chronically epileptic rats. However in slices from epileptic animals, depotentiation during epileptiform activity was induced by partial block of NMDAR using NR2B- but not NR2A-selective antagonists. These results suggest that chronic epileptic activity is associated with changes in NMDA receptor-mediated signaling that is reflected in the pharmacology of activity- and NMDA receptor-dependent depotentiation.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are an important analgesic treatment for neuropathic pain, though the neural substrates mediating these effects are poorly understood. We have used an integrative approach combining behavioural pharmacology with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the effects of chronic treatment with the TCA desipramine, on touch-evoked pain (mechanical allodynia) and brain regional activity in the selective spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model of neuropathic pain. SNL and sham-operated rats received once daily i.p. administration of 10 mg/kg DMI, or saline, for 14 days. Withdrawal responses to the application of a normally non-noxious (10 g) stimulus were recorded in SNL and sham-operated rats over this period. On the final day of the study, SNL and sham-operated rats received a final challenge dose of DMI (10 mg/kg i.p.) during fMRI scanning. Chronic administration of desipramine (DMI) significantly attenuated mechancial allodynia in SNL rats. DMI challenge in chronic DMI-treated neuropathic rats produced significantly greater activation of the deep mesencephalic nucleus, primary somatosensory cortex, insular cortex, medial globus pallidus, inferior colliculus, perirhinal cortex and cerebellum compared to sham-operated rats and saline controls. By contrast, the spatial pattern of brain regional activation by chronic DMI treatment in sham controls encompassed a number of other areas including those associated with learning and memory processes. These novel findings identify key brain regions implicated in the analgesic and mood altering effects associated with chronic treatment with DMI.

Long-term memory (LTM) is enhanced for emotional information, but the influence of stimulus emotionality on short-term memory (STM) is less clear. We examined the electrophysiological correlates of improved visual STM for emotional face identity, focusing on the P1, N170, P3b and N250r event-related potential (ERP) components. These correlates are taken to indicate which memory processing stages and cognitive processes contribute to the improved STM for emotional face identity. In the encoding phase, one or three angry, happy or neutral faces were presented for 2s, resulting in a memory load of one or three. The subsequent 1-s retention phase was followed by a 2-s retrieval phase, in which participants indicated whether a probe face had been present or not during encoding. Memory performance was superior for angry and happy faces over neutral faces at load three. None of the ERP components during encoding were affected by facial expression. During retrieval, the early P3b was decreased for emotional compared to neutral faces, which presumably reflects greater resource allocation to the maintenance of the emotional faces. Furthermore, the N250r during retrieval was increased for emotional compared to neutral faces, reflecting an enhanced repetition effect for emotional faces. These findings suggest that enhanced visual STM for emotional faces arises from improved maintenance and from improved detection of face repetition at retrieval.
Auditory scene analysis begins in infancy, making it possible for the baby to distinguish its mother's voice from other noises in the environment. Despite the importance of this process for human behavior, the question of how perceptual sound organization develops during childhood is not well understood. The current study investigated the role of attention for perceiving sound streams in a group of school-aged children and young adults. We behaviorally determined the frequency separation at which a set of sounds was detected as one integrated or two separated streams and compared these measures with passively and actively obtained electrophysiological indices (mismatch negativity (MMN) and P3b) of the same sounds. In adults, there was a high degree of concordance between passive and active electrophysiological indices of stream segregation that matched with perception. In contrast, there was a large disparity in children. Active electrophysiological indices of streaming were concordant with behavioral measures of perception, whereas passive indices were not. In addition, children required larger frequency separations to perceive two streams compared to adults. Our results suggest that differences in stream segregation between children and adults reflect an under-development of basic auditory processing mechanisms, and indicate a developmental role of attention for shaping physiological responses that optimize processes engaged during passive audition.
Determining whether patients with amnesia can succeed in remembering their distant past has pivotal implications for theories of memory storage. However, various factors influence recall. We speculated that some patients with anterograde amnesia adopt a gist-based retrieval orientation for memories from all time periods, thereby exaggerating remote recall deficits. We tested whether an experimentally induced gist-based retrieval orientation could indeed hinder remote recall. Healthy individuals described photographs of complex scenes (e.g., of a cluttered desk) either with many words or few words (detail- or gist-based manipulation, respectively). They subsequently recalled autobiographical events and produced less episodic information after engaging the gist-based compared to the detail-based orientation. These results demonstrate the ease with which a gist-based orientation can produce apparent recall impairments. Deficits in remote episodic recall, and in future-event imagining, must thus be interpreted in light of habitual tendencies toward gist-based retrieval that some amnesic patients may exhibit.
Following Goodale and Milner's [Goodale, M. A., &amp; Milner, A. D. (1992). Separate visual pathways for perception and action. Trends in Neurosciences, 15(1), 20-25] proposal to distinguish the dorsal and ventral systems on basis of the functional demands they serve (i.e., action and perception), a vast literature has emerged that scrutinized if the dorsal and ventral systems indeed process information into egocentric and allocentric codes in accordance with their respective functions. However, a corollary of Goodale and Milner's original proposal, that these functional demands also impose different constraints on information detection, has been largely overlooked. In the present study, we measured gaze patterns to investigate how information detection for action and perception differs. In two conditions, participants (N=9) grasped or made a manual estimate of the length of a shaft embedded in a Mller-Lyer configuration. The illusion significantly affected the manual estimates, but not the hand aperture during grasping. In line with these behavioral findings, significant differences in gaze patterns were revealed between the two tasks. Participants spent more time looking at areas that contain egocentric information (i.e., centre of the shaft) when grasping as compared to making a manual length estimate. In addition, participants, made more gaze shifts (i.e., especially between the two areas surrounding the shaft endpoints and including the arrowheads) when making the manual length estimate, enabling the pick up of allocentric information. This difference was more pronounced during task execution as compared to task preparation (i.e., before movement onset). These results support the contention that the functional distinction between the dorsal and ventral systems is not limited to the processing of information, but also encompasses the detection of information.
Patients with semantic dementia (SD) make numerous phoneme migration errors when recalling lists of words they no longer fully understand, suggesting that word meaning makes a critical contribution to phoneme binding in verbal short-term memory. Healthy individuals make errors that appear similar when recalling lists of nonwords, which also lack semantic support. Although previous studies have assumed that the errors in these two groups stem from the same underlying cause, they have never been directly compared. We tackled this issue by examining immediate serial recall for SD patients and controls on &quot;pure&quot; word lists and &quot;mixed&quot; lists that contained a mixture of words and nonwords. SD patients were equally poor at pure and mixed lists and made numerous phoneme migration errors in both conditions. In contrast, controls recalled pure lists better than mixed lists and only produced phoneme migrations for mixed lists. We also examined the claim that semantic activation is critical for words in the primacy portion of the list. In fact, the effect of mixed lists was greatest for later serial positions in the control group and in the SD group recall was poorest towards the ends of lists. These results suggest that mixing nonwords with words in healthy participants closely mimics the impact of semantic degradation in SD on word list recall. The study provides converging evidence for the idea that lexical/semantic knowledge is an important source of constraint on phonological coherence, ensuring that phonemes in familiar words are bound to each other and emerge together in recall.
The act of reaching for and acting upon an object involves two forms of selection: selection of the object as a target, and selection of the action to be performed. While these two forms of selection are logically dissociable, and are evidently subserved by separable neural pathways, they must also be closely coordinated. We examine the nature of this coordination by developing and analyzing a computational model of object and action selection first proposed by Ward [Ward, R. (1999). Interactions between perception and action systems: a model for selective action. In G. W. Humphreys, J. Duncan, &amp; A. Treisman (Eds.), Attention, Space and Action: Studies in Cognitive Neuroscience. Oxford: Oxford University Press]. An interesting tenet of this account, which we explore in detail, is that the interplay between object and action selection depends critically on top-down inputs representing the current task set or plan of action. A concrete manifestation of this, established through a series of simulations, is that the impact of distractor objects on reaching times can vary depending on the nature of the current action plan. In order to test the model's predictions in this regard, we conducted two experiments, one involving direct object manipulation, the other involving tool-use. In both experiments we observed the specific interaction between task set and distractor type predicted by the model. Our findings provide support for the computational model, and more broadly for an interactive account of object and action selection.
Sex matters to every cell of the body and thus gonadal steroids have the capability of affecting numerous behaviors and neurotransmitters. Several reports in this issue highlight the importance of gonadal steroids: estradiol and progesterone modulate the serotonin transporter in rodents changes in D2 receptors across the menstrual cycle in female cynomolgus monkeys testosterone influences amygdala reactivity in women and temporary suppression of gonadal steroids influences sexual in both men and women. This body of work challenges all of neuropsychopharmacology to consider the importance of sex and gonadal steroids in future studies.
The association between the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) and psychiatric disorders, particularly psychosis, suggests a causal relationship between 22q11DS genes and abnormal brain function. The genes catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) and proline dehydrogenase both reside within the commonly deleted region of 22q11.2. COMT activity and proline levels may therefore be altered in 22q11DS individuals. Associations of both COMT(158) genotype and elevated serum proline levels with abnormal brain function have been reported. Fifty-six 22q11DS children and 75 healthy controls were assessed on physiological measures of brain function, including prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle, P50 auditory sensory gating and smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM). COMT(158) genotype and plasma proline levels were determined in the 22q11DS children. We hypothesized an interaction between the COMT(158) genotype and proline, predicting the strongest negative effect of high proline on brain function to occur in 22q11DS children who are carriers of the COMT(met) allele. Of the three physiological measures, only SPEM and PPI were abnormal in the patient sample. With regard to the SPEM performance, there was a significant interaction between the COMT(158) genotype and proline level with significantly decreased SPEM performance in children with high plasma proline levels and the low activity COMT(met) allele. A similar interaction effect was not observed with regard to PPI. These findings are consistent with a model in which elevated proline negatively affects brain function by an increase in dopamine in the prefrontal cortex. 22q11DS patients with low dopamine catabolic capacity are therefore especially vulnerable to this functional disruption.
The influence of cannabis on mental health receives growing scientific and political attention. An increasing demand for treatment of cannabis dependence has refueled the discussion about the addictive potential of cannabis. A key feature of all addictive drugs is the ability to increase synaptic dopamine levels in the striatum, a mechanism involved in their rewarding and motivating effects. However, it is currently unknown if cannabis can stimulate striatal dopamine neurotransmission in humans. Here we show that Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive component in cannabis, induces dopamine release in the human striatum. Using the dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor tracer [(11)C]raclopride and positron emission tomography in seven healthy subjects, we demonstrate that THC inhalation reduces [(11)C]raclopride binding in the ventral striatum and the precommissural dorsal putamen but not in other striatal subregions. This is consistent with an increase in dopamine levels in these regions. These results suggest that THC shares a potentially addictive property with other drugs of abuse. Further, it implies that the endogenous cannabinoid system is involved in regulating striatal dopamine release. This allows new directions in research on the effects of THC in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia.
A history of exposure to stressors may be a predisposing factor for developing posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after trauma. Extinction of conditioned fear appears to be impaired in PTSD, but the consequences of prior stress or excess glucocorticoid exposure for extinction learning are not known. We report that prior chronic exposure to the stress hormone, corticosterone (CORT), decreases endogenous CORT secretion upon context reexposure and impairs extinction after contextual fear conditioning in rats, while leaving fear memory acquisition and expression intact. Posttraining administration of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist, RU38486, partially mimicked prior CORT exposure effects on freezing during fear extinction training. Extinction of conditioned fear is an active learning process thought to involve glutamatergic targets--including specific NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits--in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), which includes the prelimbic, infralimbic, and medial orbitofrontal cortices. After CORT exposure, decreases in the NMDA receptor NR2B subunit and AMPA receptor subunits, GluR2/3, as well as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, were detected in cortical regions, but not dorsal hippocampus (CA1). Receptor subunit expression levels in the vmPFC correlated with freezing during training. In addition, prior CORT selectively decreased sucrose preference, consistent with established models of anhedonia and with blunted affect in PTSD. Together, these data suggest a cellular mechanism by which chronically elevated glucocorticoid exposure--as may be experienced during repeated exposure to stressors--interferes with the neural systems that modulate behavioral flexibility and may thereby contribute to psychopathological fear states.
Despite management with opioids and other pain modifying therapies, neuropathic pain continues to reduce the quality of life and daily functioning in HIV-infected individuals. Cannabinoid receptors in the central and peripheral nervous systems have been shown to modulate pain perception. We conducted a clinical trial to assess the impact of smoked cannabis on neuropathic pain in HIV. This was a phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of analgesia with smoked cannabis in HIV-associated distal sensory predominant polyneuropathy (DSPN). Eligible subjects had neuropathic pain refractory to at least two previous analgesic classes; they continued on their prestudy analgesic regimens throughout the trial. Regulatory considerations dictated that subjects smoke under direct observation in a hospital setting. Treatments were placebo and active cannabis ranging in potency between 1 and 8% Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, four times daily for 5 consecutive days during each of 2 treatment weeks, separated by a 2-week washout. The primary outcome was change in pain intensity as measured by the Descriptor Differential Scale (DDS) from a pretreatment baseline to the end of each treatment week. Secondary measures included assessments of mood and daily functioning. Of 127 volunteers screened, 34 eligible subjects enrolled and 28 completed both cannabis and placebo treatments. Among the completers, pain relief was greater with cannabis than placebo (median difference in DDS pain intensity change, 3.3 points, effect size=0.60; p=0.016). The proportions of subjects achieving at least 30% pain relief with cannabis versus placebo were 0.46 (95%CI 0.28, 0.65) and 0.18 (0.03, 0.32). Mood and daily functioning improved to a similar extent during both treatment periods. Although most side effects were mild and self-limited, two subjects experienced treatment-limiting toxicities. Smoked cannabis was generally well tolerated and effective when added to concomitant analgesic therapy in patients with medically refractory pain due to HIV DSPN.
Several studies suggest that serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) exert a more rapid effect when used for the treatment of symptoms such as anger and irritability then when used for depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or anxiety. In line with this, premenstrual irritability can be effectively dampened by intermittent administration of an SRI, from ovulation to menstruation, indicating an onset of action of 10 days or less. How fast this effect appears, in terms of hours or days, is of considerable theoretical interest, but has previously not been studied in detail. To explore this issue, 22 women with marked premenstrual irritability, who previously had responded to paroxetine, were given this compound during two menstrual cycles and placebo during one cycle in a double-blind, cross-over fashion. The women were asked to start medication in the midst of the luteal phase when irritability had been intense for 2 days. The paroxetine cycles differed significantly from the placebo cycle as early as 14 h after drug intake with respect to the number of subjects experiencing sustained reduction in irritability. When the different cycles were compared with respect to irritability-rating scores for each time of assessment, the difference was significant at day 3. The side effect nausea had an even more rapid onset (4 h), but usually disappeared within 4 days. To summarize, this controlled trial shows that an SRI reduces premenstrual irritability already within a few days after the onset of treatment.


The goal of this article is to review the studies that have linked low cholesterol levels with psychiatric symptoms or behavioral disorders in order to clarify which cholesterol fractions may influence psychological well being and mental health. The distinction between &quot;bad&quot; (i.e., pro-atherogenic) and &quot;good&quot; (i.e., anti-atherogenic) cholesterol is crucial to decide if the clinical benefits of low cholesterol levels for cardiovascular health might turn into a risk factor for psychiatric morbidity. Although the data from studies linking low cholesterol to aggression, suicide and self-harm, impulsivity, negative mood, postnatal depression, and cognitive dysfunction are far from unequivocal, the balance of evidence from new randomized controlled trials is reassuring. However, there are some subgroups of vulnerable individuals who, unlike the majority of persons in the general population, are susceptible to the psychological and behavioral adverse outcomes associated with low cholesterol levels. Because in some cases pro-atherogenic lipid and lipoprotein fractions are involved in this vulnerability, reaching the double goal of promoting both cardiovascular and mental health may be problematic for some individuals. A major task of future research is to identify these vulnerable individuals.
Our aim is to consolidate recent data on relationship between central serotonergic neurotransmission and stress-elicited cardiovascular changes. Activation of central of 5-HT1A receptors attenuates tachycardic and pressor changes elicited by a wide range of stressors (airjet, restraint, open field, fear conditioning, social defeat), supporting the previous view of these receptors as &quot;sympathoinhibitory&quot;. Their likely location is the medullary raphe. It is still unknown whether 5-TH1A receptors are sympathoinhibitory in physiological condition, as 5-HT1A antagonists do not affect basal or stress-altered cardiovascular parameters. In contrast to the established view that central 5-HT2A receptors are &quot;sympathoexcitatory&quot;, experiments with new selective antagonists indicate that these receptors do not mediate stress-induced pressor and tachycardic responses, and are not involved in cardiovascular control at rest. The exception is control of cutaneous vascular bed, both at rest and during stress, likely at the spinal level. 5-HT3 receptors located in the nucleus tractus silitarius (NTS) contribute to stress-induced suppression of the baroreflex. 5-HT3 receptors located in sympathetic ganglia possibly contribute to the development of sustained hypertension in chronically stressed rats.
Synaptic plasticity depends on the generation, modification and disconnection of synapses. An excitatory synapse is connected to a specialized dendritic compartment called a spine, which undergoes activity-induced remodeling. Here, we discuss a signaling pathway that transduces neuronal activity into the remodeling of spine through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and N-cadherin. Dendritic spines change their morphology and density in response to neuronal activity. In the early phase, posttranslational modifications of synaptic molecules regulate spine morphology, whereas activity-induced gene products reduce spine density in the late phase. One of the targets of these mechanisms is N-cadherin. An activity-induced protocadherin, arcadlin, stimulates thousand and one 2beta (TAO2beta) kinase, which in turn activates p38 MAPK through MAPK kinase 3 (MEK3), resulting in the endocytosis of N-cadherin and the decrease in spine number. This pathway also underlies the mechanism of the spine decrease in neuronal disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy. Development of new p38 MAPK inhibitors brings a ray of hope with respect to the development of more effective therapies for these patients.
Proper synaptic function requires the seamless integration of the transport, assembly, and regulation of synaptic components and structures. Inasmuch as the synapse is often distant from the neuronal cell body, newly synthesized synaptic proteins, the precursors of synaptic vesicles, active zone compartments, channels and receptors, and mitochondria, must be transported along lengthy neuronal processes to participate in synaptogenesis. Neuronal transport is mediated by motor proteins that associate with their cargoes via adaptors (or receptors) and that travel along the cytoskeleton network within the neuronal processes. Thus, the identity of membranous protein cargoes and the specificity of motor-cargo interactions are critical for correctly targeting cargoes and properly assembling synapses in developing neurons and in remodeling synapses of mature neurons in response to neuronal activity. In this article, the authors review recent progress in characterizing microtubule- and actin-based motor proteins that are involved in delivering synaptic components and discuss potential mechanisms underlying the formation of motor-receptor-cargo complexes that contribute to synaptogenesis and activity-induced synaptic plasticity.
This review considers the 2 sources of neurotrophic factors in the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the neurons and the nonneuronal cells in the denervated distal nerve stumps, and their role in axon regeneration. Morphological assessment of regenerative success in response to administration of exogenous growth factors after nerve injury and repair has indicated a role of the endogenous neurotrophic factors from Schwann cells in the distal nerve stump. However, the increased number of axons may reflect more neurons regenerating their axons and/or increased numbers of axon sprouts from the same number of neurons. Using fluorescent dyes to count neurons that regenerated their axons across a suture site and into distal nerve stumps, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) were found not to increase the number of neurons that regenerated their axons after immediate nerve repair. Nevertheless, the factors did reverse the deleterious effect of delayed nerve repair, indicating that the axons that regenerate into the distal nerve stump normally have access to sufficient levels of endogenous neurotrophic factors to sustain their regeneration, while neurons that do not have access to these factors require exogenous factors to sustain axon regeneration. Neurons upregulate neurotrophic factors after axotomy. The upregulation is normally slow, beginning after 7 days and occurring in association with a protracted period of axonal regeneration in which axons grow out from the proximal nerve stump across a suture site over a period of 1 month in rodents. This staggered axon regeneration across the suture site is accelerated by a 1-hour period of low-frequency electrical stimulation that simultaneously accelerates the expression of BDNF and its trkB receptor in the neurons. Elevation of the level of BDNF after 2 days to &gt; 3 times that found in unstimulated neurons was accompanied by elevation of the level of cAMP and followed by accelerated upregulation of growth-associated genes, tubulin, actin, and GAP-43 and downregulation of neurofilament protein. Elevation of cAMP levels via rolipram inhibition of phosphodiesterase 4 mimicked the effect of the low-frequency electrical stimulation. In conclusion, the enhanced upregulation of neurotrophic factors in the electrically stimulated axotomized neurons accelerates axon outgrowth into the distal nerve stumps where endogenous sources of growth factors in the Schwann cells support the regeneration of the axons toward the denervated targets. The findings provide strong support for endogenous neurotrophic factors of axotomized neurons and of denervated Schwann cells playing a critical role in supporting axon regeneration in the PNS.
The European Renaissance was a revolutionary movement in human history. In this era of the rebirth of humanity, a great number of valuable artworks were created. One of these masterpieces is the magnificent wall painting The School of Athens, by Raphael, which is also known as a &quot;visualization of knowledge.&quot; Raphael depicted almost all ancient Greek philosophers in this fresco. The painting displays one noticeable figure among the scholars: the philosopher/scientist Averros from Andalusia. Western thought was greatly influenced by Averros' philosophy. Averros was as extraordinary a physician as he was a philosopher. His medical works presented novel concepts such as the discovery of the photoreceptor function of the retina, describing symptoms and signs of Parkinson's disease, and proposing a cardiac/vascular origin of cerebral stroke. In this article, we aimed to introduce Averros' works and his contribution to neuroscience in the context of art, framed particularly with Raphael's masterwork The School of Athens.
Several in vitro and in vivo studies addressed the identification of molecular determinants of the neuronal death induced by PrP(Sc) or related peptides. We developed an experimental model to assess PrP(Sc) neurotoxicity using a recombinant polypeptide encompassing amino acids 90-231 of human PrP (hPrP90-231) that corresponds to the protease-resistant core of PrP(Sc) identified in prion-infected brains. By means of mild thermal denaturation, we can convert hPrP90-231 from a PrP(C)-like conformation into a PrP(Sc)-like structure. In virtue of these structural changes, hPrP90-231 powerfully affected the survival of SH-SY5Y cells, inducing caspase 3 and p38-dependent apoptosis, while in the native alpha-helix-rich conformation, hPrP90-231 did not induce cell toxicity. The aim of this study was to identify drugs able to block hPrP90-231 neurotoxic effects, focusing on minocycline, a tetracycline with known neuroprotective activity. hPrP90-231 caused a caspase 3-dependent apoptosis via the blockade of ERK1/2 activation and the subsequent activation of p38 MAP kinase. We propose that hPrP90-231-induced apoptosis is dependent on the inhibition of ERK1/2 responsiveness to neurotrophic factors, removing a tonic inhibition of p38 activity and resulting in caspase 3 activation. Minocycline prevented hPrP90-231-induced toxicity interfering with this mechanism: the pretreatment with this tetracycline restored ERK1/2 activity and reverted p38 and caspase 3 activities. The effects of minocycline were not mediated by the prevention of hPrP90-231 structural changes or cell internalization (differently from Congo Red). In conclusion, minocycline elicits anti-apoptotic effects against the neurotoxic activity of hPrP90-231 and these effects are mediated by opposite modulation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAP kinase activities.
For many years, CD4+ effector T cells were categorized into two subsets: T helper type 1 (Th1) and type 2 (Th2) cells. More recent research has refined this model, delineating further subsets; in particular, Th17 cells, activated CD4+ T cells characterised by the production of the cytokine IL-17. Autoantigen-specific Th17 cells are associated with pathology in a number of animal models of organ-specific autoimmune disease and evidence is mounting that Th17 cells are also critical in human autoimmunity. Retinoids, a family of compounds that bind to and activate retinoic acid receptors (RARs and RXRs), are able to alter CD4+ T cell differentiation in vitro though agonism and antagonism of a range of retinoid receptors. For example, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) inhibits Th17 differentiation and instead promotes the upregulation of Foxp3, a key transcription factor in regulatory T cells. Importantly, treatment with retinoids can modulate Th17-mediated autoimmunity: experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the murine model of multiple sclerosis (MS), is ameliorated by ATRA administration due to suppression of both the differentiation and the function of Th17 cells. In this review, we discuss the unveiled molecular mechanism and the possible clinical application of retinoids for the treatment of human Th17-mediated autoimmune diseases.
Degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta in Parkinson's disease induces an abnormal activation of the glutamatergic neurotransmission system within the basal ganglia network and related structures. The aim of this study was to use proton MRS to show metabolic changes in the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, a rodent animal model of Parkinson's disease. Animals were examined before and after extensive lesioning of the nigral dopaminergic neurons and after acute administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine. No significant alterations in glutamate concentrations, assessed by the MR signal dominated by glutamate with minor contributions from glutamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid, could be measured. The total choline/total creatine ratio was found to be reduced in the striatum of the ipsilateral hemisphere.

Advances in the treatment of childhood cancers have greatly improved survivorship. Success has not come without cost, however, as survivors are at risk for late effects of treatment, including neurocognitive late effects (e.g., difficulties with thinking and reasoning). In the advent of chemotherapy-only protocols, researchers are examining neurocognitive sequelae of these agents to understand the specific role of chemotherapy in neurocognitive changes and the mechanism through which these occur. In this review, we examine the state of the literature on neurocognitive late effects after chemotherapy and their proposed neural mechanisms.

A regular daily meal regimen, as opposed to ad libitum consumption, enforces eating at a predefined time and within a short timeframe. Hence, it is important to study food intake regulation in animal feeding models that somewhat reflect this pattern. We investigated the effect of scheduled feeding on the intake of a palatable, high-sugar diet in rats and attempted to define central mechanisms - especially those related to opioid signaling--responsible for overeating sweet foods under such conditions. We found that scheduled access to food, even as challenging as 20 min per day, does not prevent overconsumption of a high-sucrose diet compared to a standard one. An opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone, at 0.3-1 mg/kg b. wt., decreased the intake of the sweet diet, whereas higher doses were required to reduce bland food consumption. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that expression of hypothalamic and brainstem genes encoding opioid peptides and receptors did not differ in sucrose versus regular diet-fed rats, which suggests that scheduled intake of sweet food produces only a transient change in the opioid tone. Intake of sugar was also associated with upregulation of orexin and oxytocin genes in the hypothalamus and NPY in the brainstem. We conclude that scheduled consumption of sugar diets is associated with activity of a complex network of neuroregulators involving opioids, orexin, oxytocin and NPY.
ZP120 is a nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide receptor (NOP) ligand. In previous studies, the effects of ZP120 were found to be sensitive to J-113397 in mouse tissues while resistant to UFP-101 in rat tissues. The aim of this study was to further investigate the ZP120 pharmacological profile using mouse and rat preparations, J-113397 and UFP-101, as well as NOP receptor knockout (NOP(-/-)) mice. Electrically stimulated mouse and rat vas deferens were used to characterize the pharmacology of ZP120 in vitro. For in vivo studies the tail-withdrawal assay was performed in wild type (NOP(+/+)) and NOP knockout (NOP(-/-)) mice. In the mouse and rat vas deferens ZP120 mimicked the effects of N/OFQ showing higher potency but lower maximal effects. In both preparations, J-113397 antagonized N/OFQ and ZP120 effects showing similar pK(B) values ( approximately 7.8). UFP-101 antagonized the actions of N/OFQ (pK(B) values approximately 7.3) but did not modify the effects of ZP120. The inhibitory effects of N/OFQ and ZP120 were no longer evident in vas deferens tissues taken from NOP(-/-) mice. In NOP(+/+) mice subjected to the tail-withdrawal assay, ZP120 (1 nmol) mimicked the pronociceptive action of N/OFQ (10 nmol), producing longer lasting effects. The effects of both peptides were absent in NOP(-/-) animals. The NOP receptor ligand ZP120 is a high potency NOP selective partial agonist able to evoke long-lasting effects; its diverse antagonist sensitivity in comparison with N/OFQ may derive from different modality of binding to the NOP receptor.
CaVbeta subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels contain two conserved domains, a src-homology-3 (SH3) domain and a guanylate kinase-like (GK) domain with an intervening HOOK domain. We have shown in a previous study that, although Gbetagamma-mediated inhibitory modulation of CaV2.2 channels did not require the interaction of a CaVbeta subunit with the CaValpha1 subunit, when such interaction was prevented by a mutation in the alpha1 subunit, G protein modulation could not be removed by a large depolarization and showed voltage-independent properties (Leroy et al., J Neurosci 25:6984-6996, 2005). In this study, we have investigated the ability of mutant and truncated CaVbeta subunits to support voltage-dependent G protein modulation in order to determine the minimal domain of the CaVbeta subunit that is required for this process. We have coexpressed the CaVbeta subunit constructs with CaV2.2 and alpha2delta-2, studied modulation by the activation of the dopamine D2 receptor, and also examined basal tonic modulation. Our main finding is that the CaVbeta subunit GK domains, from either beta1b or beta2, are sufficient to restore voltage dependence to G protein modulation. We also found that the removal of the variable HOOK region from beta2a promotes tonic voltage-dependent G protein modulation. We propose that the absence of the HOOK region enhances Gbetagamma binding affinity, leading to greater tonic modulation by basal levels of Gbetagamma. This tonic modulation requires the presence of an SH3 domain, as tonic modulation is not supported by any of the CaVbeta subunit GK domains alone.
Knowledge of blood alcohol levels (BALs) that are achieved following ethanol administration is critical for contemporary efforts to develop animal models of alcoholism. Adolescent and adult male Wistar rats were administered varying doses of ethanol (0.75, 1.5 and 3.0 g/kg) via gavage or intraperitoneal injection and BALs were measured over a two hour period. The results showed that adolescent animals had lower BALs across all time points in comparison to adults following administration of 0.75 g/kg ethanol and that 1 h after administration of 1.5 g/kg ethanol, adolescent animals showed an enhanced rate of elimination. The highest dose of ethanol (3.0 g/kg) produced comparable BALs for both adolescents and adults during the two-hour sampling period; however, the BALs for both ages were lower following administration of ethanol by gavage at this dose. Furthermore, an order effects analysis highlights that depending on the route of administration, initial dose size can influence the BALs produced by lower doses of ethanol. The current data identify the importance of measuring the level of alcohol in the blood to confirm that target BALs are achieved for adolescents and equivalent BALs are being reached for both adolescent and adult animals when such comparisons are made.
NMDA receptors have been implicated in conditioned taste aversion (CTA), a form of associative learning with the unique temporal characteristic of associating taste and toxic stimuli across very long delays. d-cycloserine (DCS), an NMDA receptor agonist, has been shown to enhance short-delay CTA learning. Here we examined the interaction of DCS with varying temporal parameters of CTA. DCS (15 mg/kg) administered prior to the pairing of 0.125% saccharin and LiCl (38 mM, 12 ml/kg) enhanced CTA when there was a short delay between the taste-toxin pairing (10 min), but not when there was a long delay (45 min). DCS activity remained at effective levels over the long delay, because DCS administered 60 min prior to a short-delay pairing enhanced CTA. The interaction of DCS with the delay between taste stimulus onset and LiCl injection was investigated by administering DCS and then 5 min access to saccharin 45 min prior to a short-delay pairing of saccharin and LiCl. DCS failed to enhance CTA in rats pre-exposed to saccharin, even with a short delay between the second saccharin exposure and LiCl injection. These results suggest that DCS enhancement of CTA is dependent on mechanisms underlying gustatory processing during long-delay taste-toxin associations.
We evaluated the effects, in rats, of single and multiple low-level inhalation exposures to sarin. Rats were trained on a variable-interval, 56 s (VI56) schedule of food reinforcement and then exposed to sarin vapor (1.7-4.0 mg/m(3) x 60 min) or air control. The exposures did not produce clinical signs of toxicity other than miosis. Subsequently, performance on the VI56 and acquisition of a radial-arm maze spatial memory task was evaluated over approximately 11 weeks. Single exposures did not affect performance on the VI56 and had little effect on acquisition of the radial-arm maze task. Multiple exposures (4.0 mg/m(3) x 60 min/day x 3) disrupted performance on the VI56 schedule during the initial post-exposure sessions. The disruption, however, resolved after several days. Multiple exposures also produced a deficit on the radial-arm maze task in that sarin-exposed rats tended to take it longer to complete the maze and to make more errors. The deficit, however, resolved during the first three weeks of acquisition. These results demonstrate that in rats, inhalation exposure to sarin at levels below those causing overt signs of clinical toxicity can produce cognitive and performance deficits. Furthermore, the observed deficits do not appear to be persistent.
Weight lifting and other forms of strength training are becoming more common because of an increased awareness of the need to maintain individual physical fitness. Emergency room data indicate that injuries caused by weight training have become more universal over time, likely because of increased participation rates. Neurologic injuries can result from weight lifting and related practices. Although predominantly peripheral nervous system injuries have been described, central nervous system disease may also occur. This article illustrates the types of neurologic disorders associated with weight lifting.
Many different sports and recreational activities are associated with injuries to the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Although some of those injuries are specific to an individual sport, other peripheral nerve injuries occur ubiquitously within many sporting activities. This review of sport-specific PNS injuries should assist in the understanding of morbidity associated with particular sporting activities, professional or amateur. Proper recognition of these syndromes can prevent unnecessary diagnostic testing and delays in proper diagnosis. The sports most commonly associated with peripheral nerve injuries are likely football, hockey, and baseball, but many other sports have unique associations with peripheral nerve injury. This article should be of assistance for the neurologist, neurosurgeon, orthopedic surgeon, physiatrist, sports medicine doctor, and general physician in contact with athletes at risk for neurologic injuries.
Sports and recreational activities are associated with a variety of injuries. Although many of these injuries are musculoskeletal in nature, both the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system are at risk for injury as well. This article examines the incidence of nervous system injuries in particular sports. The association between particular forms of injuries and the sports in which they are likely to be incurred are also investigated. Further assessment of preventative measures is provided when possible.
The activity of spiking neurons is frequently described by renewal point process models that assume the statistical independence and identical distribution of the intervals between action potentials. However, the assumption of independent intervals must be questioned for many different types of neurons. We review experimental studies that reported the feature of a negative serial correlation of neighboring intervals, commonly observed in neurons in the sensory periphery as well as in central neurons, notably in the mammalian cortex. In our experiments we observed the same short-lived negative serial dependence of intervals in the spontaneous activity of mushroom body extrinsic neurons in the honeybee. To model serial interval correlations of arbitrary lags, we suggest a family of autoregressive point processes. Its marginal interval distribution is described by the generalized gamma model, which includes as special cases the log-normal and gamma distributions, which have been widely used to characterize regular spiking neurons. In numeric simulations we investigated how serial correlation affects the variance of the neural spike count. We show that the experimentally confirmed negative correlation reduces single-neuron variability, as quantified by the Fano factor, by up to 50%, which favors the transmission of a rate code. We argue that the feature of a negative serial correlation is likely to be common to the class of spike-frequency-adapting neurons and that it might have been largely overlooked in extracellular single-unit recordings due to spike sorting errors.
Phosphoinositides are implicated in the regulation of a wide variety of cellular functions. Their importance in cellular and organismal physiology is underscored by the growing number of human diseases linked to perturbation of kinases and phosphatases that catalyze interconversion from one phosphoinositide to another. Many such enzymes are attractive targets for therapeutic interventions. Here, we review diseases linked to inheritable or somatic mutations of these enzymes.
Mammalian pigment cells produce melanin as the main pigment. Melanocytes, one of the two types of mammalian pigment cells, differentiate from the neural crest and migrate to a variety of organs during development. Melanocytes exist not only in the skin but also in other sites such as the cochlea where they are essential for hearing. Mitf(mi-bw) is one of the known recessive alleles of the mouse microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (Mitf) locus, which is essential for the development of pigment cells. Homozygous Mitf(mi-bw)/Mitf(mi-bw) mice have a completely white coat with black eyes and are deaf due to the lack of melanocytes. By comparing gene expression profiles in cochleae of wild-type and Mitf(mi-bw)/Mitf(mi-bw) mice, we now demonstrate the specific expression of glutathione S-transferase alpha 4 (Gsta4) in the stria vascularis. Gsta4 encodes one of the cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) which participate in detoxification processes of many tissues. This gene is specifically expressed in intermediate cells of the stria vascularis, suggesting a novel function for cochlear melanocytes. Moreover, among mammalian pigment cells, expression of Gsta4 was restricted to cochlear melanocytes, suggesting that melanocytes in various tissues differentiate from one another depending on their location.
Successful automatic self-pollination in flowering plants is dependent on the correct development of reproductive organs. In the stamen, the appropriate growth of the filament, which largely depends on the mechanical properties of the cell wall, is required to position the anther correctly close to the stigma at the pollination stage. Xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolases (XTHs) are a family of enzymes that mediate the construction and restructuring of xyloglucan cross-links, thereby controlling the extensibility or mechanical properties of the cell wall in a wide variety of plant tissues. Our reverse genetic analysis has revealed that a loss-of-function mutation of an Arabidopsis XTH family gene, AtXTH28, led to a decrease in capability for self-pollination, probably due to inhibition of stamen filament growth. Our results also suggest that the role of AtXTH28 in the development of the stamen is not functionally redundant with its closest paralog, AtXTH27. Thus, our finding indicates that AtXTH28 is specifically involved in the growth of stamen filaments, and is required for successful automatic self-pollination in certain flowers in Arabidopsis thaliana.
How can the central nervous system make accurate decisions about external stimuli at short times on the basis of the noisy responses of nerve cell populations? It has been suggested that spike time latency is the source of fast decisions. Here, we propose a simple and fast readout mechanism, the temporal Winner-Take-All (tWTA), and undertake a study of its accuracy. The tWTA is studied in the framework of a statistical model for the dynamic response of a nerve cell population to an external stimulus. Each cell is characterized by a preferred stimulus, a unique value of the external stimulus for which it responds fastest. The tWTA estimate for the stimulus is the preferred stimulus of the cell that fired the first spike in the entire population. We then pose the questions: How accurate is the tWTA readout? What are the parameters that govern this accuracy? What are the effects of noise correlations and baseline firing? We find that tWTA sensitivity to the stimulus grows algebraically fast with the number of cells in the population, N, in contrast to the logarithmic slow scaling of the conventional rate-WTA sensitivity with N. Noise correlations in first-spike times of different cells can limit the accuracy of the tWTA readout, even in the limit of large N, similar to the effect that has been observed in population coding theory. We show that baseline firing also has a detrimental effect on tWTA accuracy. We suggest a generalization of the tWTA, the n-tWTA, which estimates the stimulus by the identity of the group of cells firing the first n spikes and show how this simple generalization can overcome the detrimental effect of baseline firing. Thus, the tWTA can provide fast and accurate responses discriminating between a small number of alternatives. High accuracy in estimation of a continuous stimulus can be obtained using the n-tWTA.
Genomic imprinting is a normal process that causes genes to be expressed according to parental origin. The selective advantage conferred by imprinting is not understood but is hypothesised to act on dosage-critical genes. Here, we report a unique model in which the consequences of a single, double, and triple dosage of the imprinted Dlk1/Pref1, normally repressed on the maternally inherited chromosome, can be assessed in the growing embryo. BAC-transgenic mice were generated that over-express Dlk1 from endogenous regulators at all sites of embryonic activity. Triple dosage causes lethality associated with major organ abnormalities. Embryos expressing a double dose of Dlk1, recapitulating loss of imprinting, are growth enhanced but fail to thrive in early life, despite the early growth advantage. Thus, any benefit conferred by increased embryonic size is offset by postnatal lethality. We propose a negative correlation between gene dosage and survival that fixes an upper limit on growth promotion by Dlk1, and we hypothesize that trade-off between growth and lethality might have driven imprinting at this locus.

We analyze neocortical dynamics using field theoretic methods for non-equilibrium statistical processes. Assuming the dynamics is Markovian, we introduce a model that describes both neural fluctuations and responses to stimuli. We show that at low spiking rates, neocortical activity exhibits a dynamical phase transition which is in the universality class of directed percolation (DP). Because of the high density and large spatial extent of neural interactions, there is a &quot;mean field&quot; region in which the effects of fluctuations are negligible. However as the generation and decay of spiking activity becomes balanced, there is a crossover into the critical fluctuation driven DP region, consistent with measurements in neocortical slice preparations. From the perspective of theoretical neuroscience, the principal contribution of this work is the formulation of a theory of neural activity that goes beyond the mean-field approximation and incorporates the effects of fluctuations and correlations in the critical region. This theory shows that the scaling laws found in many measurements of neocortical activity, in anesthetized, normal and epileptic neocortex, are consistent with the existence of DP and related phase transitions at a critical point. It also shows how such properties lead to a model of the origins of both random and rhythmic brain activity.
The development of chronic pain involves increased sensitivity of peripheral nociceptors and elevated neuronal activity in many regions of the central nervous system. Much of these changes are caused by the amplification of nociceptive signals resulting from the modulation and altered expression of specific ion channels and receptors in the central and peripheral nervous system. Understanding the processes by which these ion channels and receptors are regulated and how these mechanisms malfunction may lead to new treatments for chronic pain. Here we review the contribution of the Ca2+-permeable acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC(Ca)) in the development and persistence of chronic pain, and the potential underlying mechanisms. Accumulating evidence suggests that ASIC(Ca) represents an attractive new target for developing effective therapies for chronic pain.
Nanotechnology, which deals with features as small as a 1 billionth of a meter, began to enter into mainstream physical sciences and engineering some 20 years ago. Recent applications of nanoscience include the use of nanoscale materials in electronics, catalysis, and biomedical research. Among these applications, strong interest has been shown to biological processes such as blood coagulation control and multimodal bioimaging, which has brought about a new and exciting research field called nanobiotechnology. Biotechnology, which itself also dates back approximately 30 years, involves the manipulation of macroscopic biological systems such as cells and mice in order to understand why and how molecular level mechanisms affect specific biological functions, e.g., the role of APP (amyloid precursor protein) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This review aims (1) to introduce key concepts and materials from nanotechnology to a non-physical sciences community; (2) to introduce several state-of-the-art examples of current nanotechnology that were either constructed for use in biological systems or that can, in time, be utilized for biomedical research; (3) to provide recent excerpts in nanotoxicology and multifunctional nanoparticle systems (MFNPSs); and (4) to propose areas in neuroscience that may benefit from research at the interface of neurobiologically important systems and nanostructured materials.
Recent evidence indicates that the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) may be involved in the neuronal mechanisms underlying both the depression aetiology and the response to pharmacological and non pharmacological antidepressant treatments. To investigate whether VEGF peripheral levels are altered in depression and are modulated by antidepressant therapies, we analyzed the serum VEGF concentrations in 25 subjects affected by major depression (MD) before (T0) and after 8 (T8) and 12 (T12) weeks of escitalopram treatment. No significant alterations in VEGF serum levels were found at T0, even considering possible effects of confounders such as gender and smoking habit (r2=0.227 p=0.74). No changes appeared during the treatment (F(1.83, 43.86)=0.962; p=0.383) and there was no correlation between percentage VEGF variations at T12 and symptoms improvements (p=0.823). The present work represents the first report on the evaluation of serum VEGF levels in MD patients. However, before discarding serum VEGF as a biochemical marker in the diagnosis and treatment of depression, our negative results need to be confirmed in larger patient samples stratified for clinical characteristics, co-morbidities, cardiovascular diseases and confounding factors.
Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience indicate that activation of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is related to detecting cognitive conflict. Conflict related ACC activation elicits responses in central autonomic network which can be assessed by psychophysiological measures such as heart rate variability (i.e. beat to beat R-R intervals--RRI). Recent findings in neuroscience also suggest that cognitive conflict is related to specific nonlinear chaotic changes of the signal generated by the neural systems. The present study used Stroop word-colour test as an experimental approach to the study of cognitive conflict in connection with RRI measurement, psychometric measurement of dissociation (DES) and calculation of largest Lyapunov exponents in nonlinear data analysis of RRI time series in 40 patients with unipolar depression and 35 healthy controls. Significant correlation 0.58 (p&lt;0.01) between largest Lyapunov exponents and DES found in depressive patients indicate that cognitive conflict related neural interference during conflicting Stroop task is closely related to dissociative processes. These results present first supportive evidence that degree of chaos could be related to dissociation.


Child maltreatment has been associated with different psychiatric disorders. Studies on both animals and humans have suggested that some brain areas would be directly affected by severe psychological trauma. The pathophysiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) appears to be related to a complex interaction involving genetic and environmental factors. Advanced neuroimaging techniques have been used to investigate neurofunctional and neurostructural abnormalities in children, adolescents, and adults with PTSD. This review examined structural brain imaging studies that were performed in abused and traumatized children, and discusses the possible biological mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of PTSD, the implications and future directions for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Published reports in refereed journals were reviewed by searching Medline and examining references of the articles related to structural neuroimaging of PTSD. Structural MRI studies have been performed in adults and children to evaluate the volumetric brain alterations in the PTSD population. In contrast with studies involving adults, in which hippocampus volumetric reduction was the most consistent finding, studies involving children and adolescents with PTSD have demonstrated smaller medial and posterior portions of the corpus callosum.


Pavlovian fear conditioning is a widely used model of the acquisition and extinction of fear. Neural findings suggest that the amygdala is the core structure for fear acquisition, whereas prefrontal cortical areas are given pivotal roles in fear extinction. Forty-eight volunteers participated in a fear-conditioning experiment, which used fear potentiation of the startle reflex as the primary measure to investigate the effect of two genetic polymorphisms (5-HTTLPR and COMTval158met) on conditioning and extinction of fear. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism, located in the serotonin transporter gene, is associated with amygdala reactivity and neuroticism, whereas the COMTval158met polymorphism, which is located in the gene coding for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a dopamine-degrading enzyme, affects prefrontal executive functions. Our results show that only carriers of the 5-HTTLPR s allele exhibited conditioned startle potentiation, whereas carriers of the COMT met/met genotype failed to extinguish conditioned fear. These results may have interesting implications for understanding gene-environment interactions in the development and treatment of anxiety disorders.
Are the kinds of abnormal cross-modal interactions seen in synaesthesia or following brain damage due to hyperconnectivity between or within brain areas, or are they a result of lack of inhibition? This question is highly contested. Here we show that posthypnotic suggestion induces abnormal cross-modal experience similar to that observed in congenital grapheme-color synaesthesia. Given the short time frame of the experiment, it is unlikely that new cortical connections were established, so we conclude that synaesthesia can result from disinhibition between brain areas.
The hypercorrection effect is the finding that high-confidence errors are more likely to be corrected after feedback than are low-confidence errors (Butterfield &amp; Metcalfe, 2001). In two experiments, we explored the idea that the hypercorrection effect results from increased attention to surprising feedback. In Experiment 1, participants were more likely to remember the appearance of the presented feedback when the feedback did not match expectations. In Experiment 2, we replicated this effect using more distinctive sources and also demonstrated the hypercorrection effect in this modified paradigm. Overall, participants better remembered both the surface features and the content of surprising feedback.
This study investigated early androgen influence on the development of human motor and visuomotor characteristics. Participants, ages 12-45 years, were individuals with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), a disorder causing increased adrenal androgen production before birth (40 females, 29 males) and their unaffected relatives (29 females, 30 males). We investigated grip strength and visuomotor targeting tasks on which males generally outperform females, and fine motor pegboard tasks on which females generally outperform males. Physical characteristics (height and weight) were measured to explore whether body parameters could explain differences in motor skills. Females with CAH were stronger and showed better targeting than unaffected females and showed reduced fine visuomotor skill on one pegboard measure, with no difference on the other. Males with CAH were weaker than unaffected males in grip strength but did not differ on the targeting or pegboard measures. Correction for body size could not explain the findings for females, but suggests that the reduced strength of males with CAH may relate to their smaller stature. Further, the targeting advantage in females with CAH persisted following adjustment for their greater strength. Results in females support the hypothesis that androgen may masculinize, or promote, certain motor characteristics at which males excel, and contribute to defeminization of certain fine motor characteristics at which females excel. Thus, these data suggest that organizational effects of androgens on behavior during prenatal life may extend to motor characteristics and may contribute to general sex differences in motor-related behaviors; however, alternative explanations based on activational influences of androgen or altered experiential factors cannot be excluded without further study.
Early stressful events can increase vulnerability for psychopathology, although knowledge on the effectors is still limited. Here we tested the hypothesis that peripheral levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF), which are involved in the response to stress and in the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression, might be affected in a non-human primate model of adverse rearing. Males and females rhesus macaques reared with their mothers (MR) or in peer-only groups (PR) were used as experimental subjects. BDNF, NGF, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol and growth hormone (GH) were determined at baseline on postnatal days (PND) 14, 30 and 60 by means of specific ELISA and RIA procedures. In addition, behavior was assessed on PND 7, 14, 21, 30 (Brazelton test) and 60 (home cage observation). Data indicate gender differences in basal levels of BDNF throughout development. Peer-rearing increased significantly BDNF levels only in females. In addition, while all peer-reared subjects showed high levels of stereotypies and self-directed behaviors, behavioral passivity was selectively increased in females. By contrast, NGF levels were increased in response to peer-rearing only in males, and correlated positively with other &quot;classic&quot; endocrine responses to stress, such as cortisol and GH. Our data identify BDNF and NGF as neuroendocrine markers underlying differential responses to maternal deprivation in males and females rhesus macaques. The selective changes in BDNF levels in females could help explain the greater vulnerability to mood disorders of this gender reported in humans.
Neuroscience was an integral part of psychosomatic medicine at its inception in the early 20th century. Since the mid-20th century, however, psychosomatic research has largely ignored the brain. The field of neuroscience has burgeoned in recent years largely because a variety of powerful new methods have become available. Many of these methods allow for the noninvasive study of the living human brain and thus are potentially available for integration into psychosomatic medicine research at this time. In this first paper we examine various methods available for human neuroscientific investigation and discuss their relative strengths and weaknesses. We next review some basic functional neuroanatomy involving structures that are increasingly being identified as relevant for psychosomatic processes. We then discuss, and provide examples of, how the brain influences end organs through &quot;information transfer systems,&quot; including the autonomic, neuroendocrine, and immune systems. The evidence currently available suggests that neuroscience holds great promise for advancing the goal of understanding the mechanisms by which psychosocial variables influence physical disease outcomes. An increased focus on such mechanistic research in psychosomatic medicine is needed to further its acceptance into the field of medicine.
During the second half of the last century, biopsychosocial research in psychosomatic medicine largely ignored the brain. Neuroscience has started to make a comeback in psychosomatic medicine research and promises to advance the field in important ways. In this paper we briefly review select brain imaging research findings in psychosomatic medicine in four key areas: cardiovascular regulation, visceral pain in the context of functional gastrointestinal disorders, acute and chronic somatic pain and placebo. In each area, there is a growing literature that is beginning to define a network of brain areas that participate in the functions in question. Evidence to date suggests that cortical and subcortical areas that are involved in emotion and emotion regulation play an important role in each domain. Neuroscientific research is therefore validating findings from previous psychosomatic research and has the potential to extend knowledge by delineating the biological mechanisms that link mind and body more completely and with greater specificity. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of this work for how research in psychosomatic medicine is conducted, the ways in which neuroscientific advances can lead to new clinical applications in psychosomatic contexts, the implications of this work for the field of medicine more generally, and the priorities for research in the next 5 to 10 years.

Comment aider les enfants  russir  l'cole et, plus gnralement,  dvelopper leurs capacits intellectuelles ? Les rsultats de travaux fondamentaux en psychologie et en neurosciences permettent de proposer des mthodes pdagogiques efficaces, bien qu'elles semblent parfois aller contre le bon sens.
Immunoreactive corticosterone and corticosterone metabolites (ICCM) were quantified in excreta of permanently single housed (n=10) and permanently pair housed (n=20) roosters. The pair housed roosters were separated and single housed, and ICCM were quantified in the droppings before and during 15 days after separation. There was no statistically significant difference in ICCM excretion in the droppings between the permanently single or pair housed roosters. After separation, however, the previously pair housed roosters showed a significantly transient elevated excretion of ICCM in droppings the second day after separation indicating that the separation and relocation is associated with an activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The excretion of ICCM in droppings was not correlated to the concentration of ICCM in droppings. It is thus important that excretion of ICCM be expressed as amount excreted per time unit since the total excretion is dependant on both concentration of ICCM and amount of droppings produced.
Luigi Galvani became one of the greatest scientists of the 18th century with his research and the development of his theory on animal electricity. His work was appreciated by many scientists. Nevertheless, it gave rise to one of the most passionate scientific debates in history when Alessandro Volta postulated that Galvani had confused intrinsic animal electricity with small currents produced by metals. This debate would result in the creation of electrophysiology, electromagnetism, electrochemistry and the electrical battery. Galvani responded to each of the postulated theories of Volta giving irrefutable proof of the involvement of electricity in the contraction of muscles. However, his work was subsequently abandoned and silenced for many years but his ideas and theories were finally confirmed by the creation of new instruments and the interest of new scientists who helped position Galvani as the father of electrophysiology.


A systematic evaluation of cognitive function is an integral part of the neurological examination. Behavioral measures could detect functional impairment that is too subtle to be detected by current neurological procedures. Neuropsychological examination should cover both general and specific cognitive processes. The level of general attention or emotional change may affect variety of cognitive processes. Impairment of a functional system due to a focal cerebral damage results in a specific cognitive dysfunction such as aphasia, apraxia, agnosia, etc. Simplified but systematic methods to assess basic neuropsychological functions are suitable for everyday clinical examination by neurologists. A relatively short form of the cognitive status examination was devised, which covers general attention, language, calculation, praxis, visuospatial ability, directional attention and memory. Not only quantitative but also qualitative assessment of patients' performance would give clinicians valuable clues for the neuronal bases of cognitive functions.
A wireless device embedded in the vehicle allowed the user to engage in a personal hands-free conversation (HFC), and automatically placed an emergency notification call to an OnStar call center if the vehicle was involved in a crash in which its airbag deployed. A database stored the exact counts, start timestamps, and billed durations of all HFC and airbag notification calls. In 30 months of naturalistic driving, there were 91 million HFC calls from an average of 323,994 drivers per month who made calls. There were 14 airbag deployments in 276 million driver-minutes of HFC conversation for an exposed incidence rate of 5.08 airbag crashes per 100 million driver-minutes. There were 2,023 airbag deployments in an estimated 24.7 billion driver-minutes of no HFC conversation for a not-exposed incidence rate of 8.18 airbag crashes per 100 million driver-minutes. The crash incidence rate ratio (IRR) is the ratio of these two rates or 0.62 (95% C.I. 0.37 to 1.05). Sensitivity analyses controlled for the impact on the crash IRR of estimated time spent driving per day and calls by passengers. Counting all crashes as much as 20 minutes later than a call as related to that call gave similar results. We conclude that for personal conversations using a hands-free embedded device the risk of an airbag crash is somewhere in a range from a moderately lower risk to a risk near that of driving without a recent personal conversation. These results are not consistent with the large increase in crash risk reported in epidemiological studies using the case-crossover method.

The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) was used to examine (i) social decision-making in women with borderline personality disorder (BPD), and (ii) the relationship between impaired decision-making and the tryptophan hydroxylase-1 (TPH-1) gene, involved in serotonin synthesis. Forty-two women with BPD and a history of suicide attempts were genotyped, and the frequency of a TPH-1 haplotype previously uniquely associated with BPD was calculated. The BPD group scored significantly lower than a control group in the IGT. Furthermore, the TPH-1 haplotype displayed a significantly higher frequency in BPD participants with impaired decision making, compared to BPD participants with normal scores. These findings suggest that impaired decision-making as determined by the IGT is a feature of BPD and may be (i) associated with serotonin dysfunction, and (ii) possibly relevant for suicidal behavior.
In this article we present a theoretical approach to cognitive control and attention modulation, as well as review studies related to such a view, using an auditory task based on dichotic presentations of simple consonant-vowel syllables. The reviewed work comes out of joint research efforts by the 'Attention-node' at the 'Nordic Center of Excellence in Cognitive Control'. We suggest a new way of defining degrees of cognitive control based on systematically varying the stimulus intensity of the right or left ear dichotic stimulus, thus parametrically varying the degree of stimulus interference and conflict when assessing the amount of cognitive control necessary to resolve the interference. We first present an overview and review of previous studies using the so-called &quot;forced-attention&quot; dichotic listening paradigm. We then present behavioral and neuroimaging data to explore the suggested cognitive control model, with examples from normal adults, clinical and special ability groups.
This study prospectively examined the relationship between social problem solving behavior exhibited by youths at ultra-high risk for psychosis (UHR) and with recent onset psychotic symptoms and their parents during problem solving discussions, and youths' symptoms and social functioning six months later. Twenty-seven adolescents were administered the Structured Interview for Prodromal Syndromes and the Strauss-Carpenter Social Contact Scale at baseline and follow-up assessment. Primary caregivers participated with youth in a ten minute discussion that was videotaped, transcribed, and coded for how skillful participants were in defining problems, generating solutions, and reaching resolution, as well as how constructive and/or conflictual they were during the interaction. Controlling for social functioning at baseline, adolescents' skillful problem solving and constructive communication, and parents' constructive communication, were associated with youths' enhanced social functioning six months later. Controlling for symptom severity at baseline, we found that there was a positive association between adolescents' conflictual communications at baseline and an increase in positive symptoms six months later. Taken together, findings from this study provide support for further research into the possibility that specific family interventions, such as problem solving and communication skills training, may improve the functional prognosis of at-risk youth, especially in terms of their social functioning.
Since Kraepelin called dementia praecox what we nowadays call schizophrenia, cognitive dysfunction has been regarded as central to its psychopathological profile. Disturbed experience and integration of emotions are, both intuitively and experimentally, likely to be intermediates between basic, non-social cognitive disturbances and functional outcome in schizophrenia. While a number of studies have consistently proven that, as part of social cognition, recognition of emotional faces and voices is disturbed in schizophrenics, studies on multisensory integration of facial and vocal affect are rare. We investigated audiovisual integration of emotional faces and voices in three groups: schizophrenic patients, non-schizophrenic psychosis patients and mentally healthy controls, all diagnosed by means of the Schedules of Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN 2.1). We found diminished crossmodal influence of emotional faces on emotional voice categorization in schizophrenics, but not in non-schizophrenia psychosis patients. Results are discussed in the perspective of recent theories on multisensory integration.
Although operational criteria for remission in schizophrenia have recently been proposed, the association of this definition with broader functional outcome has not yet been established in first-episode patients. The severity criteria for remission consist of a score of mild or less on eight core symptoms of schizophrenia. We applied the severity criteria for remission to a sample of patients with first-episode schizophrenia (n=76) in order to explore the association with functional outcome five years after first presentation to mental healthcare. We evaluated whether other factors than those included in the remission definition predicted good function in logistic regression models. The discriminatory capacities for remission and other factors for good function were tested using C-statistics. The proportions of remitters and non-remitters having good function were 73% and 17%, respectively. Furthermore, remitters had a higher level of subjective satisfaction with life. In comparison with non-remission, symptomatic remission was strongly associated with good function: odds ratio 13.2, 95% confidence interval, 4.3 to 40.3. A duration of untreated psychosis of three months or less as compared with a longer duration was associated with having good function at a five-year follow-up independently of remission status. The discriminatory capacity for symptomatic remission between having good function vs. not was acceptable (C-statistic=0.78), which was significantly improved to an excellent discriminatory capacity by adding duration of untreated psychosis less than three months (C-statistic=0.83, p=0.04). In conclusion, core symptoms of schizophrenia have an important limiting effect on functioning and subjective life satisfaction in the early course of the illness.




The hypothalamic hypocretin (orexin) system plays a crucial role in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. The strongest evidence for this is the fact that the primary sleep disorder narcolepsy is caused by disrupted hypocretin signaling in humans as well as various animal models. There is a growing interest in the role of hypocretin defects not only in the pathophysiology of other sleep disorders, but also in neurological diseases with associated sleep symptomatology. In this paper we first review the current methods to measure the integrity of the hypocretin system in human patients. The most widely used technique entails the measurement of hypocretin-1 in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid. In addition, hypocretin levels can be measured in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue extract. Finally, in post-mortem hypothalamic material, the number of hypocretin neurons can be precisely quantified. In the second part of this paper we describe the various neurological disorders in which hypocretin defects have been reported. These include neurodegenerative, neuromuscular and immune-mediated diseases, as well as traumatic brain injury. We conclude with a discussion of the functional relevance of partial hypocretin defects, and the various pathophysiological mechanisms that can lead to such defects.

An increasing body of evidence suggests that astrocytic gliomas of the central nervous system may be derived from gliotypic neural stem cells. To date, the study of these tumors, particularly the identification of originating cellular population(s), has been frustrated by technical difficulties in accessing the native niche of stem cells. To identify any hallmark signs of cancer in neural stem cells or their progeny, we cultured subventricular zone-derived tissue in a unique in vitro model that temporally and phenotypically recapitulates adult neurogenesis. Contrary to some reports, we found undifferentiated neural stem cells possess few characteristics, suggesting prototumorigenic potential. However, when induced to differentiate, neural stem cells give rise to intermediate progenitors that transiently exhibit multiple glioma characteristics, including aneuploidy, loss of growth-contact inhibition, alterations in cell cycle, and growth factor insensitivity. Further examination of progenitor populations revealed a subset of cells defined by the aberrant expression of (the pathological glioma marker) class III beta-tubulin that exhibit intrinsic parental properties of gliomas, including multilineage differentiation and continued proliferation in the absence of a complex cellular regulatory environment. As tumorigenic characteristics in progenitor cells normally disappear with the generation of mature progeny, this suggests that developmentally intermediate progenitor cells, rather than neural stem cells, may be the origin of so-called &quot;stem cell-derived&quot; tumors.





In this study, we examined the role of the L27 [(LIN2-LIN7) domain] and PDZ domain (domain previously found in PSD95-DlgA-ZO-1) for protein-protein interaction of the scaffold protein LIN7 in tight junction (TJ) assembly in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells and found that the stable expression of a LIN7 mutant lacking the L27 domain (DeltaL27 mutant) acts as a dominant interfering protein by inhibiting TJ localization of endogenous LIN7. The loss of LIN7 did not alter the localization of the PALS1 (protein associated with LIN7) partner of the L27 domain but prevented TJ localization of the insulin receptor substrate p53 (IRSp53), a partner of the PDZ domain of LIN7. The function of both L27 and PDZ domains of LIN7 in IRSp53 localization to TJs has been further demonstrated by reducing the expression of LIN7 (LIN7 small hairpin RNA experiments) and by expression of IRSp53 deleted of its motif for PDZ interaction (IRSp53Delta5) or fused to the L27 domain of LIN7 (L27-IRSp53Delta5). Cell lines with decreased localization of LIN7 and IRSp53 to TJs showed defects during assembly of TJs and cyst polarization and failed to activate Rac1, a member of the Rho guanosine triphosphatases family crucially involved in actin organization and orientation of apicobasal polarity. These data therefore indicate that LIN7-IRSp53 association plays a role during assembly of functional TJs and surface polarization in epithelial cells.
Childhood socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with cognitive achievement throughout life. How does SES relate to brain development, and what are the mechanisms by which SES might exert its influence? We review studies in which behavioral, electrophysiological and neuroimaging methods have been used to characterize SES disparities in neurocognitive function. These studies indicate that SES is an important predictor of neurocognitive performance, particularly of language and executive function, and that SES differences are found in neural processing even when performance levels are equal. Implications for basic cognitive neuroscience and for understanding and ameliorating the problems related to childhood poverty are discussed.
In a world without numbers, we would be unable to build a skyscraper, hold a national election, plan a wedding or pay for a chicken at the market. The numerical symbols used in all these behaviors build on the approximate number system (ANS) which represents the number of discrete objects or events as a continuous mental magnitude. Here, we first discuss evidence that the ANS bears a set of behavioral and brain signatures that are universally displayed across animal species, human cultures and development. We then turn to the question of whether the ANS constitutes a specialized cognitive and neural domain - a question central to understanding how this system works, the nature of its evolutionary and developmental trajectory and its physical instantiation in the brain.
The central nervous system (CNS) has traditionally been considered to be immunologically privileged, but over the years there has been a re-evaluation of this dogma. To date, studies have tended to focus on the immune functions of glial cells, whereas the roles of neurons have been regarded as passive and their immune-regulatory properties have been less examined. However, recent findings indicate that CNS neurons actively participate in immune regulation by controlling their glial cell counterparts and infiltrated T cells. Here, we describe the immune-regulatory roles of CNS neurons by both contact-dependent and contact-independent mechanisms. In addition, we specifically deal with the immune functions of neuronal cell adhesion molecules, many of which are key modulators of neuronal synaptic formation and plasticity.
Chronic pain secondary to neuronal injury is actively and continuously modulated at multiple locations along the sensory neuraxis. Here, we describe how nociceptive neurons of the spinal cord and thalamus process and communicate nociceptive information in terms of precisely calibrated firing patterns. We then discuss how several cell types with immunogenic properties (e.g. blood cells and glia) cause system-wide interference in nociceptive processing through novel signaling schema, thus contributing to nociceptive network plasticity and chronic pain.
Although autism and schizophrenia are considered to be distinct neuropsychiatric developmental disorders, recent studies indicate that they share genetic factors. The same chromosomal rearrangements and several single genes have emerged as genetic risks in both disorders. One such gene is contactin-associated protein-2 (CNTNAP2). These findings raise the possibility that these neuropsychiatric disorders share pathogenic mechanisms and that similar defects in biological pathways of brain development might underlie the phenotypic spectrum of these disorders.
Human functional brain mapping as we presently know it began when the experimental strategies of cognitive psychology were combined with modern brain-imaging techniques (first positron emission tomography and then functional magnetic resonance imaging) to examine how brain function supports mental activities. This marriage of disciplines and techniques galvanized the field of cognitive neuroscience, which has rapidly expanded to include a broad range of the social sciences in addition to basic scientists interested in the neurophysiology, cell biology and genetics of the imaging signals. Although much of this work has transpired over the past couple of decades, its roots can be traced back more than a century.
Varicella-Zoster virus (VZV) causes varicella as a primary infection following which it becomes latent in human ganglia and then reactivates to cause herpes zoster. VZV vaccines are used to prevent primary infection with varicella, and also to reduce the incidence of viral reactivation causing herpes zoster and post-herpetic neuralgia. To gain further insights into the molecular basis of their attenuated virulence, we used long oligonucleotide microarrays to determine the lytic transcriptomal profiles of two vaccine VZV strains (Merck and GSK) compared with the Oka parental (P-Oka) strain. There was a global downregulation of transcription of both vaccines relative to P-Oka, although this downregulation was more extensive in the GSK strain. Open Reading Frames (ORFs) 62 and 14 were the most transcriptionally downregulated on the arrays for both vaccines compared with the parental strain.


Short 50-kilohertz (kHz) range frequency-modulated ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) produced by rats and mice are unconditionally elicited by drugs of abuse or electrical stimulation that increase dopamine activity in the nucleus accumbens, and it has been suggested that they reflect &quot;positive affect&quot; or incentive motivational states associated with appetitive behavior. The repeated administration of amphetamine is known to not only produce &quot;psychomotor&quot; sensitization, but also to facilitate a number of appetitive behaviors, including conditioned drug pursuit behavior. We were interested, therefore, in whether amphetamine-induced 50-kHz USVs would also increase with repeated drug exposure. USV recordings were made during 5-min sessions immediately after a saline infusion, and again 4-5h later after 1.0mg/kg intravenous amphetamine exposure. These sessions took place every other day over a 5-day period. A challenge dose of 1.0mg/kg amphetamine was administered 2 weeks later to determine whether sensitization would persist. The initial amphetamine infusion increased 50-kHz USVs relative to the saline infusion. This effect was enhanced over trials and during the amphetamine challenge 2 weeks later. Classification of 50-kHz range call types revealed that complex frequency-modulated trill calls were sensitized by amphetamine, but not flat 50-kHz calls. It is possible that 50-kHz USV recordings could provide a potentially valuable behavioral measure of sensitization linked to enhanced incentive salience and increased tendency to self-administer drugs of abuse.
Amphetamine produces its rewarding effects by enhancing dopamine transmission in the mesocorticolimbic pathway. Several studies have also suggested the involvement of the endogenous opioid system in mediating the neurochemical and behavioural effects of amphetamine. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of the unselective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (NTX) on reinstatement of amphetamine self-administration in the rat. Animals were trained to self-administer amphetamine under a fixed ratio 1 (FR1) schedule (0.1mg/kg/infusion). After receiving a stable drug intake the amphetamine was replaced with saline and the animals went through an extinction period. After reaching the extinction criteria, animals were pre-treated with NTX (0, 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0mg/kg, s.c.) 30min before giving a priming dose of amphetamine (0.5mg/kg s.c). To study the effects of NTX on operant behaviour, animals were trained to lever press for food pellets under a FR1 schedule of reinforcement. Results from the present study shows that a single injection of amphetamine reinstated self-administration behaviour. NTX (0.3 and 1.0mg/kg) significantly attenuated the amphetamine-induced reinstatement but NTX had no effect at any dose studied on food taking behaviour. These results show that NTX attenuates reinstatement of amphetamine self-administration in rats without suppressing general behaviour, implicating a functional role for opioid receptors in modulating amphetamine seeking behaviour.
The tonic immobility state (TIS) in rabbit has great potential as an animal model of hypnosis in humans, due to the strong similarities between TIS and hypnosis. It is additionally the only mammalian model available for studying mechanisms of hypnosis. However, its ability to modulate pain perception has yet to be clearly determined. The present experiment examined the effect of nociceptive conditioning in normal, TIS and lidocaine-treated rabbits. This involved three separate phases. In phase one all animals were trained on a continuous performance test (CPT). In the second phase animals were given Pavlovian conditioning to an auditory CS paired with a nociceptive US. In the third phase the animals are given a sensory recognition test. The control group were conditioned during a normal state, the TIS group were conditioned during TIS, the pain control animals were conditioned after lidocaine injection in the skin area stimulated by the nociceptive US. All animals in the normal group showed the greatest amount of pain conditioning, with an average disruption time (dt) of 175s. Animals in the lidocaine group showed little signs of conditioning with an average dt of 16s. Animals conditioned during TIS had an average dt of 42s. These results show that TIS can modulate pain perception similar to animals that did not experience a pain CS. They additionally argue that tonic immobility can produce attenuation of pain perception similar to hypnosis in humans.
The 14-unit T-maze has proven to be a valuable tool for investigating age-associated memory impairment (AAMI). While another task widely used to evaluate AAMI, the water maze, is primarily used to evaluate allocentric hippocampal-dependent spatial memory, the 14-unit T-maze can assess egocentric procedural memory. Although several brain structures, e.g. hippocampus, parietal cortex, have been implicated in acquisition and retention performance in the 14-unit T-maze, there has been no evaluation of the involvement of the striatum, a brain region implicated in procedural learning and memory. The current study revealed that excitotoxic lesions of the medial or lateral striatum significantly impaired acquisition, as measured by errors and latency, on this task without disruption of motor function. These results indicate that the 14-unit T-maze most likely is requires a large egocentric procedural learning component, and previously observed AAMI may involve age-related dysfunction of the striatum.
Studies show that changes in environmental context alter the spatial firing patterns ('remapping') and increase immediate early gene activation in hippocampal but not subicular neurons. However, such studies rarely report co-occurring behavioural responses. We examined the behavioural effects of habituating rats to a walled open field, and then of changing the environmental context by altering wall patterns and floor colour. These kinds of cue change are known to elicit spatial remapping in hippocampal regions, but not the subiculum. Relative to controls (no cue alterations), alteration of wall patterns elicited significant increases in exploratory locomotion through the open field, while combined alterations of floor colour and wall patterns elicited an even higher increase in exploratory locomotion. In addition, combined alterations (floor colour and wall patterns) significantly increased rearing frequency, and significantly decreased the time the rats spent immobile. These findings are relevant to how changes in environmental context affect neuronal responses in the hippocampal formation, and may aid in the development of novelty-response tasks where novelty resides in open field surfaces.
Our previous work has shown that male Sprague-Dawley rats reared in social isolation, standard housing and environmental enrichment differ in their spontaneous open-field activity and in some neurobehavioral depressive-like parameters. Here, we extended this evidence by using a shorter postweaning rearing period (1 month) and including additional evaluations. First, in order to obtain a better characterization of the exploratory strategies among rearing conditions we analyzed in detail the spontaneous activity at the first minute and during the 10-min session. Second, we asked whether the changes in open-field activity were related with basal anxiety levels in the elevated plus-maze. Third, behavior in the forced-swimming test was analyzed and afterward, the tissue levels of hippocampal norepinephrine and serotonin were assessed. The possible relationship between neurotransmitters and forced-swimming behavior were explored through correlation analyses. We found that rearing conditions (i) differed on locomotor habituation and on sensory-motor exploration at the first minute and during the 10-min session without modifying the plus-maze behavior; (ii) affected differentially the grooming time, its sequential components, and the relationship between grooming and locomotor parameters; (iii) modified forced-swimming behavior and the hippocampal concentration of norepinephrine, serotonin, and its turnover; and (iv) produced different correlation patterns between both neurotransmitters and forced-swimming behaviors. Overall, environmental enrichment accelerated open-field habituation and led to behavioral and neurochemical antidepressant-like effects. In contract, isolation rearing strongly impaired habituation and simple information processing, but showed marginal effects on depressive-like behavior and on hippocampal neurochemistry. The current results suggest that differential rearing is not only a useful procedure to study behavioral plasticity or rigidity in response to early experience, but also to modeling some developmental protective or risk factors underlying depressive disorders.
To determine the influence of gravity during critical periods of development is important in the perspective of long-term spaceflight and exploration, data coming from this kind of studies providing insight into basical biological phenomena underlying the development of the nervous system and its plasticity. Aim of the present study was to evaluate neurobehavioural responses to hypergravity exposure in CD-1 mice at different stage of development. Early adolescent (postnatal day 28, PND 28), adolescent (PND 42) and young-adult (PND 60) male and female mice were exposed to acute 2g rotational-generated hypergravity. Motion sickness index and behavioural performances pre, during and after rotation were recorded, and long-lasting effects on exploratory behaviour (hole-board test) and emotional/anxiety-like responses (plus-maze test) were investigated. Furthermore, in order to correlate behavioural changes with alterations in central levels of neurotrophins, brain amounts of Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) and Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) were also assessed on PND 90, following a re-exposure to hypergravity. Age and sex differences were observed, females being more vulnerable than males to motion sickness, and susceptibility to hypergravity increasing with age of exposure. Moreover, mice showed a general reduction in spontaneous activity during the rotation, while recovery time after rotation became progressively longer with increasing age of the experimental subjects. Long-term effects on exploratory behaviour and emotional/anxiety-like response were also observed, behavioural profiles mainly changing in those animals experiencing hypergravity as young-adults. Finally, major changes in brain levels of NGF and BDNF were detected in mice firstly exposed as young-adults.
It has been shown that cannabinoids interact with the opiate system in reward-related behaviors and in animal models of addiction. In the present study, the effects of bilateral intra-accumbal administration of AM251, a CB1 receptor antagonist, on the acquisition and expression of ineffective dose of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in morphine-sensitized rats were investigated. 158 adult male albino Wistar rats were used in these experiments. Subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of morphine (0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 2.5 and 5mg/kg) induced CPP only at the dose of 5mg/kg. In addition, repeated administration of morphine (5mg/kg; s.c.), once daily for 3 days followed by 5 days free of the opioid (sensitization period), increased conditioning response induced by ineffective doses of morphine (0.25, 0.5 and 0.75 mg/kg). Bilateral intra-accumbal administration of AM251 (5, 25 and 125 ng/0.5 microl per side) dose-dependently reduced the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced CPP in morphine-sensitized rats, while bilateral intra-accumbal administration of neither saline nor DMSO (0.5 microl/side) had effects on the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced CPP in sensitized rats. The results indicated that CB1 receptors within the nucleus accumbens are involved in the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced CPP in sensitized rats. Our findings also suggest the existence of cross-talk between cannabinoids and opiates on the sensitization to morphine and the implication of endocannabinoid system in the process of sensitization to opiates.
In women, breastfeeding generally results in reductions in anxiety and increased positive mood. However, approximately 10-15% of women experience depressed mood and increased anxiety during the first year postpartum. Recent research has demonstrated that offspring-exposure is important for the reduction in behaviours related to depression and anxiety in the mother. It remains to be determined whether these effects are due to factors related to pregnancy and/or pup-exposure, are associated with the degree of maternal behaviour by the mother towards offspring, or persist after weaning. To address these questions the present study used four groups of female rats; primiparous, nulliparous, primip-no-pups (primiparous females with pups permanently removed), and sensitized females. Depressive- and anxiety-like behaviours were assessed 1 week after weaning/pup-exposure (4 weeks after birth for primip-no-pups animals) using the forced swim test for measures of depressive-like behaviour, and the open field test and elevated plus maze for measure of anxiety-like behaviour. Results demonstrate that primiparous females without pup-exposure have increased depressive-like, but not anxiety-like, behaviour compared to primiparous and sensitized females. In addition, kyphotic nursing by primiparous mothers was negatively related to behavioural measures of depression and anxiety. From this work it is clear that pup-exposure is important for reductions in depressive-like behaviour in parturient females. Further research is needed to determine the extent of these changes and the neural and hormonal correlates of these events.
CREB activation via phosphorylation at serine 133 and resulting CREB mediated gene expression is a critical event which can have a significant effect on many cellular processes, including cell survival and plasticity. CREB can be activated by many kinases, for example, it can be phosphorylated by PKA, MAPK, and CaMKIV. The various signaling pathways leading to CREB activation have been extensively studied. On the other hand, CREB is inactivated by PP1 through dephosphorylation at S133 and not much attention has been paid to this aspect of the signaling pathway. It was shown recently that PP1 can be targeted to CREB, for efficient dephosphorylation, through PP1 binding protein HDAC1. In this study, we found that another class-I HDAC family protein, HDAC8, localized in the nucleus of HEK293 cells and also bound to both CREB and PP1. Expression of recombinant HDAC8 results in decreased CREB activation and CREB mediated gene transcription in response to forskolin application. Our study thus elucidated that more than one class-I HDAC family members can regulate the duration of CREB mediated gene transcription.
Membrane compartments function as segregated signaling platforms for different cellular functions. It is not clear how Src is regulated at different membrane compartments. To visualize local Src activity in live cells, a FRET-based Src biosensor was targeted in or outside of lipid rafts at the plasma membrane, via acylation or prenylation modifications on targeting tags either directly fused to the biosensor or coupled to the biosensor through an inducible heterodimerization system. In response to growth factors and pervanadate, the induction of Src activity in rafts was slower and weaker, dependent on actin and possibly its mediated transportation of Src from perinuclear regions to the plasma membrane. In contrast, the induction of Src activity in nonrafts was faster and stronger, dependent on microtubules. Hence, Src activity is differentially regulated via cytoskeleton at different membrane compartments.
Cellular lipid metabolism is regulated in part by protein-protein interactions near the surface of intracellular lipid droplets. This work investigated functional interactions between Abhd5, a protein activator of the lipase Atgl, and Mldp, a lipid droplet scaffold protein that is highly expressed in oxidative tissues. Abhd5 was highly targeted to individual lipid droplets containing Mldp in microdissected cardiac muscle fibers. Mldp bound Abhd5 in transfected fibroblasts and directed it to lipid droplets in proportion to Mldp concentration. Analysis of protein-protein interactions in situ demonstrated that the interaction of Abhd5 and Mldp occurs mainly, if not exclusively, on the surface of lipid droplets. Oleic acid treatment rapidly increased the interaction between Abhd5 and Mldp, and this effect was suppressed by pharmacological inhibition of triglyceride synthesis. The functional role of the Abhd5-Mldp interaction was explored using a mutant of mouse Abhd5 (E262K) that has greatly reduced binding to Mldp. Mldp promoted the subcellular colocalization and interaction of Atgl with wild type, but not mutant, Abhd5. This differential interaction was reflected in cellular assays of Atgl activity. In the absence of Mldp, wild type and mutant Abhd5 were equally effective in reducing lipid droplet formation. In contrast, mutant Abhd5 was unable to prevent lipid droplet accumulation in cells expressing Mldp despite considerable targeting of Atgl to lipid droplets containing Mldp. These results indicate that the interaction between Abhd5 and Mldp is dynamic and essential for regulating the activity of Atgl at lipid droplets containing Mldp.
A growing body of evidence suggests that glioma stem-like cells are more representative of their parent tumours when cultured under defined serum-free conditions with the mitogens epidermal growth factor (EGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). However, culturing these cells as free-floating spheroids can result in difficulty in efficiently deriving and propagating cell lines. We have combined neurosphere and monolayer culture techniques to improve the efficiency with which cells can be derived from clinical tumour samples under defined serum-free conditions. We have applied our protocol to consecutive samples of glioblastoma to show that they can form experimental tumours that recapitulate many of the histological features of the parent tumour. We go on to show that the tumour initiating cells also retain the cytogenetic abnormalities of the parent tumour. Finally we examined the cell lines for expression of markers associated with neural stem cells. Our results confirm the expression of transcription factors associated with neural patterning and specification including Sox2, Olig2, Pax6 and Nkx2.2. We went on to establish that these factors were also expressed in the parent tumour indicating that their expression was not a function of our culture conditions. The Cambridge Protocol is an efficient method of deriving stem-like tumour initiating cells from glioblastoma. Improving the efficiency of derivation will facilitate the improvement of in vitro and in vivo model systems to study disease mechanisms, screen drugs and develop novel therapeutic approaches in the future.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often used by electrophysiologists to target specific brain regions for placement of microelectrodes. However, the effectiveness of this technique has been limited by few methods to quantify in three dimensions the relative locations of brain structures, recording chambers and microelectrode trajectories. Here we present such a method. After surgical implantation, recording chambers are fitted with a plastic cylinder that is filled with a high-contrast agent to aid in the segmentation of the cylinder from brain matter in an MRI volume. The resulting images of the filled cylinder correspond to a virtual cylinder that is projected along its long axis - parallel to the trajectories of microelectrodes advanced through the recording chamber - through the three-dimensional image of the brain. This technique, which does not require a stereotaxic coordinate system, can be used to quantify the coverage of an implanted recording chamber relative to anatomical landmarks at any depth or orientation. We have used this technique in conjunction with Caret [Van Essen DC, Drury HA, Dickson J, Harwell J, Hanlon D, Anderson CH. An integrated software suite for surface-based analyses of cerebral cortex. J Am Med Inform Assoc 2001;8:443-59] and AFNI [Cox RW. AFNI: software for analysis and visualization of functional magnetic resonance neuroimages. Comput Biomed Res 1996;29:162-73] brain-mapping software to successfully localize several regions of macaque cortex, including the middle temporal area, the lateral intraparietal area and the frontal eye field, and one subcortical structure, the locus coeruleus, for electrophysiological recordings.
Oligomeric forms of Abeta are believed to be the major toxic species of this peptide in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the characterisation of oligomer-specific antibodies has been reported, these have not been successfully incorporated into an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and measurement of the levels of oligomeric Abeta in brain tissue has remained problematic. We have examined the specificity of two monoclonal antibodies, 7 A1a and 1G5, for synthetic oligomers of Abeta(1-42) and for oligomeric Abeta(1-42) in human brain homogenates, and the utility of these two antibodies for measuring oligomeric Abeta(1-42) by sandwich ELISA. Both antibodies were found to recognise a range of synthetic oligomers of Abeta(1-42) but to cross-react in Western blots with a 34 kDa protein, shown by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to be tropomyosin. However, by using 7A1a and 1 G5 in combination with an Abeta(1-42) capture antibody, we were able specifically to detect and to measure the levels of oligomeric Abeta(1-42) in brain homogenates by ELISA. The development of a simple ELISA for measurement of oligomeric Abeta should facilitate further studies of the role of oligomeric species of Abeta in AD.
Adult canine Schwann cells and olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are closely related cell types that are considered attractive candidates for translational studies of neural repair. To establish a reliable cell source by comparing the in vitro properties of immortalized Schwann cells and OECs for transplantation purposes, we transfected both cell types with human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT). Ectopic hTERT expression has been shown to induce immortalization of various cell types without substantial alterations of their phenotypes. Schwann cells and OECs were isolated from adult dogs, transfected with hTERT at early (P4) and late passage (P26), characterized regarding in vitro proliferation, antigenic expression and senescence-associated genes in the presence and absence of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2). Ectopic hTERT expression in late passage glia treated with but not without FGF-2 prevented the decline in proliferation observed in non-transfected cells. Immortalization did not alter p75(NTR) and GFAP but O4 and A2B5 expression. Contrary to this, early passage hTERT transfection significantly reduced proliferation independent of FGF-2 and lowered expression of O4 and GFAP in both cell types. Transfection did not alter mRNA expression of senescence-associated genes such as p53 and p16. No substantial differences were found between Schwann cells and OECs underscoring the close relationship of both cell types. Taken together, we established a stable source of adult canine Schwann cells and OECs and demonstrated that the effects of hTERT expression on in vitro growth and growth factor responsiveness depend on the replicative age.
Immunofluorescence microscopy of synaptic proteins is a powerful and commonly used approach in cellular neurosciences. Many studies use green/red color overlays of immunofluorescence images to demonstrate synaptic co-localization of an unknown protein with a known synaptic marker. However, this approach fails to identify the specific sub-synaptic compartment in which a protein is localized. Here we describe a novel analysis method to determine the precise location of proteins within synapses of cultured hippocampal neurons with double immunofluorescence staining. This approach is based on center-to-center distance measurements of fluorescent clusters of protein pairs coexisting in synapses. We validated the method by analyzing the distances between different combinations of well-established synaptic marker proteins. The results demonstrate that protein pairs in the active zone and the postsynaptic density, two sub-synaptic compartments which are separated by less than 50 nm, can be readily distinguished from each other and from marker pairs co-localized within a single sub-synaptic compartment. Thus, center-to-center distance analysis can resolve the distance across the synaptic cleft and it is useful for localizing synaptic proteins to specific pre- and postsynaptic compartments.
Urethane anesthesia is frequently used for acute experiments on small rodents in physiology and neuroscience. Severe respiratory distress is a common side-effect of urethane anesthesia in many strains of mice. Associated complications interfere with completion of experiments, and as a consequence more animals must be sacrificed. During experiments with stereotaxic brain surgery, we found that intubation by means of tracheotomy is an efficient way to maintain patent airways in these animals. Artificial ventilation of the animals is not required. In this paper we describe a simple, fast and reliable method for intubation of mice in experiments that involve a stereotaxic instrument. The method proved considerably easier to learn and apply than conventional intubation through the oral route. The incidence of breathing problems decreased from 77% in untreated mice to 9% in those that underwent tracheotomy. In addition, the success rate for our acute electrophysiological experiments increased from 24 to 77%. We conclude that tracheotomy reduces the number of sacrificed animals, and saves time and labor.
The aim of our study was to assess the longitudinal validity of the 8-item Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-8) in terms of responsiveness and test-retest reliability and to determine the minimally important difference (MID) for PDQ-8 using the anchor-based approach in Asians with Parkinson's disease (PD). A consecutive sample of PD patients attending a tertiary neuroscience clinic in Singapore completed the English or Chinese version of PDQ-8 twice during two different clinic visits. During the second visit, patients were also asked to rate their changes in health in general, PD severity, and overall impact of PD since at the time of their first visit 1 year ago using a 5-point response scale. A total of 96 patients participated in the study. For patients who reported changed conditions in the second visit, responsiveness measured by Cohen's effect size, standardized response mean, and Guyatt's responsiveness index ranged from 0.21 to 0.68. The intraclass correlation coefficient values calculated using patients reporting no change in health or PD status ranged from 0.64 to 0.76. The mean changed PDQ-8 summary index score in patients who reported that their health or PD status worsened only &quot;a little bit&quot; ranged from 5.8 to 7.4 points. Our current results show that PDQ-8 is a longitudinally reliable and responsive measure for assessing the health-related quality of life in patients with PD. The MID of the PDQ-8 estimated in the study will further support the use of this instrument in both clinical research and practice.
The recordings of local field potentials in the subthalamic nucleus in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), carried out through the stimulators implanted to treat the motor symptoms of the disease, show a prominent basal (&quot;off&quot;) activity in the beta range, which is attenuated after dopaminergic therapy. A recent study described improvement of parkinsonian features during rapid eyes movements (REM) sleep. We describe, for the first time, the changes in activity of the subthlamic nucleus (STN) during different sleep stages in Parkinson's disease with special interest in the beta band. Ten patients with PD treated with deep brain stimulation of the STN were studied. Subthalamic local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded through the stimulation electrodes during wakefulness (&quot;off&quot; medication) and different sleep stages. In Stage 2 and slow-wave sleep, a significant decrease of beta activity was recorded. During REM sleep, beta power values were similar to wakefulness values or even higher. These findings indicate that STN activity is modulated and modified during different sleep stages. The increased beta activity during REM sleep is a new but unexpected finding, which requires further analysis.
This study investigated the effect of acupuncture on iron-related oxidative damage in a mouse model designed as a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism model. To generate the chronic parkinsonism model, mice were intraperitoneally injected with MPTP (20mg/kg, one daily injection) for 30 days and acupuncture was performed at acupoints LR3 (Taichong) and GB34 (Yanglingquan) at 48h intervals. Acupuncture inhibited decreases in the immunoreactivities of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) that occurred as a result of MPTP neurotoxicity. The presence of ferric iron (Fe(3+)), but not ferrous iron (Fe(2+)), was strongly increased in the substantia nigra (SN) as a result of chronic loading of MPTP, whereas the ferritin-heavy chain (F-H) was significantly decreased. However, acupuncture treatment inhibited the increase in ferric iron and the decrease in the F-H that was induced by MPTP. Additionally, treatment with MPTP and acupuncture caused no changes in the presence of ferrous iron and ferritin-light chain (F-L) as a result of the treatments. The mRNA of F-H was also not affected. These results suggest that acupuncture may inhibit iron-related oxidative damage and may prevent the deleterious alteration of iron metabolism in the MPTP model.
It is well known that neuroplasticity occurs in the central nervous system in response to injury. Electro-acupuncture (EA) may also promote neuroplasticity. But little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms for the beneficial effects of EA. This study investigated the effects of EA on neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) expression in L(6) spinal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and associated segments of the spinal dorsal horn in cats subjected to unilateral removal of L(1)-L(5) and L(7)-S(2) DRG. NT-4 protein was normally present in the cytoplasm of the L(6) DRG neurons and L(3) and L(6) spinal dorsal horn neurons and glia. Adjacent ganglionectomy leads to a significant decrease in NT-4 expression in the L(6) DRG, but no change in the spinal dorsal horn. Following EA treatment a significant increase occurred in the L(6) DRG at 14 days post-operation (dpo) as well as the L(6) cord segment at 7 and 14 dpo. These findings pointed to a possible association between NT-4 expression and EA promoted spinal cord plasticity in adult cats subjected to partial ganglionectomy.
Patients with diabetes mellitus are reported to be at higher risk for developing neuropsychiatric disorders such as dementia and depression. Myo-inositol (mI), a neuronal/glial metabolite associated with multiple functions in the brain, has been shown to be increased in cognitive disorders, depression and diabetes. This study examined whether elevations in dorsolateral (DL) mI of diabetic patients with depression were associated with visuospatial deficits. Diabetic and depressed patients (n=18) were matched with patients with diabetes but without depression (n=20) and control subjects (n=19). Subjects were scored on both the recall and recognition tasks of the Rey-Osterreith Complex Figure (ROCF). Proton magnetic spectroscopy spectra from bilateral prefrontal white matter voxels were used to obtain concentrations of mI. Controls showed negative correlations between mI in right DL white matter and recall and recognition subtests. No correlation was observed for depressed diabetic patients. Correlations for diabetic controls fell midway between the comparison and depressed diabetic groups. The expected pattern of association between mI and visuospatial impairment in the right DL prefrontal region was seen among healthy controls. Progressive weakening of this association across both diabetic groups might be related to progressive changes in neural activity that underlies visuospatial function.
Family environment is a pathogenic factor of borderline personality disorder (BPD). However, the personality traits of patients with BPD and their parents have never been assessed using the same instrument and then examined for relationships. In the present study, we explored the temperament and character traits of BPD patients and their parents to investigate possible interactions. In total, 56 patients with BPD and their parents were evaluated with the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) and compared with 53 control families. Discriminant and correlation analyses indicated that subjects with BPD displayed higher levels of novelty seeking, harm avoidance, and self-transcendence and lower levels of self-directedness than control subjects. Their fathers displayed higher levels of novelty seeking and lower levels of persistence and self-directedness, and their mothers displayed lower levels of self-directedness compared with levels in control parents. In BPD families, temperament and character traits displayed high levels of discriminatory power. Novelty seeking in offspring with borderline personality disorder was significantly correlated with their mothers' novelty seeking and their fathers' self-transcendence. Self-directedness in borderline offspring was significantly correlated with both their mothers' and fathers' novelty seeking, and their self-transcendence was significantly correlated with their mothers' novelty seeking and harm avoidance. The different correlational pattern for borderline and control families is discussed. Characteristic personality patterns were found in BPD offspring and in both parents. The relationship between personality traits of borderline offspring and those of their parents may be related to both genetic transmission and family dynamics. Ramifications for treatment are discussed.
Two biomarkers of suicide risk; non-suppression in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) and low 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been reported to be predictors of suicide in mood disorders. The interrelation of the two systems seems to be different in suicide attempters compared with depressed inpatients who have not made a suicide attempt, indicating that the two biomarkers may be seen as independent. This investigation examined the interrelation of low CSF 5-HIAA and DST non-suppression in suicide victims with mood disorder. Fifty-eight mood disorder inpatients not receiving any treatment with antidepressants underwent lumbar puncture and the DST. Plasma cortisol levels at 8:00 a.m., 4:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. were analysed in relation to CSF 5-HIAA. All patients were followed up for causes of death and suicides were verified with death certificates. During follow-up (mean 21 years), 11 (19%) patients had committed suicide. In male suicide victims (n=6), the serum cortisol level at 4:00 p.m. showed a significant positive correlation with CSF 5-HIAA. Low CSF 5-HIAA predicted all early suicides (within 1 year), whereas all males who committed suicide after 1 year were DST non-suppressors. In female suicide victims (n=5), the post-DST serum cortisol did not correlate with CSF 5-HIAA. Low CSF 5-HIAA and DST non-suppression are orthogonal biologic risk factors for suicide in male mood disorder inpatients. CSF 5-HIAA is associated with short-term suicide risk; dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis seems to be a long-term suicide predictor.

Motion-induced blindness (MIB) is a visual phenomenon in which a highly salient, peripheral, visual target spontaneously disappears from visual awareness (and subsequently reappears) when superimposed on a globally moving background of distracters. Here, we investigated the influence of attention on these fluctuations in perception in two experiments. In the first experiment, directing spatial attention to the MIB target (and thus away from the distracters) led to an increased probability of disappearance of the target. This counter-intuitive effect of attention enhancing disappearance is nonetheless consistent with earlier reports that increased target salience enhances disappearance. Conversely, in a second experiment withdrawing attention from the entire MIB display (both target and distracters) led to a decrease in perceptual disappearances and reappearances, as well as prolonged periods of invisibility. Taken together these findings suggest that the global availability of attention facilitates competition between target and moving distracters, while the local direction of attention toward or away from the target can influence the outcome of that competition. Thus, in common with other related perceptual phenomena, attention has complex effects on the dynamics of target-distracter interactions associated with motion-induced blindness.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are involved in control of emotion, motivation and motor behavior. The loss of one of the subpopulations, substantia nigra pars compacta, is the pathological hallmark of one of the most prominent neurological disorders, Parkinson's disease. Several groups have looked at the molecular identity of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and have suggested the gene expression profile of these neurons. Here, after determining the efficiency of each screen, we provide a linked database of the genes, expressed in this neuronal population, by combining and comparing the results of six previous studies and verification of expression of each gene in dopaminergic neurons, using the collection of in situ hybridization in the Allen Brain Atlas.

Specification of retinal rod photoreceptors is determined by several different transcription factors that activate expression of rod-specific genes and repress expression of cone photoreceptor-specific genes. The mechanism by which this dual regulation occurs is unclear. We have found that Pias3, a transcriptional coregulator and E3 SUMO ligase that is selectively expressed in developing photoreceptors, promotes the differentiation of rod photoreceptors while preventing rods from adopting cone photoreceptor-like characteristics. Pias3 binds the photoreceptor-specific transcription factors Crx and Nr2e3 and is specifically targeted to the promoters of photoreceptor-specific genes. Pias3 SUMOylates Nr2e3, converting it into a potent repressor of cone-specific gene expression. Rod- and cone-specific promoters are bound by hyperSUMOylated proteins in rod photoreceptors, and blocking SUMOylation in photoreceptors results in cells with morphological and molecular features of cones and an absence of rod-specific markers. Our data thus identify Pias3-mediated SUMOylation of photoreceptor-specific transcription factors as a key mechanism of rod specification.
Astrocytes modulate neuronal activity by releasing chemical transmitters via a process termed gliotransmission. The role of this process in the control of behavior is unknown. Since one outcome of SNARE-dependent gliotransmission is the regulation of extracellular adenosine and because adenosine promotes sleep, we genetically inhibited the release of gliotransmitters and asked if astrocytes play an unsuspected role in sleep regulation. Inhibiting gliotransmission attenuated the accumulation of sleep pressure, assessed by measuring the slow wave activity of the EEG during NREM sleep, and prevented cognitive deficits associated with sleep loss. Since the sleep-suppressing effects of the A1 receptor antagonist CPT were prevented following inhibition of gliotransmission and because intracerebroventricular delivery of CPT to wild-type mice mimicked the transgenic phenotype, we conclude that astrocytes modulate the accumulation of sleep pressure and its cognitive consequences through a pathway involving A1 receptors.
The ERK MAP kinase signaling cascade plays critical roles in brain development, learning, memory, and cognition. It has recently been appreciated that mutation or deletion of elements within this signaling pathway leads to developmental syndromes in humans that are associated with impaired cognitive function and autism. Here, we review recent studies that provide insight into the biological roles of the ERKs in the brain that may underlie the cognitive deficits seen in these syndromes.
The article by Danziger and colleagues in this issue of Neuron evaluates empathy in a unique population--individuals with congenital insensitivity to pain. As such, it provides insights into the brain's ability to evaluate others' feeling to observed pain without having a specific sensory experience of pain itself.
This study investigated heart rate variability (HRV) in healthy volunteers that were selected for extreme scores of trait anxiety (TA), during two opposite psychophysiological conditions of mental stress, and relaxation induced by autogenic training. R-R intervals, HF and LF powers, and LF/HF ratios were derived from short-term electrocardiographic recordings made during mental stress and relaxation by autogenic training, with respiratory rate and skin conductance being controlled for in all the analyses. The main finding was that high TA was associated with reduced R-R intervals and HF power across conditions. In comparison to mental stress, autogenic training increased HRV and facilitated the vagal control of the heart. There were no significant effects of TA or the psychophysiological conditions on LF power, or LF/HF ratio. These results support the view that TA, which is an important risk factor for anxiety disorders and predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, is associated with autonomic dysfunction that seems likely to play a pathogenetic role in the long term.
To examine whether valence and arousal influence recognition memory during early automatic or during more sustained processes, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) of 21 women were recorded while they made old/new judgments in a continuous recognition task with pictures from the International Affective Picture System. The pictures were presented twice and differed in emotional valence and arousal. The P1 peak and four time windows were investigated: 200-300 ms, 300-400 ms, 400-600 ms, and 750-1000 ms after stimulus onset. There was a robust old/new effect starting in the 200-300 ms epoch and lasting all time windows. The valence effect was mainly present in the P1 peak and the 200-400 ms epoch, whereas the arousal effect was found in the 300-1000 ms epoch. Exploratory sLORETA analyses dissociated valence-dependent ventromedial prefrontal activity and arousal-dependent occipital activity in the 350-380 ms time window. Valence interacted with the 200-400 ms old/new effect at central and frontal sites. Arousal interacted with the 750-1000 ms old/new effect at posterior sites. It is concluded that valence influences fast recognition memory, while arousal may influence sustained encoding.
The roles of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus in fear and memory are unclear. This study examined the effects of temporary inactivation of the dorsal or ventral hippocampus on unconditioned and conditioned fear, using the shock-probe test. In Experiment 1, rats received either dorsal or ventral hippocampal infusions of lidocaine or saline, before exposure to an electrified shock-probe (acquisition I). In Experiment 2, rats received lidocaine or saline infusions after exposure to the shock-probe (acquisition II). In both experiments, a retention test in the same apparatus was given 24 h later, at which time the hippocampus was no longer inactivated, and the probe was disconnected from the shock-source. Because ventral hippocampal inactivation impaired fear behaviour during acquisition, and dorsal hippocampal inactivation impaired fear behaviour (probe avoidance) during retention, we concluded that 1) the ventral hippocampus plays a role in the expression of untrained fear reactions whereas 2) the dorsal hippocampus plays a role in encoding memory of the fearful experience.
Higher-order processing of nociceptive input is distributed in corticolimbic regions of the brain, including the anterior cingulate, parieto-insular and prefrontal cortices, as well as subcortical structures such as the bed nucleus of stria terminalis and amygdala. In addition to their role in pain processing, these regions encode or modulate emotional, motivational and sensory responses to stress. Thus, pain and stress pathways in the brain intersect at cortical and subcortical forebrain structures. Accordingly, previous work has shown that acute restraint stress in female rats induces heat hyperalgesia in a forebrain-dependent operant test of thermal escape. In the present study, we investigated the effects of social defeat stress in male rats on the operant escape task, as well as in a test of nociceptive thermal preference. After establishing baseline behaviors in these tests, separate groups of rats were socially defeated by dominant &quot;resident&quot; male rats. They were tested for thermal preference after 5 successive social defeat sessions. Escape from cold, heat and a neutral warm temperature also was evaluated after social defeat. Defeated rats exhibited a significant increase in cold preference after social defeat compared to the baseline. In the escape task, the rats exhibited increased escape from warm and nociceptive cold and heat temperatures. Thus, chronic social stress produces hyperalgesia for both hot and cold stimuli in male rats, suggesting a mutually facilitatory cross-regulation between central pathways regulating stress and pain.
Production of mRNA from the cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) gene is regulated by cocaine and other drugs of abuse in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a brain reward region. Current hypotheses postulate that CART peptides there oppose the rewarding actions of cocaine by opposing the effects of dopaminergic transmission. Since over expression of CREB was shown to decrease cocaine-mediated reward, we hypothesized that CART could be a target gene for CREB in the NAc and that over expression of CREB would increase CART peptide levels. Transcription factor (TF) binding to DNA is influenced by sequences adjacent to consensus TF binding sites and other factors. We thus examined CREB binding to a 27mer oligonucleotide containing the CRE sequence from the CART gene proximal promoter. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays and TF-antibody super shift assays, CREB was found to bind to the CRE sequence from the CART promoter. To test if over expression of CREB in the NAc affected CART peptide levels, Herpes simplex virus-1 vectors over expressing CREB (HSV-CREB), or a vector that expressed LacZ (HSV-LacZ) as a control, were injected into the NAc of rats. Western blotting and in situ hybridization showed that HSV-CREB injections increased CART mRNA and peptide levels. Injections of a dominant negative CREB mutant (HSV-mCREB) did not alter either CART mRNA or peptide levels. The finding that CREB can regulate the levels of CART mRNA and peptides in vivo in the NAc supports a role for CART peptides in psychostimulant-induced reward and reinforcement.
The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) agonist, xanomeline, attenuates amphetamine-induced activity in WT mice. This effect is abolished in mice lacking the M(4) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M(4) mAChR KO) and partially attenuated in mice lacking M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M(1) mAChR KO). Collectively, these data suggest that the efficacy exhibited by xanomeline in the mouse amphetamine-induced hyperactivity model, is mediated predominantly by M(4) muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, and that M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptors may play a more minor role. This supports the hypothesis that activation of M(4), and to a lesser extent M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, may represent a potential target for the treatment of psychosis seen in schizophrenia.
It has been estimated that only 15% of the compounds classified as silent G protein-coupled receptor antagonists are indeed devoid of either positive or negative intrinsic efficacy. Considering that 40% of all drugs on the market target G protein-coupled receptors mainly as orthosteric ligands, elucidating their intrinsic properties is becoming increasingly important. While agonism can be demonstrated using appropriately sensitive experimental setups, the detection of inverse agonism can be limited by a low degree of constitutive activity in many assay systems. In this study, changes in ligand behavior upon a lasting pretreatment with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), that induced receptor desensitization, were observed, measuring the second messenger cyclic AMP (cAMP) in a GABA(B) receptor-expressing recombinant cell line. The GABA(B) receptor partial agonist 2-OH-saclofen lost its ability to inhibit 7beta-forskolin-induced cAMP production upon GABA-pretreatment. The &quot;silent&quot; receptor antagonists CGP62349, CGP52432, CGP56999 and SCH50911, on the other hand, stimulated 7beta-forskolin-induced cAMP production under these conditions. The inverse agonism of CGP56999 was inhibited by the efficacy-deficient 2-OH-saclofen, proving it was truly mediated through the orthosteric site of the GABA(B) receptor. Finally, the positive allosteric modulator GS39783, which previously only marginally inhibited cAMP production, suppressed it by 60% both alone and in the presence of the competitive receptor antagonist 2-OH-saclofen, thus GS39783 became an allosteric receptor agonist at desensitized GABA(B) receptors. These changes likely reflect adaptations in the mechanisms of GABA(B) receptor function following desensitization and may be important in the elucidation of intrinsic ligand efficacies as well as for the consequences of continuous drug treatment.
Cannabinoid CB(2) receptors may couple to a variety of G proteins and intracellular effector systems to regulate physiological and pathophysiological processes involved in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In this study, the coupling of cannabinoid hCB(2) receptors to Galpha(qo5) and Galpha(qi5) proteins was studied and compared by investigating the pharmacological properties of HEK-293 cells co-expressing cannabinoid hCB(2) with chimeric Galpha(qo5) (HEK-hCB(2)-G(qo5)) or Galpha(qi5) (HEK-hCB(2)-G(qi5)). Both cell lines were found to be amendable for measuring cannabinoid CB(2) receptor agonist evoked Ca(2+) mobilization in a high-throughput manner. Comparison of binding affinities of ligands in homogenates prepared from both cell lines revealed similar affinities for [(3)H]CP55,940 displacement with the following rank order: CP55,940 approximately WIN55,212-2 &gt; SR144528 &gt; JWH015approximatelyAM1241approximately AM630 &gt; SR141617A approximately AM251. In comparison at cannabinoid hCB(1) receptors: the rank order was: SR141617A approximately CP55,940 &gt; AM251 &gt; WIN55,212-2 &gt; AM1241approximatelySR144528 &gt; JWH015approximatelyAM630. No significant differences in cannabinoid receptor agonist (CP55,940 approximately WIN55,212-2 &gt; JWH015) or antagonist(SR144528 approximately AM1241 &gt; AM630 &gt; AM251 approximately SR141617A) profiles were observed in HEK-hCB(2)-G(qo5) and HEK-hCB(2)-G(qi5) cells as determined using intracellular Ca(2+) measurements. Experiments with HEK-hCB(2)-G(qi5) cells carried out by investigating interactions among CP55,940, carbachol, thapsigargin, and U73122 revealed that the mechanism of cannabinoid hCB(2) receptor coupling via chimeric G proteins to Ca(2+) mobilization involves phospholipase C-inositol trisphosphate (PLC-IP(3)) and that it is less efficient in comparison to the endogenous muscarinic mediated PLC-IP(3)-Ca(2+) pathway. This study demonstrates that expressed cannabinoid CB(2) receptors couple equally well to Galpha(qo5) and Galpha(qi5) proteins and that receptor agonist or antagonist pharmacology is not influenced by the nature of these coupled G proteins when heterologously expressed.
Compiling pharmacological evidence implicates metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2) receptors in the regulation of emotional states and suggests positive modulators as a novel therapeutic approach of Anxiety/Depression and Schizophrenia. Here, we investigated subcutaneous effects of the metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2/3) agonist (LY354740) on sleep-wake architecture in rat. To confirm the specific effects on rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were mediated via metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2) receptors, we characterized the sleep-wake cycles in metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2) receptor deficient mice (mGlu(2)R(-/-)) and their arousal response to LY354740. We furthermore examined effects on sleep behavior in rats of the positive allosteric modulator, biphenyl-indanone A (BINA) alone and in combination with LY354740 at sub-effective doses. LY354740 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently suppressed REM sleep and prolonged its onset latency. Metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2)R(-/-) and their wild type (WT) littermates exhibited similar spontaneous sleep-wake phenotype, while LY354740 (10 mg/kg) significantly affected REM sleep variables in WT but not in the mutant. In rats, BINA (1, 3, 10, 20, 40 mg/kg) dose-dependently suppressed REM sleep, lengthened its onset latency and slightly enhanced passive waking. Additionally, combined treatment elicited a synergistic action on REM sleep variables. Our findings show common changes of REM sleep variables following modulation of metabotropic glutamate mGlu(2) receptor and support an active role of this receptor in the regulation of REM sleep. The synergistic action of BINA on LY354740's effects on sleep pattern implies that positive modulators would tune the endogenous glutamate tone suggesting potential benefit in the treatment of psychiatric disorders, in which REM sleep overdrive is manifested.
Dopamine modulation of neuronal activity during memory tasks identifies a nonlinear inverted-U shaped function. Both the dopamine transporter (DAT) and dopamine D(2) receptors (encoded by DRD(2)) critically regulate dopamine signaling in the striatum and in prefrontal cortex during memory. Moreover, in vitro studies have demonstrated that DAT and D(2) proteins reciprocally regulate each other presynaptically. Therefore, we have evaluated the genetic interaction between a DRD(2) polymorphism (rs1076560) causing reduced presynaptic D(2) receptor expression and the DAT 3'-VNTR variant (affecting DAT expression) in a large sample of healthy subjects undergoing blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD)-functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during memory tasks and structural MRI. Results indicated a significant DRD(2)/DAT interaction in prefrontal cortex and striatum BOLD activity during both working memory and encoding of recognition memory. The differential effect on BOLD activity of the DAT variant was mostly manifest in the context of the DRD(2) allele associated with lower presynaptic expression. Similar results were also evident for gray matter volume in caudate. These interactions describe a nonlinear relationship between compound genotypes and brain activity or gray matter volume. Complementary data from striatal protein extracts from wild-type and D(2) knock-out animals (D2R(-/-)) indicate that DAT and D(2) proteins interact in vivo. Together, our results demonstrate that the interaction between genetic variants in DRD(2) and DAT critically modulates the nonlinear relationship between dopamine and neuronal activity during memory processing.
Recent human functional MRI (fMRI) studies have revealed that two widely distributed groups of cortical areas display inverse changes in activity when attentional demands increase, with one group showing higher (task-on) and the second lower (task-off) blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signals. Moreover, task-on and task-off regions also exhibit slow (&lt;0.2 Hz) inversely correlated fluctuations in BOLD signal at rest. However, the neuronal correlates of these reciprocal BOLD signal fluctuations are unknown. Here, we addressed this question using simultaneous recordings of unit activity and local field potentials (LFPs) in the cat homologues of task-on and task-off regions. In all states of vigilance, LFP power was lower in task-off than task-on regions with no difference in firing rates. Both sets of regions displayed slow (0.5-0.15 Hz) cyclical modulations in LFP power in all frequency bands but with large and variable phase differences such that task-on and task-off regions were often anticorrelated. Inversely correlated LFP power fluctuations were state-dependent in that they were much more frequent in waking and paradoxical sleep than in slow-wave sleep. Moreover, consistent with fMRI findings, when attentional demands increased, LFP power in task-on and task-off regions changed in opposite directions, further augmenting and decreasing, respectively. At odds with previous fMRI studies, however, the decreased LFP power in task-off regions was associated with increased firing rates, suggesting that the engagement of task-off regions might not be reduced but in fact enhanced during attention.
The endopeptidase neprilysin (NEP) is a major amyloid-beta (Abeta) degrading enzyme and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Because NEP cleaves substrates other than Abeta, we investigated the potential role of NEP-mediated processing of neuropeptides in the mechanisms of neuroprotection in vivo. Overexpression of NEP at low levels in transgenic (tg) mice affected primarily the levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) compared with other neuropeptides. Ex vivo and in vivo studies in tg mice and in mice that received lentiviral vector injections showed that NEP cleaved NPY into C-terminal fragments (CTFs), whereas silencing NEP reduced NPY processing. Immunoblot and mass spectrometry analysis showed that NPY 21-36 and 31-36 were the most abundant fragments generated by NEP activity in vivo. Infusion of these NPY CTFs into the brains of APP (amyloid precursor protein) tg mice ameliorated the neurodegenerative pathology in this model. Moreover, the amidated NPY CTFs protected human neuronal cultures from the neurotoxic effects of Abeta. This study supports the possibility that the NPY CTFs generated during NEP-mediated proteolysis might exert neuroprotective effects in vivo. This function of NEP represents a unique example of a proteolytic enzyme with dual action, namely, degradation of Abeta as well as processing of NPY.
The head direction (HD) cell signal is a representation of an animal's perceived directional heading with respect to its environment. This signal appears to originate in the vestibular system, which includes the semicircular canals and otolith organs. Preliminary studies indicate the semicircular canals provide a necessary component of the HD signal, but involvement of otolithic information in the HD signal has not been tested. The present study was designed to determine the otolithic contribution to the HD signal, as well as to compare HD cell activity of mice with that of rats. HD cell activity in the anterodorsal thalamus was assessed in wild-type C57BL/6J and otoconia-deficient tilted mice during locomotion within a cylinder containing a prominent visual landmark. HD cell firing properties in C57BL/6J mice were generally similar to those in rats. However, in C57BL/6J mice, landmark rotation failed to demonstrate dominant control of the HD signal in 36% of the sessions. In darkness, directional firing became unstable during 42% of the sessions, but landmark control was not associated with HD signal stability in darkness. HD cells were identified in tilted mice, but directional firing properties were not as robust as those of C57BL/6J mice. Most HD cells in tilted mice were controlled by landmark rotation but showed substantial signal degradation across trials. These results support current models that suggest otolithic information is involved in the perception of directional heading. Furthermore, compared with rats, the HD signal in mice appears to be less reliably anchored to prominent environmental cues.
To understand the mechanisms of fast information processing in the brain, it is necessary to determine how rapidly populations of neurons can respond to incoming stimuli in a noisy environment. Recently, it has been shown experimentally that an ensemble of neocortical neurons can track a time-varying input current in the presence of additive correlated noise very fast, up to frequencies of several hundred hertz. Modulations in the firing rate of presynaptic neuron populations affect, however, not only the mean but also the variance of the synaptic input to postsynaptic cells. It has been argued that such modulations of the noise intensity (multiplicative modulation) can be tracked much faster than modulations of the mean input current (additive modulation). Here, we compare the response characteristics of an ensemble of neocortical neurons for both modulation schemes. We injected sinusoidally modulated noisy currents (additive and multiplicative modulation) into layer V pyramidal neurons of the rat somatosensory cortex and measured the trial and ensemble-averaged spike responses for a wide range of stimulus frequencies. For both modulation paradigms, we observed low-pass behavior. The cutoff frequencies were markedly high, considerably higher than the average firing rates. We demonstrate that modulations in the variance can be tracked significantly faster than modulations in the mean input. Extremely fast stimuli (up to 1 kHz) can be reliably tracked, provided the stimulus amplitudes are sufficiently high.
Synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2), one of the first synaptic vesicle proteins identified, is characterized by multiple transmembrane regions that exhibit homology to sugar transporters, and by a highly glycosylated intravesicular sequence. Deletion of SV2 causes postnatal lethality in mice, primarily because of fulminant epilepsy. At the cellular level, deletion of SV2 impairs neurotransmitter release, but its function is unknown, and even the exact point at which release is affected in SV2-deleted synapses remains unclear. Using electrophysiological approaches, we now examine at what step in exocytosis the deletion of SV2 impairs release. Our data demonstrate that deletion of SV2 produces a decrease in evoked synaptic responses without causing changes in mini frequency, mini amplitude, the readily releasable pool of vesicles, or the apparent Ca(2+) sensitivity of vesicle fusion. These findings indicate that a previously unidentified step may couple priming of synaptic vesicles to Ca(2+) triggering of fusion, and that SV2 acts in this step to render primed synaptic vesicles fully Ca(2+) responsive. To investigate the structural requirements for this function of SV2, we used rescue experiments. We demonstrate that conserved charged residues within the transmembrane regions and the intravesicular glycosylation of SV2 are required for its normal folding and trafficking. In contrast, the conserved putative synaptotagmin-binding sequence of SV2 is fully dispensable. Viewed together, these observations suggest that SV2 functions in a maturation step of primed vesicles that converts the vesicles into a Ca(2+)- and synaptotagmin-responsive state.
Emerging evidence has suggested that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) protects neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. In this study, we examined the effect of AMPA on the cell surface expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, a central player in glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, using rat cortical neurons. AMPA (10 microM, 24 h) attenuated the expression of cell surface NR1, an NMDA receptor subunit, and also inhibited glutamate-induced increases in intracellular Ca2+. SB216763, an inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), had effects similar to those of AMPA. We have earlier shown that AMPA treatment attenuated GSK3beta activity. Our data suggest that AMPA reduces the cell surface expression of NMDA receptors through the regulation of GSK3beta and, consequently, reduces the amount of intracellular Ca2+.
Further processing of auditory stimuli in the free field is attenuated when participants are in contact with speakers versus not touching them. Studies in the visual domain have found that men and women use different strategies for processing spatial information. In this study, we examined sex-related differences in event-related potentials while men and women performed an auditory discrimination task in peripersonal space when either holding speakers or resting their hands in their laps. We found that men responded more accurately than women to targets in attended locations, and that the sexes exhibited different event-related potential patterns during task performance. These differences are consistent with existing predictions of female top-down and male bottom-up strategies in spatial processing.
Extensive practice involving sustained attention can lead to changes in brain structure. Here, we report evidence of structural differences in the lower brainstem of participants engaged in the long-term practice of meditation. Using magnetic resonance imaging, we observed higher gray matter density in lower brain stem regions of experienced meditators compared with age-matched nonmeditators. Our findings show that long-term practitioners of meditation have structural differences in brainstem regions concerned with cardiorespiratory control. This could account for some of the cardiorespiratory parasympathetic effects and traits, as well as the cognitive, emotional, and immunoreactive impact reported in several studies of different meditation practices.
The relative latencies of evoked electroencephalogram potentials to lateralized visual stimuli were used to calculate the interhemispheric transfer time (IHTT) in right-handed and left-handed males. We confirmed earlier observations of a directional asymmetry in right-handed males. That is, IHTT from the right to the left hemisphere is significantly shorter than from the left to the right. We showed for the first time, however, that this directional asymmetry is not seen in left-handed males. It is suggested that differences in the cytoarchitechtonics of the right and left hemisphere (differences that may result in lateralization of function per se) underlie the asymmetric IHTT in right handers, and that these differences are less pronounced in left handers.
The effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) on excitability and synaptic function was analyzed in slice preparations of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the major mammalian circadian pacemaker. TNF-alpha caused a rapid increase in the spontaneous firing rate in most SCN neurons examined that was paralleled by an increase of inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester abolished these effects. No effect of TNF-alpha was found on miniature synaptic currents. The lack of effect on miniature synaptic currents indicates that TNF-alpha primarily affects neuronal membrane properties to cause the changes in spontaneous firing. TNF-alpha, levels of which show circadian variation in the brain and increase during inflammatory conditions and aging, may thus through nitric oxide induction modulate SCN electrical output to affect downstream circadian rhythms.
Nerve cells adjust their electrical excitability and the overall strength of synaptic connections to maintain their functional identity. A recent study suggests that they may also regulate dendritic branch patterns to compensate for the variability of synaptic contacts and help ensure appropriate connectivity in the brain.

The transport of glutamate is coupled to the co-transport of three Na+ ions and the countertransport of one K+ ion. In addition to this carrier-type exchange behaviour, glutamate transporters also behave as chloride channels. The chloride channel activity is strongly influenced by the cations that are involved in coupled flux, making glutamate transporters representative of the ambiguous interface between carriers and channels. In this paper, we review the interaction of alkali cations with glutamate transporters in terms of these diverse functions. We also present a model derived from electrostatic mapping of the predicted cation-binding sites in the X-ray crystal structure of the Pyrococcus horikoshii transporter GltPh and in its human glutamate transporter homologue EAAT3. Two predicted Na+-binding sites were found to overlap precisely with the Tl+ densities observed in the aspartate-bound complex. A novel third site predicted to favourably bind Na+ (but not Tl+) is formed by interaction with the substrate and the occluding HP2 loop. A fourth predicted site in the apo state exhibits selectivity for K+ over both Na+ and Tl+. Notably, this K+ site partially overlaps the glutamate-binding site, and their binding is mutually exclusive. These results are consistent with kinetic and structural data and suggest a plausible mechanism for the flux coupling of glutamate with Na+ and K+ ions.
Anthrax toxin consists of three proteins (approx. 90kDa each): lethal factor (LF); oedema factor (OF); and protective antigen (PA). The former two are enzymes that act when they reach the cytosol of a targeted cell. To enter the cytosol, however, which they do after being endocytosed into an acidic vesicle compartment, they require the third component, PA. PA (or rather its proteolytically generated fragment PA63) forms at low pH a heptameric beta-barrel channel, (PA63)7, through which LF and OF are transported--a phenomenon we have demonstrated in planar phospholipid bilayers. It might appear that (PA63)7 simply forms a large hole through which LF and OF diffuse. However, LF and OF are folded proteins, much too large to fit through the approximately 15A diameter (PA63)7 beta-barrel. This paper discusses how the (PA63)7 channel both participates in the unfolding of LF and OF and functions in their translocation as a proton-protein symporter.
Proteins belonging to the ATP-binding cassette superfamily couple ATP binding and hydrolysis at conserved nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) to diverse cellular functions. Most superfamily members are transporters, while cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), alone, is an ion channel. Despite this functional difference, recent results have suggested that CFTR shares a common molecular mechanism with other members. ATP binds to partial binding sites on the surface of the two NBDs, which then associate to form a NBD dimer, with complete composite catalytic sites now buried at the interface. ATP hydrolysis and gamma-phosphate dissociation, with the loss of molecular contacts linking the two sides of the composite site, trigger dimer dissociation. The conformational signals generated by NBD dimer formation and dissociation are transmitted to the transmembrane domains where, in transporters, they drive the cycle of conformational changes that translocate the substrate across the membrane; in CFTR, they result in opening and closing (gating) of the ion-permeation pathway.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is an endogenous insulinotropic peptide secreted from the gastrointestinal tract in response to food intake. It enhances pancreatic islet beta-cell proliferation and glucose-dependent insulin secretion, and lowers blood glucose and food intake in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). A long-acting GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonist, exendin-4 (Ex-4), is the first of this new class of antihyperglycemia drugs approved to treat T2DM. GLP-1Rs are coupled to the cAMP second messenger pathway and, along with pancreatic cells, are expressed within the nervous system of rodents and humans, where receptor activation elicits neurotrophic actions. We detected GLP-1R mRNA expression in both cultured embryonic primary cerebral cortical and ventral mesencephalic (dopaminergic) neurons. These cells are vulnerable to hypoxia- and 6-hydroxydopamine-induced cell death, respectively. We found that GLP-1 and Ex-4 conferred protection in these cells, but not in cells from Glp1r knockout (-/-) mice. Administration of Ex-4 reduced brain damage and improved functional outcome in a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion stroke model. Ex-4 treatment also protected dopaminergic neurons against degeneration, preserved dopamine levels, and improved motor function in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Our findings demonstrate that Ex-4 can protect neurons against metabolic and oxidative insults, and they provide preclinical support for the therapeutic potential for Ex-4 in the treatment of stroke and PD.
Notch is the receptor in one of a small group of conserved signaling pathways that are essential at multiple stages in development. Although the mechanism of transduction impinges directly on the nucleus to regulate transcription through the CSL [CBF-1/Su(H)/LAG-1] [corrected] DNA binding protein, there are few known direct target genes. Thus, relatively little is known about the immediate cellular consequences of Notch activation. We therefore set out to determine the genome-wide response to Notch activation by analyzing the changes in messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and the sites of CSL occupancy within 30 minutes of activating Notch in Drosophila cells. Through combining these data, we identify high-confidence direct targets of Notch that are implicated in the maintenance of adult muscle progenitors in vivo. These targets are enriched in cell morphogenesis genes and in components of other cell signaling pathways, especially the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway. Also evident are examples of incoherent network logic, where Notch stimulates the expression of both a gene and the repressor of that gene, which may result in a transient window of competence after Notch activation. Furthermore, because targets comprise both positive and negative regulators, cells become poised for both outcomes, suggesting one mechanism through which Notch activation can lead to opposite effects in different contexts.
In this study, insulin receptor substrate (IRS) p53 is identified as a binding partner for Kank, a kidney ankyrin repeat-containing protein that functions to suppress cell proliferation and regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Kank specifically inhibits the binding of IRSp53 with active Rac1 (Rac1(G12V)) but not Cdc42 (cdc42(G12V)) and thus inhibits the IRSp53-dependent development of lamellipodia without affecting the formation of filopodia. Knockdown (KD) of Kank by RNA interference results in increased lamellipodial development, whereas KD of both Kank and IRSp53 has little effect. Moreover, insulin-induced membrane ruffling is inhibited by overexpression of Kank. Kank also suppresses integrin-dependent cell spreading and IRSp53-induced neurite outgrowth. Our results demonstrate that Kank negatively regulates the formation of lamellipodia by inhibiting the interaction between Rac1 and IRSp53.
Administration of the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 has been shown to increase indices of noradrenergic activity. Neuroanatomical, neurochemical and behavioral studies have provided evidence supporting a marked impact of cannabinoids on the rat coeruleo-cortical pathway. As activity of this pathway is implicated in setting specific attentional modes, the present study assessed the influence of acute and repeated systemic administration of WIN 55,212-2 on novelty investigation in adolescent and adult male rats by using the hole board behavioral paradigm. Animals were individually acclimated to the hole board for 10-min sessions over 3 days, and novel objects were introduced on the fourth day. Novelty-seeking behavior was measured by comparison of the average number of return visits to a hole containing a novel object versus the average number of return visits to an empty hole. While attenuation of novelty preference was observed in adult rats acutely treated with WIN 55,212-2, both acutely treated adolescent groups retained their preference for novelty. All groups treated with repeated administration of either drug or vehicle demonstrated novelty preference, and no differences were found in the measure of novelty investigation between the groups. Furthermore, this study reproduced findings showing significant differences in locomotor activity that did not coincide with differences in novelty-seeking behavior. These data thus suggest a complex effect of CB1 receptor modulation on novelty preference in the male rat that is modulated by age and treatment.
It is no secret that motor learning benefits from repetition. For example, pianists devote countless hours to performing complicated sequences of key presses, and golfers practice their swings thousands of times to reach a level of proficiency. Interestingly, the subsequent waking and sleeping hours after practice also play important roles in motor learning. During this time, a motor skill can consolidate into a more stable form that can lead to improved future performance without intervening practice. Though it is widely believed that sleep is crucial for this consolidation of motor learning, this is not generally true. In many instances only day-time consolidates motor learning, while in other instances neither day-time nor sleep consolidates learning. Recent studies have suggested that conscious awareness during motor training can determine whether sleep or day-time plays a role in consolidation. However, ongoing studies suggest that this explanation is also incomplete. In addition to conscious awareness, attention is an important factor to consider. This review discusses how attention and conscious awareness interact with day and night processes to consolidate a motor memory.
Communal nesting (CN), an early social enrichment procedure in which multiple females rear the offspring in a single nest, increases maternal care levels received by offspring and interaction with peers. It has been shown that male mice reared under CN conditions show increased social competence and propensity to social interactions at adulthood. In the present study we investigated long-term behavioural effects of CN on female offspring. Mouse pups were reared under two different experimental conditions: standard nesting (SN, where single mother rears her pups) and CN (three females rearing their pups in a single nest). At adulthood CN and SN virgin females underwent three different behavioural tests: (i) maternal induction following presentation of foster pups; (ii) social recognition test in which ultrasound vocalizations (USVs) and social investigation behaviour emitted by a resident female in the presence of a female partner were recorded; (iii) zero-maze to analyze anxiety profiles. CN females showed (i) decreased licking response in the maternal induction test accompanied by an increased sniffing response; (ii) decreased of social interest towards a novel partner (during the Retest Different phase), and decreased USV emission rate in the social recognition test; CN and SN females did not differ in the emotional responses measured in the zero-maze apparatus. As a whole these data suggest that CN rearing render female mice less reactive to social novelty.
Impulsivity is a core deficit of a number of neuropsychiatric disorders including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anti-social conduct disorder and drug addiction. Recent research has highlighted the multifaceted nature of impulsivity and the myriad of putative neural and psychological mechanisms thought to underpin behavioural syndromes of impaired self-control. Here we report a novel conceptualisation of impulsivity based on 'waiting' and 'stopping' efficiency with explanatory value in defining the psychological and neural basis of impulsivity and the high co-morbidity of brain disorders such as ADHD and drug addiction. Rats selected for high levels of impulsivity on a reaction time task analogous to the continuous performance test in humans exhibited correspondingly high levels of impulsive decision-making on a delay-of-reward task. The same rats, however, were unimpaired on a stop-signal task requiring inhibition of an already initiated motor response. The specific nature of this deficit in 'waiting impulsivity' was confirmed by unimpaired acquisition of appetitive Pavlovian conditioning, a putative ancillary measure of impulsive behaviour. These findings are significant in light of recent evidence linking impulsivity in rats to high levels of cocaine self-administration and development of compulsive cocaine seeking behaviour. We thus suggest that an inability to bridge delays to future rewards and reward-related stimuli is a candidate behavioural endophenotype that pre-disposes to clinical psychopathology.
Rats are polyphasic sleepers. However, a formal definition of when one sleep episode ends and another begins has not been put forth. In the present study we examine the distribution of wake episode durations and based on this distribution conclude there are multiple components of wake. If the wake episode exceeds 300 s the wake episode is assigned to long-duration wake (LDW), if the episode is less than 300 s it is assigned to brief wake (BW). Further support for this separation was found in close analysis of the EEG power spectrum in BW versus LDW. We then used LDW episodes to separate one sleep episode from another. We term the sleep episodes vigilance cycling (VC) because the rat is cycling between the vigilance states of BW, slow-wave sleep (SWS), and rapid-eye movement sleep (REMS). We find that the characteristics of VC are different in the light period versus the dark period. We further find that as VC episodes progress, SWS pressure lessens, but the amount of time spent in REMS increases. These findings suggest that VC episodes are regulated and meaningful to the sleep behavior of rats. The use of the concepts of LDW and VC provides additional insights into the description of sleep patterns in rats that may be important in the development of a complete description of sleep behavior in this animal.
We present a 2-day water maze protocol that addresses some of potential confounds present in the water maze when using the aged subjects typical of studies of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. This protocol is based on an initial series of training trials with a visible platform, followed by a memory test with a hidden platform 24h later. We validated this procedure using aged (15-18m) mice expressing three Alzheimer's disease-related transgenes, PS1(M146 V), APP(Swe), and tau(P301L). We also tested these triple transgenic mice (3xTG) and age and sex-matched wild-type (WT) in a behavioral battery consisting of tests of motor coordination (balance beam), spatial memory (object displacement task) visual acuity (novel object recognition task) and locomotor activity (open field). 3xTG mice had significantly longer escape latencies in the memory trial of the 2-day water maze test than WT and than their own baseline performance in the last visible platform trial. In addition, this protocol had improved sensitivity compared to a typical probe trial, since no significant differences between genotypes were evident in a probe trial conducted 24h after the final training trial. The 2-day procedure also resulted in good reliability between cohorts, and controlled for non-cognitive factors that can confound water maze assessments of memory, such as the significantly lower locomotor activity evident in the 3xTG mice. A further benefit of this method is that large numbers of animals can be tested in a short time.

Existing data on the expression of H(4) histamine receptor in the CNS are conflicting and inconclusive. In this report, we present the results of experiments that were conducted in order to elucidate H(4) receptor expression and localization in the brain, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Here we show that transcripts of H(4) receptor are present in all analyzed regions of the human CNS, including spinal cord, hippocampus, cortex, thalamus and amygdala, with the highest levels of H(4) mRNA detected in the spinal cord. In rat, H(4) mRNA was detected in cortex, cerebellum, brainstem, amygdala, thalamus and striatum. Very low levels of H(4) mRNA were detected in hypothalamus, and no H(4) signal was detected in the rat hippocampus. Fairly low levels of H(4) mRNA were detected in examined peripheral tissues including spleen and liver. Interestingly, strong expression of H(4) mRNA was detected in the rat DRG and spinal cord. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed expression of H(4) receptors on neurons in the rat lumbar DRG and in the lumbar spinal cord. Our observations provide evidence of the H(4) presence in both human and rodent CNS and offer some insight into possible role of H(4) in itch and pain.
This study examined the electrophysiological correlates of the processing of the Remember/Forget cues and the successful encoding of study items in item-method directed forgetting. Subjects engaged in an old/new recognition test and an item-method directed forgetting task. Event-related potentials (ERPs) time-locked to study items and Remember/Forget cues were compared according to the subsequent recognition performance. A reliable subsequent memory effect was elicited by the study items in the old/new recognition test. In contrast, the study items in the directed forgetting task did not yield reliable subsequent memory effects. Importantly, the Remember/Forget cues gave rise to ERPs that were predictive of the subsequent recognition performance to the study items preceding the cues. The subsequent memory effect elicited by the Remember cues was more sustained than that elicited by the Forget cues and showed distinct scalp distribution during the extended period. These results suggest that study items in the directed forgetting task are maintained in short-term memory with minimal further processing until the presentation of the Remember/Forget cues. In addition, the encoding mechanisms engaged by Remember cues and Forget cues are not entirely equivalent.
The formation of insoluble cross beta-sheet amyloid is pathologically associated with disorders such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, and Huntington diseases. One exception is the nonpathological amyloid derived from the protein Pmel17 within melanosomes to generate melanin pigment. Here we show that the formation of insoluble MalphaC intracellular fragments of Pmel17, which are the direct precursors to Pmel17 amyloid, depends on a novel juxtamembrane cleavage at amino acid position 583 between the furin-like proprotein convertase cleavage site and the transmembrane domain. The resulting Pmel17 C-terminal fragment is then processed by the gamma-secretase complex to release a short-lived intracellular domain fragment. Thus, by analogy to the Notch receptor, we designate this cleavage the S2 cleavage site, whereas gamma-secretase mediates proteolysis at the intramembrane S3 site. Substitutions or deletions at this S2 cleavage site, the use of the metalloproteinase inhibitor TAPI-2, as well as small interfering RNA-mediated knock-down of the metalloproteinases ADAM10 and 17 reduced the formation of insoluble Pmel17 fragments. These results demonstrate that the release of the Pmel17 ectodomain, which is critical for melanin amyloidogenesis, is initiated by S2 cleavage at a juxtamembrane position.
Individual neurons express receptors for several different growth factors that influence the survival, growth, neurotransmitter phenotype, and other properties of the cell. Although there has been considerable progress in elucidating the molecular signal transduction pathways and physiological responses of neurons and other cells to individual growth factors, little is known about if and how signals from different growth factors are integrated within a neuron. In this study, we determined the interactive effects of nerve growth factor, insulin-like growth factor 1, and epidermal growth factor on the activation status of downstream kinase cascades and transcription factors, cell survival, and neurotransmitter production in neural cells that express receptors for all three growth factors. We document considerable differences in the quality and quantity of intracellular signaling and eventual phenotypic responses that are dependent on whether cells are exposed to a single or multiple growth factors. Dual stimulations that generated the greatest antagonistic or synergistic actions, compared with a theoretically neutral summation of their two activities, yielded the largest eventual change of neuronal phenotype indicated by the ability of the cell to produce norepinephrine or resist oxidative stress. Combined activation of insulin-like growth factor 1 and epidermal growth factor receptors was particularly notable for antagonistic interactions at some levels of signal transduction and norepinephrine production, but potentiation at other levels of signaling and cytoprotection. Our findings suggest that in true physiological settings where multiple growth factors are present, activation of one receptor type may result in molecular and phenotypic responses that are different from that observed in typical experimental paradigms in which cells are exposed to only a single growth factor at a time.
Cytometry of the neuronal density within four sexually dimorphic nuclei was completed for adult rats that had been perinatally exposed to 0.5Hz, 5-10nT magnetic fields or sham conditions while their mothers drank tap water containing the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-NAME or only tap water. One week after birth the rats were rendered hypoxic for 1 min or served as controls. Exposures to either the magnetic field or the NOS inhibitor reduced the numbers of neurons within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis by about 25%, whereas exposure to either the hypoxia or magnetic fields resulted in comparable decreases in cell numbers within the ventromedial nucleus (dorsomedial part). For comparison males had 15% fewer neurons in these nuclei compared to females. The effect sizes for the interactions involving the perinatal exposure for 8 days to the magnetic fields were comparable to the magnitudes of those associated with 1 min of hypoxia 1 week postnatally. These results show the sensitivity of specific structures of the developing brain to interactions between subtle environmental variables.
Human serum albumin (HSA) is an effective therapeutic agent that protects neurons after cerebral ischemia or related injuries by means of its antioxidant capacity. Our aim was to test whether bovine serum albumin (BSA) might also provide protection, especially against DNA damage. Rat cortical neurons were cultured in both the presence and absence of BSA. To test the neuroprotective role of BSA against DNA damage and neuronal death, primary cultures were investigated using both gamma-H2AX and pATM immunocytochemistry, and the TUNEL assay, respectively. Quantitative analyses revealed that the cultures in the absence of BSA had a higher number of apoptotic neurons. Additionally, neurons showing DNA strand breaks were fewer when BSA was added to the medium. BSA acts as a neuroprotective molecule, reducing both the DNA damage and apoptosis rates. This effect is similar to that described for HSA, probably due to its antioxidant activity. Hence, we have demonstrated that BSA provides a neuroprotective role when DNA damage occurs. Additionally, we suggest that BSA probably shares similarities with HSA in its antioxidant activity, opening new ways in the study of stroke and related brain diseases.
We have recently shown that estrogen decreases anxiety and increases expression of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2), the rate-limiting enzyme for 5-HT synthesis. However, the effects of estrogen on 5-HT release and reuptake may also affect the overall availability of 5-HT in the forebrain. Estrogen has been previously shown to have no effect on the inhibitory 5-HT 1A autoreceptor (5-HT(1A)) in the rat dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN); however the regulation of the inhibitory 5-HT 1B autoreceptor (5-HT(1B)) in the midbrain raphe by estrogen has not yet been investigated. Therefore, we examined the effects of estrogen on 5-HT(1B) mRNA in the rat DRN, focusing on specific subregions, and whether 5-HT(1B) mRNA levels correlated with TPH2 mRNA levels and with anxiety-like behavior. Ovariectomized rats were treated for 2 weeks with estrogen or placebo, exposed to the open field test, and 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) mRNA was quantified by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Estrogen had no effect on 5HT(1A) mRNA in any of the DRN subregions examined, confirming a previous report. In contrast, estrogen selectively decreased 5-HT(1B) mRNA in the mid-ventromedial subregion of the DRN, where 5-HT(1B) mRNA was associated with higher anxiety-like behavior and inversely correlated with TPH2 mRNA levels. These results suggest that estrogen may reduce 5-HT(1B) autoreceptor and increase TPH2 synthesis in a coordinated fashion, thereby increasing the capacity for 5-HT synthesis and release in distinct forebrain regions that modulate specific components of anxiety behavior.
Running is known to promote neurogenesis. Besides being exercise, it results in a reward, and both of these factors might contribute to running-induced neurogenesis. However, little attention has been paid to how reward and exercise relate to neurogenesis. The present study is an attempt to determine whether a reward, in the form of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS), influences neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult rodents. We used bromodeoxyuridine labeling to quantify newly generated cells in mice and rats that experienced ICSS for 1 h per day for 3 days. ICSS increased the number of 5-bromodeoxyuridine (Brdu)-labeled cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) of both species. The effect, when examined at 1 day, 1 week, and 4 weeks post-ICSS, was predominantly present in the side ipsilateral to the stimulation, although it was distributed to the contralateral side. We also found in rats that, 4 weeks after Brdu injection, surviving newborn cells in the hippocampal DG of the ICSS animals co-localized with a mature neuron marker, neuronal nuclei (NeuN), and these surviving cells in rats were double-labeled with Fos, a marker of neuronal activation, after the rats had been trained to perform a spatial task. The results demonstrate that ICSS can increase newborn neurons in the hippocampal DG that endure into maturity.
The transcription factor, DeltaFosB, accumulates in a region-specific manner in brain in response to many types of chronic stimulation due to the unusual stability of the protein. The phosphorylation of Ser27 in DeltaFosB has been shown to promote this stability in vitro. We show here that this phosphorylation reaction is also important for DeltaFosB's stability in the brain in vivo and for the unique behavioral plasticity mediated by this transcription factor.
During peripheral tissue inflammation, inflammatory processes in the CNS can be initiated by blood-borne pro-inflammatory mediators. The choroid plexus, the site of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production, is a highly specialized interface between the vascular system and CNS, and thus, this structure may be an important element in communication between the vascular compartment and the CNS during peripheral tissue inflammation. We investigated the potential participation of the choroid plexus in this process during peripheral tissue inflammation by examining expression of the small inducible cytokine A2 (SCYA2) gene which codes for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). MCP-1 protein was previously reported to be induced in a variety of cells during peripheral tissue inflammation. In the basal state, SCYA2 is highly expressed in the choroid plexus as compared with other rat CNS tissues. During hind paw inflammation, SCYA2 expression was significantly elevated in choroid plexus, whereas it remained unchanged in a variety of brain regions. The SCYA2-expressing cells were strongly associated with the choroid plexus as vascular depletion of blood cells by whole-body saline flush did not significantly alter SCYA2 expression in the choroid plexus. In situ hybridization suggested that the SCYA2-expressing cells were localized to the choroid plexus stroma. To elucidate potential molecular mechanisms of SCYA2 increase, we examined genes in the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) signaling cascade including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and inhibitor of kappa B alpha (IkappaBalpha) in choroid tissue. Given that we also detected increased levels of MCP-1 protein by ELISA, we sought to identify potential downstream targets of MCP-1 and observed altered expression levels of mRNAs encoding tight junction proteins TJP2 and claudin 5. Finally, we detected a substantial up-regulation of the transcript encoding endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 (E-selectin), a molecule which could participate in leukocyte recruitment to the choroid plexus along with MCP-1. Together, these results suggest that profound changes occur in the choroid plexus during peripheral tissue inflammation, likely initiated by blood-borne inflammatory mediators, which may modify events in CNS.
Experiential therapies, such as enriched environment (EE), have been shown to influence the neurodegenerative processes that underlie Parkinson's disease. We have previously demonstrated that EE promotes functional improvement in dopamine-depleted rats. Here we compare the influence of exposure to EE prior to versus after dopamine depletion in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of Parkinson's disease. Two groups of female rats were placed in an EE while two groups were housed in a standard environment (SE) for 6 weeks prior to receiving a unilateral nigrostriatal bundle infusion of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. After the lesion, one group remained in EE, while the second EE group (Pre-Lesion EE) was moved into SE conditions. In addition, a third group of rats was now moved into EE (Post-lesion EE). A fourth group remained in SE throughout the experimental period. Rats were tested in skilled reaching and skilled walking tasks and in non-skilled motor function up to 4 weeks after lesion. The observations demonstrated beneficial effects of both pre- and post-lesion exposure to EE on skilled movement performance by promoting compensatory limb use and partial protection or restoration of skilled movement. Exposure to pre-lesion EE in particular promoted structural plasticity as indicated by increased expression of the main cytoskeletal component microtubule associated protein-2 in the lesion dorsal striatum. Continuous EE showed absence of rotational bias suggesting attenuated dopamine loss. These data indicate that enriched lifestyle before the onset of motor symptoms and rehabilitation programs after diagnosis might be beneficial in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Repetitive strain injuries (RSI), which include several musculoskeletal disorders and nerve compression injuries, are associated with performance of repetitive and forceful tasks. In this study, we examined in young, adult Sprague-Dawley rats, the effects of performing a voluntary, moderate repetition, high force (MRHF; nine reaches/min; 60% maximum pulling force) task for 12 weeks on motor behavior and nerve function, inflammatory responses in forearm musculoskeletal and nerve tissues and serum, and neurochemical immunoexpression in cervical spinal cord dorsal horns. We observed no change in reach rate, but reduced voluntary participation and grip strength in week 12, and increased cutaneous sensitivity in weeks 6 and 12, the latter indicative of mechanical allodynia. Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) decreased 15% in the median nerve in week 12, indicative of low-grade nerve compression. ED-1 cells increased in distal radius and ulna in week 12, and in the median nerve and forearm muscles and tendons in weeks 6 and 12. Cytokines IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-10 increased in distal forearm bones in week 12, while IL-6 increased in tendon in week 12. However, serum analysis revealed only increased TNF-alpha in week 6 and macrophage inflammatory protein 3a (MIP3a) in weeks 6 and 12. Lastly, Substance P and neurokinin-1 were both increased in weeks 6 and 12 in the dorsal horns of cervical spinal cord segments. These results show that a high force, but moderate repetition task, induced declines in motor and nerve function as well as peripheral and systemic inflammatory responses (albeit the latter was mild). The peripheral inflammatory responses were associated with signs of central sensitization (mechanical allodynia and increased neurochemicals in spinal cord dorsal horns).
Pneumonia is a common complication with the highest attributable proportion of deaths in patients with stroke. Cilostazol is a potent type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor, approved as an anti-platelet aggregation agent. The present study was designed to determine the protective mechanism of cilostazol against post-stroke pneumonia using a rat chronic cerebral hypoperfusion model. Rats were subjected to bilateral common carotid artery ligation (LBCCA) and divided randomly into the vehicle group (n=72) and cilostazol group (n=72). Rats of each group were sacrificed at baseline and at days 14, 28 and 42 after LBCCA. Cilostazol significantly improved the swallowing reflex by shortening the latency to elicited swallowing and increasing the numbers of swallows (P&lt;0.05) at 14 days of hypoperfusion. It also decreased the numbers of bacterial colonies grown in cultures from homogenized lungs. Cilostazol markedly upregulated cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, increased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in the substantial nigra, and maintained dopamine (84.7+/-2.3 vs. 79.2+/-4.1% control; P=0.0512) and substance P levels (86.6+/-7.9 vs. 73.9+/-6.5% control; P&lt;0.05) in the striatum, compared with the vehicle group. Our results indicate that cilostazol improves the swallowing reflex by enhancing the expression of TH through the CREB phosphorylation signaling pathway, and suggest that cilostazol could be useful in preventing pneumonia in the chronic stage of stroke.
In awake animals, the activity of the cerebral cortex is highly complex, with neurons firing irregularly with apparent Poisson statistics. One way to characterize this complexity is to take advantage of the high interconnectivity of cerebral cortex and use intracellular recordings of cortical neurons, which contain information about the activity of thousands of other cortical neurons. Identifying the membrane potential (Vm) to a stochastic process enables the extraction of important statistical signatures of this complex synaptic activity. Typically, one estimates the total synaptic conductances (excitatory and inhibitory) but this type of estimation requires at least two Vm levels and therefore cannot be applied to single Vm traces. We propose here a method to extract excitatory and inhibitory conductances (mean and variance) from single Vm traces. This &quot;VmT method&quot; estimates conductance parameters using maximum likelihood criteria, under the assumption that synaptic conductances are described by gaussian stochastic processes and are integrated by a passive leaky membrane. The method is illustrated using models and is tested on guinea-pig visual cortex neurons in vitro using dynamic-clamp experiments. The VmT method holds promises for extracting conductances from single-trial measurements, which has a high potential for in vivo applications.
Activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptors (AhRs) induces neuronal damage, but the mechanism by which this occurs is largely unknown. This study evaluated the effects of an AhR agonist, beta-naphthoflavone, on apoptotic pathways in mouse primary neuronal cell cultures. beta-Naphthoflavone (0.1-100 micronhanced caspase-3 activity and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in neocortical and hippocampal cells. These data were supported at the cellular level with Hoechst 33342 and calcein AM staining. alpha-Naphthoflavone inhibited the action of beta-naphthoflavone, thus confirming specific activation of AhRs. A high-affinity estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182,780, and a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), tamoxifen, enhanced beta-naphthoflavone-mediated apoptosis. Another SERM, raloxifene, and an ERalpha antagonist, methyl-piperidino-pyrazole, did not affect beta-naphthoflavone-induced caspase-3 activity. However, they inhibited beta-naphthoflavone-induced LDH release at a late hour of treatment, thus suggesting delayed control of AhR-mediated neuronal cell death. The apoptotic effects of beta-naphthoflavone were accompanied by increased levels of AhRs, and these receptors colocalized with ERbeta as demonstrated by confocal microscopy. These data strongly support apoptotic effects of AhR activation in neocortical and hippocampal tissues. Moreover, this study provides evidence for direct interaction of the AhR-mediated apoptotic pathway with estrogen receptor signaling, which provides insight into new strategies to treat or prevent AhR-mediated neurotoxicity.
Intercellular signaling via cell-surface Notch receptors controls the cell-fate decision in the developing brain. Recent studies have suggested that the response of endogenous neural stem cells to brain injury in adult mammals might be mediated by Notch signaling. Here, we investigated the role of Notch signaling in ischemic damage in the hippocampal CA1 region after transient global ischemia in rats. In the acute phase of ischemia, Notch1-positive cells increased in number in the posterior periventricle, which is the posterior part of the lateral ventricle, after the i.c.v. administration of epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor-2. In addition, Notch signaling was upregulated in the CA1 region 5 days after ischemia. By contrast, the attenuation of Notch signaling caused by the administration of a gamma-secretase inhibitor in the subacute phase (6-12 days after ischemia) amplified the immature migratory neurons 12 days after ischemia, and resulted in an increased number of newly generated neurons in the CA1 after 28 days. Our results suggest that Notch signaling in the CA1 is activated in parallel with the increase of endogenous neural stem cells stimulated by ischemia, and that the attenuation of Notch signaling could induce more efficient differentiation of neural progenitors toward a neuronal lineage.
Using a transgenic mice model (i.e. &quot;clock&quot; knockouts), clock transcription factors have been suggested as critical regulators of dopaminergic behaviors induced by drugs of abuse. Moreover, it has been shown that systemic administration of psychostimulants, such as cocaine and methamphetamine regulates the striatal expression of clock genes. However, it is not known whether dopamine receptors mediate these regulatory effects of psychostimulants at the cellular level. Primary striatal neurons in culture express dopamine receptors as well as clock genes and have been successfully used in studying dopamine receptor functioning. Therefore, we investigated the role of dopamine receptors on neuronal clock gene expression in this model using specific receptor agonists. We found an inhibitory effect on the expression of mClock and mPer1 genes with the D2-class (i.e. D2/D3) receptor agonist quinpirole. We also found a generalized stimulatory effect on the expression of clock genes mPer1, mClock, mNPAS2 (neuronal PAS domain protein 2), and mBmal1 with the D1-class (i.e. D1) receptor agonist SKF38393. Further, we tested whether systemic administration of dopamine receptor agonists causes similar changes in striatal clock gene expression in vivo. We found quinpirole-induced alterations in mPER1 protein levels in the mouse striatum (i.e. rhythm shift). Collectively, our results indicate that the dopamine receptor system may mediate psychostimulant-induced changes in clock gene expression. Using striatal neurons in culture as a model, further research is needed to better understand how dopamine signaling modulates the expression dynamics of clock genes (i.e. intracellular signaling pathways) and thereby influences neuronal gene expression, neuronal transmission, and brain functioning.
Chronic neuropathic pain remains an unmet clinical problem because it is often resistant to conventional analgesics. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are involved in nociceptive processing at the spinal level, but their functions in neuropathic pain are not fully known. In this study, we investigated the role of group III mGluRs in the control of spinal excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in a rat model of neuropathic pain induced by L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation. Whole-cell recording of lamina II neurons was performed in spinal cord slices from control and nerve-ligated rats. The baseline amplitude of glutamatergic EPSCs evoked from primary afferents was significantly larger in nerve-injured rats than in control rats. However, the baseline frequency of GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) was much lower in nerve-injured rats than in control rats. The group III mGluR agonist l(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonbutyric acid (l-AP4) produced a greater inhibition of the amplitude of monosynaptic and polysynaptic evoked EPSCs in nerve-injured rats than in control rats. l-AP4 inhibited the frequency of miniature EPSCs in 66.7% of neurons in control rats but its inhibitory effect was observed in all neurons tested in nerve-injured rats. Furthermore, l-AP4 similarly inhibited the frequency of GABAergic and glycinergic IPSCs in control and nerve-injured rats. Our study suggests that spinal nerve injury augments glutamatergic input from primary afferents but decreases GABAergic and glycinergic input to spinal dorsal horn neurons. Activation of group III mGluRs attenuates glutamatergic input from primary afferents in nerve-injured rats, which could explain the antinociceptive effect of group III mGluR agonists on neuropathic pain.
Introduction: Electrophysiological responses to auditory stimuli have provided a useful means of elucidating mechanisms and evaluating treatments in psychiatric disorders. Deficits in gating during paired-click tasks and lack of mismatch negativity following deviant stimuli have been well characterized in patients with schizophrenia. Recently, analyses of basal, induced, and evoked frequency oscillations have gained support as additional measures of cognitive processing in patients and animal models. The purpose of this study is to examine frequency oscillations in mice across the theta (4-7.5 Hz) and gamma (31-61 Hz) bands in the context of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) hypofunction and dopaminergic hyperactivity, both of which are thought to serve as pharmacological models of schizophrenia. Experimental procedures: Electroencephalograms (EEG) were recorded from mice in five treatment groups that consisted of haloperidol, risperidone, amphetamine, ketamine, or ketamine plus haloperidol during an auditory task. Basal, induced and evoked powers in both frequencies were calculated. Results: Ketamine increased basal power in the gamma band and decreased the evoked power in the theta band. The increase in basal gamma was not blocked by treatment with a conventional antipsychotic. No other treatment group was able to fully reproduce this pattern in the mice. Conclusions: Ketamine-induced alterations in EEG power spectra are consistent with abnormalities in the theta and gamma frequency ranges reported in patients with schizophrenia. Our findings support the hypothesis that NMDAR hypofunction contributes to the deficits in schizophrenia and that the dopaminergic pathways alone may not account for these changes.
Consolidation theory assumes that memories are labile during a limited time window after acquisition, but as time passes, memories become stable and resistant to amnesic agents. However, the vision of immutable memories after consolidation has been challenged. Thus, after the presentation of a reminder, the reactivated old memories become labile and again susceptible to amnesic treatments. This process implies a re-stabilization phase, usually referred to as reconsolidation. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter both in the Central nervous system (CNS) and in the periphery. A considerable amount of evidence has arisen from different studies regarding the role of the GABA(A) receptor in diverse behavioral paradigms and tasks. Here, we investigate the role of the GABAergic system on both memory consolidation and reconsolidation phases by using the memory paradigm of the crab Chasmagnathus. In order to achieve such a goal, we design pharmacological-behavioral experiments, which include the administration of classic agonist (muscimol) and antagonist (bicuculline) of the mammals GABA(A) receptors. The current results show that the systemic administration of muscimol impairs the consolidation and reconsolidation processes. In contrast, the administration of bicuculline improves the consolidation and reconsolidation processes. Furthermore, the co-administration of both drugs blocks the agonist amnesic effect on the consolidation phase. The ubiquity of the neurotransmitter and its receptors in the animal taxa allows us to use the classic agonist-and-antagonist administration procedure in this invertebrate. Thus, all the results reported in this paper can be judged as a result of the modulation exerted by the functional state of the GABAergic system in the CNS. To conclude, the results obtained in this report with an invertebrate model represent additional evidences supporting the view that some molecular mechanisms subserving different memory phases could be the basic tools employed by phylogenetically disparate animals.
Thermal messages are relayed to the medial preoptic O-anterior hypothalamus (mPOAH) via the ascending reticular activating system (ARAS). According to previous findings that norepinephrine (NE)-ergic and GABA (gamma-amino butyric acid)-ergic inputs convey thermal information to the CNS, those neurotransmitters may be responsible for reciprocal correlation between body temperature and mPOAH warm-(WSNs) and cold-(CSNs) sensitive neuronal firing rates for thermoregulation. In this study on Wistar rats, we have characterized in vivo the role of alpha-1 NE-ergic and GABA-A receptors in the possible modulation of ARAS inputs to the thermosensitive neurons in the mPOAH. Nine WSNs, 7 CSNs and 19 thermo-insensitive neurons were recorded from mPOAH and effects of ARAS stimulation and iontophoretic application of prazosin as well as picrotoxin on those neurons were evaluated. The WSNs were excited by ARAS stimulation but inhibited by both prazosin and picrotoxin; whereas the CSNs were inhibited by ARAS stimulation and prazosin, but excited by picrotoxin. The NE excited the WSNs as well as the CSNs, while GABA had opposite effects on them, suggesting that NE and GABA interact in the mPOAH for thermoregulation. The findings unravel an intriguing possibility that in the mPOAH, GABA simultaneously acts on hetero-receptors located at pre-and post-synaptic sites, modulating the release of NE on the WSNs and CSNs for thermoregulation. Further, ARAS stimulation-induced similar excitatory and inhibitory responses of the WSNs and the CSNs support such converging inputs on these neurons for thermoregulation.
Experimental data demonstrate that the nervous system is widely influenced by sex hormones and the brain is continuously shaped by the changing hormone milieu throughout the whole life. Earlier we demonstrated that on the effect of estradiol there is a cyclic synaptic remodeling, i.e. a transient decrease in the number of GABAergic axo-somatic synapses in the arcuate nucleus. By using preembedding estrogen receptor and postembedding GABA immunostaining, in the present paper we studied the specificity of this effect and we found that in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AvPv) of adult female rats 17beta-estradiol treatment does not affect all synapses and neurons. In contrast to the arcuate nucleus, hormonal treatment induces a significant increase of inhibitory axo-somatic synapses in the AvPv and we found selectivity at the level of the postsynaptic neurons, as well. We analyzed the hormone-induced synaptic remodeling in estrogen receptor alpha and beta immunoreactive and non-labeled cells and the change in synapse number was observed only in neurons which express estrogen beta receptor.
Recently we discovered that hypoxia causes marked impairment of reproductive neuroendocrine function in Atlantic croaker, a marine teleost, which is due to a decline in hypothalamic serotonergic activity. As a first step in understanding the molecular responses of the hypothalamic serotonergic system to hypoxia, we cloned and characterized the genes for the enzymes regulating the rate-limiting step in serotonin biosynthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH-1 and TPH-2) in the croaker brain. The full-length croaker TPH-1 and TPH-2 cDNAs contain open reading frames encoding proteins with 479 and 487 amino acids, respectively, which are highly homologous to the TPH-1 (76-93%) and TPH-2 (64-92%) proteins of other vertebrates. Croaker TPH-1 and TPH-2 mRNA expression was detected throughout the brain but was greatest in the hypothalamic region. Both Northern blot analysis and real-time PCR showed that TPH-1 (transcript size approximately 2.1 kb) and TPH-2 ( approximately 1.9 kb) mRNA levels were significantly decreased in the hypothalami of croaker exposed for 2 weeks to hypoxic conditions compared with those in fish exposed to normoxic conditions. Immunohistochemistry of hypothalamic neurons with TPH antibodies showed reduced expression of TPHs in hypoxia-exposed fish compared with normoxic fish. Western blot analysis confirmed that hypoxia caused a marked decline in hypothalamic TPH protein levels, which was associated with decreases in hypothalamic TPH enzyme activity and 5-hydroxytryptophan levels. These results suggest that TPH is a major site of hypoxia-induced down-regulation of serotonergic function in croaker brains. Moreover, they provide the first evidence that hypoxia decreases the expression of TPH transcripts in vertebrate brains.
The vertebrate retina receives histaminergic input from the brain via retinopetal axons that originate from perikarya in the posterior hypothalamus. In the nervous system, histamine acts on three G-protein-coupled receptors, histamine receptor (HR) 1, HR2 and HR3. In order to look for potential cellular targets of histamine in the mouse retina, we have examined the retina for the expression of histamine and the presence of these three receptors. Consistent with studies of retina from other vertebrates, histamine was only found in retinopetal axons, which coursed extensively through the ganglion cell and inner plexiform layers. mRNA for all three receptors was expressed in the mouse retina, and immunohistochemical studies further localized HR1 and HR2. HR1 immunoreactivity was observed on dopaminergic amacrine cells, calretinin-positive ganglion cells and axon bundles in the ganglion cell layer. Furthermore, a distinct group of processes in the inner plexiform layer was labeled, which most likely represents the processes of cholinergic amacrine cells. HR2 immunoreactivity was observed on the processes and cell bodies of the primary glial cells of the mammalian retina, the Mller cells. This distribution of histamine and its receptors is consistent with a brain-derived source of histamine acting on diverse populations of cells in the retina, including both neurons and glia.
The dorsal vagal complex (DVC) is the brainstem integrative center that mediates the satiety reflex and relays autonomic neural responses to stress. The DVC displays adult neurogenesis, intrinsic neural stem cells and a high brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) content, effectors of plasticity that are modulated by stress in the hippocampus. In this study we asked whether neurogenesis and BDNF expression in the DVC are altered by stress, in parallel with food intake reduction. To this end, neurogenesis was assessed in adult rats in vivo by repetitive 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) administration without (controls) or with daily sessions of immobilization stress (1 h/day), and were allowed to survive for 2 weeks after the end of BrdU treatment. Neurogenic proliferation in the brainstem was detected by immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy mainly in the area postrema and the nucleus tractus solitarius; newly formed neurons amounted to about 35% of all BrdU-labeled cells in the DVC of control rats. Chronic immobilization stress induced a significant decrease in neurogenic proliferation in the DVC which reached 50% in the area postrema. The number of newly-formed neurons was also decreased by chronic immobilization stress in the DVC, and this effect was again maximal in the area postrema; the proportion of BrdU-labeled cells that were neurons was unchanged. In vitro neurosphere assay was then performed on microdissected DVC tissue from another cohort of chronically stressed and control rats. Chronic immobilization stress induced a significant decrease of the total neurosphere number per rat DVC in both primary and secondary cultures, indicating that intrinsic neural stem cell frequency was decreased by chronic stress in DVC tissue. Tissue BDNF concentration in the DVC, as assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, was not significantly altered when compared with controls after 3, 6, 9 or 13 days of chronic immobilization stress. These results further characterize neurogenesis in the DVC and suggest its involvement in the long-term regulation of food intake.
3,4-Methylenedioximethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is a worldwide abused stimulant drug, with persistent neurotoxic effects and high prevalence among adolescents. The massive release of 5-HT from pre-synaptic storage vesicles induced by MDMA followed by monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) metabolism, significantly increases oxidative stress at the mitochondrial level. l-Carnitine and its ester, acetyl-l-carnitine (ALC), facilitate the transport of long chain free fatty acids across the mitochondrial membrane enhancing neuronal anti-oxidative defense. Here, we show the potential of ALC against the neurotoxic effects of MDMA exposure. Adolescent male Wistar rats were assigned to four groups: control saline solution, isovolumetric to the MDMA solution, administered i.p.; MDMA (4x10 mg/kg MDMA, i.p.); ALC/MDMA (100 mg/kg 30 min of ALC prior to MDMA, i.p.) and ALC (100 mg/kg, i.p.). Rats were killed 2 weeks after exposure and brains were analyzed for lipid peroxidation, carbonyl formation, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletion and altered expression of the DNA-encoded subunits of the mitochondrial complexes I (NADH dehydrogenase, NDII) and IV (cytochrome c oxidase, COXI) from the respiratory chain. Levels of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were also assessed. The present work is the first to successfully demonstrate that pretreatment with ALC exerts effective neuroprotection against the MDMA-induced neurotoxicity at the mitochondrial level, reducing carbonyl formation, decreasing mtDNA deletion, improving the expression of the respiratory chain components and preventing the decrease of 5-HT levels in several regions of the rat brain. These results indicate potential benefits of ALC application in the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
During development, Purkinje axons elongate along precise trajectories and acquire stereotypic branching patterns to innervate targets in the deep nuclei and cerebellar cortex. These processes are accomplished through cell-intrinsic mechanisms, whose operation is regulated by environmental signaling cues. Here, we show that Anosmin-1, the protein defective in the X-linked form of Kallmann syndrome, is one among such cues. Anosmin-1, that stimulates axon elongation and branching in the olfactory system, is expressed by Purkinje cells and deep nuclear neurons of the rat cerebellum during the ontogenetic period when Purkinje axons acquire their mature pattern. These neurons also express the putative Anosmin-1 receptor, fibroblast growth factor receptor 1. Application of Anosmin-1 to dissociated cultures of embryonic (embryonic day 17, E17) or postnatal (postnatal day 0, P0) rat cerebellar cells enhances neuritic elongation and exerts a strong promoting action on the budding of collateral branches and on the extension of terminal arbors. Opposite effects are observed when neutralizing anti-Anosmin-1 antibodies are applied to the same cultures. Comparable results are obtained by administering the protein or the blocking antibodies to organotypic cultures of postnatal (P0) rat cerebellum. In P10 cerebellar slices, Anosmin-1 does not enhance the spontaneous regenerative capabilities of severed Purkinje axons, but promotes the terminal outgrowth of injured neurites into embryonic neocortical explants apposed to the axotomy site. Although Anosmin-1 is unable to change the overall intrinsic growth competence of Purkinje cells, it exerts a powerful stimulatory action on the budding and extension of collateral branches and terminal plexus, contributing to the patterning of Purkinje axons.
Wobbler mice model motor neuron disease with a substantial decline in motor neurons. TDP-43 is a nucleic acid binding protein that accumulates, along with ubiquitin, in the cytoplasm of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) motor neurons. Recently, it was reported that Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase type 1 (SOD1) familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS) model mice do not mimic the TDP-43 changes seen in sporadic ALS, although they share a large number of other properties with the human disorder. We examined ubiquitin inclusions and TDP-43 expression in wobbler mice. TDP-43 mRNA, measured by quantitative reverse transcription-coupled PCR, was elevated in the wobbler spinal cord. Immunohistochemistry revealed intracellular ubiquitin inclusions and abnormal distribution of TDP-43 into the cytoplasm in wobblers similar to the staining reported in ALS. Finally, nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions, examined by Western immunoblotting, confirmed a delocalization of TDP-43 in the neurodegenerative wobbler. These observations indicate that wobbler mice, which suffer motor neuron loss at 21 days, undergo TDP-43 and ubiquitin changes characteristic of sporadic ALS.
Stress induced by early life social isolation leads to long-lasting alterations in stress responses and serotonergic activity. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a neurotransmitter that mediates stress responses and alters serotonergic activity. We tested the hypothesis that the stress of early life isolation enhances responses to CRF in adulthood by determining the effect of CRF infusions into the dorsal raphe nucleus (dRN) on 5-HT release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of adult rats using in vivo microdialysis. Juvenile male rats were either isolated or housed in groups of three for a 3-week period beginning on postnatal day 21 after which, all rats were group-reared for an additional 2 weeks. Following the isolation/re-socialization procedure, infusion of 100 ng CRF into the dRN decreased 5-HT release in the NAc of group-reared rats. This treatment did not significantly affect 5-HT release in the NAc of isolation-reared animals. In contrast, infusion of 500 ng CRF into the dRN transiently increased 5-HT release in the NAc of both group-reared and isolated animals with isolated animals showing a more prolonged serotonergic response. Western blot and immunofluorescent staining for CRF receptors in the dRN showed that CRF(2) receptor levels were increased in the dRN of isolation-reared animals when compared with group-reared rats. Taken together, the results suggest that isolation during the early part of development causes alterations in both CRF receptor levels and CRF-mediated serotonergic activity. These effects may underlie the increased sensitivity to stress observed in isolates.
Females frequently perform better in empathy, interpersonal sensitivity, and emotional recognition than do males. The mirror-neuron system has been proposed to play an important role in social cognition. It remains to be clarified, however, whether the neuroanatomy underlying the human mirror neuron system exhibits sex differences. With the use of voxel-based morphometry analysis, a whole-brain unbiased technique to characterize regional cerebral volume differences in structural magnetic resonance images, concurrent with the dispositional empathy measures, we demonstrate that young adult females (n=25) had significantly larger gray matter volume in the pars opercularis and inferior parietal lobule than matched males (n=25) participants. Moreover, higher self-report scores in the emotional empathic disposition was tightly coupled with larger gray matter volume of the pars opercularis across all female and male participants (P=0.002). These results indicate that the existence of neuroanatomical sex differences in the human mirror-neuron system. They also suggest that the network of the human mirror-neuron system is strongly linked to empathy competence.
A critical issue in animal models of perinatal brain injury is to adapt the pertinent pathophysiological scenarios to their corresponding developmental window in order to induce neuropathological and behavioral characteristics reminiscent to perinatal cerebral palsy (CP). A major problem in most of these animal models designed up to now is that they do not present motor deficits characteristic of CP. Using a unique rat paradigm of prenatal inflammation combined to an early postnatal hypoxia-ischemia pertinent to the context of very early premature human newborns, we were interested in finding out if such experimental conditions might reproduce both histological damages and behavioral deficits previously described in the human context. We showed that exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or hypoxia-ischemia (H/I) induced behavioral alterations in animals subjected to forced motor activity. When both LPS and H/I aggressions were combined, the motor deficits reached their highest intensity and affected both spontaneous and forced motor activities. LPS+H/I-exposed animals also showed extensive bilateral cortical and subcortical lesions of the motor networks affecting the frontal cortices and underlying white matters fascicles, lenticular nuclei and the substantia nigra. These neuropathological lesions and their associated motor behavioral deficits are reminiscent of those observed in very preterm human neonates affected by subsequent CP and validate the value of the present animal model to test new therapeutic strategies which might open horizons for perinatal neuroprotection.
The maturation of the hippocampus is impacted by a multitude of factors, including the regulation of intracellular calcium levels. Depolarizing actions of Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) can profoundly alter intracellular calcium in immature hippocampal neurons via influx through voltage-gated calcium channels. We here report fundamental sex differences in properties of depolarizing GABA responses and in resting intracellular calcium in neonatal cultured hippocampal neurons. The effects of the estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI 182,780, and the estradiol-synthesis inhibitor, formestane, indicate the sex differences in depolarizing GABA responses are at least in part due to de novo estradiol synthesis by female neurons, whereas a sex difference in resting calcium is independent of steroids. We postulate that local estradiol synthesis in cultured female hippocampal neurons affects the kinetics of either the GABA(A) receptor or voltage sensitive calcium channels. These data highlight the fact that immature hippocampal neurons exhibit fundamentally different physiological properties in males versus females. Elucidating how and where immature male and female neurons differ is essential for a complete understanding of normal rodent brain development.
We studied the cytoarchitecture and dendritic arbors of the output neurons of the sensorimotor cortex of aged rats and found that although individual cortical layer became thinner, the overall cytoarchitecture and neuron densities remained comparable to those of young adults. To find out whether aging affects cortical outputs we studied the soma-dendritic arbors of layers III and V pyramidal neurons, main output neurons of the cerebral cortex, using brain slice intracellular dye injection technique. With a fluorescence microscope, selected neurons were filled with fluorescence dye under visual guidance. Injected slices were resectioned into thinner sections for converting the injected dye into non-fading material immunohistochemically. The long apical dendritic trunk and branches could be routinely revealed. This allowed us to reconstruct and study the dendritic arbors of these neurons in isolation in 300-microm-thick dimension. Analysis shows that their cell bodies did not shrink, but the densities of spines on dendrites and the total dendritic length significantly reduced. Among spines, those with long thin stalks thought to be involved in memory acquisition appeared to be reduced. These could underlie the compromise of sensorimotor functions following aging.
The use of dexamethasone (Dex) in premature infants to prevent and/or treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia can adversely affect early neurodevelopment and probably result in loss of cerebral volume. Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF), specifically VEGF(164) isoform has neurotrophic, neuroprotective and neurogenesis enhancing effects. Previous studies have demonstrated that Dex usually down-regulates VEGF. In the present study we investigated the effect of Dex on brain growth and VEGF in the neonatal rat brain. The pups in each litter were divided into the vehicle (n=84) or Dex-treated (n=98) groups. Rat pups in the Dex group received one of three different regimens of i.p. Dex which included tapering doses on postnatal days 3-6 (0.5, 0.25, 0.125 and 0.06 mg/kg, respectively), or repeated doses of 0.5 or 1 mg/kg/day on postnatal days 4-6 or single dose of 0.031, 0.06, 0.125, 0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg on postnatal day 6. The total VEGF protein and mRNA expression of the three main VEGF splice variants (VEGF(120), VEGF(164), and VEGF(188)) were measured in the rat pup brain using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Treatment with Dex significantly decreased the gain of body and brain weight. The tapering and repeated doses of Dex significantly increased caspase-3 activity, VEGF protein and the expression of mRNA of VEGF(164) and VEGF(188) splice variants but the single dose did not. We conclude that Dex is neurodegenerative in the developing brain but also increases VEGF which may play a neurotrophic and neuroprotective role.
The neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine has been widely used to model aspects of Parkinson's disease in rodents, but the mechanisms underlying toxin-induced dopaminergic degeneration and functional impairment have not been fully elucidated. The main aim of the present study was to assess a possible role for calpains in neurochemical and behavioral deficits following unilateral infusion of intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine in adult rats. Toxin administration produced a profound dopaminergic denervation, as indicated by a 90-95% reduction in dopamine transporter radiolabeling measured in the caudate-putamen at 2 weeks post-lesion. Treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine also resulted in calpain activation in both caudate-putamen and substantia nigra, as measured by the appearance of calpain-specific spectrin breakdown products. Calpain activation peaked at 24 h after 6-hydroxydopamine infusion and remained elevated at later time points. In contrast, caspase-3-mediated spectrin cleavage subsided within 48 h in both brain areas. In a subsequent experiment, calpain inhibition was achieved by intrastriatal infusion of an adenovirus expressing the endogenous calpain inhibitor, calpastatin. Calpastatin delivery abolished the lesion-induced calpain-mediated spectrin cleavage and alleviated forelimb asymmetries resulting from unilateral intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine. Unexpectedly, dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase labeling revealed significant neuroprotection, not in the nigrostriatal pathway but rather in the ventral tegmental area. These findings support a role for calpain activation in 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. However, after near-total dopaminergic depletion, the primary benefit of calpain inhibition may not occur within the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway itself.
The alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) which catalyzes the conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and NADH in mitochondria, is known to generate O(2).- in vitro. To find out if KGDHC contributes to neuronal reactive oxygen species (ROS) increase in situ, we investigated whether the specific inhibitors of cellular KGDHC, succinyl phosphonate (SP) and the SP triethyl ester (TESP), might affect the glutamate-induced ROS production in cultured hippocampal neurons from rats. The concentration-dependent decrease in the mitochondrial potential of the glutamate-overstimulated neurons in the presence of SP or TESP indicated that under the conditions inducing neuronal ROS generation, the inhibitors are delivered to mitochondria, and their subsequent inhibition of KGDHC decreases the mitochondrial potential. The production of O(2).- was detected by reaction with hydroethidine. The distribution of the resulting fluorescence of DNA-ethidium coincided with that of the mitochondrial marker Mitotracker, pointing to the mitochondrial origin of the hydroethidine-detected ROS in response to glutamate (100 microM). At 200 microM, both TESP and SP administered together with glutamate, inhibited the glutamate-induced ROS production by about 20%, with the inhibition increasing to 44% at 500 microM TESP. The decrease in neuronal ROS by specific inhibitors of KGDHC demonstrates that KGDHC is a source of ROS in cultured neurons responding to glutamate. However, increasing the concentration of the strongest KGDHC inhibitor SP to 500 microM even increased the ROS production compared with glutamate alone, presumably due to secondary effects arising upon the strong KGDHC inhibition. Our work extends the current understanding of the glutamate-induced ROS generation in neurons, shedding light on the pathological mechanisms of the KGDHC involvement in glutamate neurotoxicity. In conclusion, potent KGDHC inhibitors are promising diagnostic tools for in situ study of neurodegenerative mechanisms.
gamma-Hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is a euphoric, prosocial and sleep inducing drug that binds with high affinity to its own GHB receptor site and also more weakly to GABA(B) receptors. GHB is efficacious in the treatment of narcolepsy and alcoholism, but heavy use can lead to dependence and withdrawal. Many effects of GHB (sedation, hypothermia, catalepsy) are mimicked by GABA(B) receptor agonists (e.g. baclofen). However other effects (euphoric and prosocial effects and a therapeutic effect in narcolepsy) are not. The present study used Fos immunohistochemistry to assess the neural activation produced in rat brain by medium to high doses of GHB (250, 500 and 1000 mg/kg) and a high dose of baclofen (10 mg/kg) that produced similar sedation to 500 mg/kg GHB. Results showed many common regions of activation with these two drugs including the supraoptic, paraventricular, median preoptic and ventral premammillary nuclei of the hypothalamus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, Edinger-Westphal nucleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. GHB (500 mg/kg), but not baclofen (10 mg/kg), induced significant Fos expression in the median raphe nucleus and lateral habenula, while a higher dose of GHB (1000 mg/kg) induced additional Fos expression in the islands of Calleja, dentate gyrus (polymorphic layer) and arcuate nucleus, and in various regions implicated in rapid and non-rapid eye movement sleep (laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, tuberomammillary nucleus and the ventrolateral and anterodorsal preoptic nuclei). Surprisingly, Fos immunoreactivity was not observed with either GHB or baclofen in reward-relevant regions such as the nucleus accumbens, striatum and ventral tegmental area. Overall these results indicate a distinctive signature of brain activation with GHB that may be only partly due to GABA(B) receptor effects. This confirms a unique neuropharmacological profile for GHB and indicates key neural substrates that may underlie its characteristic influence on sleep, body temperature, sociability and endocrine function.
The distribution pattern of estrogen receptors in the rodent CNS has been reported extensively, but mapping of estrogen receptors in primates is incomplete. In this study we describe the distribution of estrogen receptor alpha immunoreactive (ER-alpha IR) neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord of the rhesus monkey. In the midbrain, ER-alpha IR neurons were located in the periaqueductal gray, especially the caudal ventrolateral part, the adjacent tegmentum, peripeduncular nucleus, and pretectal nucleus. A few ER-alpha IR neurons were found in the lateral parabrachial nucleus, lateral pontine tegmentum, and pontine gray medial to the locus coeruleus. At caudal medullary levels, ER-alpha IR neurons were present in the commissural nucleus of the solitary complex and the caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus. The remaining regions of the brainstem were devoid of ER-alpha IR neurons. Spinal ER-alpha IR neurons were found in laminae I-V, and area X, and were most numerous in lower lumbar and sacral segments. The lateral collateral pathway and dorsal commissural nuclei of the sacral cord and the thoracic intermediolateral cell column also contained ER-alpha IR neurons. Estrogen treatment did not result in any differences in the distribution pattern of ER-alpha IR neurons. The results indicate that ER-alpha IR neurons in the primate brainstem and spinal cord are concentrated mainly in regions involved in sensory and autonomic processing. Compared with rodent species, the regional distribution of ER-alpha IR neurons is less widespread, and ER-alpha IR neurons in regions such as the spinal dorsal horn and caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus appear to be less abundant. These distinctions suggest a modest role of ER-alpha in estrogen-mediated actions on primate brainstem and spinal systems. These differences may contribute to variations in behavioral effects of estrogen between primate and rodent species.
The olfactory epithelium constitutes the sole source of regenerating neural cells that can be obtained from a living human. As such, primary cultures derived from human olfactory epithelial biopsies can be utilized to study neurobiological characteristics of individuals under different conditions and disease states. Here, using such human cultures, we report in vitro generation of cells that exhibit a complex neuronal phenotype, encompassing receptors and signaling pathways pertinent to both olfaction and other aspects of CNS function. Using in situ hybridization, we demonstrate for the first time the native expression of olfactory receptors in cultured cells derived from human olfactory epithelial tissue. We further establish the presence and function of olfactory transduction molecules in these cells using immunocytochemistry, calcium imaging and molecular methods. Western blot analysis revealed the expression of neurotransmitter receptors for dopamine (D2R), 5-HT (5HT2C) and NMDA subtypes 1 and 2A/2B. Stimulation with dopamine or 5-HT enhanced receptor G protein activation in a subtype specific manner, based on 35S-guanosine triphosphate incorporation assay. Functional characteristics of the cultured cells are demonstrated through enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDAR 2A/2B and recruitment of signaling partners in response to NMDA stimulation. The array of neuronal characteristics observed here establishes that proliferating cells derived from the human olfactory epithelium differentiate in vitro to express functional and molecular attributes of mature olfactory neurons. These cultured neural cells exhibit neurotransmitter pathways important in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders. Their ready availability from living humans thus provides a new tool to link functional and molecular features of neural cells with clinical characteristics of individual living patients.
Excessive production of nitric oxide (NO) by microglia is at least in part responsible for the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson disease, but at the same time NO may also play a distinct role as a signaling molecule such as an activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase. Here we investigated potential roles of the NO-soluble guanylyl cyclase-cyclic GMP signaling pathway in the regulation of dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Activation of microglia by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) followed by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) caused dopaminergic cell death in rat midbrain slice cultures, which was dependent on NO production. 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, as well as KT5823, an inhibitor of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase, exacerbated dopaminergic cell death induced by IFN-gamma/LPS. Conversely, 8-bromo-cyclic GMP attenuated IFN-gamma/LPS cytotoxicity on dopaminergic neurons. Notably, although heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) was expressed prominently in cells other than dopaminergic neurons in control cultures, robust expression of HO-1 was induced in surviving dopaminergic neurons challenged with IFN-gamma/LPS. ODQ and KT5823 decreased, whereas 8-bromo-cyclic GMP increased, the number of dopaminergic neurons expressing HO-1 after IFN-gamma/LPS challenge, without parallel changes in HO-1 expression in other cell populations. An NO donor 3-(4-morpholinyl)sydnonimine hydrochloride also induced HO-1 expression in dopaminergic neurons, which was abolished by ODQ and augmented by 8-bromo-cyclic GMP. Moreover, IFN-gamma/LPS-induced dopaminergic cell death was augmented by zinc protoporphyrin IX, an HO-1 inhibitor. The NO donor cytotoxicity on dopaminergic neurons was also augmented by ODQ and zinc protoporphyrin IX. These results indicate that the NO-cyclic GMP signaling pathway promotes the induction of HO-1 specifically in dopaminergic neurons, which acts as an endogenous protective system to limit inflammatory degeneration of this cell population.
Increasing evidence suggests that the pathophysiology of movement disorders in Parkinson's disease (PD) includes deficits in sensory processing and integration. However, the exact nature of these deficits and the ability of dopamine medication to correct them have not been thoroughly examined in previous studies. For instance, it remains unclear whether PD patients have globally impaired sensorimotor integration functions or selective deficiencies in processing proprioception. We evaluated the specific deficits of PD patients in sensorimotor integration and proprioceptive processing by testing their ability to perform three-dimensional (3D) reaching movements in four conditions in which the sensory signals defining target and hand positions (visual and/or proprioceptive) varied. Ten healthy subjects and 11 PD patients, ON dopamine medication and in the OFF state, were tested. PD patients in the OFF state showed a greater mean level of 3D errors relative to controls when the only available sensory information about target and hand position came from proprioception, but this difference did not reach significance. This indicates that deficient proprioception is not an early key feature of PD. Interestingly, the inaccuracies of a number of PD subjects further increased in the ON medicated state relative to healthy controls when reaching to proprioceptively-defined targets, and this between group difference was statistically significant. However, dopamine medication did not consistently degrade the reaching accuracy of PD patients, with both negative and positive effects on accuracy of reaching to proprioceptive-defined targets. Together, these findings indicate that dopamine replacement therapy not only did not normalize sensorimotor performance to the level of controls, but also induced deficits in the processing of proprioceptive information in some of the PD patients tested. Furthermore, the diversity of effects of medication on accuracy of reaching to proprioceptively-defined targets supports the idea that dysfunction of dopaminergic circuits within the basal ganglia is not primarily responsible for the proprioceptive processing deficits of PD patients.
Cadherin23 has been proposed to form the upper part of the tip link, an interstereocilial link believed to control opening of transducer channels of sensory hair cells. However, we detect tip link-like links in mouse mutants with null alleles of Cdh23, suggesting the presence of other components that permit formation of a link between the tip of one stereocilium and the side of the adjacent taller stereocilium.
Salmonids establish social hierarchies as a result of aggressive social interactions. The establishment of dominant or subordinate status is strongly linked to neuroendocrine responses mediated through the stress axis. In this study, we tested the effects of introcerebroventricular (icv) corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) on the behavioral outcome, plasma cortisol and monoamine function in trout subjected to a socially aggressive encounter. Rainbow trout were treated with an icv injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF), 500 or 2000 ng ovine CRF, or not injected. Fish were allowed to interact with a similarly sized conspecific for 15 min. Following the behavioral interaction, plasma cortisol and central monoamine concentrations were analyzed. Trout treated with CRF were victorious in approximately 66% of the aggressive encounters against aCSF-treated opponents. Trout injected with CRF exhibited a reduction in the total number of attacks and decreased latency to attack. When trout were divided into winners and losers, only victorious CRF-treated fish exhibited a reduced latency to attack and fewer retreats. Social stress increased cortisol levels in both winners and losers of aggressive interaction. This effect was enhanced with the additional stress incurred from icv injection of aCSF. However, icv CRF in addition to social stress decreased plasma cortisol in both winners and losers. While aggression stimulated significant changes in serotonergic and dopaminergic activity, the magnitude and direction were dependent on limbic brain region, CRF dose, and outcome of social aggression. With broad effects on aggressive behavior, anxiety, stress responsiveness, and central monoaminergic activity, CRF plays an important role in modulating the behavioral components of social interaction.
Penetrating limb injuries are common and usually heal without long-lasting effects, even when nerves are cut. However, rare nerve-injury patients develop prolonged and disabling chronic pain (neuralgia). When pain severity is disproportionate to severity of the inciting injury, physicians and insurers may suspect exaggeration and limit care or benefits, although the nature of the relationship between lesion-size and the development and persistence of neuralgia remains largely unknown. We compared cellular changes in the spinal dorsal-horn (the initial CNS pain-processing area) after partial or total tibial-nerve axotomies in male Sprague-Dawley rats to determine if these changes are proportional to the numbers of peripheral axons cut. Unoperated rats provided controls. Plantar hind-paw responses to touch, pin, and cold were quantitated bilaterally to identify hyperalgesic rats. We also compared data from nerve-injured rats with or without hyperalgesic responses to mechanical hind-paw stimulation to evaluate concordance between pain behaviors and dorsal-horn cellular changes. Hyperalgesia was no less prevalent or severe after partial than after total axotomy. L(5) spinal-cord sections from rats killed 7 days postoperatively were labeled for markers of primary afferents (substance P calcitonin gene-related peptide isolectin B4, gamma aminobutyric acid, and glial fibrillary acidic protein), then labeled cells were stereologically quantitated in somatotopically defined dorsal-horn regions. Total axotomy reduced markers of primary afferents more than partial axotomy. In contrast, GABA-immunoreactive profiles were similarly reduced after both lesions, and in rats with sensory loss versus hyperalgesia. Numbers of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes increased independently of lesion size and pain status. Small nerve injuries can thus have magnified and disproportionate effects on dorsal-horn neurons and glia, perhaps providing a biological correlate for the disproportionate pain of post-traumatic neuralgias (including complex regional pain syndrome-I) that follow seemingly minor nerve injuries. However, the presence of similar dorsal-horn changes in rats without pain behaviors suggests that not all transcellular responses to axotomy are pain-specific.
The role of zinc, an endogenous N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, in long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses is poorly understood. In the present study, the effect of exogenous zinc and zinc chelators on CA1 LTP was examined by using hippocampal slices from rats. CA1 LTP after tetanic stimulation (100 Hz, 1 s) was potentiated in the presence of 5 microM ZnCl(2), but not in the presence of 30 microM. In varying the frequency (10-100 Hz, 1 s), zinc (5 microM) caused a significant shift of the frequency-response curve and lowered the threshold in LTP induction. The present study is the first to demonstrate that CA1 LTP is potentiated by low micromolar concentrations of zinc. Endogenous zinc is likely to reach low micromolar concentrations in the extracellular compartment in CA1 LTP induction. On the other hand, zinc has no effect on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) after tetanic stimulation in the presence of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV), an NMDA receptor antagonist, in which LTP was abolished, indicating that NMDA receptor activation is necessary for the potentiation of CA1 LTP by zinc. The pretreatment with ZnAF-2DA, a membrane-permeable zinc chelator, which was used to block the increase in intracellular Zn(2+), inhibited LTP and also LTP potentiated by zinc. It is likely that Zn(2+) taken up during LTP induction potentiates CA1 LTP via NMDA receptor activation.
Neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) form the main output of the cerebellar circuitry and thus play an important role in cerebellar motor coordination. A prominent biophysical property observed in rat DCN neurons is rebound firing; a brief but strong hyperpolarizing input transiently increases their firing rate to much higher levels compared with that prior to the inhibitory input. Low-threshold T-type voltage-gated calcium channels have been suspected for a long time to be responsible for this phenomenon, but direct pharmacological evidence in support of this proposition is lacking. Even though a multitude of functional roles has been assigned to rebound firing in DCN neurons, their prevalence under physiological conditions is in question. Studies aimed at delineating the physiological role of rebound firing are hampered by the lack of a good pharmacological blocker. Here we show that mibefradil, a compound that blocks T-type calcium channels, potently blocks rebound firing in DCN neurons. In whole-cell experiments both mibefradil and NNC 55-0396 [(1S,2S)-2-(2-(N-[(3-benzimidazol-2-yl)propyl]-N-methylamino)ethyl)-6-fluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-isopropyl-2-naphtyl cyclopropanecarboxylate dihydrochloride]. a more selective T-type calcium channel blocker, effectively blocked rebound firing produced by direct current injection. Thus, mibefradil and other T-type channel modulators may prove to be invaluable tools for elucidating the functional importance of DCN rebound firing in cerebellar computation.
The endocannabinoid system is a neuromodulatory system which controls the release of multiple neurotransmitters, including glutamate and both, the endocannabinoid and glutamatergic systems, have been implicated in alcohol relapse. Cannabinoid agonists induce an increase in relapse-like drinking whereas glutamate receptor antagonists could prevent it. Here we hypothesize that cannabinoid-induced increases in relapse-like alcohol drinking could be mediated by glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To test this hypothesis, Wistar rats with a background of alcohol operant self-administration were treated with the cannabinoid receptor agonist (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl), pyrrolo [1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone mesylate (WIN 55.212-2, WIN) (2.0 mg/kg) during periods of alcohol deprivation. For five consecutive days, 30 min before the reintroduction of alcohol, rats were injected with the NMDA/glycine receptor antagonist 7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenylquinolin-2-[1H]-one (L-701) (1.25-5.0 mg/kg) and alcohol reinforcement was evaluated. Our results clearly show that L-701 prevented the cannabinoid-induced increase in relapse-like drinking in a dose-dependent manner, whereas L-701 alone, in the absence of WIN treatment, did not significantly alter alcohol intake. The potentiation of relapse-like drinking induced by WIN is not caused by nonspecific anxiogenic effects, since no effect was observed in the elevated-plus maze test. These alcohol-related behaviors are linked to differential changes in CNR1 and NR1 subunit mRNA transcripts. In WIN-treated rats, an increase in CNR1 transcript levels was observed in the hypothalamus and striatum, whereas in the amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex, brain regions involved in emotional processing, a decrease was observed. Interestingly, such changes were blocked after L-701 treatment. Finally, WIN treatment also caused a reduction in NR1 mRNA levels in the amygdala. In conclusion, pharmacological inactivation of the glycine-binding site of NMDA receptors may control cannabinoid-induced relapse-like drinking, which is associated with altered expression of CNR1 and NR1 gene expression as observed after WIN treatment.
The seminal vesicles are male accessory sex glands that mainly contribute the seminal fluid of the ejaculate. Previous studies have suggested that seminal vesicles are supplied by both sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves. However, this conclusion was mainly based on studies in pelvic major ganglions and direct neuroanatomical evidence of spinal neurons innervating the seminal vesicles is still lacking. In order to map the spinal nerve circuit innervating the seminal vesicles, the present study used the pseudorabies virus (PRV) retrograde tracing technique in combination with immunohistochemistry. Three groups of rats were prepared: (1) nerves intact; (2) right hypogastric nerve and bilateral pelvic nerves sectioned; (3) right pelvic and bilateral hypogastric nerves sectioned. For the intact group, 3 to 5 days after injection of PRV into the left seminal vesicle in male rats, immunohistochemistry for PRV was performed to map the control circuit. Double immunofluorescence experiments against PRV and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were performed to discriminate preganglionic neurons and interneurons. Double detection of PRV and galanin (GAL) was also performed to identify lumbar spinothalamic (LSt) cells. Three days after virus injection, both sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons were retrograde-labeled. Four days after injection of PRV into the seminal vesicles, PRV-infected neurons were found in the dorsal horn, ventral horn, dorsal gray commissure (DGC), medial gray matter and intermediolateral cell column (IML) from T13 to S1. For the group with an intact hypogastric nerve, 4 days after injection of PRV into the seminal vesicles, PRV-infected neurons were mainly located in DGC and IML of spinal lumbar segments (L) 1-L2. However, in the group with an intact pelvic nerve, PRV-infected neurons were mainly located in DGC of L5-S1 spinal segments. At the L3-L4 level, most of the virus-labeled neurons around the central canal expressed immunoreactivity for GAL, strongly suggesting that they could be LSt cells. These anatomical data support the idea that the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system are both involved in the control of the seminal vesicles and we demonstrated a connection between preganglionic neurons innervating the seminal vesicles and LSt cells which play a crucial role in coordinating the spinal control of ejaculation.
Leu- and Met-enkephalin were the first endogenous opioid peptides identified in different mammalian species including the human. Comparative biochemical and bioinformatic evidence indicates that enkephalins are not limited to mammals. Various prodynorphin (PDYN) sequences in lower vertebrates revealed the presence of other enkephalin fingerprints in these precursor polypeptides. Among the novel enkephalins Ile-enkephalin (Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Ile) was primarily observed in the African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) PDYNs, while the structure of Phe-enkephalin (Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Phe) was predicted by analyzing brain cDNA sequences encoding a PDYN of the African lungfish (Protopterus annectens). Ile-enkephalin can also be found in the PDYNs of four other fish species including the eel, bichir, zebrafish and tilapia, but no further occurrence for the Phe-enkephalin motif is available as yet. Based on sequencing data, the biological relevance of Phe- and Ile-enkephalin is suggested, because both of them can arise by regular posttranslational enzymatic processing of the respective neuropeptide precursors. In various receptor binding assays performed on rat brain membrane preparations both of the new peptides turned out to be moderate affinity opioids with a weak preference for the delta-opioid receptor (DOP) sites. Phe-enkephalin of the lungfish displayed rather unexpectedly low affinities toward the mu-opioid receptor (MOP) and DOP, while exhibiting moderate affinity toward the kappa-opioid receptor (KOP). In receptor-mediated G-protein activation assays measured by the stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, Met-enkephalin produced the highest stimulation followed by Leu-enkephalin, Ile-enkephalin and Phe-enkephalin, whereas the least efficacious among these endogenous peptides was still more effective than the prototype opiate agonist morphine in these functional tests.
Inhibitionof neurite sprouting and electrical activity by extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoproteins was studied during neurite regeneration by using anterior pagoda (AP) neurons of the leech. Adult isolated neurons were plated in culture inside ganglion capsules, which among many ECM proteins, contain a group of inhibitory peanut lectin- (PNA) binding glycoproteins. These proteins inhibit neurite production and contribute to the formation of a bipolar outgrowth pattern by AP neurons. Addition of PNA lectin to the culture medium to block the inhibitory effects of ECM glycoproteins induced an increase of neurite sprouting, the loss of the bipolar pattern, and also an increase in the amplitude and duration of action potentials evoked by intracellular current injection. PNA lectin had independent effects on neurite sprouting and electrical activity, since there was no correlation between the total neurite length and the amplitude of the action potentials. Moreover, action potentials were increased by the presence of PNA lectin even in neurons that did not grow. The changes induced by PNA lectin on the active conductances underlying the action potentials were estimated by quantitative model simulations. We predict that the increases in the amplitude and duration of the action potential induced by PNA lectin were due to an increase in a calcium conductance and a reduction in the delayed rectifier potassium conductance. Our results suggest that inhibitory ECM glycoproteins may use independent signaling pathways to inhibit neurite sprouting and electrical activity. These proteins affect the action potential by changing the proportion of inward and outward active conductances.
Lack of sexual interest is the most common sexual complaint among women. However, factors affecting sexual desire in women have rarely been studied. While the role of the brain in integrating the sensory, attentional, motivational, and motor aspects of sexual response is commonly acknowledged as important, little is known about specific patterns of brain activation and sexual interest or response, particularly among women. We compared 20 females with no history of sexual dysfunction (NHSD) to 16 women with hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study that included assessment of subjective sexual arousal, peripheral sexual response using a vaginal photoplethysmograph (VPP), as well as brain activation across three time points. Video stimuli included erotic, sports, and relaxing segments. Subjective arousal to erotic stimuli was significantly greater in NHSD participants compared with HSDD. In the erotic-sports contrast, NHSD women showed significantly greater activation in the bilateral entorhinal cortex than HSDD women. In the same contrast, HSDD females demonstrated higher activation than NHSD females in the medial frontal gyrus (Brodmann area (BA) 10), right inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47) and bilateral putamen. There were no between group differences in VPP-correlated brain activation and peripheral sexual response was not significantly associated with either subjective sexual response or brain activation patterns. Findings were consistent across the three experimental sessions. The results suggest differences between women with NHSD and HSDD in encoding arousing stimuli, retrieval of past erotic experiences, or both. The findings of greater activation in BA 10 and BA 47 among women with HSDD suggest that this group allocated significantly more attention to monitoring and/or evaluating their responses than NHSD participants, which may interfere with normal sexual response.
One way of investigating affective learning is the use of aversive pictures as unconditioned stimuli (UCS) in conditioning paradigms. In the last decades, there has been a heated debate on the influence of contingency awareness on conditioned responses (CRs). Only a few studies found CRs in contingency unaware subjects whereas other studies only reported conditioned reactions in contingency aware participants. However, as a shortcoming, most studies employing picture-picture paradigms only investigated one response level (e.g. changes in subjective ratings). Further, changes in brain activity have so far been neglected in this field of research. The aim of the present study was to investigate different response levels with respect to contingency awareness: brain activity measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), skin conductance responses (SCRs) and valence ratings. A neutral geometric shape (conditioned stimulus, CS+) was followed by aversive pictures, whereas another shape (CS-) preceded neutral pictures. Unaware participants showed CRs in brain activity (e.g. the insula). Generally more activity was observed in the fear network (e.g. the amygdala, the lateral orbitofrontal cortex) in aware participants and in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Investigation of SCRs and valence ratings revealed that only aware participants showed conditioned reactions. Our results point toward dissociations between response levels (e.g. brain activity) not affected by contingency awareness and more cognitive response levels (e.g. subjective ratings and SCRs) which are affected by contingency awareness. As a unique finding in human aversive conditioning, we discuss the role of the nucleus accumbens as well as practical implications for affective learning models.
Diets high in soy are neuroprotective in experimental stroke. This protective effect is hypothesized to be mediated by phytoestrogens contained in soy, because some of these compounds have neuroprotective effects in in vitro models of cell death. We tested the ability of the soy phytoestrogens genistein, daidzein, and the daidzein metabolite equol to protect embryonic rat primary cortical neurons from ischemic-like injury in vitro at doses typical of circulating concentrations in human populations (0.1-1 microM). All three phytoestrogens inhibited lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release from cells exposed to glutamate toxicity or the calcium-ATPase inhibitor, thapsigargin. In cells exposed to hypoxia or oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), pretreatment with the phytoestrogens inhibited cell death in an estrogen receptor (ER) dependent manner. Although OGD results in multiple modes of cell death, examination of alpha-spectrin cleavage and caspase-3 activation revealed that the phytoestrogens were able to inhibit apoptotic cell death in this model. In addition, blockade of phosphoinositide 3-kinase prevented the protective effects of genistein and daidzein, and blockade of mitogen-activated protein kinase prevented genistein-dependent neuroprotection. These results suggest that pretreatment with dietary levels of soy phytoestrogens can mimic neuroprotective effects observed with estrogen and appear to use the same ER-kinase pathways to inhibit apoptotic cell death.
In anesthetized and immobilized domestic cats, we have studied the effects of brief reversible inactivation (by cooling to 10 degrees C) of the ipsilateral or contralateral postero-temporal visual (PTV) cortices on: 1) the magnitude of spike-responses of neurons in striate cortex (cytoarchitectonic area 17, area V1) to optimized sine-wave modulated contrast-luminosity gratings confined to the classical receptive fields (CRFs) and 2) the relative strengths of modulation of CRF-induced spike-responses by gratings extending into the extra-classical receptive field (ECRF). Consistent with our previous reports (Bardy et al., 2006; Huang et al., 2007), inactivation of ipsilateral PTV cortex (presumed homologue of primate infero-temporal cortex) resulted in significant reversible changes (almost all substantial reductions) in the magnitude of spike-responses to CRF-confined stimuli in about half of the V1 neurones. Similarly, in half of the present sample, inactivation of ipsilateral PTV cortex resulted in significant reversible changes (in over 70% of cases, reduction) in the relative strength of ECRF modulation of the CRF-induced spike-responses. By contrast, despite the fact that receptive fields of all V1 cells tested were located within 5 degrees of representation of the zero vertical meridian, inactivation of contralateral PTV cortex only rarely resulted in significant (yet invariably small) changes in the magnitude of spike-responses to CRF-confined stimuli or significant (again invariably small) changes in the relative strength of ECRF modulation of spike-responses. Thus, the ipsilateral, but not contralateral, 'higher-order' visual cortical areas make significant contribution not only to the magnitude of CRF-induced spike-responses but also to the relative strengths of ECRF-induced modulation of the spike-responses of V1 neurons. Therefore, the feedback signals originating from the ipsilateral higher-order cortical areas appear to make an important contribution to contextual modulation of responses of neurons in the primary visual cortices.
We have previously demonstrated that CNS toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) plays a key role in the development of behavioral hypersensitivity in a rodent model of neuropathic pain, spinal nerve L5 transection (L5Tx). TLR4 is a well-known receptor for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in innate immune responses. In the current study, we further investigated the role of CD14, an accessory molecule in the LPS-TLR4 signaling pathway, in the development of L5Tx-induced neuropathic pain. CD14 knockout (KO) mice displayed significantly decreased behavioral sensitivity (mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia) as early as day 1 post-L5Tx, indicating a nociceptive role of CD14. By flow cytometric analyses, we observed significantly elevated microglial surface CD14 expression in the ipsilateral lumbar spinal cord 3 days post-L5Tx, as well as remarkable increases in microglial size (via forward scatter (FSC)) and granularity (via side scatter (SSC)). Further, intrathecal injection of soluble CD14 induced significantly greater mechanical hypersensitivity in wild type (C3H/HeN) mice compared with TLR4-deficient (C3H/HeJ) mice. Together, these data demonstrate that CD14 plays a contributing role in TLR4-dependent nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.
While the vasomotor effects of pCO(2) modulation are well documented, the influence of the carbon dioxide-bicarbonate system on the ischemia tolerance of brain tissue itself is controversial. Guinea-pig hippocampal tissue was subjected to ischemia simulation in an interface environment and examined electrophysiologically. Characteristics of anoxic depolarization as well as the postischemic recovery of evoked potentials were registered. During ischemia simulation, pH was changed and afterwards restored to 7.4. pH of 7.6 (n=6), and 7.8 (n=6) were adjusted by increasing bicarbonate concentration without changing pCO(2), while pH 8.2 was reached either with normal pCO(2) (n=8) or with zero CO(2) (n=9). pH 7.1 was created by doubling pCO(2) (n=22) or reducing bicarbonate (n=21), while acid pH of 6.9 (high pCO(2) and low bicarbonate) led to erratic measurements in the interface setup. Alkalotic conditions did not improve electrophysiological stability of the tissue, and pH 8.2 impeded the recovery of evoked potentials. Hypercarbic pH 7.1 led to significantly longer latency of depolarization while the same pH with lowered bicarbonate did not. Evoked potentials, however, recovered only partially after ischemia at hypercarbic pH 7.1. Once the tissue had recovered from anoxic depolarization at control pH, hypercarbic acidosis did not have any further protective effect when ischemia simulation was repeated (n=12). These results do not strengthen the concept of hyperventilation in intensive care, while they suggest a potential of hypercarbia within broader strategies delaying the onset of secondary brain damage.
The somatotopic map of the first nociceptive component in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) is still unclear. In this study, a CO(2) laser was applied to the tail of the rat to induce nociception without the interference from large myelinated (A(beta)) fibers. Thus, only noxious fibers could be activated. Two-dimensional current-source-density analysis was used to analyze the evoked field potentials. Using this method, the nociceptive responses of A(delta)-fibers in S1 were verified, and the somatotopic map of the first nociceptive component in S1 was identified. We found that whether light touch or laser-induced nociception was applied to the tail of the rat, the responsive topography in S1 was consistent. Discrimination of these two modalities was achieved vertically in the same column; the deeper layer represented the nociceptive response while the superficial layer encoded the response to light touch. This is quite different from that of a primate brain.
Mu opioid receptors (MOP-r) play an important role in the rewarding and locomotor stimulatory effects of heroin. The aim of the current study was to determine whether infusion of small interfering RNAs (siRNA) targeting MOP-r into the midbrain could knock down MOP-r mRNA and affect heroin-induced locomotor activity or heroin-induced conditioned place preference. Ten-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were surgically implanted bilaterally with guide cannulae directed between the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. After 4 days' recovery, mice were infused bilaterally with siRNAs that target the MOP-r (2 mMx0.75 microl/side/day for 3 days) or control siRNA. Seven days after the last infusion, a procedure for conditioned place preference was begun with four heroin (3 mg/kg i.p.) administration sessions alternating with four saline sessions. While heroin induced an increase in locomotor activity in all groups, siRNAs targeting specific regions of MOP-r significantly attenuated this effect. Of particular interest, mice infused with specific siRNAs targeting the MOP-r failed to develop and express conditioned place preference to heroin, or showed a significantly attenuated preference. These alterations in reward-related behaviors are likely due to the reduction in MOP-r mRNA and protein, shown in separate studies by in situ hybridization and autoradiography using the same MOP-r- siRNA infusions. Taken together, these studies demonstrate the utility of siRNA in the neurobiological study of specific components of the reward system and should contribute to the study of other complex behaviors.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of zinc-dependent endopeptidases involved in brain development and the etiology of adult cerebral injuries. In this study, we determined the MMP-2 and 9 responses following hypoxic ischemia (HI) injury in the developing brain. First, we characterized the developmental changes of MMP activity in the rat brain from embryonic day 18 (E18) to postnatal day 120 (P120). MMP-2 activity was high from E18 to P3 and decreased with age (P&lt; or =0.001), while MMP-9 activity was not detectable. MMP-2 immunoreactivity was closely associated with differentiating cortical plate and subplate neurons. Next, we characterized the proteolytic changes after unilateral HI brain injury in 3- (P3) and 21- (P21) day-old rats. Zymography revealed that in the P21 rat brain, MMP-9 activity (150 and 92 kDa forms) was increased at 6 h and remained elevated 24 h post-injury in the ipsilateral injured hemisphere (P&lt; or =0.001), whereas there was a gradual increase in MMP-2 (65 kDa) activity, reaching a peak at 5 days (P&lt; or =0.001). Similarly, quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) indicated significant elevations in MMP-9 and MMP-2 mRNA expression in the injured cortex (P&lt; or =0.05) and hippocampus (P&lt; or =0.05) at 1 and 5 days post-injury, respectively in the P21 rat brain. In the P3 rat brain, zymography results revealed that both pro (92 kDa) and cleaved (87 kDa) MMP-9 activities were upregulated in the ipsilateral injured hemisphere from 6 h to 1 day after injury (P&lt; or =0.001). In contrast, cleaved MMP-2 (60 kDa) was only moderately upregulated at 6 h (P&lt; or =0.01), while pro MMP-2 (65 kDa) levels were unaffected. MMP-9 mRNA expression was also increased at 6 h (P&lt; or =0.05) following injury at P3, whereas MMP-2 expression remained unchanged compared with the uninjured contralateral hemisphere. Immunohistochemistry indicated that MMP-9 protein expression was localized predominantly to neurons and peri-vascular astrocytes in the affected regions at early time points, whereas MMP-2 was present on reactive astrocytes surrounding the infarct at later time points. Together, these results indicate that MMP-2 may be primarily associated with the development and differentiation of cortical plate neurons and wound recovery processes. Conversely, MMP-9 appeared to be associated with more acute processes during the period of lesion development.
The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) has long been recognized to play a pivotal role in nociceptive modulation. Pro-nociception within the RVM is associated with a distinct functional class of neurons, ON-cells that begin to discharge immediately before nocifensive reflexes. Anti-nociceptive function within the RVM, including the analgesic response to opiates, is associated with another distinct class, OFF-cells, which pause immediately prior to nocifensive reflexes. A third class of RVM neurons, NEUTRAL-cells, does not alter firing in association with nocifensive reflexes. ON-, OFF- and NEUTRAL-cells show differential responsiveness to various behaviorally relevant neuromodulators, including purinergic ligands. Iontophoresis of semi-selective P2X ligands, which are associated with nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, preferentially activate ON-cells. By contrast, P2Y ligands activate OFF-cells and P1 ligands suppress the firing of NEUTRAL cells. The current study investigates the distribution of P2X, P2Y and P1 receptor immunoreactivity in RVM neurons of Sprague-Dawley rats. Co-localization with tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), a well-established marker for serotonergic neurons was also studied. Immunoreactivity for the four purinergic receptor subtypes examined was abundant in all anatomical subdivisions of the RVM. By contrast, TPH-immunoreactivity was restricted to a relatively small subset of RVM neurons concentrated in the nucleus raphe magnus and pallidus, as expected. There was a significant degree of co-localization of each purinergic receptor subtype with TPH-immunoreactivity. This co-localization was most pronounced for P2Y1 receptor immunoreactivity, although this was the least abundant among the different purinergic receptor subtypes examined. Immunoreactivity for multiple purinergic receptor subtypes was often co-localized in single neurons. These results confirm the physiological finding that purinergic receptors are widely expressed in the RVM. Purinergic neurotransmission in this region may play an important role in nociception and/or nociceptive modulation, as at other levels of the neuraxis.
CD226, a member of cell adhesion molecules, has been widely studied in the immune system; however, its expression in the CNS remains unknown. In our present study, we detected CD226 mRNA and protein in the mouse hippocampus and cerebellum by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Immunohistochemical studies found that CD226 is primarily located in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and stratum lucidum aligned along the pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA3 area, the interspaces of granular cells and the somata of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex during adulthood. Double-staining results revealed that CD226 co-localized well with synaptic marker proteins including synaptophysin, syntaxin and PSD-95. During postnatal development, CD226 could not be detected at its adult locations until postnatal day 12; however, it was temporally expressed in the somata of neighboring or distant nuclei associated with its adult location. These results showed the diverse localization of CD226 in the mouse hippocampus and cerebellum for the first time and suggested its potential role in the CNS.
Interference theory refers to the idea that forgetting occurs because the recall of certain items interferes with the recall of other items. Recently, it has been proposed that interference is due to an inhibitory control mechanism, triggered by competing memories, that ultimately causes forgetting [Anderson MC (2003) Rethinking interference theory: Executive control and the mechanisms of forgetting. J Mem Lang 49:415-4453]. In the present research we study the interference process by submitting CD1 mice to two different hippocampal-dependent tasks: a place object recognition task (PORT) and a step-through inhibitory avoidance task (IA). Our results show a mutual interference between PORT and IA. To elucidate the possible neural mechanism underlying the interference process, we submit hippocampus- and prefrontal cortex-lesioned mice to PORT immediately before IA training. Results from these experiments show that prefrontal cortex lesions completely revert the impairing effect exerted by PORT administration on IA memory, while hippocampus lesions, that as expected impair memory for both PORT and IA, increase this effect. Altogether our results suggest that interference-induced forgetting is driven by an inhibitory control mechanism through activation of hippocampus-prefrontal cortex circuitry. The hippocampus seems to be crucial for storing information related to both behavioral tasks. Competition between memories triggers the inhibitory control mechanism, by activating prefrontal cortex, and induces memory suppression.
Changes in effective connectivity during the performance of a motor task appear important for the pathogenesis of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). One type of task that is typically difficult for individuals with PD is simultaneous or bimanual movement, and here we investigate the changes in effective connectivity as a potential mechanism. Eight PD subjects off and on l-DOPA medication and 10 age-matched healthy control subjects performed both simultaneous and unimanual motor tasks in an fMRI scanner. Changes in effective connectivity between regions of interest (ROIs) during simultaneous and unimanual task performance were determined with structural equation modeling (SEM), and changes in the temporal dynamics of task performance were determined with multivariate autoregressive modeling (MAR). PD subjects demonstrated alterations in both effective connectivity and temporal dynamics compared with control subjects during the performance of a simultaneous task. l-DOPA treatment was able to partially normalize effective connectivity and temporal patterns of activity in PD, although some connections remained altered in PD even after medication. Our results suggest that difficulty performing simultaneous movements in PD is at least in part mediated by a disruption of effective communication between widespread cortical and subcortical areas, and l-DOPA assists in normalizing this disruption. These results suggest that even when the site of neurodegeneration is relatively localized, study of how disruption in a single region affects connectivity throughout the brain can lead to important advances in the understanding of the functional deficits caused by neurodegenerative disease.
Among the GABAergic neocortical interneurons, parvalbumin-containing fast-spiking (FS) basket cells are essential mediators of feed-forward inhibition, network synchrony and oscillations, and timing of the critical period for sensory plasticity. The FS phenotype matures after birth. It depends on the expression of the voltage-gated potassium channels Kv3.1b/3.2 which mediate the fast membrane repolarization necessary for firing fast action potentials at high frequencies. We have now tested in rat visual cortex if visual deprivation affects the Kv3 expression. During normal development, Kv3.1b/3.2 mRNA and protein expression increased in rat visual cortex reaching adult levels around P20. Dark rearing from birth neither prevented nor delayed the upregulation. Rather unexpectedly, the expression of Kv3.1b protein and Kv3.2 mRNA and protein increased to higher levels from the third postnatal week onwards. Triple-labeling revealed that in dark-reared visual cortex Kv3.2 was upregulated in parvalbuminergic interneurons in supragranular layers which in normal animals rarely display Kv3.2 expression. Recovery from dark rearing normalized Kv3.2 expression. This showed that visual experience influences the Kv3 expression. The results suggest that an altered expression of Kv3 channels affects the functional properties of FS neurons, and may contribute to the deficits in inhibition observed in the sensory-deprived cortex.
Trans-SNAP receptor (SNARE, where SNAP is defined as soluble NSF attachment protein, and NSF is defined as N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor) complexes catalyze synaptic vesicle fusion and bind complexin, but the function of complexin binding to SNARE complexes remains unclear. Here we show that in neuronal synapses, complexin simultaneously suppressed spontaneous fusion and activated fast calcium ion-evoked fusion. The dual function of complexin required SNARE binding and also involved distinct amino-terminal sequences of complexin that localize to the point where trans-SNARE complexes insert into the fusing membranes, suggesting that complexin controls the force that trans-SNARE complexes apply onto the fusing membranes. Consistent with this hypothesis, a mutation in the membrane insertion sequence of the v-SNARE synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) phenocopied the complexin loss-of-function state without impairing complexin binding to SNARE complexes. Thus, complexin probably activates and clamps the force transfer from assembled trans-SNARE complexes onto fusing membranes.
The prevalence of sleep related complaints is reported by questionnaire studies to be as high as 83.3% in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Questionnaire studies report the presence of various parasomnia in ASD. However, no polysomnographic study reports non-REM parasomnias and only a single study reports REM related parasomnias in ASD. We investigated the prevalence and characteristics of sleep disorders by polysomnographic study and questionnaires in a cohort of 23 children with ASD and 23 age-matched children of a non-autistic comparison group. The results showed significantly more non-REM parasomnias in 14 children with ASD on polysomnograms (PSG) and 16 ASD children by questionnaire, a finding that was not associated with medication use, other comorbid medical or psychiatric disorders, or sleep disordered breathing. Of the 14 children with ASD who had PSG evidence of parasomnia, 11 of them had a history suggestive of parasomnia by questionnaire. There was a high sensitivity but a low specificity of parasomnia in ASD by questionnaire in predicting the presence of parasomnia in the PSG. Of the parasomnias recorded in the laboratory, 13 ASD children had Disorders of Partial Arousal, consistent with sleep terrors or confusional arousals. Furthermore, multiple episodes of partial arousal occurred in 11 of the 13 ASD children who had PSG evidence of Disorders of Partial Arousal. Of the 11 ASD children with multiple episodes of partial arousal, 6 ASD children had multiple partial arousals during both nights' PSG study. Sleep architecture was abnormal in children with ASD, characterized by increased spontaneous arousals, prolonged REM latency and reduced REM percentage. These results suggest a high prevalence of parasomnia in this cohort of children with ASD and a careful history intake of symptoms compatible with parasomnia could be prudent to diagnose parasomnia in ASD children when performing a PSG is not possible.
Neuropeptide S (NPS), the endogenous ligand of a previously orphan receptor now named NPSR, regulates various biological functions in the brain, including arousal, locomotion, anxiety, and food intake. Here we report on a focused structure-activity study of Gly5, which has been replaced with L and D amino acids. Fifteen NPS related peptides were synthesized and pharmacologically tested for intracellular calcium mobilization using HEK293 cells stably expressing the mouse NPSR. The results of this study demonstrated that peptide potency is inversely related to the side chain size, while peptide efficacy strongly depends on the relative L and D configuration, with the L amino acids favoring agonist while D amino acids display antagonist pharmacological activity. [D-Val5]NPS behaved as NPSR pure antagonist in HEK293(mNPSR) cells showing the highest potency (pK(B) 7.56) among this series of peptides. The antagonist action of [D-Val5]NPS was confirmed in vivo in mice, where the peptide at a dose of 10 nmol completely blocked the stimulatory effect of 0.1 nmol NPS on locomotor activity.
Haemodynamic signals underlying functional brain imaging (for example, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)) are assumed to reflect metabolic demand generated by local neuronal activity, with equal increases in haemodynamic signal implying equal increases in the underlying neuronal activity. Few studies have compared neuronal and haemodynamic signals in alert animals to test for this assumed correspondence. Here we present evidence that brings this assumption into question. Using a dual-wavelength optical imaging technique that independently measures cerebral blood volume and oxygenation, continuously, in alert behaving monkeys, we find two distinct components to the haemodynamic signal in the alert animals' primary visual cortex (V1). One component is reliably predictable from neuronal responses generated by visual input. The other component-of almost comparable strength-is a hitherto unknown signal that entrains to task structure independently of visual input or of standard neural predictors of haemodynamics. This latter component shows predictive timing, with increases of cerebral blood volume in anticipation of trial onsets even in darkness. This trial-locked haemodynamic signal could be due to an accompanying V1 arterial pumping mechanism, closely matched in time, with peaks of arterial dilation entrained to predicted trial onsets. These findings (tested in two animals) challenge the current understanding of the link between brain haemodynamics and local neuronal activity. They also suggest the existence of a novel preparatory mechanism in the brain that brings additional arterial blood to cortex in anticipation of expected tasks.




Neurons in the hippocampus are thought to provide information on an animal's location within its environment. Input to the hippocampus comes via afferents from the entorhinal cortex, which are separated into several major pathways serving different hippocampal regions. Recent studies show the significance of individual afferent pathways in location perception, enhancing our understanding of hippocampal function.

Although survival-promoting effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) during neurogenesis are well characterized, mitogenic effects remain less well substantiated. Here, we characterize cell cycle regulators and signaling pathways underlying IGF-1 effects on embryonic cortical precursor proliferation in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, IGF-1 stimulated cell cycle progression and increased cell number without promoting cell survival. IGF-1 induced rapid increases in cyclin D1 and D3 protein levels at 4 h and cyclin E at 8 h. Moreover, p27(KIP1) and p57(KIP2) expression were reduced, suggesting downregulation of negative regulators contributes to mitogenesis. Furthermore, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway specifically underlies IGF-1 activity, because blocking this pathway, but not MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase)/ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase), prevented mitogenesis. To determine whether mechanisms defined in culture relate to corticogenesis in vivo, we performed transuterine intracerebroventricular injections. Whereas blockade of endogenous factor with anti-IGF-1 antibody decreased DNA synthesis, IGF-1 injection stimulated DNA synthesis and increased the number of S-phase cells in the ventricular zone. IGF-1 treatment increased phospho-Akt fourfold at 30 min, cyclins D1 and E by 6 h, and decreased p27(KIP1) and p57(KIP2) expression. Moreover, blockade of the PI3K/Akt pathway in vivo decreased DNA synthesis and cyclin E, increased p27(KIP1) and p57(KIP2) expression, and prevented IGF-1-induced cyclin E mRNA upregulation. Finally, IGF-1 injection in embryos increased postnatal day 10 brain DNA content by 28%, suggesting a role for IGF-1 in brain growth control. These results demonstrate a mitogenic role for IGF-1 that tightly controls both positive and negative cell cycle regulators, and indicate that the PI3K/Akt pathway mediates IGF-1 mitogenic signaling during corticogenesis.
The content model regarding the functional organization of working memory in prefrontal cortex (PFC) states that different PFC areas encode different types of information in working memory depending on their afferent connections with other brain areas. Previous studies that tested this model focused on visual, auditory and somatosensory information. However, posterior areas processing this information project to widespread and overlapping regions of lateral PFC, making it difficult to establish the veracity of the model. In contrast, gustatory information enters PFC via orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and so the content model would argue that OFC should be responsible for maintaining gustatory information in working memory. To test this, we recorded the activity of single neurons throughout PFC and gustatory cortex (GUS) from two subjects while they performed a gustatory delayed-match-to-sample task with intervening gustatory distraction. Neurons that encoded the identity of the gustatory stimulus across the delay, consistent with a role in gustatory working memory, were most prevalent in OFC and GUS compared with dorsolateral PFC and ventrolateral PFC. Gustatory information in OFC was more resilient to intervening distraction, paralleling previous findings regarding visual working memory processes in PFC and posterior sensory cortex. Our findings provide support for the content model of working memory organization. Maintaining gustatory information may be one aspect of a wider function for OFC in reward working memory that could contribute to its role in decision-making.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) induces a robust inflammatory response and the extravasation of leukocytes into the injured tissue. To further knowledge of the functions of neuroinflammation in SCI in mice, we depleted the early arriving neutrophils using an anti-Ly6G/Gr-1 antibody. Complete blood counts revealed that neutrophils increased approximately 3-fold over uninjured controls and peaked at 6-12 h after injury, and that anti-Ly6G/Gr-1 treatment reduced circulating neutrophils by &gt;90% at these time points. Intravital and spinning disk confocal microscopy of the exposed posterior vein and postcapillary venules showed a significant reduction in rolling and adhering neutrophils in vivo after anti-Ly6G/Gr-1 treatment; this was accompanied by a parallel reduction in neutrophil numbers within the injured spinal cord at 24 and 48 h as determined by flow cytometry. The evolution of astrocyte reactivity, a wound healing response, was reduced in anti-Ly6G/Gr-1-treated mice, which also had less spared white matter and axonal preservation compared with isotype controls. These histological outcomes may be caused by alterations of growth factors and chemokines important in promoting wound healing. Importantly, anti-Ly6G/Gr-1 treatment worsened behavioral outcome as determined using the Basso Mouse Scale and subscores. Although the spectrum of cells affected by anti-Ly6G/Gr-1 antibody treatment cannot be fully ascertained at this point, the correspondence of neutrophil depletion and worsened recovery suggests that neutrophils promote recovery after SCI through wound healing and protective events that limit lesion propagation.
Inhibition in the spinal cord dorsal horn is crucial for maintaining separation of touch and pain modalities. Disruption of this inhibition results in allodynia, allowing low-threshold drive onto pain and temperature-sensitive projection neurons. This low-threshold (LT) excitatory pathway is normally under strong inhibition. We hypothesized that superficial dorsal horn inhibitory neurons, which would be ideally located to suppress LT drive onto projection neurons in a feedforward manner, are driven by LT input. In addition, because disinhibition-induced allodynia shares some features with the immature dorsal horn such as elevated sensitivity to LT input, we also questioned whether LT drive onto inhibitory neurons changes during postnatal maturation. To investigate these questions, slices were made at different ages from transgenic mice with enhanced green fluorescent protein expression in GABAergic neurons and whole-cell recordings were made from these fluorescent neurons. Evoked synaptic activity was measured in response to electrical stimulation of the dorsal root. We demonstrate that Abeta fibers activate a significant proportion of superficial dorsal horn GABAergic neurons. This occurs with similar excitatory synaptic drive throughout postnatal maturation, but with a greater prevalence at younger ages. These GABAergic neurons are well situated to contribute to suppressing LT activation of output projection neurons. In addition, the majority of these GABAergic neurons also had convergent input from high-threshold fibers, suggesting that this novel subclass of GABAergic neurons is important for gating innocuous as well as noxious information.
Recent evidence suggests that growth cone responses to guidance cues require local protein synthesis. Using chick neurons, we investigated whether protein synthesis is required for growth cones of several types to respond to guidance cues. First, we found that global inhibition of protein synthesis stops axonal elongation after 2 h. When protein synthesis inhibitors were added 15 min before adding guidance cues, we found no changes in the typical responses of retinal, sensory, and sympathetic growth cones. In the presence of cycloheximide or anisomycin, ephrin-A2, slit-3, and semaphorin3A still induced growth cone collapse and loss of actin filaments, nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 still induced growth cone protrusion and increased filamentous actin, and sensory growth cones turned toward an NGF source. In compartmented chambers that separated perikarya from axons, axons grew for 24-48 h in the presence of cycloheximide and responded to negative and positive cues. Our results indicate that protein synthesis is not strictly required in the mechanisms for growth cone responses to many guidance cues. Differences between our results and other studies may exist because of different cellular metabolic levels in in vitro conditions and a difference in when axonal functions become dependent on local protein synthesis.
Neuronal firing patterns, neuromodulators, and cerebral metabolism change across sleep-waking states, and the synaptic release of glutamate is critically involved in these processes. Extrasynaptic glutamate can also affect neural function and may be neurotoxic, but whether and how extracellular glutamate is regulated across sleep-waking states is unclear. To assess the effect of behavioral state on extracellular glutamate at high temporal resolution, we recorded glutamate concentration in prefrontal and motor cortex using fixed-potential amperometry in freely behaving rats. Simultaneously, we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and electroencephalograms (EEGs) from contralateral cortex. We observed dynamic, progressive changes in the concentration of glutamate that switched direction as a function of behavioral state. Specifically, the concentration of glutamate increased progressively during waking (0.329 +/- 0.06%/min) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (0.349 +/- 0.13%/min). This increase was opposed by a progressive decrease during non-REM (NREM) sleep (0.338 +/- 0.06%/min). During a 3 h sleep deprivation period, glutamate concentrations initially exhibited the progressive rise observed during spontaneous waking. As sleep pressure increased, glutamate concentrations ceased to increase and began decreasing despite continuous waking. During NREM sleep, the rate of decrease in glutamate was positively correlated with sleep intensity, as indexed by LFP slow-wave activity. The rate of decrease doubled during recovery sleep after sleep deprivation. Thus, the progressive increase in cortical extrasynaptic glutamate during EEG-activated states is counteracted by a decrease during NREM sleep that is modulated by sleep pressure. These results provide evidence for a long-term homeostasis of extracellular glutamate across sleep-waking states.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), characterized by degeneration of spinal motor neurons, consists of sporadic and familial forms. One cause of familial ALS is missense mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. Iron accumulation occurs in the CNS of both forms of ALS; however, its contribution to the pathogenesis of ALS is not known. We examined the role of iron in a transgenic mouse line overexpressing the human SOD1(G37R) mutant. We show that multiple mechanisms may underlie the iron accumulation in neurons and glia in SOD1(G37R) transgenic mice. These include dysregulation of proteins involved in iron influx and sensing of intracellular iron; iron accumulation in ventral motor neurons secondary to blockage of anterograde axonal transport; and increased mitochondrial iron load in neurons and glia. We also show that treatment of SOD1(G37R) mice with an iron chelator extends life span by 5 weeks, accompanied by increased survival of spinal motor neurons and improved locomotor function. These data suggest that iron chelator therapy might be useful for the treatment of ALS.
Abundantly expressed in pain-sensing neurons, TRPV1, TRPA1 and TRPM8 are major cellular sensors of thermal, chemical and mechanical stimuli. The function of these ion channels has been attributed to their selective permeation of small cations (e.g., Ca2+, Na+ and K+), and the ion selectivity has been assumed to be an invariant fingerprint to a given channel. However, for TRPV1, the notion of invariant ion selectivity has been revised recently. When activated, TRPV1 undergoes time and agonist-dependent pore dilation, allowing permeation of large organic cations such as Yo-Pro and NMDG+. The pore dilation is of physiological importance, and has been exploited to specifically silence TRPV1-positive sensory neurons. It is unknown whether TRPA1 and TRPM8 undergo pore dilation. Here we show that TRPA1 activation by reactive or non-reactive agonists induces Yo-Pro uptake, which can be blocked by TRPA1 antagonists. In outside-out patch recordings using NMDG+ as the sole external cation and Na+ as the internal cation, TRPA1 activation results in dynamic changes in permeability to NMDG+. In contrast, TRPM8 activation does not produce either Yo-Pro uptake or significant change in ion selectivity. Hence, pore dilation occurs in TRPA1, but not in TRPM8 channels.
We present the instrumental development of a versatile total internal reflection fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy setup illuminated by a supercontinuum laser source. It enables performing wide-field fluorescence lifetime imaging with subwavelength axial resolution for a large range of fluorophores. The short overall acquisition time and the axial resolution are well suited for dynamic neurobiological applications.
The dynorphin (DYN)-kappa opioid receptor (kappaOR) system has been implicated in stress modulation, depression, and relapse to drug-seeking behaviors. Previous anatomical and physiological data have indicated that the noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) is one site at which DYN may contribute to these effects. Using light microscopy, immunofluorescence, and electron microscopy, the present study investigated the cellular substrates for pre- and postsynaptic interactions of kappaOR in the LC. Dual immunocytochemical labeling for kappaOR and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or kappaOR and preprodynorphin (ppDYN) was examined in the same section of tissue. Light microscopic analysis revealed prominent kappaOR immunoreactivity in the nuclear core of the LC and in the peri-coerulear region where noradrenergic dendrites extend. Fluorescence and electron microscopy revealed kappaOR immunoreactivity within TH-immunoreactive somata and dendrites in the LC as well as localized to ppDYN-immunoreactive processes. In sections processed for kappaOR and TH, approximately 29% (200/688) of the kappaOR-containing axon terminals identified targeted TH-containing profiles. Approximately 49% (98/200) of the kappaOR-labeled axon terminals formed asymmetric synapses with TH-labeled dendrites. Sections processed for kappaOR and ppDYN showed that, of the axon terminals exhibiting kappaOR, 47% (223/477) also exhibited ppDYN. These findings indicate that kappaORs are poised to modulate LC activity by their localization to somata and dendrites. Furthermore, kappaORs are strategically localized to presynaptically modulate DYN afferent input to catecholamine-containing neurons in the LC. These data add to the growing literature showing that kappaORs can modulate diverse afferent signaling to the LC.
Corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) is expressed in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), where the CRF receptor (CRFr) plays an important role in anxiety- and stress-related behaviors. To determine the subcellular sites of CRFr activation in this region, we examined the electron microscopic immunolabeling of antisera recognizing CRF or CRFr. The ultrastructural analysis was principally conducted in the lateral subdivision of the rat CeA, with comparisons being made in mice so as to optimally utilize mutant mice in control experiments. The CRFr labeling was seen in many small dendrites and dendritic spines as well as in a few somata, large dendrites, axons, and axon terminals or more rarely in glial processes. Approximately 35% of the CRFr-labeled dendrites contained CRF immunoreactivity, which was distributed diffusely throughout the cytoplasm, or specifically affiliated with either endomembranes or large dense-core vesicles. The CRF-immunoreactive vesicles also were present in somata and axon terminals with or without CRFr labeling. The CRF immunoreactivity was usually absent from both terminals and dendrites joined by asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses, where a postsynaptic location of the CRFr was commonly observed. Numerous terminals containing both CRF and CRFr were seen, however, within the neuropil and sometimes apposing the excitatory synapses. These results provide ultrastructural evidence for a primary involvement of CRF receptors in modulation of the postsynaptic excitability of CeA neurons, an effect that may be limited by the availability of CRF. The findings have important implications for understanding CRF mediation of rapid responses to stress.
In normal vision, detecting a kink (a change in orientation) in a line is scale invariant: it depends solely on the length/width ratio of the line (D. Whitaker, D. M. Levi, &amp; G. J. Kennedy, 2008). Here we measure detection of a change in the orientation of lines of different length and blur and show that strabismic amblyopia is qualitatively different from normal foveal vision, in that: 1) stimulus blur has little effect on performance in the amblyopic eye, and 2) integration of orientation information follows a different rule. In normal foveal vision, performance improves in proportion to the square root of the ratio of line length to blur (L:B). In strabismic amblyopia improvement is proportional to line length. Our results are consistent with a substantial degree of internal neural blur in first-order cortical filters. This internal blur results in a loss of scale invariance in the amblyopic visual system. Peripheral vision also shows much less effect of stimulus blur and a failure of scale invariance, similar to the central vision of strabismic amblyopes. Our results suggest that both peripheral vision and strabismic amblyopia share a common bottleneck in having a truncated range of spatial mechanisms--a range that becomes more restricted with increasing eccentricity and depth of amblyopia.



The transduction of sound in the auditory periphery, the cochlea, is inhibited by efferent cholinergic neurons projecting from the brainstem and synapsing directly on mechanosensory hair cells. One fundamental question in auditory neuroscience is what role(s) this feedback plays in our ability to hear. In the present study, we have engineered a genetically modified mouse model in which the magnitude and duration of efferent cholinergic effects are increased, and we assess the consequences of this manipulation on cochlear function. We generated the Chrna9L9'T line of knockin mice with a threonine for leucine change (L9'T) at position 9' of the second transmembrane domain of the alpha9 nicotinic cholinergic subunit, rendering alpha9-containing receptors that were hypersensitive to acetylcholine and had slower desensitization kinetics. The Chrna9L9'T allele produced a 3-fold prolongation of efferent synaptic currents in vitro. In vivo, Chrna9L9'T mice had baseline elevation of cochlear thresholds and efferent-mediated inhibition of cochlear responses was dramatically enhanced and lengthened: both effects were reversed by strychnine blockade of the alpha9alpha10 hair cell nicotinic receptor. Importantly, relative to their wild-type littermates, Chrna9(L9'T/L9'T) mice showed less permanent hearing loss following exposure to intense noise. Thus, a point mutation designed to alter alpha9alpha10 receptor gating has provided an animal model in which not only is efferent inhibition more powerful, but also one in which sound-induced hearing loss can be restrained, indicating the ability of efferent feedback to ameliorate sound trauma.
Although a broad range of programmes for prevention of child maltreatment exist, the effectiveness of most of the programmes is unknown. Two specific home-visiting programmes-the Nurse-Family Partnership (best evidence) and Early Start-have been shown to prevent child maltreatment and associated outcomes such as injuries. One population-level parenting programme has shown benefits, but requires further assessment and replication. Additional in-hospital and clinic strategies show promise in preventing physical abuse and neglect. However, whether school-based educational programmes prevent child sexual abuse is unknown, and there are currently no known approaches to prevent emotional abuse or exposure to intimate-partner violence. A specific parent-training programme has shown benefits in preventing recurrence of physical abuse; no intervention has yet been shown to be effective in preventing recurrence of neglect. A few interventions for neglected children and mother-child therapy for families with intimate-partner violence show promise in improving behavioural outcomes. Cognitive-behavioural therapy for sexually abused children with symptoms of post-traumatic stress shows the best evidence for reduction in mental-health conditions. For maltreated children, foster care placement can lead to benefits compared with young people who remain at home or those who reunify from foster care; enhanced foster care shows benefits for children. Future research should ensure that interventions are assessed in controlled trials, using actual outcomes of maltreatment and associated health measures.

The Neuroscience Peer Review Consortium (NPRC) was conceived in the summer of 2007 at a meeting of editors and publishers of neuroscience journals. One of the working groups addressed whether it was possible to construct a system for permitting authors whose manuscript received supportive reviews at one journal but was not accepted to send a revised manuscript together with its first round of reviews to a new journal for the second round. This would speed up the review process and reduce the work for reviewers and editors. The working group not only designed a framework for transferring reviews among journals, but also implemented it as the NPRC. By the fall of 2007, more than a dozen major journals had signed onto the NPRC, sufficient to launch the experiment in January, 2008. We invite authors who have not yet used the NPRC to try this method for appropriate manuscripts.In order to encourage dissemination of the details outlined in this Editorial, it will also be published in other journals in the Neuroscience Peer Review Consortium.
Dynamin 2 has been reported to be implicated in phagocytosis. However, the mode of action of dynamin is poorly understood. In this study, we examined whether dynamin 2 participates in actin assembly during phagocytosis in Sertoli cells. In the presence of dynasore, a dynamin inhibitor, phagocytosis was reduced by 60-70% in Sertoli cells and macrophages. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that Sertoli cells treated with dynasore were unable to form phagocytic cups. In addition, dysfunction of dynamin 2 reduced both actin polymerization and recruitment of actin and dynamin 2 to phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P(2)]-containing liposomes. The formation of dynamin 2-positive ruffles of Sertoli cells was decreased by 60-70% by sequestering PI(4,5)P(2) either by expression of PH domain of PLCdelta or treatment with neomycin. These results strongly suggest that dynamin 2 is involved in actin dynamics and the formation of dynamin 2-positive ruffles during phagocytosis.
We have previously shown that the AEX-1 protein, which is expressed in postsynaptic muscles, retrogradely regulates presynaptic neural activity at the Caenorhabditis elegans neuromuscular junctions. AEX-1 is similar to vertebrate Munc13-4 protein, suggesting a function for vesicle exocytosis from a kind of cells. Compared to emerging evidences of the role of Munc13 proteins in synaptic vesicle release, however, the precise mechanism for vesicle exocytosis by AEX-1 and Munc13-4 is little understood. Here we have identified SYN-1 as a candidate molecule of AEX-1-dependent vesicle exocytosis from non-neuronal cells. The syn-1 gene encodes a C. elegans syntaxin, which is distantly related to the neuronal syntaxin UNC-64. The syn-1 gene is predominantly expressed in non-neuronal tissues and genetically interacts with aex-1 for presynaptic activity. However, the two proteins did not interact physically in our yeast two-hybrid system and mutational SYN-1 did not bypass the requirement of AEX-1 for the behavioral defects in aex-1 mutants, whereas mutant UNC-64 does in unc-13 mutants. These results suggest that a novel molecular interaction between the AEX-1 and syntaxin may regulate vesicle exocytosis for retrograde signal release.
Chronic treatment with anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) during adolescence alters the activity of various neurotransmitter systems in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The present study was conducted to determine whether glutamatergic cells in the lateral anterior hypothalamus (LAH), a sub-region of the anterior hypothalamus, have lasting activation following adolescent AAS exposure, and to examine AAS-induced alterations in the connections between the LAH and the ventrolateral hypothalamus (VLH) governed by glutamate. Hamsters were administered AAS during adolescence and then examined for changes in FOS (protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos) and phosphate activated glutaminase (PAG; the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of glutamate) immunoreactivity (FOS/PAG-IR) using double-label immunohistochemistry. In a second experiment, a retrograde tracing study was conducted using a red fluorescent tracer microinjected into the VLH. Then brains were processes for PAG immunofluorescence and examined for AAS-induced changes in the number of PAG positive cells containing the tracer (PAG/Tracer) in the LAH. When compared to oil-treated controls, AAS-treated hamsters showed significant increases in PAG-IR and FOS/PAG-IR in the LAH, decreases in afferent innervation from the LAH to the VLH and decreases in the total number of glutamate cells in the LAH projecting to the VLH. Together with previous research from our lab showing increased AAS-induced expression of PAG in the AH and increased glutamate receptor expression in the VLH, the current results suggest that adolescent AAS exposure leads to alterations in the function and expression of the glutamatergic system as well as changes in hypothalamic neural connections. In addition, the current results further strengthen the notion that a specific nucleus in the AH, the LAH is a critical hypothalamic sub-region particularly sensitive to AAS-induced neurodevelopmental effects.
Primary cilia extend from the surface of most vertebrate cells and display several signaling molecules, including the somatostatin receptor 3 (SSTR3), enabling cilia to play essential roles as chemical, osmotic and mechanical sensors. The SSTR3 is widely distributed in the adult rat brain, and also influences cell proliferation and apoptosis. To establish whether the SSTR3 is positioned to influence these developmental processes, we examined, using immunohistochemistry, the embryonic and postnatal development of SSTR3 expression in the rat hippocampal formation, and its association with newly born and mature neurons in adult rats. Elongated SSTR3-immunoreactive (-ir) cilia first appeared in the hippocampal formation CA3 region of postnatal day (P) 0 animals, and their density increased to high levels by P2, remained at high levels through to P30, but were at low levels in 5-month old rats. A similar developmental pattern was observed in the CA1 region, where SSTR3-ir ciliated structures were first detected on P2. In contrast, density levels in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus were very high by P30, and remained elevated in adult rats. SSTR3-ir cilia did not colocalize with neuroblasts in the hippocampal formation or olfactory bulb, but appeared to be localized to more mature cells in these regions. A few SSTR3-ir neurons were also observed in the hippocampal formation. These findings support the hypothesis that the ciliary SSTR3 is well positioned to influence the cell cycle and apoptotic processes during postnatal development, and in neurogenic regions of the adult rat brain.
Cold temperatures robustly activate a small cohort of somatosensory nerves, yet during a prolonged cold stimulus their activity will decrease, or adapt, over time. This process allows for the discrimination of subtle changes in temperature. At the molecular level, cold is detected by transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8), a nonselective cation channel expressed on a subset of peripheral afferent fibers. We and others have reported that TRPM8 channels also adapt in a calcium-dependent manner when activated by the cooling compound menthol. Additionally, TRPM8 activity is sensitive to the phospholipid phosphoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), a substrate for the enzyme phospholipase C (PLC). These results suggest an adaptation model whereby TRPM8-mediated Ca2+ influx activates PLC, thereby decreasing PIP2 levels and resulting in reduced TRPM8 activity. Here we tested this model using pharmacological activation of PLC and by manipulating PIP2 levels independent of both PLC and Ca2+. PLC activation leads to adaptation-like reductions in cold- or menthol-evoked TRPM8 currents in both heterologous and native cells. Moreover, PLC-independent reductions in PIP2 had a similar effect on cold- and menthol-evoked currents. Mechanistically, either form of adaptation does not alter temperature sensitivity of TRPM8 but does lead to a change in channel gating. Our results show that adaptation is a shift in voltage dependence toward more positive potentials, reversing the trend toward negative potentials caused by agonist. These data suggest that PLC activity not only mediates adaptation to thermal stimuli, but likely underlies a more general mechanism that establishes the temperature sensitivity of somatosensory neurons.
Occludin is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues during the oxidative stress-induced disruption of tight junction, and in vitro phosphorylation of occludin by c-Src attenuates its binding to ZO-1. In the present study mass spectrometric analyses of C-terminal domain of occludin identified Tyr-379 and Tyr-383 in chicken occludin as the phosphorylation sites, which are located in a highly conserved sequence of occludin, YETDYTT; Tyr-398 and Tyr-402 are the corresponding residues in human occludin. Deletion of YETDYTT motif abolished the c-Src-mediated phosphorylation of occludin and the regulation of ZO-1 binding. Y398A and Y402A mutations in human occludin also abolished the c-Src-mediated phosphorylation and regulation of ZO-1 binding. Y398D/Y402D mutation resulted in a dramatic reduction in ZO-1 binding even in the absence of c-Src. Similar to wild type occludin, its Y398A/Y402A mutant was localized at the plasma membrane and cell-cell contact sites in Rat-1 cells. However, Y398D/Y402D mutants of occludin failed to localize at the cell-cell contacts. Calcium-induced reassembly of Y398D/Y402D mutant occludin in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells was significantly delayed compared with that of wild type occludin or its T398A/T402A mutant. Furthermore, expression of Y398D/Y402D mutant of occludin sensitized MDCK cells for hydrogen peroxide-induced barrier disruption. This study reveals a unique motif in the occludin sequence that is involved in the regulation of ZO-1 binding by reversible phosphorylation of specific Tyr residues.
The ability to derive the facing direction of a spatially scrambled point-light walker relies on the motions of the feet and is impaired if they are inverted. We exploited this local inversion effect in three experiments that employed novel stimuli derived from only fragments of full foot trajectories. In Experiment 1, observers were presented with stimuli derived from a single fragment or a pair of counterphase fragments of the foot trajectory of a human walker in a direction discrimination task. We show that direction can be retrieved for displays as short as 100 ms and is retrieved in an orientation-dependent manner only for stimuli derived from the paired fragments. In Experiment 2, we investigated direction retrieval from stimuli derived from paired fragments of other foot motions. We show that the inversion effect is correlated with the difference in vertical acceleration between the constituent fragments of each stimulus. In Experiment 3, we compared direction retrieval from the veridical human walker stimuli with stimuli that were identical but had accelerations removed. We show that the inversion effect disappears for the stimuli containing no accelerations. The results suggest that the local inversion effect is carried by accelerations contained in the foot motions.


Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), an obligatory cofactor for dopamine (DA) synthesis, has been shown to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) upon its autoxidation and induce selective dopaminergic cell death in many in vivo and in vitro models of Parkinson's disease (PD). The precise molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal death upon BH4 exposure, however, have not yet been well elucidated. The present study aims to examine the intracellular ROS production and the signal transduction pathways underlying the toxic effects of BH4 on human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells. The results show that BH4 treatment at concentrations ranging from 50microM to 400microM induces neuronal death in a dose-dependent manner. In concomitant with the elevation of intracellular ROS formation, BH4-induced activation of MAPK, p38 and ERK1/2 in SH-SY5Y cells is attenuated by pretreatment with MAPK inhibitors, SB203580 or PD98059. These data indicate that MAPK activation and oxidative stress are involved in BH4-induced dopaminergic cell death, possibly through the autoxidation of BH4 and subsequent ROS production.
The channels mediating most of the somatodendritic A-type K(+) current in neurons are thought to be ternary complexes of Kv4 pore-forming subunits and two types of auxiliary subunits, the K(+) channel interacting proteins (KChIPs) and dipeptidyl-peptidase-like (DPPL) proteins. The channels expressed in heterologous expression systems by mixtures of Kv4.2, KChIP1 and DPP6-S resemble in many properties the A-type current in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and cerebellar granule cells, neurons with prominent A-type K(+) currents. However, the native currents have faster kinetics. Moreover, the A-type currents in neurons in intermediary layers of the superior colliculus have even faster inactivating rates. We have characterized a new DPP6 spliced isoform, DPP6-E, that produces in heterologous cells ternary Kv4 channels with very fast kinetics. DPP6-E is selectively expressed in a few neuronal populations in brain including cerebellar granule neurons, hippocampal pyramidal cells and neurons in intermediary layers of the superior colliculus. The effects of DPP6-E explain past discrepancies between reconstituted and native Kv4 channels in some neurons, and contributes to the diversity of A-type K(+) currents in neurons.



A series of 5-(piperidinylethyloxy)quinoline 5-HT(1) receptor ligands have been studied by elaboration of the series of dual 5-HT(1)-SSRIs reported previously. These new compounds display a different in vitro pharmacological profile with potent affinity across the 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors and selectivity against the serotonin transporter. Furthermore, they have improved pharmacokinetic profiles and CNS penetration.
Herein we describe the medicinal chemistry programme to identify a potential back-up compound to the EP(1) receptor antagonist GW848687X. This work started with the lipophilic 1,2-biaryl benzene derivative 4 which displayed molecular weight of 414.9g/mol and poor in vivo metabolic stability in the rat and resulted in the identification of compound 7i (GSK345931A) which demonstrated good metabolic stability in the rat and lower molecular weight (381.9g/mol). In addition, 7i (GSK345931A) showed measurable CNS penetration in the mouse and rat and potent analgesic efficacy in acute and sub-chronic models of inflammatory pain.

Spinal interneurons are key components of locomotor circuits, driving such diverse behaviors as swimming in fish and walking in mammals. Recent work has linked the expression of evolutionarily conserved transcription factors to key features of interneurons in diverse species, raising the possibility that these interneurons are functionally related. Consequently, the determinants of interneuron subtypes are predicted to share conserved cis-regulation in vertebrates with very different spinal cords. Here, we establish a link between cis-regulation and morphology of spinal interneurons that express the Evx1 homeodomain transcription factor from fish to mammals. Using comparative genomics, and complementary transgenic approaches, we have identified a novel enhancer of evx1, that includes two non-coding elements conserved in vertebrates. We show that pufferfish evx1 transgenes containing this enhancer direct reporter expression to a subset of spinal commissural interneurons in zebrafish embryos. Pufferfish, zebrafish and mouse evx1 downstream genomic enhancers label selectively Evx1(+) V0 commissural interneurons in chick and rat embryos. By dissecting the zebrafish evx1 enhancer, we identify a role for a 25 bp conserved cis-element in V0-specific gene expression. Our findings support the notion that spinal interneurons shared between distantly related vertebrates, have been maintained in part via the preservation of highly conserved cis-regulatory modules.
Thioredoxin reductase 1 is a key enzyme in cellular redox processes, which are known to play a role in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). The gene TXNRD1 was therefore screened for association with FALS. Resequencing of the exons and flanking regions identified 19 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of which 2, the intronic SNPs rs6539137 and rs4630362, were significantly associated with FALS. However, no association of rs6539137 with sporadic ALS was detected. The TXNRD1 haplotypes were reconstructed using the EH and PHASE 2.1 programs and also showed an association with FALS. Bayesian analysis of these SNP combinations, carried out using the BIMBAM program, indicated that rs10861192 strongly augmented this association. Indeed the haplotypes with minor alleles at both rs10861192 and rs6539137, although present in FALS, were totally absent from controls. Patients with the minor allele of rs6539137 were also associated with an early age at onset, which was decreased by 8 years. Furthermore the shift of onset was more pronounced in males and not significant in females. These results show that TXNRD1 may act as an important modifier gene of FALS and indicate that the additional thiol-redox system genes, thioredoxin and the peroxiredoxins, should also be investigated in FALS and other neurological disorders.
The brain swells over the several minutes that follow stroke onset or acute hypo-osmotic stress because cells take up water. Measuring the volume responses of single neurons and glia has necessarily been confined to isolated or cultured cells. Two-photon laser scanning microscopy enables real-time visualization of cells functioning deep within living neocortex in vivo or in brain slices under physiologically relevant osmotic and ischemic stress. Astrocytes and their processes expressing green fluorescent protein in murine cortical slices swelled in response to 20 min of overhydration (-40 mOsm) and shrank during dehydration (+40 or +80 mOsm) at 32-34 degrees C. Minute-by-minute monitoring revealed no detectable volume regulation during these osmotic challenges, particularly during the first 5 min. Astrocytes also rapidly swelled in response to elevated [K+](o) for 3 min or oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD) for 10 min. Post-OGD, astroglial volume recovered quickly when slices were re-supplied with oxygen and glucose, while neurons remained swollen with beaded dendrites. In vivo, rapid astroglial swelling was confirmed within 6 min following intraperitoneal water injection or during the 6-12 min following cardiac arrest. While the astrocytic processes were clearly swollen, the extent of the astroglial arbor remained unchanged. Thus, in contrast to osmo-resistant pyramidal neurons (Andrew et al., 2007) that lack known aquaporins, astrocytes passively respond to acute osmotic stress, reflecting functional aquaporins in their plasma membrane. Unlike neurons, astrocytes better recover from brief ischemic insult in cortical slices, probably because their aquaporins facilitate water efflux.
Mller glia in the mature retina have the capacity to become progenitor-like cells in a many different vertebrate classes. The cell-signaling pathways that control the ability of mature Mller glia to become progenitor-like cells remain uncertain. The purpose of this study was to investigate the roles of the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) pathway in regulating the activity of Mller glia in the chicken retina. In response to acute retinal damage, we found that Mller glia accumulated phosphorylated ERK1/2 and phospho-CyclicAMP Response Element Binding-protein (pCREB), and transiently expressed immediate early genes, cFos and Egr1, that are known to be downstream of MAPK-signaling. Egr1 and pCREB were normally expressed by retinal progenitors in the circumferential marginal zone (CMZ), whereas cFos and pERK1/2 were not. In addition, small molecule inhibitors of MEK (UO126) and the FGF-receptor (SU5402) suppressed the proliferation of Mller glia-derived progenitor-like cells. These inhibitors suppressed the accumulation of Egr1 and pCREB, whereas levels of cFos were unaffected in the glial cells. These findings suggest that Egr1 and pCREB are downstream of the signaling cascade activated by FGF-receptors and ERK1/2. Further, our findings suggest that Egr1 and pCREB may promote glial proliferation. We propose that activation of both the FGF-receptor and ERK1/2-pathway is required for the proliferation and transdifferentiation of Mller glia into progenitor-like cells.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) continuously generate olfactory bulb interneurons in the adult rodent brain. Based on their ultrastructural and antigenic properties, NSCs, transient amplifying precursor cells, and neuroblasts (B, C, and A cells, respectively) have been distinguished in mouse SVZ. Here, we aimed to identify these cell types in rat SVZ ultrastructurally and at the light microscopy level, and to determine the antigenic properties of each cell type using gold and fluorescence immunolabeling. We found astrocytes with single cilia (NSCs, correspond to B cells) and neuroblasts (A cells). We also observed mitotic cells, ependymal cells, displaced ependymal cells, and mature astrocytes. In contrast, transient amplifying precursor cells (C cells) were not detected. The NSCs and neuroblasts had epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRalpha) expressed on the ciliary apparatus and were the only cell types incorporating the proliferation marker BrdU. Throughout mitosis, EGFR and PDGFRalpha were associated with the microtubule of the mitotic spindle. Ependymal and displaced ependymal cells also expressed EGFR and PDGFRalpha on their cilia but did not incorporate BrdU. Our findings indicate that the NSCs in adult rat SVZ give rise directly to neuroblasts. During mitosis, the NSCs disassemble the primary cilium and symmetrically distribute EGFR and PDGFRalpha among their progeny.
90K (Mac-2 BP) expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded tissue from a consecutive series of lymph-node negative breast cancer patients who did not receive adjuvant systemic treatment. An independent series of patients served as validation set. The association of 90K expression with risk of recurrence and death was examined in survival analyses together with known prognostic factors. High levels of 90K expression (IHC score&gt;8) were observed in 43 (25.3%) of 170 tumors examined. We found elevated risks of distant recurrence and overall mortality in patients with high 90K expression compared with patients with low 90K expression in their tumors. This increase persisted after adjusting for other prognostic factors in multivariate analysis (hazard ratio=4.084; p&lt;0.001 for recurrence; hazard ratio=4.298; p&lt;0.001 for death). These findings were confirmed in the validation set. Therefore, evaluation of 90K expression may be beneficial to identify lymph-node negative breast cancer patients at lower risk of disease recurrence and death.

We present 2 patients in whom the predominant neurological complication following lightning strike was spinal cord injury. One patient, who was followed for 5 years, showed clinical, electrophysiologic and MRI evidence of cervical spinal cord injury. This patient had significant recovery, which in part, may be related to early and intense rehabilitation. The second patient presented with the symptoms and signs of spinal shock which then evolved into a myelopathy. Follow-up several months later showed almost complete resolution of symptoms. These patients demonstrate that the prognosis of spinal cord injury complicating a lightning strike may not be uniformly poor.
Inflammation, a vascular risk factor, is more pronounced among ethnic South Asians compared to ethnic Chinese in the general population. We compared serum erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) levels between ethnic South Asian and Chinese acute ischemic stroke patients, and further investigated if metabolic syndrome or central obesity could account for any difference detected. We prospectively recruited consecutive ischemic stroke patients within seven days of onset. Measurement of serum ESR was performed within two days of admission. Median serum ESR was higher among the 55 ethnic South Asian (16 mm/h IQR 3-35) compared to the 165 ethnic Chinese patients (9 mm/h IQR 4-19), p=0.004). Serum ESR was correlated with age. Higher serum ESR was associated with female gender, non-smokers, patients with central obesity and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Using regression analysis, South Asian ethnicity remained significantly associated with serum ESR, independent of age, gender, smoking status, metabolic syndrome, central obesity and low HDL. Ethnic South Asian ischemic stroke patients have a higher inflammatory state compared to ethnic Chinese patients. As the higher inflammatory state is independent of demographic and risk factors, we propose an underlying genetic or cultural basis for the ethnic difference.
No trials to date have focused on long-term seizure outcome in solitary cerebral cysticercal lesion (SCCL), which is believed to produce a relatively benign form of epilepsy. This is a prospective randomized controlled study to evaluate the effect of Albendazole on long-term seizure outcome in patients with MRI-confirmed solitary cerebral cysticercal lesion (SCCL). One hundred and twenty-three patients with new-onset seizures and SCCL on contrast MRI were randomized to treatment with albendazole and followed for up to five years with serial MRI and clinical evaluation. At final analysis 103 patients (M-54, F-49) with a mean age of 18.6+/-10.7 years and follow-up period more than 12 months were included. The mean follow-up duration was 31.4+/-14.8 months (12-64). At one month follow-up more patients receiving albendazole were seizure-free (62% versus 49% for controls). Subsequently there was no significant difference in overall seizure outcome between the two groups. There was no correlation between seizure semiology, albendazole therapy and long-term seizure outcome. Baseline MRI showed active lesions in all; 23% remained active at 12 months with no difference between the albendazole and control groups. Patients whose lesions resolved at 12 months showed better seizure outcome. Reduction in mean cyst area was greater in the albendazole group as compared to the controls and the difference at six months was significant (p&lt;0.05). At three months follow-up perilesional edema also resolved faster in albendazole group (p&lt;0.05). Thus, albendazole did not alter the long-term seizure outcome in patients with SCCL and epilepsy. However, albendazole hastened resolution of SCCL on MRI, but interestingly 23% of lesions were still active 12 months after treatment.
Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes are characterized by prolonged but reversible vasoconstriction of the cerebral arteries, presenting typically with thunderclap headache, with or without focal neurological signs or symptoms. They resemble primary central nervous system vasculitis but it is critical to differentiate these two entities. Here we draw attention to intracranial haemorrhage as an important and not uncommon clinical feature in reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome. Four patients with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, each presenting to a single unit with intracranial haemorrhage, are described. These descriptions of haemorrhage at presentation of RCVS extend the recognised clinical phenotype and so help to enhance recognition and diagnosis of this often unconsidered disorder.


Physiological changes in the nervous system occur with ageing. Both a decline of function and a decrease in the number of C-fibres in the skin have been reported for healthy aged subjects. With the use of microneurographic recordings from single C-fibres in humans we have compared the sensory and axonal properties of these neurones in young and aged healthy subjects. A total of 146 C-fibres were recorded from the common peroneal nerve in young subjects (mean age 24.7 years) and 230 C-fibres were recorded in aged subjects (mean age 56.2 years). In aged subjects, changes were found in the composition of the C-fibre population and in sensory and axonal properties. The relative incidence of afferent to efferent C-fibres was relatively constant independent of the age of subjects. The ratio of mechano-responsive to mechano-insensitive nociceptors was approximately 8 : 2 in the young controls while in aged subjects it was 7 : 3. In aged subjects 13% of the fibres showed atypical discharge characteristics, while this was not observed in young subjects. Spontaneous activity, sensitization and loss of sensory function were found regularly. Changes in functions of the conductile membrane were also observed in fibres from aged subjects. The degree of activity-dependent conduction velocity slowing in response to high frequency stimulation (2 Hz) was more pronounced, while the normalization of conduction velocity subsequent to high frequency stimulation was protracted. We found that both sensitization and desensitization or degeneration of afferent C-fibres occur with age, but are still rare compared to patients with neuropathy. The changes in the axonal properties of C-fibres in aged subjects are compatible with hypoexcitability of the fibres. These findings are important for the understanding and differential diagnoses regarding pathological processes and normal ageing.
The present study explores the threshold behaviour of human axons and the mechanisms contributing to this behaviour. The changes in excitability of cutaneous afferents in the median nerve at the wrist were recorded to a long-lasting subthreshold conditioning stimulus, with a waveform designed to maximize the contribution of currents active in the just-subthreshold region. The conditioning stimulus produced a decrease in threshold that developed over 3-5 ms following the end of the depolarization and then decayed slowly, in a pattern similar to the recovery of axonal excitability following a discharge. To ensure that the conditioning stimulus did not activate low-threshold axons, similar recordings were then made from single motor axons in the ulnar nerve at the elbow. The findings were comparable, and behaviour with the same pattern and time course could be reproduced by subthreshold stimuli in a model of the human axon. In motor axons, subthreshold depolarizing stimuli, 1 ms long, produced a similar increase in excitability, but the late hyperpolarizing deflection was less prominent. This behaviour was again reproduced by the model axon and could be explained by the passive properties of the nodal membrane and conventional Na+ and K+ currents. The modelling studies emphasized the importance of leak current through the Barrett-Barrett resistance, even in the subthreshold region, and suggested a significant contribution of K+ currents to the threshold behaviour of axons. While the gating of slow K+ channels is slow, the resultant current may not be slow if there are substantial changes in membrane potential. By extrapolation, we suggest that, when human axons discharge, nodal slow K+ currents will be activated sufficiently early to contribute to the early changes in excitability following the action potential.

Essential tremor (ET) is much more prevalent than Parkinson's disease (PD) in Western countries. We estimated ET and PD prevalence in Wadi Ara Arabic villages in Northern Israel. In this door-to-door survey, all consenting residents aged &gt;or=65 years were systematically examined by an Arabic speaking team. No prescreening questionnaires were used. A random sample of 900 subjects [437 males, mean age (SD) = 72.6 years (6.6)] of the 2,163 eligible residents were evaluated. Sixteen subjects had an action, intentional tremor. Tremor prevalence was estimated as 1.78% (95% CI 1.1-2.87). Nine of these had another likely cause of tremor. Only 7 patients were diagnosed as ET [prevalence 0.78% (95% CI 0.38-1.6)]. PD was diagnosed in 13 subjects. PD prevalence was 1.44% (95% CI 0.84-2.45). ET is unusually uncommon in this population and possibly even less frequent than PD. The PD prevalence in Wadi Ara is similar to that reported in Western countries.

A subset of retinal ganglion cells has recently been discovered to be intrinsically photosensitive, with melanopsin as the pigment. These cells project primarily to brain centres for non-image-forming visual functions such as the pupillary light reflex and circadian photoentrainment. How well they signal intrinsic light absorption to drive behaviour remains unclear. Here we report fundamental parameters governing their intrinsic light responses and associated spike generation. The membrane density of melanopsin is 10(4)-fold lower than that of rod and cone pigments, resulting in a very low photon catch and a phototransducing role only in relatively bright light. Nonetheless, each captured photon elicits a large and extraordinarily prolonged response, with a unique shape among known photoreceptors. Notably, like rods, these cells are capable of signalling single-photon absorption. A flash causing a few hundred isomerized melanopsin molecules in a retina is sufficient for reaching threshold for the pupillary light reflex.
The causes of many sporadic neurodegenerative diseases remain unknown making prevention difficult, if not impossible. One clue comes from the study of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-parkinsonism dementia complex (ALS-PDC) of Guam which shares many similarities with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease seen in other parts of the world. This disorder may provide a unique opportunity to study the cause and progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Epidemiological and experimental findings indicate that dietary consumption of cycad seeds is an underlying cause of ALS-PDC. Our laboratory provided evidence that a family of compounds called steryl glycosides are the active ingredients that may be responsible for producing the neurodegenerative outcome in ALS-PDC. Here, we review some of our work on the chronic toxicity of steryl glycosides in neuronal cells maintained in cell culture and in an in vivo mouse model. The current studies indicate some mechanisms about how neuronal cells respond to this class of toxins.
The inhibitory control of prepotent action is vital for appropriate behaviour. An example of the importance of such control can be seen in the inhibition of aggressive behavior, deficits in which may have broader consequences for society. Many studies have related lesions or the under-development of the prefrontal cortex to inefficiency of inhibitory control. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation and a stop-signal task, which occasionally requires the inhibition of a prepotent motor response, to investigate the role of pre-supplementary motor area (Pre-SMA) in inhibitory control. While no effects were seen on the ability to generate responses, TMS delivered over the Pre-SMA disrupted the ability to respond to a stop signal. These results are the first to establish a casual link between Pre-SMA and inhibitory control in normal subjects. The understanding of the underlying mechanisms of inhibitory control may lead to clearer understanding of the neural basis of inappropriate behaviour.
The recognition of facial identity and expression are distinct tasks, with current models hypothesizing anatomic segregation of processing within a face-processing network. Using fMRI adaptation and a region-of-interest approach, we assessed how the perception of identity and expression changes in morphed stimuli affected the signal within this network, by contrasting (a) changes that crossed categorical boundaries of identity or expression with those that did not, and (b) changes that subjects perceived as causing identity or expression to change, versus changes that they perceived as not affecting the category of identity or expression. The occipital face area (OFA) was sensitive to any structural change in a face, whether it was identity or expression, but its signal did not correlate with whether subjects perceived a change or not. Both the fusiform face area (FFA) and the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) showed release from adaptation when subjects perceived a change in either identity or expression, although in the pSTS this effect only occurred when subjects were explicitly attending to expression. The middle superior temporal sulcus (mSTS) showed release from adaptation for expression only, and the precuneus for identity only. The data support models where the OFA is involved in the early perception of facial structure. However, evidence for a functional overlap in the FFA and pSTS, with both identity and expression signals in both areas, argues against a complete independence of identity and expression processing in these regions of the core face-processing network.
Cervical spinal cord displacements have recently been measured in relation to the cardiac cycle, substantiating that cord motion in this region reduces both the sensitivity and reproducibility of functional magnetic resonance imaging of the spinal cord (spinal fMRI). Given the ubiquitous and complex nature of this motion, cardiac gating alone is not expected to sufficiently remove these errors, whereas current modeling approaches for spin-echo methods are not specific to motion artifacts, potentially eliminating function-related data along with components of motion-related noise. As such, we have developed an alternative approach to spinal cord motion-compensation, using retrospective spinal cord motion time-course estimates (RESPITE) to forecast a small number of physiological noise regressors. These are generated from the principal components of spinal cord motion, as well as subject-specific cardiac data, and are subsequently included in a general linear model (GLM) analysis. With this approach, the components of motion-related signal fluctuation are modeled, along with functionally-relevant signal changes (i.e., those components fitting the stimulus paradigm), to account for the effects of spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) motion in a thorough, yet discerning, manner. By analyzing 100 previously acquired half-Fourier turbo spin-echo (HASTE) spinal fMRI data sets, along with a collection of null-task data, we show that the implementation of RESPITE reduces the occurrence of both type I (false-positive) and type II (false negative) errors, effectively increasing the specificity (5-6%) and sensitivity (15-20%) to neuronal activity.
Dendritic spines are the major sites of excitatory synaptic input, and their morphological changes have been linked to learning and memory processes. Here, we report that growing microtubule plus ends decorated by the microtubule tip-tracking protein EB3 enter spines and can modulate spine morphology. We describe p140Cap/SNIP, a regulator of Src tyrosine kinase, as an EB3 interacting partner that is predominantly localized to spines and enriched in the postsynaptic density. Inhibition of microtubule dynamics, or knockdown of either EB3 or p140Cap, modulates spine shape via regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching revealed that EB3-binding is required for p140Cap accumulation within spines. In addition, we found that p140Cap interacts with Src substrate and F-actin-binding protein cortactin. We propose that EB3-labeled growing microtubule ends regulate the localization of p140Cap, control cortactin function, and modulate actin dynamics within dendritic spines, thus linking dynamic microtubules to spine changes and synaptic plasticity.
Neural circuit development requires concurrent morphological and functional changes. Here, we identify coordinated and inversely correlated changes in dendritic morphology and mEPSC amplitude following increased neural activity. We show that overexpression of beta-catenin, a molecule that increases total dendritic length, mimics the effects of increased neuronal activity by scaling down mEPSC amplitudes, while postsynaptic expression of a protein that sequesters beta-catenin reverses the effects of activity on reducing mEPSC amplitudes. These results were confirmed immunocytochemically as changes in the size and density of surface synaptic AMPA receptor clusters. In individual neurons there was an inverse linear relationship between total dendritic length and average mEPSC amplitude. Importantly, beta-catenin overexpression in vivo promoted dendritic growth and reduced mEPSC amplitudes. Together, these results demonstrate that coordinated changes in dendritic morphology and unitary excitatory synaptic strength may serve as an important intrinsic mechanism that helps prevent neurons from overexcitation during neural circuit development.
Radial glia are highly polarized cells that serve as neuronal progenitors and as scaffolds for neuronal migration during construction of the cerebral cortex. How radial glial cells establish and maintain their morphological polarity is unknown. Using conditional gene targeting in mice, we demonstrate that adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) serves an essential function in the maintenance of polarized radial glial scaffold during brain development. In the absence of APC, radial glial cells lose their polarity and responsiveness to the extracellular polarity maintenance cues, such as neuregulin-1. Elimination of APC further leads to marked instability of the radial glial microtubule cytoskeleton. The resultant changes in radial glial function and loss of APC in radial glial progeny lead to defective generation and migration of cortical neurons, severely disrupted cortical layer formation, and aberrant axonal tract development. Thus, APC is an essential regulator of radial glial polarity and is critical for the construction of cerebral cortex in mammals.
H.M. is probably the best known single patient in the history of neuroscience. His severe memory impairment, which resulted from experimental neurosurgery to control seizures, was the subject of study for five decades until his death in December 2008. Work with H.M. established fundamental principles about how memory functions are organized in the brain.
The aim of this research was to investigate the impact of lead nitrate administered in drinking water during 90 days (sub-chronic toxicity), on body weight gain, motor activity, brain lead accumulation and especially on recognition memory of Wistar rats. Two groups of young female Wistar rats were used. Treated rats received 20 mg L(-1) of lead nitrate diluted in drinking water, while control rats received drinking water only, for 3 months. An evolution of body weight, motor activity, object recognition memory and measure of brain lead levels has been evaluated. The body weight was taken weekly, whereas the memory abilities and the motor activity are measured once every fortnight alternatively, by submitting rats to the Open Field (OF) test and to the Novel Object Recognizing (NOR) memory test. The results have shown a non significant effect in gain of body weight. However, a high significance was shown for horizontal activity (p&lt;0.01), long memory term (p&lt;0.01), at the end of testing period and for brain lead levels (p&lt;0.05) between studied groups.
Using a health-services study as an illustrative example of longitudinal randomized field research with the potential for participants to be lost to follow-up, we apply a permutation test where the treatment indicator variable is randomly permuted in the context of regression models with covariates and attrition weighting. The test is applied to a multi-site randomized intervention trial of a quality-improvement program for adolescent depression treatment in primary-care settings, in which regression models were used to assess intervention effects with weights used to adjust for attrition bias. The foundation and motivation for this approach to the analysis are considered with attention to the demands associated with implementing such a strategy. The results from the permutation tests were qualitatively similar to the results obtained from conventional parametric models, and in fact suggested that the significance level from the conventional t-test was understated in this application.
Pyrethroid insecticides are classified as type I or type II based on their distinct symptomology and effects on sodium channel gating. Structurally, type II pyrethroids possess an alpha-cyano group at the phenylbenzyl alcohol position, which is lacking in type I pyrethroids. Both type I and type II pyrethroids inhibit deactivation consequently prolonging the opening of sodium channels. However, type II pyrethroids inhibit the deactivation of sodium channels to a greater extent than type I pyrethroids inducing much slower decaying of tail currents upon repolarization. The molecular basis of a type II-specific action, however, is not known. Here we report the identification of a residue G(1111) and two positively charged lysines immediately downstream of G(1111) in the intracellular linker connecting domains II and III of the cockroach sodium channel that are specifically involved in the action of type II pyrethroids, but not in the action of type I pyrethroids. Deletion of G(1111), a consequence of alternative splicing, reduced the sodium channel sensitivity to type II pyrethroids, but had no effect on channel sensitivity to type I pyrethroids. Interestingly, charge neutralization or charge reversal of two positively charged lysines (Ks) downstream of G(1111) had a similar effect. These results provide the molecular insight into the type II-specific interaction of pyrethroids with the sodium channel at the molecular level.
Clinical studies have shown differential efficacy of several antidepressants in children and adolescents compared to adults, yet few animal studies have sought to characterize this phenomenon. We compared effects of fluoxetine and imipramine in two common behavioral assays that hold high predictive validity for antidepressant activity, tail suspension and forced swim test, using juvenile (5 weeks) and adult (12 weeks) mice from 3 strains. C57BL/6J-Tyr(c-Brd) (C57), hybrid C57BL/6J-Tyr(c-Brd)x129S5/SvEvBrd (F2), and Balb/cAnNTac (Balb/C) mice were tested in forced swim test and tail suspension after i.p. dosing with either fluoxetine or imipramine. Brain tissues were analyzed to evaluate levels of VMAT2, a possible modulator of age-dependent sensitivity to antidepressants. Imipramine had more consistent antidepressant effect across age groups and strains. Imipramine increased struggle in mice of both ages. Fluoxetine did not have an effect on immobility in Balb/C of both ages in tail suspension. Fluoxetine also did not increase forced swim struggle behavior in juvenile mice of all strains, but was effective in increasing struggle in adults. Juvenile mice had higher immobility and lower struggle than adults in forced swim, and juveniles also had higher immobility in tail suspension test for Balb/C and C57. In addition, VMAT2 levels were increased in juveniles. These results confirm that standard antidepressants produce effects in both juveniles and adults but age-related differences were evident in both tests. Further examination of these effects is needed to determine whether it may be related to age-dependent difference in the clinical response to antidepressants of these classes.
Kainate receptors (KARs) contribute to postsynaptic excitation in only a select subset of neurons. To define the parameters that specify the postsynaptic expression of KARs, we examined the contribution of KARs to EPSCs on hippocampal interneurons in area CA1. Interneurons in stratum radiatum/lacunosum-moleculare express KARs both with and without the GluR5 subunit, but KAR-mediated EPSCs are generated mainly, if not entirely, by GluR5-containing KARs. Extrasynaptic glutamate spillover profoundly recruits AMPA receptors (AMPARs) with little effect on KARs, indicating that KARs are targeted at the synapse more precisely than AMPARs. However, spontaneous EPSCs with a conventional AMPAR component did not have a resolvable contribution of KARs, suggesting that the KARs that contribute to the evoked EPSCs are at a distinct set of synapses. GluR5-containing KARs on interneurons in stratum oriens do not contribute substantially to the EPSC. We conclude that KARs are localized to synapses by cell type-, synapse-, and subunit-selective mechanisms.
We used multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA) of functional MRI (fMRI) data to gain insight into how subjects' retrieval agendas influence source memory judgments (was item X studied using source Y?). In Experiment 1, we used a single-agenda test where subjects judged whether items were studied with the targeted source or not. In Experiment 2, we used a multiagenda test where subjects judged whether items were studied using the targeted source, studied using a different source, or nonstudied. To evaluate the differences between single- and multiagenda source monitoring, we trained a classifier to detect source-specific fMRI activity at study, and then we applied the classifier to data from the test phase. We focused on trials where the targeted source and the actual source differed, so we could use MVPA to track neural activity associated with both the targeted source and the actual source. Our results indicate that single-agenda monitoring was associated with increased focus on the targeted source (as evidenced by increased targeted-source activity, relative to baseline) and reduced use of information relating to the actual, nontarget source. In the multiagenda experiment, high levels of actual-source activity were associated with increased correct rejections, suggesting that subjects were using recollection of actual-source information to avoid source memory errors. In the single-agenda experiment, there were comparable levels of actual-source activity (suggesting that recollection was taking place), but the relationship between actual-source activity and behavior was absent (suggesting that subjects were failing to make proper use of this information).
Previous research has identified a population of cells throughout the limbic system that discharge as a function of the animal's head direction (HD). Altering normal motor cues can alter the HD cell responses and disrupt the updating of their preferred firing directions, thus suggesting that motor cues contribute to processing the HD signal. A pathway that conveys motor information may stem from the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN), a brain region that has reciprocal connections with HD cell circuitry. To test this hypothesis, we produced electrolytic or neurotoxic lesions of the IPN and recorded HD cells in the anterior dorsal thalamus (ADN) of rats. Direction-specific firing remained present in the ADN after lesions of the IPN, but measures of HD cell properties showed that cells had reduced peak firing rates, large directional firing ranges, and firing that predicted the animal's future heading more than in intact controls. Furthermore, preferred firing directions were moderately less influenced by rotation of a salient visual landmark. Finally, the preferred directions of cells in lesioned rats exhibited large shifts when the animals foraged for scattered food pellets in a darkened environment and when locomoting from a familiar environment to a novel one. We propose that the IPN contributes motor information about the animal's movements to the HD cell circuitry. Furthermore, these results suggest that the IPN plays a broad role in the discharge properties and stability of direction-specific activity in the HD cell circuit.
A subset of ganglion cells in the mammalian retina express the photopigment melanopsin and are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs). These cells are implicated in non-image-forming visual responses to environmental light, such as the pupillary light reflex, seasonal adaptations in physiology, photic inhibition of nocturnal melatonin release, and modulation of sleep, alertness, and activity. Morphological studies have confirmed the existence of at least three distinct subpopulations of ipRGCs, but studies of the physiology of ipRGCs at the single cell level have focused mainly on M1 cells, the dendrites of which stratify solely in sublamina a (OFF sublamina) of the retinal inner plexiform layer (IPL). Little work has been done to compare the functional properties of M1 cells to those of M2 cells, the dendrites of which stratify solely in sublamina b (ON sublamina) of the IPL. The goal of the current study was to compare the morphology, intrinsic light response, and intrinsic membrane properties of M1 and M2 cells in the mouse retina. Here we demonstrate additional morphological differences between M1 and M2 cells as well as distinct physiological characteristics of both the intrinsic light responses and intrinsic membrane properties. M2 cells displayed a more complex dendritic arborization and higher input resistance, yet showed lower light sensitivity and lower maximal light responses than M1 cells. These data indicate morphological and functional heterogeneity among ipRGCs.
There is a universal requirement for post-translational regulatory mechanisms in circadian clock systems. Previous work in Drosophila has identified several kinases, phosphatases, and an E3 ligase that are critical for determining the nuclear translocation and/or stability of clock proteins. The present study evaluated the function of p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (RSK) in the Drosophila circadian system. In mammals, RSK1 is a light- and clock-regulated kinase known to be activated by the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, but there is no direct evidence that it functions as a component of the circadian system. Here, we show that Drosophila S6KII RNA displays rhythms in abundance, indicative of circadian control. Importantly, an S6KII null mutant exhibits a short-period circadian phenotype that can be rescued by expression of the wild-type gene in clock neurons, indicating a role for S6KII in the molecular oscillator. Peak PER clock protein expression is elevated in the mutant, indicative of enhanced stability, whereas per mRNA level is decreased, consistent with enhanced feedback repression. Gene reporter assays show that decreased S6KII is associated with increased PER repression. Surprisingly, we demonstrate a physical interaction between S6KII and the casein kinase 2 regulatory subunit (CK2beta), suggesting a functional relationship between the two kinases. In support of such a relationship, there are genetic interactions between S6KII and CK2 mutations, in vivo, which indicate that CK2 activity is required for S6KII action. We propose that the two kinases cooperate within clock neurons to fine-tune circadian period, improving the precision of the clock mechanism.
Surviving in a complex and changeable environment relies on the ability to extract probable recurring patterns. Here we report a neurophysiological mechanism for rapid probabilistic learning of a new system of music. Participants listened to different combinations of tones from a previously unheard system of pitches based on the Bohlen-Pierce scale, with chord progressions that form 3:1 ratios in frequency, notably different from 2:1 frequency ratios in existing musical systems. Event-related brain potentials elicited by improbable sounds in the new music system showed emergence over a 1 h period of physiological signatures known to index sound expectation in standard Western music. These indices of expectation learning were eliminated when sound patterns were played equiprobably, and covaried with individual behavioral differences in learning. These results demonstrate that humans use a generalized probability-based perceptual learning mechanism to process novel sound patterns in music.

Despite increasing evidence that addiction is a treatable disease of the brain, most individuals do not receive treatment. Involvement in the criminal justice system often results from illegal drug-seeking behavior and participation in illegal activities that reflect, in part, disrupted behavior ensuing from brain changes triggered by repeated drug use. Treating drug-involved offenders provides a unique opportunity to decrease substance abuse and reduce associated criminal behavior. Emerging neuroscience has the potential to transform traditional sanction-oriented public safety approaches by providing new therapeutic strategies against addiction that could be used in the criminal justice system. We summarize relevant neuroscientific findings and evidence-based principles of addiction treatment that, if implemented in the criminal justice system, could help improve public heath and reduce criminal behavior.

Recent functional neuroimaging evidence suggests a bottleneck between learning new information and remembering old information. In two behavioral experiments and one functional MRI (fMRI) experiment, we tested the hypothesis that learning and remembering compete when both processes happen within a brief period of time. In the first behavioral experiment, participants intentionally remembered old words displayed in the foreground, while incidentally learning new scenes displayed in the background. In line with a memory competition, we found that remembering old information was associated with impaired learning of new information. We replicated this finding in a subsequent fMRI experiment, which showed that this behavioral effect was coupled with a suppression of learning-related activity in visual and medial temporal areas. Moreover, the fMRI experiment provided evidence that left mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is involved in resolving the memory competition, possibly by facilitating rapid switching between learning and remembering. Critically, a follow-up behavioral experiment in which the background scenes were replaced with a visual target detection task provided indications that the competition between learning and remembering was not merely due to attention. This study not only provides novel insight into our capacity to learn and remember, but also clarifies the neural mechanisms underlying flexible behavior.
Prenatal androgens have important organizing effects on brain development and future behavior. The second-to-fourth digit length ratio (2D:4D) has been proposed as a marker of these prenatal androgen effects, a relatively longer fourth finger indicating higher prenatal androgen exposure. 2D:4D has been shown to predict success in highly competitive sports. Yet, little is known about the effects of prenatal androgens on an economically influential class of competitive risk taking-trading in the financial world. Here, we report the findings of a study conducted in the City of London in which we sampled 2D:4D from a group of male traders engaged in what is variously called &quot;noise&quot; or &quot;high-frequency&quot; trading. We found that 2D:4D predicted the traders' long-term profitability as well as the number of years they remained in the business. 2D:4D also predicted the sensitivity of their profitability to increases both in circulating testosterone and in market volatility. Our results suggest that prenatal androgens increase risk preferences and promote more rapid visuomotor scanning and physical reflexes. The success and longevity of traders exposed to high levels of prenatal androgens further suggests that financial markets may select for biological traits rather than rational expectations.
An increase in glucocorticoid levels and down-regulation of BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) are supposed to be involved in the pathophysiology of depressive disorders. However, possible crosstalk between glucocorticoid- and BDNF-mediated neuronal functions in the CNS has not been elucidated. Here, we examined whether chronic glucocorticoid exposure influences BDNF-triggered intracellular signaling for glutamate release via a glutamate transporter. We found that chronic exposure to dexamethasone (DEX, a synthetic glucocorticoid) suppressed BDNF-induced glutamate release via weakening the activation of the PLC-gamma (phospholipase C-gamma)/Ca(2+) system in cultured cortical neurons. We demonstrated that the GR (glucocorticoid receptor) interacts with receptor tyrosine kinase for BDNF (TrkB). Following DEX treatment, TrkB-GR interaction was reduced due to the decline in GR expression. Corticosterone, a natural glucocorticoid, also reduced TrkB-GR interaction, BDNF-stimulated PLC-gamma, and BDNF-triggered glutamate release. Interestingly, BDNF-dependent binding of PLC-gamma to TrkB was diminished by DEX. SiRNA transfection to induce a decrease in endogenous GR mimicked the inhibitory action of DEX. Conversely, DEX-inhibited BDNF-activated PLC-gamma signaling for glutamate release was recovered by GR overexpression. We propose that TrkB-GR interaction plays a critical role in the BDNF-stimulated PLC-gamma pathway, which is required for glutamate release, and the decrease in TrkB-GR interaction caused by chronic exposure to glucocorticoids results in the suppression of BDNF-mediated neurotransmitter release via a glutamate transporter.
Cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves pathological accumulation of synaptotoxic amyloid-beta (Abeta) oligomers and hyperphosphorylated tau. Because recent evidence indicates that glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) activity regulates these neurotoxic pathways, we developed an AD therapeutic strategy to target GSK3beta. The strategy involves the use of copper-bis(thiosemicarbazonoto) complexes to increase intracellular copper bioavailability and inhibit GSK3beta through activation of an Akt signaling pathway. Our lead compound Cu(II)(gtsm) significantly inhibited GSK3beta in the brains of APP/PS1 transgenic AD model mice. Cu(II)(gtsm) also decreased the abundance of Abeta trimers and phosphorylated tau, and restored performance of AD mice in the Y-maze test to levels expected for cognitively normal animals. Improvement in the Y-maze correlated directly with decreased Abeta trimer levels. This study demonstrates that increasing intracellular copper bioavailability can restore cognitive function by inhibiting the accumulation of neurotoxic Abeta trimers and phosphorylated tau.

Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptors are critical to nociceptive processing. Understanding how these receptors are modulated gives insight to potential therapies for pain. We demonstrate using double labeling immunohistochemistry that Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are co-expressed with TRPV1 on rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. In behavioral studies, intraplantar 0.1 microM APDC, a group II agonist, significantly attenuates capsaicin-induced nociceptive behaviors through a local effect. The APDC-induced inhibition of capsaicin responses is blocked by 1 microM LY341495, a group II antagonist. At the single fiber level, nociceptor responses to capsaicin are significantly decreased following exposure to APDC and this effect is blocked by LY341495. Finally, activation of peripheral group II mGluRs inhibits forskolin-induced thermal hyperalgesia and nociceptor heat sensitization, suggesting group II receptors are negatively coupled to the cAMP/PKA pathway. The data indicate that group II mGluRs and TRPV1 receptors are co-expressed on peripheral nociceptors and activation of mGluRs can inhibit painful sensory transmission following TRPV1 activation. The data are consistent with group II and TRPV1 receptors being linked intracellularly by the cAMP/PKA pathway. Peripheral group II mGluRs are important targets for drug discovery in controlling TRPV1-induced nociception.
Glycine receptors (GlyRs) play important roles in regulating hippocampal neural network activity and spinal nociception. Here we show that, in cultured rat hippocampal (HIP) and spinal dorsal horn (SDH) neurons, 17-beta-estradiol (E2) rapidly and reversibly reduced the peak amplitude of whole-cell glycine-activated currents (IGly). In outside-out membrane patches from HIP neurons devoid of nuclei, E2 similarly inhibited IGly, suggesting a non-genomic characteristic. Moreover, the E2 effect on IGly persisted in the presence of the calcium chelator BAPTA, the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine, the classical ER (i.e. ERalpha and ERbeta) antagonist tamoxifen, or the G-protein modulators, favoring a direct action of E2 on GlyRs. In HEK293 cells expressing various combinations of GlyR subunits, E2 only affected the IGly in cells expressing alpha2, alpha2beta or alpha3beta subunits, suggesting that either alpha2-containing or alpha3beta-GlyRs mediate the E2 effect observed in neurons. Furthermore, E2 inhibited the GlyR-mediated tonic current in pyramidal neurons of HIP CA1 region, where abundant GlyR alpha2 subunit is expressed. We suggest that the neuronal GlyR is a novel molecular target of E2 which directly inhibits the function of GlyRs in the HIP and SDH regions. This finding may shed new light on premenstrual dysphoric disorder and the gender differences in pain sensation at the CNS level.
AMPA receptors have been identified in different populations of presynaptic terminals and found to be involved in the modulation of neurotransmitter release. The mechanisms that govern the expression of presynaptic AMPA receptors are not known. One possibility is that pre- and postsynaptic AMPA receptors are regulated according to the same principles. To address this hypothesis we investigated whether protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1), known to interact with AMPA receptors postsynaptically, also is expressed presynaptically, together with AMPA receptors. Subfractionation and high-resolution immunogold analyses of the rat hippocampus revealed that GluR2 and PICK1 are enriched postsynaptically, but also in presynaptic membrane compartments, including the active zone and vesicular membranes. PICK1 and GluR2 are associated with the same vesicles, which are immunopositive also for synaptophysin and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2. Based on what is known about the function of PICK1 postsynaptically, the present data suggest that PICK1 is involved in the regulation of presynaptic AMPA receptor trafficking and in determining the size of the AMPA receptor pool that modulates presynaptic glutamate release.
Functional evidence suggests that neuronal enriched endosomal protein of 21 kDa (NEEP21) takes part in facilitating transport of AMPA receptors (AMPAR) in the synapse. To explore the anatomical basis for a role in this synaptic trafficking, we investigated the ultrastructural localization of NEEP21 in rodent brain. Using immunogold electron microscopy, we show that NEEP21 is colocalized with the AMPAR subunits GluR2/3 in postsynaptic spines. Quantitative analysis of gold particle distribution along an axis perpendicular to the postsynaptic specialization indicated that NEEP21 occurs in the postsynaptic membrane but also in the interior of the spines. NEEP21 positive endosomes/multivesicular bodies were found throughout cell bodies and dendrites. In light microscopical preparations, the NEEP21 antibody produced a labeling pattern in the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum that mimicked that of GluR2/3 and not that of GluR1 or 4. Our findings are consistent with a role for NEEP21 in facilitating vesicular transport of GluR2 between intracellular compartments and the postsynaptic plasma membrane.
Traditional models of neuronal excitotoxicity focused on the overactivation of receptors such as the ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-subtype glutamate receptor. Recent developments have shifted focus to downstream neurotoxic signaling molecules with exciting implications to specific strategies for treating excitotoxic disorders. This review outlines these developments and introduces newly emerging evidence implicating the involvement of the melastatin subfamily in anoxic neuronal death. Both of these converge on the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide, nitric oxide (NO) and the oxidant peroxynitrite.

Dopamine and glutamate may be the most extensively studied neurotransmitters in the brain, and single components of their signaling pathways have been well characterized. In recent years integration of the dopamine and glutamate signaling pathways has received increasing attention. This research has been fueled by the fact that many psychiatric conditions, including schizophrenia, seem to be due to imbalances in both the glutamatergic and the dopaminergic system, and that many addictive drugs seem to affect both systems. Thus more knowledge about the interaction between the glutamatergic and dopaminergic systems will have important implications for the generation of new treatment for psychiatric disorders. This review will focus on the intraneuronal interaction between the glutamate and dopamine systems.
The significance and functional roles of glycogen shunt activity in the brain are largely unknown. It represents the fraction of metabolized glucose that passes through glycogen molecules prior to entering the glycolytic pathway. The present study was aimed at elucidating this pathway in cultured astrocytes from mouse exposed to agents such as a high [K+], D-aspartate and norepinephrine (NE) known to affect energy metabolism in response to neurotransmission. Glycogen shunt activity was assessed employing [1,6-13C]glucose, and the glycogen phosphorylase inhibitor 1,4-dideoxy-1,4-imino-D-arabinitol (DAB) to block glycogen degradation. The label intensity in lactate, reflecting glycolytic activity, was determined by mass spectrometry. In the presence of NE a substantial glycogen shunt activity was observed, accounting for almost 40% of overall glucose metabolism. Moreover, when no metabolic stimulant was applied, a compensatory increase in glycolytic activity was seen when the shunt was inhibited by DAB. Actually the labeling in lactate exceeded that obtained when glycolysis and glycogen shunt both were operational, i.e. supercompensation. A similar phenomenon was seen when astrocytes were exposed to D-aspartate. In addition to glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity was monitored, analyzing labeling by mass spectrometry in glutamate which equilibrates with alpha-ketoglutarate. Both an elevated [K+] and D-aspartate induced an increased TCA cycle activity, which was altered when glycogen degradation was inhibited. Thus, the present study provides evidence that manipulation of glycogen metabolism affects both glycolysis and TCA cycle metabolism. Altogether, the results reveal a highly complex interaction between glycogenolysis and glycolysis, with the glycogen shunt playing a significant role in astrocytic energy metabolism.
Ampa receptors mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain. Thus, the mechanisms that control the developmental and activity-dependent changes in the functional synaptic expression of AMPA receptors are of fundamental importance. Here we focus on the role of GluR2 subunit in synaptic function and plasticity.
Membrane associated guanylate kinase proteins (MAGUKs) play a key role in the regulation of the intracellular trafficking and synaptic localization of ionotropic glutamate receptors. In particular, the postsynaptic density-95-like subfamily of MAGUKs (PSD-MAGUKs) organizes ionotropic glutamate receptors and their associated signaling proteins in the postsynaptic density of the excitatory synapse regulating the strength of synaptic activity. Several recent observations clearly put forward the idea that alterations of PSD-MAGUK protein function such as alterations of PSD-MAGUK protein interaction with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors regulatory subunits are common events in several CNS disorders. With this view, a better knowledge and understanding of PSD-MAGUK function as well as of the molecular events regulating PSD-MAGUK-mediated interactions in the glutamatergic synapse could lead to the identification of new pharmaceutical targets for the therapy of CNS disorders.
Activity-dependent and sustained alterations in synaptic efficacy are widely regarded as the cellular correlates underlying learning and memory. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are intrinsically involved in both hippocampal synaptic plasticity and spatial learning. Group II mGluRs are required for persistent hippocampal long-term depression (LTD), but are not required for long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal CA1 region in vivo. The role of these receptors in spatial learning, and in synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus in vivo has not yet been the subject of close scrutiny. We investigated the effects of group II mGluR antagonism on LTP and LTD in the adult rat, at medial perforant path-dentate gyrus synapses, and on spatial learning in the eight-arm radial maze. Daily application of the group 2 mGluR antagonist (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU) resulted in impairment of long-term (reference) memory with effects becoming apparent 6 days after training and drug-treatment began. Short-term (working) memory was unaffected throughout the 10-day study. Acute injection of EGLU did not affect either LTD or LTP in the dentate gyrus in vivo. Following six daily applications of EGLU a clear impairment of LTD but not LTP was apparent however. These data support that prolonged antagonism of group II mGluRs results in an impairment of LTD that parallels the appearance of spatial memory deficits arising from group II mGluR antagonism. These findings support the importance of group II mGluRs for spatial memory formation and offer a further link between LTD and the encoding of spatial information in the hippocampus.
The stimulation of extrasynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors triggers cell death pathways and has been suggested to play a key role in cell degeneration and neuron loss associated with glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. In contrast, synaptic NMDA receptors promote neuronal survival. One mechanism through which extrasynaptic NMDA receptors damage neurons may involve Clca1, which encodes a putative calcium-activated chloride channel. Here we show that Clca1 expression is induced in cultured rat hippocampal neurons exposed to oxygen/glucose-free media; this induction is mediated by a signaling pathway activated by extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. Clca1 mRNA levels also increased in the gerbil hippocampus following a transient forebrain ischemia caused by bilateral carotid occlusion. Microelectrode array recordings revealed that oxygen-glucose deprivation enhances hippocampal network firing rates, which induces c-fos transcription through a signaling pathway that, in contrast to Clca1, is activated by synaptic but not extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. Thus, conditions of low oxygen/glucose lead to the activation of both extrasynaptic and synaptic NMDA receptors that regulate distinct target genes. Clca1 may be part of the genomic death program triggered by extrasynaptic NMDA receptors; it could be a marker for ischemic brain damage and a possible target for therapeutic interventions.
Inactivation of the genes encoding the neuronal, synaptic vesicle-associated proteins synapsin I and II leads to severe reductions in the number of synaptic vesicles in the CNS. We here define the postnatal developmental period during which the synapsin I and/or II proteins modulate synaptic vesicle number and function in excitatory glutamatergic synapses in mouse brain. In wild-type mice, brain levels of both synapsin I and synapsin IIb showed developmental increases during synaptogenesis from postnatal days 5-20, while synapsin IIa showed a protracted increase during postnatal days 20-30. The vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT) 1 and VGLUT2 showed synapsin-independent development during postnatal days 5-10, following which significant reductions were seen when synapsin-deficient brains were compared with wild-type brains following postnatal day 20. A similar, synapsin-dependent developmental profile of vesicular glutamate uptake occurred during the same age periods. Physiological analysis of the development of excitatory glutamatergic synapses, performed in the CA1 stratum radiatum of the hippocampus from the two genotypes, showed that both the synapsin-dependent part of the frequency facilitation and the synapsin-dependent delayed response enhancement were restricted to the period after postnatal day 10. Our data demonstrate that while both synaptic vesicle number and presynaptic short-term plasticity are essentially independent of synapsin I and II prior to postnatal day 10, maturation and function of excitatory synapses appear to be strongly dependent on synapsin I and II from postnatal day 20.
Synaptic plasticity involves remodeling of extracellular matrix. This is mediated, in part, by enzymes of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family, in particular by gelatinase MMP-9. Accordingly, there is a need of developing methods to visualize gelatinolytic activity at the level of individual synapses, especially in the context of neurotransmitters receptors. Here we present a high-resolution fluorescent in situ zymography (ISZ), performed in thin sections of the alcohol-fixed and polyester wax-embedded brain tissue of the rat (Rattus norvegicus), which is superior to the current ISZ protocols. The method allows visualization of structural details up to the resolution-limit of light microscopy, in conjunction with immunofluorescent labeling. We used this technique to visualize and quantify gelatinolytic activity at the synapses in control and seizure-affected rat brain. In particular, we demonstrated, for the first time, frequent colocalization of gelatinase(s) with synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)- and AMPA-type glutamate receptors. We believe that our method represents a valuable tool to study extracellular proteolytic processes at the synapses, it could be used, as well, to investigate proteinase involvement in a range of physiological and pathological phenomena in the nervous system.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) plays a crucial role in shaping the strength of synaptic connections. Over the last decades, extensive studies have defined the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which synaptic NMDARs control the maturation and plasticity of synaptic transmission, and how altered synaptic NMDAR signaling is implicated in neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. It is now clear that activation of synaptic or extrasynaptic NMDARs produces different signaling cascades and thus neuronal functions. Our current understanding of NMDAR surface distribution and trafficking is only emerging. Exchange of NMDARs between synaptic and extrasynaptic areas through surface diffusion is a highly dynamic and regulated process. The aim of this review is to describe the identified mechanisms that regulate surface NMDAR behaviors and discuss the impact of this new trafficking pathway on the well-established NMDAR-dependent physiological and pathophysiological processes.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most common neurobehavioural disorder among children. ADHD children are hyperactive, impulsive and have problems with sustained attention. These cardinal features are also present in the best validated animal model of ADHD, the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), which is derived from the Wistar Kyoto rat (WKY). Current theories of ADHD relate symptom development to factors that alter learning. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dependent long term changes in synaptic efficacy in the mammalian CNS are thought to represent underlying cellular mechanisms for some forms of learning. We therefore hypothesized that synaptic abnormality in excitatory, glutamatergic synaptic transmission might contribute to the altered behavior in SHRs. We studied physiological and anatomical aspects of hippocampal CA3-to-CA1 synapses in age-matched SHR and WKY (controls). Electrophysiological analysis of these synapses showed reduced synaptic transmission (reduced field excitatory postsynaptic potential for a defined fiber volley size) in SHR, whereas short-term forms of synaptic plasticity, like paired-pulse facilitation, frequency facilitation, and delayed response enhancement were comparable in the two genotypes, and long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission was of similar magnitude. However, LTP in SHR was significantly reduced (by 50%) by the NR2B specific blocker CP-101,606 (10 microM), whereas the blocker had no effect on LTP magnitude in the control rats. This indicates that the SHR has a functional predominance of NR2B, a feature characteristic of early developmental stages in these synapses. Quantitative immunofluorescence and electron microscopic postembedding immunogold cytochemistry of the three major NMDAR subunits (NR1, NR2A; and NR2B) in stratum radiatum spine synapses revealed no differences between SHR and WKY. The results indicate that functional impairments in glutamatergic synaptic transmission may be one of the underlying mechanisms leading to the abnormal behavior in SHR, and possibly in human ADHD.

Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is released in many synapses in the CNS either together with other neurotransmitters, such as glutamate and GABA, or on its own. Postsynaptic action of ATP is mediated through metabotropic P2Y and ionotropic P2X receptors abundantly expressed in neural cells. Activation of P2X receptors induces fast excitatory postsynaptic currents in synapses located in various brain regions, including medial habenula, hippocampus and cortex. P2X receptors display relatively high Ca2+ permeability and can mediate substantial Ca2+ influx at resting membrane potential. P2X receptors can dynamically interact with other neurotransmitter receptors, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, GABA(A) receptors and nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors. Activation of P2X receptors has multiple modulatory effects on synaptic plasticity, either inhibiting or facilitating the long-term changes of synaptic strength depending on physiological context. At the same time precise mechanisms of P2X-dependent regulation of synaptic plasticity remain elusive. Further understanding of the role of P2X receptors in regulation of synaptic transmission in the CNS requires dissection of P2X-mediated effects on pre-synaptic terminals, postsynaptic membrane and glial cells.
There is now growing evidence that astrocytes, like neurons, can release transmitters. One transmitter that in a vast number of studies has been shown to be released from astrocytes is glutamate. Although asytrocytic glutamate may be released by several mechanisms, the evidence in favor of exocytosis is most compelling. Astrocytes may respond to neuronal activity by such exocytotic release of glutamate. The astrocyte derived glutamate can in turn activate neuronal glutamate receptors, in particular N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Here we review the morphological data supporting that astrocytes possess the machinery for exocytosis of glutamate. We describe the presence of small synaptic-like microvesicles, SNARE proteins and vesicular glutamate transporters in astrocytes, as well as NMDA receptors situated in vicinity of the astrocytic vesicles.
Axonal action potentials initiate the cycle of synaptic communication that is key to our understanding of nervous system functioning. The field has accumulated vast knowledge of the signature action potential waveform, firing patterns, and underlying channel properties of many cell types, but in most cases this information comes from somatic intracellular/whole-cell recordings, which necessarily measure a mixture of the currents compartmentalized in the soma, dendrites, and axon. Because the axon in many neuron types appears to be the site of lowest threshold for action potential initiation, the channel constellation in the axon is of particular interest. However, the axon is more experimentally inaccessible than the soma or dendrites. Recent studies have developed and applied single-fiber extracellular recording, direct intracellular recording, and optical recording techniques from axons toward understanding the behavior of the axonal action potential. We are starting to understand better how specific channels and other cellular properties shape action potential threshold, waveform, and timing: key elements contributing to downstream transmitter release. From this increased scrutiny emerges a theme of axons with more computational power than in traditional conceptualizations.
A role for guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) and the protein kinase G (PKG) pathway in synaptic long-term depression (LTD) in the hippocampal CA1 region has been proposed, based on observations in vitro, where, for example, increases of [cGMP] result in short-term depression (STD) coupled with a reduction in presynaptic glutamate release. To date, no evidence exists to support that LTD in the intact, freely behaving animal involves these mechanisms. We examined the effect of increases of [cGMP] on basal transmission and electrically-induced STD at hippocampal CA1 synapses in vivo. We found that elevating [cGMP] dose-dependently caused a chemically-induced STD which occluded electrically-induced STD. Repeated administration of Zaprinast, an inhibitor of cGMP-degrading phosphodiesterase, resulted in persistent LTD (&gt;24 h). Paired-pulse analysis supported a presynaptic mechanism of action. Application of an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase prevented LTD induced by low-frequency stimulation (LFS), and impaired LFS-STD elicited in the presence of Zaprinast. These data suggest the involvement of cGMP in LTD in the CA1 region of freely behaving adult rats.
Expression of the integral and associated proteins of synaptic vesicles is subject to regulation over time, by region, and in response to activity. The process by which changes in protein levels and isoforms result in different properties of neurotransmitter release involves protein trafficking to the synaptic vesicle. How newly synthesized proteins are incorporated into synaptic vesicles at the presynaptic bouton is poorly understood. During synaptogenesis, synaptic vesicle proteins sort through the secretory pathway and are transported down the axon in precursor vesicles that undergo maturation to form synaptic vesicles. Changes in protein content of synaptic vesicles could involve the formation of new vesicles that either mix with the previous complement of vesicles or replace them, presumably by their degradation or inactivation. Alternatively, new proteins could individually incorporate into existing synaptic vesicles, changing their functional properties. Glutamatergic vesicles likely express many of the same integral membrane proteins and share certain common mechanisms of biogenesis, recycling, and degradation with other synaptic vesicles. However, glutamatergic vesicles are defined by their ability to package glutamate for release, a property conferred by the expression of a vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT). VGLUTs are subject to regional, developmental, and activity-dependent changes in expression. In addition, VGLUT isoforms differ in their trafficking, which may target them to different pathways during biogenesis or after recycling, which may in turn sort them to different vesicle pools. Emerging data indicate that differences in the association of VGLUTs and other synaptic vesicle proteins with endocytic adaptors may influence their trafficking. These observations indicate that independent regulation of synaptic vesicle protein trafficking has the potential to influence synaptic vesicle protein composition, the maintenance of synaptic vesicle pools, and the release of glutamate in response to changing physiological requirements.
In the past 15 years the classical view that astrocytes play a relatively passive role in brain function has been overturned and it has become increasingly clear that signaling between neurons and astrocytes may play a crucial role in the information processing that the brain carries out. This new view stems from two seminal observations made in the early 1990s: 1. astrocytes respond to neurotransmitters released during synaptic activity with elevation of their intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i); 2. astrocytes release chemical transmitters, including glutamate, in response to [Ca2+]i elevations. The simultaneous recognition that astrocytes sense neuronal activity and release neuroactive agents has been instrumental for understanding previously unknown roles of these cells in the control of synapse formation, function and plasticity. These findings open a conceptual revolution, leading to rethink how brain communication works, as they imply that information travels (and is processed) not just in the neuronal circuitry but in an expanded neuron-glia network. In this review we critically discuss the available information concerning: 1. the characteristics of the astrocytic Ca2+ responses to synaptic activity; 2. the basis of Ca2+-dependent glutamate exocytosis from astrocytes; 3. the modes of action of astrocytic glutamate on synaptic function.
Activity dependent modification of receptors in the post-synaptic density is a key determinant in regulating the strength of synaptic transmission during development and plasticity. A major mechanism for this recruitment and removal of postsynaptic proteins is the lateral diffusion in the plane of the plasma membrane. Therefore, the processes that regulate this lateral mobility are of fundamental importance. In recent years significant progress has been achieved using optical approaches such as single particle tracking (SPT) and fluorescence recovery after photobleach (FRAP). Here, we provide an overview of the principles and methodology of these techniques and highlight the contributions they have made to current understanding of protein mobility in the plasma membrane.
Over the past few years significant progress has been achieved in understanding the molecular steps underlying the fusion and recycling of vesicles at central synapses. It still remains unclear, however, how the fusion event is linked with vesicle membrane retrieval. Several factors promoting the transition from exo- to endocytosis have been extensively studied, including levels of intracellular Ca2+, the synaptic proteins involved at both sides of the vesicle cycle, posttranslational modification of endocytic proteins, and the lipid composition of recycled membranes. Recent studies in glutamate synapses indicate that vesicle clusters accumulated at the sites of synaptic contacts have a more complex organization than has previously been thought. Many endocytic proteins reside in the vesicle pool at rest and undergo cycles of migration between the active and periactive zones during synaptic activity. We propose that the local migration of endocytic proteins triggered by Ca2+ influx into the nerve terminal functions as one of the molecular mechanisms coupling exo- and endocytosis in synapses.
The mechanisms underlying spontaneous neurotransmitter release are not well understood. Under physiological as well as pathophysiological circumstances, spontaneous fusion events can set the concentration of ambient levels of neurotransmitter within the synaptic cleft and in the extracellular milieu. In the brain, unregulated release of excitatory neurotransmitters, exacerbated during pathological conditions such as stroke, can lead to neuronal damage and death. In addition, recent findings suggest that under physiological circumstances spontaneous release events can trigger postsynaptic signaling events independent of evoked neurotransmitter release. Therefore, elucidation of mechanisms underlying spontaneous neurotransmission may help us better understand the functional significance of this form of release and provide tools for its selective manipulation. For instance, our recent investigations indicate that the level of cholesterol in the synapse plays a critical role in limiting spontaneous synaptic vesicle fusion. Therefore, alterations in synaptic cholesterol metabolism can be a critical determinant of glutamatergic neurotransmission at rest. This article aims to provide a closer look into our current understanding of the mechanisms underlying spontaneous neurotransmission and the signaling triggered by these unitary release events.
The glutamate receptor delta2 (GluRdelta2) subunit has been classified as an ionotropic glutamate receptor on the basis of the amino acid sequence. It is considered an orphan receptor since no physiological ligand has so far been identified. GluRdelta2 is selectively localized at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell (PF-PC) synapses in the adult cerebellar cortex, where it promotes and maintains the integrity of these synapses. Mutations of the gene coding for the GluRdelta2 are also accompanied by reduced regression of the climbing fiber (CF) multiple innervation, loss of long term depression (LDT) and by specific cerebellar dysfunctions involving motor coordination, motor learning and impairment of fear memory consolidation. In addition, it participates in the competition between heterologous afferent fibers to PCs. On the whole, it appears that during evolution GluRdelta2 has lost its channel properties to acquire the function of an activity-dependent adhesion molecule with the key role of orchestrating the architecture of the PC innervation to allow two different patterns of signal elaboration; the CF all-or-none depolarization in the proximal dendritic domain and a highly discriminative capacity in the distal domain.
Neuronal activity controls the strength of excitatory synapses by mechanisms that include changes in the postsynaptic responses mediated by AMPA receptors. These receptors account for most fast responses at excitatory synapses of the CNS, and their activity is regulated by various signaling pathways which control the electrophysiological properties of AMPA receptors and their interaction with numerous intracellular regulatory proteins. AMPA receptor phosphorylation/dephosphorylation and interaction with other proteins control their recycling and localization to defined postsynaptic sites, thereby regulating the strength of the synapse. This review focuses on recent advances in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of regulation of AMPA receptors, and the implications in synaptic plasticity.
L-Glutamate (Glu) homeostasis in brain extracellular fluids and its maintenance at low micromolar concentrations in the face of the extremely high Glu concentrations present in brain cells and synaptic vesicles have been commonly attributed to the very effective action of glutamate transporters present on neuronal and glial cells. This view however does not take into account the fact that the brain is highly vascularized and that the vasculature harbors a high density of glutamate transporters. In this article, we review the accumulated data establishing the existence of an efflux of excess Glu from brain extracellular fluids into blood. We describe plausible mechanisms accounting for this efflux and present evidence that the brain-to-blood Glu efflux is modulated by blood Glu levels and can be accelerated by blood Glu scavenging. The latter procedure shown here to afford brain neuroprotection in a rat model of closed head injury could be applicable, as a first-line therapy, in the various acute brain insults characterized by excess Glu in brain fluids.
Many different forms of synaptic plasticity have been shown to ultimately modulate the number of AMPA-type glutamate receptors at the synapse. This trafficking involves lateral movements between synaptic and extrasynaptic sites at the neuron surface, as well as vesicular transport between the plasma membrane and intracellular compartments. Several new studies have shed light on the location and regulation of AMPA-type receptor (AMPAR) endocytosis, their intracellular sorting to divergent pathways at the level of endosomes, and the mechanism and sites of receptor recycling. This review summarizes this recent data on the trafficking along the endocytic pathway, and follows the path of internalized AMPAR from endocytosis up to sites of recycling.
Kainate (KA), an analog of glutamate, is a potent neurotoxin that has long been known to induce behavioral and electrophysiological seizures as well as neuropathological lesions reminiscent of those found in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. More than a decade after the initial KA studies, molecular cloning of ionotropic glutamate receptors identified a family of receptors that binds KA with high affinity. The present review explores the links between the epileptogenic and excitotoxic actions of KA and the function of kainate receptors (KARs) in the activity of neuronal networks. We first present evidence that KARs are the main targets of KA to produce the epileptogenic and excitotoxic effects of KA and KA analogs, and we discuss the mechanisms of action of KA. Then the review evaluates the involvement of KARs activated by the endogenous agonist glutamate in the generation and propagation of epileptiform activity. Finally, we report recent findings proposing KARs as targets of antiepileptic drugs and neuroprotective agents.
It has been suggested that NR2B-containing N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have a selective tendency to promote pro-death signaling and synaptic depression, compared with the survival promoting, synapse potentiating properties of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors. A preferential localization of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors at the synapse in maturing neurons could thus explain differences in synaptic vs. extrasynaptic NMDA receptor signaling. We have investigated whether NMDA receptors can mediate signaling to survival, death, and synaptic potentiation, in dissociated rat neuronal cultures at a developmental stage prior to significant NR2A expression and subunit-specific differences between synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. We show that in developing hippocampal neurons, the progressive reduction in sensitivity of NMDA receptor currents to the NR2B antagonist ifenprodil applies to both synaptic and extrasynaptic locations. However, the reduction is less acute in extrasynaptic currents, indicating that NR2A does partition preferentially, but not exclusively, into synaptic locations at DIV&gt;12. We then studied NMDA receptor signaling at DIV10, when both synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors are both overwhelmingly and equally NR2B-dominated. To analyze pro-survival signaling we studied the influence of synaptic NMDA receptor activity on staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Blockade of spontaneous NMDAR activity with MK-801, or ifenprodil exacerbated the apoptotic insult. Furthermore, MK-801 and ifenprodil both antagonized neuroprotection promoted by enhancing synaptic activity. Pro-death signaling induced by a toxic dose of NMDA is also blocked by NR2B-specific antagonists. Using a cell culture model of synaptic NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic potentiation, we find that this is mediated exclusively by NR2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, as implicated by NR2B-specific antagonists and the use of selective vs. non-selective doses of the NR2A-preferring antagonist NVP-AAM077. Therefore, within a single neuron, NR2B-NMDA receptors are able to mediate both survival and death signaling, as well as model of NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic potentiation. In this instance, subunit differences cannot account for the dichotomous nature of NMDA receptor signaling.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are key glutamatergic receptors in the CNS. Their permeability to Ca2+ and their voltage-dependent Mg2+ block make them essential for synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity, rhythmogenesis, gene expression and excitotoxicity. One very peculiar property is that their activation requires the binding of both glutamate and a co-agonist like glycine or D-serine. There is a growing body of evidence indicating that D-serine, rather than glycine as originally thought, is the endogenous ligand for NMDARs in many brain structures. D-serine is synthesized mainly in glial cells and it is released upon activation of glutamate receptors. Its concentration in the synaptic cleft controls the number of NMDAR available for activation by glutamate. Consequently, the glial environment of neurons has a critical impact on the direction and magnitude of NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Glutamate receptors of the kainate subtype are ionotropic receptors that play a key role in the modulation of neuronal network activity. The role of kainate receptors depends on their precise membrane and subcellular localization in presynaptic, extrasynaptic and postsynaptic domains. These receptors are composed of the combination of five subunits, three of them having several splice variants. The subunits and splice variants show great divergence in their C-terminal cytoplasmic tail domains, which have been implicated in intracellular trafficking of homomeric and heteromeric receptors. Differential trafficking of kainate receptors to specific neuronal compartments likely relies on interactions between the different kainate receptor subunits with distinct subsets of protein partners that interact with C-terminal domains. These C-terminal domains have also been implicated in the degradation of kainate receptors. Finally, the phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain regulates receptor trafficking and function. This review summarizes our knowledge on the regulation of membrane delivery and trafficking of kainate receptors implicating C-terminal domains of the different isoforms and focuses on the identification and characterization of the function of interacting partners.
It has long been known that the mammalian forebrain contains a subset of glutamatergic neurons that sequester zinc in their synaptic vesicles. This zinc may be released into the synaptic cleft upon neuronal activity. Extracellular zinc has the potential to interact with and modulate many different synaptic targets, including glutamate receptors and transporters. Among these targets, NMDA receptors appear particularly interesting because certain NMDA receptor subtypes (those containing the NR2A subunit) contain allosteric sites exquisitely sensitive to extracellular zinc. The existence of these high-affinity zinc binding sites raises the possibility that zinc may act both in a phasic and tonic mode. Changes in zinc concentration and subcellular zinc distribution have also been described in several pathological conditions linked to glutamatergic transmission dysfunctions. However, despite intense investigation, the functional significance of vesicular zinc remains largely a mystery. In this review, we present the anatomy and the physiology of the glutamatergic zinc-containing synapse. Particular emphasis is put on the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the putative roles of zinc as a messenger involved in excitatory synaptic transmission and plasticity. We also highlight the many controversial issues and unanswered questions. Finally, we present and compare two widely used zinc chelators, CaEDTA and tricine, and show why tricine should be preferred to CaEDTA when studying fast transient zinc elevations as may occur during synaptic activity.
Glutamatergic signaling has been exceptionally well characterized in the brain's gray matter, where it underlies fast information processing, learning and memory, and also generates the neuronal damage that occurs in pathological conditions such as stroke. The role of glutamatergic signaling in the white matter, an area until recently thought to be devoid of synapses, is less well understood. Here we review what is known, and highlight what is not known, of glutamatergic signaling in the white matter. We focus on how glutamate is released, the location and properties of the receptors it acts on, the interacting molecules that may regulate trafficking or signaling of the receptors, the possible functional roles of glutamate in the white matter, and its pathological effects including the possibility of treating white matter disorders with glutamate receptor blockers.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are clustered at synapses via their association with the PSD-95 (post-synaptic density-95) membrane associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of scaffolding proteins. PSD-95 is the best characterized of this family. It is known to associate with NMDA receptor NR2 subunits via a conserved ES(E/D)V amino acid sequence located at their C-termini and thus to promote the clustering, regulation and the trafficking of assembled NR1/NR2 NMDA receptors at synapses. Here we have investigated in more detail NMDA receptor NR2/PSD-95 protein-protein association. Wild-type NR1 and PSD-95alpha were co-expressed with a series of rodent C-terminal truncated constructs of either NR2A or NR2B subunits in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells and the association of PSD-95alpha with assembled receptors determined by immunoprecipitation. Additional PSD-95 binding domains that differed between NR2A and NR2B subunits were identified. These domains mapped to the amino acid sequences NR2A (1382-1420) and NR2B (1086-1157). These results suggest that NR2A and NR2B may associate with PSD-95 but with different affinities. This may be important in the determination of the lateral mobility of NMDA receptor subtypes in post-synaptic membranes.
AMPA receptors (AMPARs) mediate the majority of fast synaptic transmission in the CNS of vertebrates. They are believed to be associated with members of the transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP) family. TARPs mediate the delivery of AMPA receptors to the plasma membrane and mediate their synaptic trafficking. Moreover, TARPs modulate essential electrophysiological properties of AMPA receptors. Here, we compare the influence of rat TARPs (gamma2, gamma3, gamma4, and gamma8) on pharmacological properties of rat GluR1(Q)flip. We show that agonist potencies are increased by all TARPs, but to individually different extents. On the other hand, all TARPs increase agonist potencies at the virtually non-desensitizing mutant GluR1-L479Y almost identically. Comparison of the influence of individual TARPs on relative agonist efficacies confirmed that the TARPs can be functionally subdivided into two subgroups, one consisting of gamma2 and gamma3 and one consisting of gamma4 and gamma8. Surprisingly, we found that TARPs convert certain AMPA receptor antagonists to agonists. The potency of one of these converted antagonists is dependent on the particular TARP. Moreover, TARPs (except gamma4) reduce the ion channel block by the synthetic Joro spider toxin analog 1-naphthylacetyl spermine (NASP). In addition, TARPs increase the permeability of the receptor to calcium, indicating that TARPs directly modulate important ion pore properties. In summary, the data presented herein will illustrate and help to understand the previously unexpected complexities of modulation of AMPA receptor pharmacological properties by TARPs.
The AMPA receptors are ligand-gated ion channels belonging to the family of ionotropic glutamate receptors. They play an essential role in fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS of vertebrates. Their activity-dependent directed transport and fast turnover at the plasma membrane contribute to synaptic plasticity and require numerous trafficking and scaffolding proteins. Participating in the delivery and synaptic localization of AMPA receptors is a recently discovered protein family named transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs). In addition to their function in trafficking, TARPs alter the biophysical properties of AMPA receptors in remarkable ways and thus contribute significantly to the functional plasticity of the synapse. The study of TARP-mediated functional plasticity of AMPA receptors, which has emerged only recently as a hot new field, promises to yield valuable insight into the regulation of neuronal communication.
In neurons, as in other excitable cells, mitochondria extrude Ca(2+) ions from their matrix in exchange with cytosolic Na(+) ions. This exchange is mediated by a specific transporter located in the inner mitochondrial membrane, the mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX(mito)). The stoichiometry of NCX(mito)-operated Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange has been the subject of a long controversy, but evidence of an electrogenic 3 Na(+)/1 Ca(2+) exchange is increasing. Although the molecular identity of NCX(mito) is still undetermined, data obtained in our laboratory suggest that besides the long-sought and as yet unfound mitochondrial-specific NCX, the three isoforms of plasmamembrane NCX can contribute to NCX(mito) in neurons and astrocytes. NCX(mito) has a role in controlling neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis and neuronal bioenergetics. Indeed, by cycling the Ca(2+) ions captured by mitochondria back to the cytosol, NCX(mito) determines a shoulder in neuronal [Ca(2+)](c) responses to neurotransmitters and depolarizing stimuli which may then outlast stimulus duration. This persistent NCX(mito)-dependent Ca(2+) release has a role in post-tetanic potentiation, a form of short-term synaptic plasticity. By controlling [Ca(2+)](m) NCX(mito) regulates the activity of the Ca(2+)-sensitive enzymes pyruvate-, alpha-ketoglutarate- and isocitrate-dehydrogenases and affects the activity of the respiratory chain. Convincing experimental evidence suggests that supraphysiological activation of NCX(mito) contributes to neuronal cell death in the ischemic brain and, in epileptic neurons coping with seizure-induced ion overload, reduces the ability to reestablish normal ionic homeostasis. These data suggest that NCX(mito) could represent an important target for the development of new neurological drugs.
Involuntary movements, or dyskinesia, represent a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease ultimately experienced by the vast majority of patients. This article does not review the increased understanding of dyskinesia pathophysiology we have seen during the past few years but, instead, specifically focuses upon the very first molecular events thought to be responsible for the establishment of dyskinesia and generally grouped under the term of &quot;priming&quot;. Priming is classically defined as the process by which the brain becomes sensitized such that administration of a dopaminergic therapy modifies the response to subsequent dopaminergic treatments. In this way, over time, with repeated treatment, the chance of dopaminergic stimulation eliciting dyskinesia is increased and once dyskinesia has been established, the severity of dyskinesia increases. In this opinion review, however, we aim at strongly opposing the common view of priming. We propose, and hopefully will demonstrate, that priming does not exist per se but is the direct and intrinsic consequence of the loss of dopamine innervation of the striatum (and other target structures), meaning that the first injections of dopaminergic drugs only exacerbate those mechanisms (sensitization) but do not induce them. Chronicity and pulsatility of subsequent dopaminergic treatment only exacerbates the likelihood of developing dyskinesia.

EUK-207 is a synthetic superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetic that has been shown to reverse age-related learning deficits and brain oxidative stress in mice. In the present experiments, we tested the effects of EUK-207 on oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD)-induced cell death in cultured hippocampal slices and on several mechanisms that have been postulated to participate in this process. Cultured hippocampal slices were subjected to 1 h OGD followed by 3 or 24 h recovery in regular medium with glucose and oxygen. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in culture medium and propidium iodide (PI) uptake in slices were used to evaluate cell viability. When EUK-207 was applied either 1 or 2 h before OGD, OGD-induced LDH release was significantly reduced. When EUK-207 was applied 1 h before OGD and during 24 h recovery, PI uptake was also reduced. OGD-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was evaluated with the fluorescent probe DCF. DCF fluorescence in slices increased steadily during OGD treatment, rapidly disappeared following return to regular medium before slowly increasing again during the 24 h recovery period. When measured 3 h after OGD, increased ROS levels were significantly reduced by EUK-207. OGD also increased lipid peroxidation levels and this effect was also reduced by EUK-207 6 h following OGD. Cytosolic cytochrome c and nuclear apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) were increased 3 h after OGD, and the translocation of AIF from mitochondria to nucleus was partly blocked by treatment with EUK-207. In conclusion, EUK-207 provides neuroprotection against OGD-induced cell death in cultured hippocampal slices. As EUK-207 prevents free radical formation and lipid peroxidation, the neuroprotection is related to elimination of free radical generation and lipid peroxidation, as well as to decreased activation of pro-apoptotic factors. Our data support the further clinical evaluation of this class of molecules for the prevention of ischemic cell damage.
Improgan, a cimetidine derivative which lacks activity at known histamine, opioid or cannabinoid receptors, acts by an unknown mechanism in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and raphe magnus (RM) to stimulate descending, analgesic circuits. These circuits may utilize cannabinoid mechanisms. To characterize further the nature of these circuits, the effects of intracerebral (i.c.) microinjections of rimonabant (a CB(1) receptor inverse agonist) were studied on antinociceptive responses following i.c. microinjections of improgan and the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212 (WIN) in rats. Separate intra-RM injections of improgan (30 microg) and WIN (8 microg) produced near-maximal antinociception on both the hot plate (HP) and tail flick (TF) nociceptive tests. Pretreatment with intra-RM rimonabant (20 microg) antagonized the antinociception produced by both intra-RM improgan and intra-RM WIN, but had no effects when given alone. Similar studies with improgan demonstrated rimonabant-sensitive sites within the dorsal and ventrolateral PAG. However, intra-RM pretreatment with rimonabant had no effect on antinociceptive responses following intra-PAG improgan. These studies show that improgan activates pain-relieving mechanisms in the PAG and the RM, both of which may utilize local cannabinoid mechanisms.
Accumulating evidence suggests that top-down processes, reflected by frontal-midline theta-band (4-8 Hz) electroencephalogram (EEG) oscillations, strengthen the activation of a memory set during short-term memory (STM) retention. In addition, the amplitude of posterior alpha-band (8-13 Hz) oscillations during STM retention is thought to reflect a mechanism that protects fragile STM activations from interference by gating bottom-up sensory inputs. The present study addressed two important questions about these phenomena. First, why have previous studies not consistently found memory set-size effects on frontal-midline theta? Second, how does posterior alpha participate in STM retention? To answer these questions, large-scale network connectivity during STM retention was examined by computing EEG wavelet coherence during the retention period of a modified Sternberg task using visually-presented letters as stimuli. The results showed (a) increasing theta-band coherence between frontal-midline and left temporal-parietal sites with increasing memory load, and (b) increasing alpha-band coherence between midline parietal and left temporal/parietal sites with increasing memory load. These findings support the view that theta-band coherence, rather than amplitude, is the key factor in selective top-down strengthening of the memory set and demonstrate that posterior alpha-band oscillations associated with sensory gating are involved in STM retention by participating in the STM network.
Entry of the bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes into host epithelial cells is critical for infection and virulence. One major pathway for Listeria entry involves binding of the bacterial protein Internalin B to the host receptor tyrosine kinase Met (hepatocyte growth factor receptor). Activation of Met and downstream signaling cascades is critical for Listeria entry. Internalin B is composed of several structural domains including an N-terminal leucine-rich repeat that is sufficient for binding Met and stimulating downstream signal transduction. Internalin B is monomeric, whereas the leucine-rich repeat is dimeric when expressed as an isolated fragment. The different quaternary states of Internalin B and the leucine-rich repeat suggest that these two Met ligands might cause distinct biological effects. Here we demonstrate that Internalin B and the leucine-rich repeat fragment exhibit agonist properties that differentially influence Met down-regulation in lysosomes. Specifically, Met stability is increased in response to the leucine-rich repeat fragment compared with Internalin B. Interestingly, Internalin B and the leucine-rich repeat stimulate equivalent rates of clathrin-mediated Met internalization. However, the leucine-rich repeat is defective in promoting lysosomal down-regulation of Met and instead enhances receptor recycling to the cell surface. In addition, the leucine-rich repeat causes prolonged Met activation (phosphorylation) and increased cell motility compared with Internalin B. Taken together, our findings indicate that individual domains of Internalin B differentially regulate Met trafficking. The ability of the leucine-rich repeat fragment to promote Met recycling could account for the increased cell motility induced by this ligand.


High-throughput screening (HTS) identified benzothiazole analogue 3 as a potent fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies indicated that the sulfonyl group, the piperidine ring and benzothiazole were the key components to their activity, with 16j being the most potent analogue in this series. Time-dependent preincubation study of compound 3 was consistent with it being a reversible inhibitor. Activity-based protein-profiling (ABPP) evaluation of 3 in rat tissues revealed that it had exceptional selectivity and no off-target activity with respect to other serine hydrolases. Molecular shape overlay of 3 with a known FAAH inhibitor indicated that these compounds might act as transition-state analogues, forming putative hydrogen bonds with catalytic residues and mimicking the charge distribution of the tetrahedral transition state. The modeling study also indicated that hydrophobic interactions of the benzothiazole ring with the enzyme contributed to its extraordinary potency. These compounds may provide useful tools for the study of FAAH and the endocannabinoid system.
This study investigated the spatial frequency selectivity of the human visual motion system using the technique of adaptation in which motion aftereffect (MAE) duration was taken as an index of aftereffect magnitude. Eight observers adapted to two vertically oriented, oppositely drifting, luminance-defined gratings that were spatially separated in the vertical dimension. The spatial frequency of the adaptation patterns spanned a 3-octave range (0.25 to 2 c/deg) and drifted at 5 Hz. Following adaptation (20 s), two stationary test patterns were presented and MAE duration was measured. The spatial frequency difference between the adaptation and test patterns was varied from -2.5 to 2.5 octaves in 0.5 octave steps. MAE tuning functions at the lowest adaptation frequency (0.25 c/deg) were bandpass and reasonably symmetric. However, as the spatial frequency of the adaptation patterns increased, overall MAE duration decreased and the shape of the tuning functions became markedly asymmetric. This asymmetry was characterized by a MAE peak that was centered approximately 1 octave below the adaptation frequency. The results are consistent with recent masking studies (C. V. Hutchinson &amp; T. Ledgeway, 2007) and may reflect either asymmetric spatial frequency selectivity of underlying motion units or frequency-specific interactions (e.g. inhibition) between motion sensors tuned to different spatial frequencies.

The neuropeptide arginine vasotocin (AVT) and its mammalian homologue arginine vasopressin (AVP) are believed to be involved in many social behaviors including territorial aggression. Testosterone (T) is also important for controlling territorial aggression, and it is believed to be involved in modulating AVT/AVP levels in the brain. In this study, male Anolis carolinensis were paired (n=11 pairs) in a neutral cage and were allowed to establish a dominant-subordinate relationship for 10 days (experimental groups) or housed in a neutral cage with or without a female (control groups; each n=4). On 10th day animals were sacrificed and their brain sections were processed for AVT immunohistochemistry and their serum was analyzed for testosterone levels. AVT immunoreactive (AVT-ir) cell numbers were counted in the anterior hypothalamus (AH), paraventricular nucleus (PN), posterior hypothalamus (PH), preoptic area (POA), and supra optic nuclei (SON). 2-way randomized block design was conducted to assess AVT-ir cell number differences between dominant and subordinate animals and Pearson's correlations were used to determine if a relationship existed between T levels and AVT-ir cell numbers. Dominant animals had more AVT-ir cells in the POA compared to subordinate animals, and subordinate animals had fewer AVT-ir cells in the POA compared to males housed either singly or with a female. There were no differences in AVT-ir cell numbers between dominant and subordinate animals in other areas. T levels were not correlated with the AVT-ir cell numbers in any area. Thus dominant animals have increased AVT-ir cell numbers compared to subordinate animals in a brain region known to be important in male sexual behavior. However, this difference is not related to differences in T.
Previous research has implicated the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in the control of classically conditioned autonomic and somatomotor responses. In eyeblink (EB) classical conditioning prefrontal involvement appears to be limited to paradigms that are more difficult to learn, in that acquisition is slower. These include trace conditioning and discrimination/reversal. Some of this research suggests that the participation of mPFC in classical EB conditioning is related to the intensity or type of unconditioned stimulus (US) employed. In the present two experiments we thus studied the effects of manipulation of periorbital shock intensity as the US in Experiment 1 and in Experiment 2 the intensity of a corneal airpuff as the US on Pavlovian trace EB conditioning. The results indicate that there are optimal intensities of both airpuff and periorbital shock as the US in the demonstration of mPFC control of trace classical EB conditioning.
The C3H/HeH mouse strain has a mutant hypogonadal (hpg) variant, providing an animal model to examine the activational effects of sex hormones because reproductive maturation is arrested at a neonatal stage. Thus in the adult mouse, the circulating concentrations of sex steroids are extremely low. The present study used a series of tests to distinguish sex differences in behaviour: open field, locomotor activity, hyponeophagia, and novel location recognition. The results showed some evidence for a role of sex hormones in emotionality underscoring the potential utility of the hpg model, to distinguish activational effects in the C3H/HeH strain. However, the direction that the sex differences took varied by task: whilst males showed the predicted sex difference of relatively greater anxiety in the open field, hyponeophagia tests suggested higher emotionality in females. The hpg mice of both sexes showed a reduction in anxiety measured as hyponeophagia. Overall it can be concluded that this set of experiments supports the potential of the hpg model to investigate hormonal influences on emotionality.
The field of proteomics has made leaps and bounds in the last 10 years particularly in the fields of oncology and cardiovascular medicine. In comparison, neuroproteomics is still playing catch up mainly due to the relative complexity of neurological disorders. Schizophrenia is one such disorder, believed to be the results of multiple factors both genetic and environmental. Affecting over 2 million people in the US alone, it has become a major clinical and public health concern worldwide. This paper gives an update of schizophrenia biomarker research as reviewed by Lakhan in 2006 and gives us a rundown of the progress made during the last two years. Several studies demonstrate the potential of cerebrospinal fluid as a source of neuro-specific biomarkers. Genetic association studies are making headway in identifying candidate genes for schizophrenia. In addition, metabonomics, bioinformatics, and neuroimaging techniques are aiming to complete the picture by filling in knowledge gaps. International cooperation in the form of genomics and protein databases and brain banks is facilitating research efforts. While none of the recent developments described here in qualifies as biomarker discovery, many are likely to be stepping stones towards that goal.

Previous data have strongly implicated hindbrain catecholamine/neuropeptide Y (NPY) coexpressing neurons as key mediators of the glucoprivic feeding response. Catecholamine/NPY cell bodies are concentrated in the A1 and caudal C1 cell cluster (A1/C1) in the ventrolateral medulla, a region highly sensitive to glucoprivic challenge. To further investigate the importance of this catecholamine subpopulation in glucoregulation, we used small interfering RNA (siRNA) technology to produce a targeted gene knockdown of NPY and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), a catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme. Unilateral injection of NPY siRNA and DBH siRNA (0.02 nmol each) both significantly inhibited expression of the targeted genes up to 2 d, as revealed by real-time PCR, and reduced protein expression up to 8 d, as revealed by immunohistochemistry, compared with the control nontargeting siRNA (ntRNA) side. Subsequently, targeted siRNA or control ntRNA was injected bilaterally into A1/C1 and responses to 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG; 200 mg/kg)-induced glucoprivation were tested 3-7 d later. Silencing of either Npy or Dbh alone did not reduce glucoprivic feeding or hyperglycemic responses, compared with responses of ntRNA-injected controls. In contrast, simultaneous silencing of both Npy and Dbh reduced 2DG-induced feeding by 61%. Neither the hyperglycemic response to 2DG nor feeding elicited by mercaptoacetate (68 mg/kg)-induced blockade of fatty acid oxidation (&quot;lipoprivic feeding&quot;) was reduced by simultaneous silencing of these two genes. These results suggest that catecholamines and NPY act conjointly to control glucoprivic feeding and that the crucial NPY/catecholamine coexpressing neurons are concentrated in the A1/C1 cell group.
Here we report that a serotonergic neuron evokes two distinct neuromodulatory actions with different state, timing, and firing pattern dependencies. These neuromodulatory actions may have important behavioral functions. In the mollusc, Tritonia diomedea, EPSCs evoked by ventral swim interneuron B (VSI) exhibited intrinsic plasticity; after a spike train, EPSC amplitude increased from a basal state to a potentiated state, which usually lasted &gt;10 min. While the synapse was in a potentiated state, stimulation of a serotonergic dorsal swim interneuron (DSI) decreased VSI synaptic strength, returning it to a basal state. The extent of the DSI-evoked decrement was strongly correlated with the magnitude of the homosynaptic potentiation. This synaptic reset, or depotentiation, by DSI was blocked by the serotonin receptor antagonist methysergide and mimicked by a serotonin puff. In contrast to this state-dependent neuromodulatory action, we found that a previously described DSI-evoked transient enhancement of VSI synaptic strength was state-independent, producing the same multiplicative increase in EPSC amplitude regardless of whether the synapse was in a potentiated or basal state. These two actions also differed in their dependencies on the firing pattern of DSI and VSI action potentials. Results suggest that state-independent synaptic enhancement by DSI may play a short-term role during a swim motor pattern, whereas state-dependent actions may have longer-lasting consequences, resetting VSI synaptic strength after a swim bout. Thus, differences in two neuromodulatory actions at one synapse may allow a serotonergic neuron to play distinct roles at different stages of a motor pattern.
mu-Opioid receptors (MORs) are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that mediate the physiological effects of endogenous opioid neuropeptides and opiate drugs such as morphine. MORs are coexpressed with neurokinin 1 receptors (NK1Rs) in several regions of the CNS that control opioid dependence and reward. NK1R activation affects opioid reward specifically, however, and the cellular basis for this specificity is unknown. We found that ligand-induced activation of NK1Rs produces a cell-autonomous and nonreciprocal inhibition of MOR endocytosis induced by diverse opioids. Studies using epitope-tagged receptors expressed in cultured striatal neurons and a neuroblastoma cell model indicated that this heterologous regulation is mediated by NK1R-dependent sequestration of arrestins on endosome membranes. First, endocytic inhibition mediated by wild-type NK1Rs was overcome in cells overexpressing beta-arrestin2, a major arrestin isoform expressed in striatum. Second, NK1R activation promoted sequestration of beta-arrestin2 on endosomes, whereas MOR activation did not. Third, heterologous inhibition of MOR endocytosis was prevented by mutational disruption of beta-arrestin2 sequestration by NK1Rs. NK1R-mediated regulation of MOR trafficking was associated with reduced opioid-induced desensitization of adenylyl cyclase signaling in striatal neurons. Furthermore, heterologous regulation of MOR trafficking was observed in both amygdala and locus ceruleus neurons that naturally coexpress these receptors. These results identify a cell-autonomous mechanism that may underlie the highly specific effects of NK1R on opioid signaling and suggest, more generally, that receptor-specific trafficking of arrestins may represent a fundamental mechanism for coordinating distinct GPCR-mediated signals at the level of individual CNS neurons.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers have been shown to relieve persistent pain; however, the mechanism is not clearly understood. Superoxide produced from mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation is considered the major source of ROS in neurons during excitation where mitochondrial superoxide levels are normally controlled by superoxide dismutase (SOD-2). The present study hypothesizes that capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia is a consequence of superoxide build-up in spinal dorsal horn neurons and SOD-2 is a major determinant. To test this hypothesis, the spinal levels of SOD-2 activity, inactivated SOD-2 proteins, and mitochondrial superoxide were measured and correlated to the levels of capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia in mice with and without SOD-2 manipulations. The data suggest that superoxide accumulation is a culprit in the abnormal sensory processing in the spinal cord in capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia. Our studies also support the notion that SOD-2 nitration is a critical mechanism that maintains elevated superoxide levels in the spinal cord after capsaicin treatment. Finally, our findings suggest a therapeutic potential for the manipulation of spinal SOD-2 activity in pain conditions.

Conditioned cue-induced relapse to drug seeking is a major challenge to the treatment of drug addiction. It has been proposed that D-cycloserine might be useful in the prevention of relapse by reducing the conditioned reinforcing properties of drug-associated stimuli through facilitation of extinction. Here we show that intrabasolateral amygdala infusions of D-cycloserine in fact potentiate the reconsolidation of stimulus-cocaine memories to increase cue-induced relapse to drug seeking in rats with an extensive drug self-administration history. This elevation of cocaine seeking was correlated with an increase in the expression of the reconsolidation-associated gene zif268.
This study was carried out based on the assumption that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may counterbalance the action of morphine in the brain. Morphine analgesic tolerance after daily administrations for six days was blocked by intracerebroventricular injection of anti-BDNF IgG on day 5, but not by administrations on days 1-4. Chronic morphine treatment significantly increased the expression of exon I and IV BDNF transcripts, indicating differential regulation of BDNF gene expression. Daily administration of the CREB-binding protein inhibitor curcumin abolished the upregulation of BDNF transcription and morphine analgesic tolerance. These results suggest that curcumin might be a promising adjuvant to reduce morphine analgesic tolerance, and that epigenetic control could be a new strategy useful for the control of this problem.
Closely related species can exhibit different behaviours despite homologous neural substrates. The nudibranch molluscs Tritonia diomedea and Melibe leonina swim differently, yet their nervous systems contain homologous serotonergic neurons. In Tritonia, the dorsal swim interneurons (DSIs) are members of the swim central pattern generator (CPG) and their neurotransmitter serotonin is both necessary and sufficient to elicit a swim motor pattern. Here it is shown that the DSI homologues in Melibe, the cerebral serotonergic posterior-A neurons (CeSP-As), are extrinsic to the swim CPG, and that neither the CeSP-As nor their neurotransmitter serotonin is necessary for swim motor pattern initiation, which occurred when the CeSP-As were inactive. Furthermore, the serotonin antagonist methysergide blocked the effects of both the serotonin and CeSP-As but did not prevent the production of a swim motor pattern. However, the CeSP-As and serotonin could influence the Melibe swim circuit; depolarization of a cerebral serotonergic posterior-A was sufficient to initiate a swim motor pattern and hyperpolarization of a CeSP-A temporarily halted an ongoing swim motor pattern. Serotonin itself was sufficient to initiate a swim motor pattern or make an ongoing swim motor pattern more regular. Thus, evolution of species-specific behaviour involved alterations in the functions of identified homologous neurons and their neurotransmitter.
The highlights 2008 in the addiction field are correlated to the progress of psychiatric neurosciences. Clarifications are also necessary towards the psychiatric comorbidities (schizophrenia) with the addictions. Then, useful considerations are given for the prescription of substitution treatment among HIV patients under tritherapy.




The perceived direction of a moving line changes, often markedly, when viewed through an aperture. Although several explanations of this remarkable effect have been proposed, these accounts typically focus on the percepts elicited by a particular type of aperture and offer no biological rationale. Here, we test the hypothesis that to contend with the inherently ambiguous nature of motion stimuli the perceived direction of objects moving behind apertures of different shapes is determined by a wholly empirical strategy of visual processing. An analysis of moving line stimuli generated by objects projected through apertures shows that the directions of motion subjects report in psychophysical testing is accounted for by the frequency of occurrence of the 2D directions of stimuli generated by simulated 3D sources. The completeness of these predictions supports the conclusion that the direction of perceived motion is fully determined by accumulated behavioral experience with sources whose physical motions cannot be conveyed by image sequences as such.
The ruslan (rus) mutant was previously identified in a behavioral screen for mutants defective in long-lasting memory, which consists of two consolidated memory types, anesthesia-resistant memory, and protein synthesis-dependent long-term memory (LTM). We demonstrate here that rus is a new allele of klingon (klg), which encodes a homophilic cell adhesion molecule. Klg is acutely required for LTM but not anesthesia-resistant memory formation, and Klg expression increases upon LTM induction. LTM formation also requires activity of the Notch cell-surface receptor. Although defects in Notch have been implicated in memory loss because of Alzheimer's disease, downstream signaling linking Notch to memory have not been determined. Strikingly, we found that Notch activity increases upon LTM induction and regulates Klg expression. Furthermore, Notch-induced enhancement of LTM is disrupted by a klg mutation. We propose that Klg is a downstream effector of Notch signaling that links Notch activity to memory.
Animal models of human diseases are in widespread use for biomedical research. Mouse models with a mutation in a single gene or multiple genes are excellent research tools for understanding the role of a specific gene in the etiology of a human genetic disease. Ideally, the mouse phenotypes will recapitulate the human phenotypes exactly. However, exact matches are rare, particularly in mouse models of neuropsychiatric disorders. This article summarizes the current strategies for optimizing the validity of a mouse model of a human brain dysfunction. We address the common question raised by molecular geneticists and clinical researchers in psychiatry, &quot;what is a 'good enough' mouse model&quot;?
We reported previously a significant linkage signal between psychotic bipolar disorder (BP) and microsatellite markers on chromosome 5q31-34 in the National Institute of Mental Health Bipolar Genetics Initiative (NIMH-BPGI) data set, Wave 1. In an attempt to fine-map this linkage signal we genotyped 1,134 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) under the linkage peak in 23 informative families (131 individuals) with evidence of linkage. We tested family based association in the presence of linkage with the computer software package FBAT. The most significant association in these families was with a SNP in the second intron of GRIA1 (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA) subunit 1 receptor gene) (rs490922, Z-score = 3.3, P = 0.001). The analysis of 37 additional families with psychotic BP from NIMH-BPGI data sets, Waves 2, 3, and 4 revealed a signal at a SNP in intron 5 of the GRIA1 gene (rs4385264, Z-score = 3.2, P-value = 0.002). A combined analysis of all 60 families continued to support evidence for association of GRIA1 with psychotic BP; however, individual SNPs could not be replicated across datasets. The AMPA1 receptor has been shown to influence cognitive function, such as working memory and reward learning. Our findings suggest that variations in this receptor may contribute to the pathophysiology of BP with psychotic features in some families.
Previous studies have shown that the functional development of auditory system is substantially influenced by the structure of environmental acoustic inputs in early life. In our present study, we investigated the effects of early auditory enrichment with music on rat auditory discrimination learning. We found that early auditory enrichment with music from postnatal day (PND) 14 enhanced learning ability in auditory signal-detection task and in sound duration-discrimination task. In parallel, a significant increase was noted in NMDA receptor subunit NR2B protein expression in the auditory cortex. Furthermore, we found that auditory enrichment with music starting from PND 28 or 56 did not influence NR2B expression in the auditory cortex. No difference was found in the NR2B expression in the inferior colliculus (IC) between music-exposed and normal rats, regardless of when the auditory enrichment with music was initiated. Our findings suggest that early auditory enrichment with music influences NMDA-mediated neural plasticity, which results in enhanced auditory discrimination learning.
Irradiation-induced loss of neural stem and progenitor cells may contribute to cognitive deficits. Furthermore, subsequent inflammation inhibits neural progenitor cell differentiation. Here we have characterized the microglia response after a single dose of 8 Gy to the brains of postnatal day 9 or 21 rats. The number of Iba-1-positive microglia increased 6 h after IR but had decreased 7 days later, below control levels, and this decrease was more pronounced in P9 rats. Active caspase-3 and TUNEL staining revealed irradiation-induced microglia death. This age-dependent IR-induced loss of microglia likely affects both the response to IR and further brain development.
Interferons are produced following neural damage as part of the inflammatory response and may thus affect neural stem cell function. We compared the effects of interferon-gamma and interferon-beta on the proliferation and differentiation of adult murine neural progenitors. Both interferons inhibited neurosphere proliferation due to cell cycle arrest in G1 but only interferon-gamma induced neuronal differentiation. Both interferons induced differential phosphorylation of STAT proteins and a modest and late upregulation of the cell cycle regulator p27 but not several other likely cell cycle regulators. Thus in neural progenitor cells, anti-proliferative effects of interferons are not necessarily linked to differentiation.

We analyzed the role of six common polymorphisms in folate metabolizing genes as possible risk factors for having a child with Down syndrome (DS) in 94 Italian mothers of a DS child (MDS) and 113 matched control mothers, both aged less than 35 years at conception. Investigated polymorphisms include methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677C&gt;T and 1298A&gt;C, methionine synthase (MTR) 2756A&gt;G, methionine synthase reductase (MTRR) 66A&gt;G, and thymidylate synthase (TYMS) 28bp repeat and 1494del6. We also measured the amount of chromosome damage in peripheral blood lymphocytes of 42 MDS and 41 matched controls, by means of the micronucleus assay, and searched for association between this cytogenetic endpoint and any of the studied polymorphisms. Micronuclei in peripheral blood lymphocytes have been analyzed several years after conception: the mean age at sampling was 45.6+/-11.4 years for MDS and 47.95+/-6.9 years for controls. The combined MTHFR 677TT/MTR 2756AA genotype was associated with increased DS risk (P=0.034), and the combined MTHFR 1298AC/TYMS 2R/2R genotype with reduced risk (P=0.003). Moreover, we observed a significant increased frequency of micronucleated lymphocytes in MDS as compared to controls (P&lt;0.0001) and, in the total population, a significant correlation between micronucleated cells and both MTHFR 677C&gt;T (P=0.031) and 1298A&gt;C (P=0.047) polymorphisms.
Older adults have difficulties in binding information in long-term memory (e.g. objects with colours). The effect of age on visual short-term memory (VSTM) binding is less well understood. Recent evidence has suggested that older adults' VSTM for colours bound to shapes or for locations bound in configural representations may be preserved. In two experiments we investigated whether this lack of an age effect on VSTM for bound features can be reproduced when features are drawn from the same dimension (i.e. colour-colour binding) and when spatial clues are not available. Younger and older adults were presented with two sequential arrays of unicoloured or bicoloured objects and their accuracy in detecting changes between arrays was used as the measure of memory performance. Memory was assessed using a change detection paradigm for unicoloured objects and for bicoloured objects with changes in colour conjunctions (i.e. colours swapping between objects) or with changes in non-conjunctive colours (i.e. colours replacing colours in the study array). Both young and older adults were less accurate at remembering objects defined by colour conjunctions than unicoloured objects or objects composed of two non-conjunctive colours (Experiment 1). Increasing task demands in terms of memory and perceptual load had no greater effect on the older than the younger adults (Experiment 2). We suggest (1) that colours were not integrated into single units in VSTM; (2) that remembering the binding between colours has a cost; and (3) that neither of these effects are age-dependent.
Following axotomy several processes involving cell-cell interaction occur, such as loss of synapses, axon guidance, and remyelination. Two recently discovered families of cell-cell adhesion molecules, nectins and nectin-like molecules (necls) are involved in such processes in vitro and during development, but their roles in nerve injury have been largely unknown until recently. We have previously shown that axotomized motoneurons increase their expression of nectin-1 and nectin-3 and maintain a high expression of necl-1. We here investigate the expression of potential binding partners for motoneuron nectins and necls in the injured peripheral nerve. In situ hybridization (ISH) revealed a decreased signal for necl-1 mRNA in the injured nerve, whereas no signal for necl-2 was detected before or after injury. The signals for necl-4 and necl-5 mRNA both increased in the injured nerve and necl immunoreactivity displayed a close relation to axon and Schwann cell markers. Finally, signal for mRNA encoding necl-5 increased in axotomized spinal motoneurons. We conclude that peripheral axotomy results in altered expression of several necls in motoneurons and Schwann cells, suggesting involvement of the molecules in regeneration.
Stress increases associative learning and the density of dendritic spines in the hippocampus of male rats. In contrast, exposure to the same stressor impairs associative learning and reduces spine density in females. These effects in females are most evident when they are in the proestrus phase of the estrous cycle. An injection of testosterone at the time of birth masculinizes the female brain. In adulthood, masculinized females respond like males do to stress, i.e. they learn better. Here, we hypothesized that stress would increase spine densities on pyramidal neurons in area CA1 of the hippocampus of masculinized females, because stress enhances learning ability in both males and masculinized females. To test this, we used Golgi impregnation to stain tissue from masculinized and cycling females that were exposed to an acute stressor and sacrificed 1 day later. There was a significant interaction between stressor exposure and testosterone treatment at birth (p&lt;0.001). In general, cycling females that were stressed tended to possess fewer spines on apical and basal dendrites in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, whereas the masculinized females possessed significantly more spines after the stressor. These findings underscore the plastic nature of dendritic spines. They suggest that their response to stress in adulthood is organized by the presence of testosterone during very early development. Such a process may represent a mechanism for altering learning abilities after an acute traumatic experience.
Over the past decades, many studies have linked the variations in frequency of spontaneous blinking with certain aspects of information processing and in particular with attention and working memory functions. On the other hand, according to the theory postulated by Crick and Koch, the actual function of primary consciousness is based on the reciprocal interaction between attention and working memory in the automatic and serial mode. The purpose of this study was to investigate for electrophysiological correlates compatible with the cognitive nature of spontaneous blinking, by using the EEG recordings obtained in a group of seven healthy volunteers while they rested quietly though awake, with their eyes open, but not actively engaged in attention-demanding goal-directed behaviours. The global wavelet analysis - at total of 189 three-second EEG epochs time-locked to the blink - revealed an increase in the delta band signal corresponding to the blink. In particular, a reconstruction of the EEG signal by means of inverse-wavelet transform (IWT) showed a blink-related P300-like wave at mid-parietal site. We assumed this phenomenon to represent an electrophysiological sign of the automatic processing of contextual environmental information. This might play a role in maintaining perceptive awareness of the environment at a low level of processing, while the subject is not engaged in attention-demanding tasks but rather introspectively oriented mental activities or free association(s).
Dehaene et al. (Reports, 30 May 2008, p. 1217) argued that native speakers of Mundurucu, a language without a linguistic numerical system, inherently represent numerical values as a logarithmically spaced spatial continuum. However, their data do not rule out the alternative conclusion that Mundurucu speakers encode numbers linearly with scalar variability and psychologically construct space-number mappings by analogy.
At glutamatergic synapses, NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are localized with other ionotropic glutamate receptors [AMPA receptors (AMPARs) and kainate receptors] and with metabotropic glutamate receptors. Targeting the necessary number of NMDARs to the proper sites at synapses is critical for normal glutamatergic neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. Additional diversity of NMDAR responses arises from the complexity of subunit composition and variations in localization. Thus, the mechanisms of NMDAR trafficking and targeting must address the complex needs of neurons. For example, NMDARs must be transported to different subcellular sites because some receptors are localized to synaptic sites (pre- and postsynaptic) while others are localized extrasynaptically [14]. NMDAR subunit expression differs as a function of brain region and developmental age [57]. Subunit composition may determine subcellular localization, i.e., in adults, NR2A-containing receptors are enriched at synapses while extrasynaptic receptors are predominantly NR2B-containing complexes [1,2,4]. Furthermore, evidence indicates the incorporation of more than one type of NR2 subunit in each complex (tri-heteromeric NR1/NR2X/NR2Y) such as NR1/NR2A/NR2B receptors in hippocampal neuron synapses, NR1/NR2A/NR2C in cerebellar granule cell synapses, and NR1/NR2B/NR2D in substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons [8]. Finally, different NMDARs may be expressed at different synapses within the same neuron [4]. Thus, the mechanisms of NMDAR trafficking must be varied and well regulated to meet the needs of neurons.
Phosphorylation is a fundamental and pervasive mechanism widely known to regulate the functions of proteins [94,133], and lipids [8]. Phosphorylation of specific amino acid residues is a reversible process controlled enzymatically by the competing activities of protein kinases that catalyze phosphorylation and phosphoprotein phosphatases that catalyze dephosphorylation. Several years before the cloning of glutamate receptors, phosphorylation was found to increase NMDA currents, and dephosphorylation to decrease these currents in neurons from the hippocampus [76]. Since then, two principal protein kinase/phosphatase families have been studied extensively related to regulation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) in the central nervous system: those that act at serine/threonine residues and those that act at tyrosine residues. Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation may regulate the gating or cell surface expression of NMDARs. Recently, an additional mechanism, alteration of the relative permeability of the NMDAR channel to Ca(2+), has been suggested to be subject to regulation by phosphorylation [112]. The simplest biochemical event that may under-lie the regulation of NMDARs is phosphorylation of a single amino acid in one of the core NR subunit proteins. This phosphorylation may then be reversed by the action of phosphoprotein phosphatase, and thus the relative levels of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation are determined by the competing actions of those enzymes, i.e., those that are most proximate in the regulatory pathways. While such direct phosphorylation on serine/threonine and tyrosine residues has been demonstrated, whether such phosphorylation alone is necessary or sufficient for the subsequent increase in NMDAR currents is not known definitively and remains an open question. Alternative mechanisms that are nearly as simple, such as phosphorylation of regulatory or trafficking proteins in NMDAR complexes or of cytoskeletal or other elements also may contribute to changes in NMDAR currents. The kinase and phosphatase enzymes most proximate in the regulatory control of NMDARs are typically held within NMDAR complexes through anchoring proteins (Figure 7.1) that allow the strategic localization of each enzyme in proximity to its substrate in the complex. This may enhance the efficiency and specificity of the signaling pathways. Based on the key role of NMDARs in many forms of synaptic plasticity, that signaling complexes containing both kinases and their counterpart phosphatases are specifically targeted to the receptor complex facilitates bidirectional regulation of NMDARs during synaptic plasticity. Moreover, these enzymes are also subject to complex regulation by intracellular biochemical signaling networks, leading to multiple levels of control that are dynamic in time and space in certain neurons. Adding to the complexity, the enzymes regulating NMDARs may be differentially expressed in different neuronal populations in the CNS, and the expression may change during development or under physiological or pathological conditions. This chapter provides an overview of the current state of knowledge about NMDAR regulation by serine/threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation, and the cross-talk between these kinase/phosphatase signaling pathways.
More than 20 years have passed since the discovery that NMDAR-mediated synaptic activity is important for the functional development of sensory brain circuits [1] by specifically regulating the refinement of sensory topographic maps [2]. Since then we have learned in great detail how this receptor shapes the development of neurons and neuronal circuits. The diversity of NMDAR subunits and their unique developmental and spatial expression patterns add levels of complexity to the role of the NMDARs in development that are only beginning to be understood. In this chapter, we will examine NMDARs and their role in brain development from a circuit perspective, on the single neuron level and on the synaptic level.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs), a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors, mediate the vast majority of excitatory neurotransmission in the central brains of vertebrates. NMDARs form heteromeric complexes usually comprised of a principal NR1 subunit and various NR2 subunits [1,2]. The NMDAR channel is highly permeable to Ca(2+) and Na(+), and its opening requires simultaneous binding of glutamate and postsynaptic membrane depolarization [1,3,4]. Once activated, the NMDAR channel allows calcium influx into postsynaptic cells, where calcium triggers a cascade of biochemical events resulting in synaptic changes. NMDARs play diverse roles in normal central nervous system activity and development including regulation of synaptic development and function, and refinement of synaptic connections with experience and synaptic plasticity. NMDARs have also been widely investigated as targets for pharmacological management of seizures, pain, and a variety of neurological disorders including Schizophrenia, Parkinsons, Alzheimers, and Huntingtons diseases [2,514]. Various studies in invertebrates suggest the existence of functional NMDA-like receptors and their requirement for synaptic and behavioral plasticity [1537]. This chapter highlights the recent characterization of Drosophila NMDARs [25,2933], with emphasis on their physiological role during memory processing after Pavlovian olfactory conditioninga well-defined and widely used elemental learning paradigm [38].
Alcohol addiction is a costly and detrimental chronic relapsing disorder, characterized by compulsive alcohol use despite the negative consequences; it is thought to be associated with aberrant learning and memory processes [1,2]. The NMDA-type glutamate receptor (NMDAR) plays an essential role in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory [3,4]. Not surprisingly, it is well established that the NMDAR is a major target of alcohol (ethanol) in the brain and has been implicated in ethanol-associated phenotypes such as tolerance, dependence, withdrawal, craving, and relapse [5,6]. This chapter focuses on studies elucidating molecular mechanisms that underlie ethanols actions on the NMDAR, and discusses the physiological and behavioral consequences of ethanols actions. Finally, we summarize information regarding the potential use of modulators of NMDAR function as medication to treat the adverse effects of alcoholism.
This book covers many aspects of the biology of NMDARs: their role in controlling structure and function of synapses and neurons during early development; how overstimulation of NMDARs results in excitotoxicity and contributes to several progressive brain disorders, including Huntingtons disease; the newly discovered and intriguing interactions of NMDARs and dopamine receptors that mediate reward in the central nervous system; the role of NMDARs in alcohol dependence and the promise of NMDAR-based therapeutics for treating alcoholism; how functional expression is controlled at the level of gene transcription by several families of transcription factors; how NMDAR activation regulates local synaptic protein synthesis required for long-term changes in synaptic strength; the modulation of NMDAR function by signaling cascades cumulating in activation of protein kinases and phosphatases; the importance of cellular mechanisms underlying trafficking and targeting of NMDAR protein for many of its physiological functions; how NMDAR-mediated calcium signaling in dendritic spines controls synaptic efficacy and spine morphology; the roles NMDARs play in different temporal phases of memory formation in Drosophila; the extracellular modulation of NMDARs by polyamines, subunit-specific inhibitors, zinc ions, and pH, and the structural bases for their effects; a detailed description of NMDAR pharmacology, structureactivity relationships of agonists and antagonists, and roads to therapeutic drug design; the physiological roles played by NMDARs and their molecular structures; NMDAR activation mechanisms and the therapeutic potential of allosteric modulators; and the novel role of presynaptically localized NMDARs in controlling synaptic plasticity.
The discovery of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) was made possible by the synthesis and study of NMDA (Figure 12.1) and various NMDAR antagonists by Jeff Watkins and colleagues [1]. These compounds, most notably (R)--aminoadipate ((R)--AA) and (R)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (Figure 12.2), were shown to block neuronal responses to applied NMDA, but not to block responses to kainate or quisqualate [2,3]. As a result, NMDARs were shown to represent a distinct subpopulation of excitatory amino acid receptors. Over the next several years, these and other NMDAR antagonists led to the discovery that NMDARs play key roles in synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, neuronal development, excitotoxicity, stroke, seizures, and many other physiological and pathological processes. These studies generated great excitement about the potential use of NMDAR antagonists to treat neuropathological and neurodegenerative diseases. However, with the exception of the use of memantine for Alzheimers disease, the development of NMDAR-targeted therapeutics has been disappointing. Several agents failed in clinical trials due to adverse effects and/or a lack of clinical efficacy. Despite this disappointment, NMDAR therapeutics continue to exhibit significant potential. Of the multiple drug binding sites on the various NMDAR subunits, many potential types of NMDAR antagonists exist, and some of these reveal distinct patterns of selectivity. This chapter will summarize the current understanding of the various sites of drug action on the NMDAR complex.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and dopamine (DA) receptors and their interactions control an incredible variety of functions in the intact brain and, when abnormal, these interactions underlie and contribute to numerous disease states. These receptor interactions are relevant in such diverse functions as motor control, cognition and memory, neurodegenerative disorders, schizophrenia, and addiction. It is thus not surprising that a wealth of information has been generated by the neuroscience community interested in the coordinated functions of NMDA and DA receptors. This chapter will describe the numerous mechanisms underlying DANMDA receptor interactions, particularly in the striatum, the main focus of our investigations. DA modulation of spontaneous or glutamate-induced action potentials in the caudate nucleus has been known for some time [13]. Since the discoveries of different subtypes of glutamate and DA receptors, the number of potential interactions and their mechanisms has multiplied because the functions of glutamate and DA receptor subtypes are governed by multiple factors that tap into different types of signaling systems. Thus, the outcomes of interactions of these receptor families can be very diverse. It has been 10 years since we published our first review summarizing known DANMDA receptor interactions and their mechanisms [4]. Since then, exciting findings have added new levels of complexity. For example, in addition to intracellular interactions via second messenger pathways, recent studies revealed the presence of physical interactions between NMDA and DA receptors at the membrane and cytoplasm levels. Furthermore, the generation of mice deficient of specific DA receptors or NMDAR subunits and mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of specific DA receptor subtype promoters has provided new tools for studying relationships of DA and NMDA receptors.
Ample evidence suggests a critical role for NMDARs in initiating MSN dysfunction and death in HD. The expression of mhtt may produce changes in NMDAR composition, trafficking, and function. Additionally, it may affect neuronal responses to NMDAR activation, particularly those downstream of and dependent upon Ca(2+) signalling and mitochondrial pathways (Figure 2.1). Evidence from cellular and animal models of HD suggests that these changes in turn can alter synaptic function and enhance the susceptibility of MSNs to NMDAR-mediated excitotoxicity in a polyQ length-dependent fashion. In summary, NMDARs may play a prominent role in the pathology of HD. The complexity of the interactions between mhtt and NMDARs presents a number of possible targets for effective and selective therapies.
Translationthe synthesis of new polypeptides encoded by messenger RNAsis an essential process involved in nearly every aspect of cellular survival and growth. In recent years, the importance of translation has been demonstrated to be critical for the manifestation of persistent forms of synaptic plasticity such as long term facilitation (LTF) in Aplysia and long term potentiation (LTP) in vertebrate hippocampal neurons [14]. Importantly, translation is critical to the formation of long term memory (LTM) in panoplies of phyla [58]. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) have been critically linked to the regulation of processes both upstream and downstream of neuronal translation. To better understand the role of NMDARs in the regulation of translational machinery, it is important to first overview the many stages and levels of regulation involved in the translation of mRNA into new protein.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtypes of glutamate receptors are intimately involved in a number of important neuronal activities in mammalian nervous systems including neuronal migration, synaptogenesis, neuronal plasticity, neuronal survival, and excitotoxicity. Through these activities, NMDA receptors (NRs) play an important role in the development of drug addiction, pain perception, and the pathogenesis of neurological disorders such as schizophrenia and Huntingtons disease [110]. It is generally believed that aberrant or pathological NR effects occur mainly via abnormal receptor activity, resulting from altered availability of agonists or modified quality or quantity of membrane-associated receptors. In mammals, functional NRs are heterotetramers of subunits encoded by three gene families, i.e., NMDAR1 (NR1 or Grin1), NMDAR2 (NR2 or Grin2), and NMDAR3 (NR3 or Grin3) [3,4,11]. The NR1 family has one gene; the NR2 family has four (designated A through D); and the NR3 family has two (A and B). Structurally, NR1 is an essential component found in all tetramers, while different NR2 members are incorporated based on age and nervous system region. NR3 proteins function as negative components when included in the structures [3,4,11,12]. Eight variants of NR1 protein are produced by alternative splicing and distributed differentially in nervous systems [1315]. This complex composition of different subunits and splicing variants forms the primary basis of the functional diversity of NRs. From January 1992 to June 2007, more than 1000 research articles relevant to NR expression were published. In sum, they concluded that the expression of NR genes is cell- or tissue-specific, relatively stable, and regulated differentially by various physiological, pharmacological, and pathological factors. Most of these conclusions were based on assessments of changes of the steady state levels of mRNA and protein that may be driven by numerous sophisticated mechanisms. Transcription is the initial step and generally the most sensitive to cellular needs and environmental cues. Thus, it serves as a major mechanism controlling gene expression [16]. Precise spatial and temporal expression of a selective set of genes determines phenotypic differences among distinct tissues and cells in higher eukaryotes [1618]. In the case of the NR gene families, transcription of each subunit gene in a given neuron or cell must be coordinately controlled but differentially responsive to cell type, developmental stage, and environmental signals to maintain healthy cellular function. How this coordinated control takes place is an important and challenging question. This chapter reviews studies that explore the transcriptional control of NR genes. It discusses studies of promoter and regulatory sequences, regulatory units, developmental regulation, cell type specificity, growth factor regulation, neurological disorders, and epigenetic mechanisms.
In pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and cortex, NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) are the predominant sources of synaptically evoked calcium (Ca) signals [17] (Figure 9.1A through C). Ca influx through NMDARs regulates diverse processes including kinase and phosphatase activity, protein trafficking, structural and functional synaptic plasticity, cell growth, cell survival, and apoptosis [811]. Which of these many Ca-dependent processes are triggered when NMDARs open depend on the context of receptor activation and the magnitude, kinetics, timing, and spatial spread of the resulting Ca transients. This chapter reviews the features of NMDARs that determine Ca influx through the receptors and discusses how the context of NMDAR activation shapes synaptically evoked Ca transients.
Presynaptic receptors, by virtue of their locations, are ideally suited to influence the efficacy of synaptic transmission by affecting neurotransmitter release [58]. In the nervous system, action potential invasion of presynaptic terminals results in a characteristic series of events: initial Ca(2+) entry, followed by the activation of presynaptic vesicular release machinery, vesicular fusion, and the release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft [103,105]. The efficacy of synaptic transmission is thus governed by the probability of neurotransmitter release, the amount of transmitter released from the presynaptic terminal, the type and number of postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptors, and their response to the released transmitter. Short- and long-term activity-dependent modulation of the efficacy of a synapse can proceed via a multitude of signaling mechanisms that impact on either the presynaptic release or the receptors that mediate postsynaptic responses [13,66,102]. Such modulatory mechanisms will be crucial for regulating the flow of information throughout the nervous system and have been implicated in many neural processes including learning and memory, vision, motor control, and neuroprotection. Modulation of transmitter release at a synapse was first demonstrated in the classical studies of Dudel and Kuffler [30] and Eccles [33] who identified that presynaptic GABA receptors inhibited transmitter release from crustacean motor neuron terminals and vertebrate sensory neuron terminals in the spinal cord, respectively. Since then, the modulation of transmitter release by presynaptic receptors is an accepted signaling pathway, and although the focus of attention initially fell on metabotropic G-protein coupled receptors [52,94], it soon became clear that numerous populations of presynaptic ionotropic receptors are equally important [53,58,67]. One receptor that has not featured prominently as a presynaptic regulator of transmitter release is the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive glutamate receptor. It was first proposed to have a presynaptic locus of expression after it was found that exogenously applied NMDA facilitated the release of tritiated neurotransmitter from synaptosomes prepared from noradrenergic terminals in the hippocampus [86], cerebral cortex [37], and from dopaminergic terminals in the striatum [50,56,112]. Because of the nature of the preparations, these early studies failed to identify the exact loci of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit expression. Further evidence for presynaptic NMDARs came from the pioneering work of Liu and colleagues [62] who identified NR1 subunit immunoreactivity in both the dorsal and ventral horns of the rat spinal cord, specifically on axon terminals and very near the active zone, indicating a direct role in the regulation of transmitter release. Similarly, immunoreactivity for NR1 and NR2 was found on presynaptic boutons in rat cerebellar cortex [82,83] and at mossy fiber CA synapses in monkey hippocampus [98]. These early findings provided the necessary impetus to find a more widespread role for presynaptic NMDARs in the regulation of neuronal signaling in the CNS. In this chapter, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of presynaptic NMDARs as important modulators of synaptic transmission. We consider the potential sources of glutamate for NMDAR activation; the downstream signaling mechanisms that ensue; and the differing forms of synaptic plasticity mediated by presynaptic NMDARs that undoubtedly help sculpt information processing in the brain.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are glutamate-gated cation channels with high calcium permeability that play important roles in many aspects of the biology of higher organisms. They are critical for the development of the central nervous system (CNS), generation of rhythms for breathing and locomotion, and the processes underlying learning, memory, and neuroplasticity. Consequently, abnormal expression levels and altered NMDAR function have been implicated in numerous neurological disorders and pathological conditions. NMDAR hypofunction can result in cognitive defects, whereas overstimulation causes excitotoxicity and subsequent neurodegeneration. Therefore, NMDARs are important therapeutic targets for many CNS disorders [18] including stroke, hypoxia, ischemia, head trauma, Huntingtons, Parkinsons, and Alzheimers diseases, epilepsy, neuropathic pain, alcoholism, schizophrenia, and mood disorders. To date, drugs targeting NMDARs have had only limited success clinically due to poor efficacy and unacceptable side effects, including hallucinations, catatonia, ataxia, nightmares, and memory deficits. A detailed understanding of the mechanisms underlying agonist-induced receptor activation would facilitate development of more selective drugs that target specific NMDAR subtypes and alter their function to a well-defined extent. This chapter will investigate the physiological roles NMDARs play in the mammalian nervous system and the molecular and structural basis of NMDAR activation. One of the main questions that will be addressed is how agonist binding results in opening of the NMDAR ion channel. Although the mechanism coupling ligand binding to channel opening remains incompletely understood for NMDARs, we propose that this process suggests promising approaches to drug design.
A number of natural and synthetic molecules including polyamines, protons, Zn(2+), steroids, redox reagents, ifenprodil, and ethanol are modulators of NMDA receptors (NMDARs), acting at extracellular sites on the receptors to increase or decrease macroscopic currents and Ca(2+) flux through NMDA channels. Some of these modulators, for example Zn(2+), polyamines, and protons, are endogenous molecules that may exert important regulatory effects on NMDARs under physiological and/or pathological conditions. Others, for example ifenprodil, are synthetic molecules that serve as experimental tools to study the properties of NMDARs and receptor subtypes and may provide lead compounds for the development of therapeutically useful NMDAR antagonists. This chapter provides an overview of some of these modulators, with a focus on polyamines, ifenprodil, and Zn(2+) and on recent studies detailing their mechanisms of action, interactions, and proposed sites of action on NMDARs. Much of the early work in this area was reviewed previously [111] and is not dealt with in detail in this chapter. Similarly, the list of citations at the end of this chapter is not exhaustive; rather, it draws on recent and older publications to present an overview of how the field has developed and where it stands at present (mid 2007).
Assessment of sensorimotor competence is an important part of the evaluation of animal behavior. Measurement of sensorimotor performance is of obvious importance in investigations of sensory or motor processes; however, the effects of experimental manipulations on sensorimotor performance have broader implications for behavioral neuroscience because behavioral experiments typically measure motor responses to sensory information. Thus, the results of behavioral experiments designed to assess other neurobiological processes often cannot be properly interpreted without considering concomitant effects on sensorimotor function. For example, if a lesion or genetic manipulation impairs performance on a spatial memory test, such as the radial arm maze, this impairment cannot be interpreted as evidence of cognitive dysfunction unless it is first established that it is not the result of sensorimotor deficits. Moreover, sensorimotor effects of manipulations can often be used in animal models as surrogates for effects that are more difficult to measure, and relatively simple variations of sensorimotor measures can be used as indices of performance in other behavioral domains, including cognition and emotion. A number of behavioral tasks have been designed to assess sensorimotor performance in rodents, and this chapter focuses on five general proceduresacoustic startle, sensory gating, open field exploration, rotarod, and beam walking.
Attention refers to a variety of hypothetical constructs by which the nervous system apprehends and organizes sensory input and generates coordinated behavior. Although it has been a subject of psychological investigation since William James introduced it to the field in the late 19th century, systematic assessment of attention in animals has a shorter history. As with any unobservable cognitive process, assessment of attention requires quantification of an observable phenomenon, such as the behavior of the animal or the electrical activity of its nervous system. To the extent that these events can be measured objectively, attention can be inferred equally readily in any animal species, including humans or other primates, rats, mice, or birds [1]. As James [2] pointed out, attention is not a unitary phenomenon, but rather a term that subsumes several different varieties of attentional processes. In the present discussion, we focus on three such processes: the ability to sustain attention over time, the ability to attend selectively to a subset of environmental information while filtering out extraneous stimuli, and the ability to shift attentional set. Accordingly, this chapter discusses three behavioral approaches to assessing attention in rodents. These approaches include multiple-choice serial reaction time tests that can be arranged to assess both sustained and selective attention, signal detection tests with blank trials that focus on sustained attention, and attentional set-shifting procedures. For each of these approaches, we present a commonly used method and then discuss design and analytic procedures that can help determine whether observed changes in performance can be attributed to the target attentional construct (see Sections 7.27.4). Section 7.5 discusses some guidelines for task selection. The appendix lists suppliers for necessary equipment.
Atropine and scopolamine are muscarinic receptor antagonists with amnestic properties that have been used for decades in experimental animals to induce impairment in their performance of a variety of tasks requiring intact working and reference memory [13]. As long as 30 years ago, scopolamine had been used in clinical research studies (e.g., see [4]). Scopolamine has also been used clinically (though less frequently than in past years) as an adjunct to surgical or obstetric procedures to induce sedation and post-procedural amnesia. Since the first reports of a central cholinergic deficit associated with Alzheimers disease, the connection had been made between the cognitive and memory deficits associated with this disease and the reversible amnestic effects induced by centrally acting muscarinic cholinergic antagonists. Indeed, blockade of central muscarinic receptors could induce a pattern of cognitive impairment even in young subjects reminiscent of that observed in the aged, or in individuals with Alzheimers disease. For many years, the amnestic action produced in animals by the administration of centrally acting muscarinic cholinergic antagonists, particularly scopolamine, has been a widely used model for the characterization of potential cognition-enhancing drugs [5]. For animal studies, however, pharmacological models of induced memory impairment have been suggested to be of limited value because they fail to replicate the pathological aspects and the progressive degenerative nature of Alzheimers disease [6]. Despite this limitation, scopolamine-induced memory impairment, particularly when coupled with a version of the inhibitory avoidance [7] task provides a relatively rapid phenotypic screening tool for drug discovery in the field of cognition enhancement. A criticism often leveled at what might be termed the scopolamine reversal test pertains to the lack of versatility in the model, since scopolamines actions are limited to the blockade of brain function mediated via cholinergic (muscarinic) receptors. In Alzheimers disease basal forebrain cholinergic neurons appear to be targeted primarily in early stages of the disease. However, other neurotransmitter systems can be affected [8,9]. Alzheimers disease attacks cholinergic neurons in specific brain regions where the disease process leads to the decreased expression of specific subtypes of muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Presynaptic M2 receptors (located on cholinergic basal forebrain projection neurons) are depleted more severely than postsynaptic M1 receptors [10]. Scopolamine, however, is relatively nonselective pharmacologically with respect to receptor subtypes, and the drug does not discriminate very much with respect to brain region. Scopolamine certainly would have little direct effect on non-cholinergic neuronal pathways, although cholinergic neurons have functional interactions with a wide variety of neurotransmitter systems that could be affected indirectly by the drug. Despite these limitations, the amnestic responses elicited by scopolamine in humans appear to mimic very closely the cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimers disease [5]. Another advantage of scopolamine reversal as a model system for Alzheimers disease is that the induced memory impairment is reversible, which lends itself well to screening methods in drug discovery. The utility of the scopolamine model has been partially validated by the ability of centrally acting cholinomimetic drugs to reverse the effects of scopolamine on memory task performance. Studies with the centrally acting cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine demonstrated consistent but partial reversal of scopolamine-induced memory deficits [11,12]. More recent studies with the currently prescribed Alzheimers drugs rivastigmine, donepezil, and galantamine have reported similar scopolamine reversal properties in the rat [1316]. However, cholinomimetic drugs are not the only pharmacological class to reverse scopolamine-induced memory deficits [1719], attesting perhaps to the greater than expected versatility of the model. Although the scopolamine reversal model is in wide use in preclinical stages of drug development, some examples of the model have been applied to clinical studies in young or healthy aged subjects. Indeed, a diverse set of compounds with unrelated pharmacological properties have shown efficacy in reversing the amnestic and sedating actions of scopolamine in clinical trials (Table 17.1). In preclinical studies, perhaps the two most widely used rodent tasks for studying or screening cognition-enhancing drugs are the inhibitory avoidance and the water maze tasks. However, clinical versions of these tasks are not well established. Computer-presented operant tasks designed for assessing the cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimers disease are available such as the CogState() product [27,28] and the CANTAB() product [29,30]. Computer presented cognitive test procedures are becoming more prevalent in the clinical cognitive testing domain. Therefore, there would be some advantage to having available preclinical models that are more relevant than those often used for preclinical drug screening.
One hundred years ago, the German psychiatrist and neuropathologist Alois Alzheimer gave a lecture in which he identified a disease of the cerebral cortex [1] that would ultimately bear his name: Alzheimers disease (AD). In individuals with this condition, the cerebral cortex is thinner than normal and senile plaques, along with neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), are found in the brain [2]. In the early 1980s, the biochemical characterization of senile plaques in patients with Downs syndrome and AD led to the identification of amyloid- (A) peptide as a major component. Thereafter, it was determined that A is a product of the A protein precursor (APP). The importance of A/APP in the pathogenesis of AD is evidenced by the fact that genetic mutations in the APP gene invariably cause AD in cases with the early onset familial form of the disease [35]. The relationship between APP and A caused the research community to respond with quick enthusiasm for A and laid the foundation for the amyloid cascade hypothesis [4,6]. The amyloid cascade hypothesis states that mutations in APP (or other genes) lead to an increase in A and that this then leads to disease. While the original hypothesis [6] posited A fibrils as the major mediator of the disease, a more recent incarnation of the hypothesis [4] proposes smaller oligomeric forms of A as key. In both cases, A is viewed as being important in mediating the neuronal and synaptic toxicity that leads to the deterioration of cognition [7]. Likewise, a steady influx of research began to elucidate the role of NFTs and their principal protein component, phosphorylated tau, in the brain and how these pathological entities related to the symptomatology of AD [8]. While the pathological significance of A and NFTs in disease, as well as their interaction is still under much discussion [9,10], the majority of investigators in the field are convinced that they play fundamental roles in the onset and progression of AD. That said, other theories of AD, unrelated to NFTs and A deposits, are also being actively pursued (for review see [1115]). Nevertheless, the development of transgenic mouse models of AD over the last decade has primarily focused on the pathological markers (NFTs and senile plaques), and such transgenic models have become promising tools to decipher the mechanistic importance of tau phosphorylation and A deposits, as well their relationship between each other and the other pathological changes. While seemingly obvious, it is important to remember that the validity of a mouse model of disease is tightly linked to the ability of the animal to mimic the signs of the diseasein the case of AD, cognitive decline. The aim of this review is to discuss cognitive function in transgenic mouse models focused predominantly on A and tau models and, thereafter, the validity of these models to study AD and the mechanistic questions that have arisen based on their behavioral phenotype [16,17].
Over the past half century great strides have been made in the development of useful animal models for the drug abuse triadself-administration, physical or psychological dependence, and withdrawal. In fact, the compulsion to self-administer cocaine even in the face of adverse consequences is not limited to human beings [1,2]. Practically, it is not that difficult to detoxify a drug addict, but the problem lies in the propensity for former addicts to relapse to drug-seeking behavior, a risk factor that does not appear to decrease in potency over time. Recently there has been an increasing focus on the issue of protracted withdrawal. This feature of drug addiction mirrors classical conditioning in that certain contextual cues or environmental stimuli associated with drug taking can readily initiate a form of withdrawal or craving in addicts that often leads to renewed drug seeking and relapse (for review, see [35]). Indeed, both the rat and human share common triggers of relapse, including the drug of abuse itself, stress, and stimuli or the environment conditioned to the drug of abuse [6]. Rodent models of human drug craving and relapse have used paradigms of extinction and reinstatement. Such models have shown predictive validity by demonstrating that clinically effective anti-craving drugs reduce drug-seeking behavior as a component of the model [7].
The conditioned place preference paradigm is a standard preclinical behavioral model used to study the rewarding and aversive effects of drugs. Although a number of different designs and apparatuses are used in this model, the basic characteristics of this task involve the association of a particular environment with drug treatment, followed by the association of a different environment with the absence of the drug (i.e., the drugs vehicle). A common variation of this design consists of a three-compartment chamber with the outer compartments being designed to have different characteristics (e.g., white vs. black walls, pine vs. corn bedding, horizontal grid vs. cross-grid flooring). The center compartment has no special characteristics and is not paired with a drug, and the gates between the compartments can be opened to allow an animal to pass freely between them. During training, an animal (typically a rat or mouse) is given an injection of a drug with potentially rewarding or aversive properties, and is then placed into one of the outer compartments for several minutes. On the following day, the rat is injected with the drugs vehicle and then placed in the opposite compartment. Generally, these daily sessions alternate between drug and vehicle for 2 or 3 days each. Afterward, a test session is conducted, which consists of placing the animal in the center compartment and then, after opening the gates to both of the outer compartments, recording the time the animal spends in each of the outer compartments during the session. A conditioned place preference (CPP) is found if the animals spend significantly more time in the drug-paired compartment versus the vehicle-paired compartment. On the other hand, if the animals spend significantly more time in the vehicle-paired compartment versus the drug-paired compartment, then this is considered a conditioned place aversion (CPA). Typically, drugs of abuse, such as cocaine, produce CPP, and drugs that elicit aversive effects, such as lithium chloride, produce CPA. As with other behavioral models used in pharmacology research, the behavioral effects of drugs used in the CPP paradigm depend on species, strain, route of administration, time interval of drug administration, dose concentration, and the CPP apparatus used. Many drugs of abuse produce both CPP and CPA, depending on the dose administered. In drug-dependent animals, withdrawal effects generally produce CPA. Because the CPP paradigm generally provides a reliable indicator for studying the rewarding effects of drugs that require relatively little training compared to self-administration paradigm, the CPP paradigm has been commonly used in conjunction with standard neuroscience techniques to elucidate the subjective effects of drugs (Table 4.1).
With contributions from more than 40 field specialists, Methods of Behavior Analysis in Neuroscience reflects six years of updates to its first bestselling edition and elucidates new behavioral approaches that are quickly becoming field standards. This second edition features new material on the relevance of transgenic mouse models for Alzheimer's disease, behavioral methods for assessing the cognitive impairment associated with major psychotic disorders, the revival of the scopolamine reversal model for assessing the clinical relevance of new AD drugs, and new approaches to assessing the cognitive impairment in aged mice.
Accepted taxonomies of memory typically distinguish among different kinds of remembering depending upon the information that must be remembered. A basic dichotomy distinguishes between the retention of factual or experiential information on the one hand, and the retention of habits and motor skills on the other. Factual memory can be further differentiated into working and reference memory. As first described by Werner Honigs group [1], working memory is required when different stimuli govern the criterion response on different trials, so that the cue that the animal must remember varies from trial to trial. Thus, working memory is required for remembering information that varies unpredictably in time and/or in content: it is this type of memory that is decimated in Alzheimers disease and other dementias [2]. In contrast, reference memory is used to retain information that remains constant over time (e.g., removing the cup from a baited well provides access to food). The study of working memory processes is generally accomplished using delayed response (DR) tasks and, within the confines of even relatively short test sessions, one can readily assess processes associated with short-term memory using these procedures. In such tasks, one presents a bit of information (a sample) to a subject, withdraws that information, waits for a period of time (recall delay), then presents that same bit of information along with a comparison bit and asks the subject to identify (choose) which bit of information was presented previously. This process is then repeated across a number of trials. DR tasks using nonhuman primates as surrogates are used primarily to determine the biological underpinnings of human learning and memory processes and their associated mechanisms. The complex brain functions associated with the performance of these tasks can be assessed using a variety of approaches, and the careful monitoring of behavioral outputs provides important experimental advantages. Many of the different types of assessments of memory processes have evolved from studies ranging from those employing neuroanatomical lesions to electrophysiological recordings and, more recently, neuroimaging techniques. Goldman-Rakic et al. have shown the importance of the prefrontal cortex in the performance of DR tasks in nonhuman primates by employing lesions and electrophysiological and neuroimaging techniques [36]. Brain lesion experiments in monkeys have also demonstrated the importance of the hippocampus and its relevance to performance in DR tasks [7]. Through the use of lesions, Zola et al. (2000) and Squire (2004) have also demonstrated the importance of the medial temporal lobe in performance of these types of tasks in monkeys [8,9]. Taken together these and other studies have elucidated the importance of the prefrontal cortex in visual-spatial functions, inhibition of behavior (temporal mechanisms), decision making, working memory, problem solving, planning, and organizing. Likewise, the findings that the hippocampal formation (medial temporal lobe) is important in memory consolidation, associative memory formation, declarative memory, and recognition memory stem from these and similar studies. The prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal formation are two brain areas intricately involved in the performance of DR tasks. The understanding of short-term memory and, more specifically, working memory has benefited greatly from this work.
Although the worms may not be universally accepted as having a direct relevance for AD pathology, they are well suited for validation of target A toxicity in vivo [12,21]. The absence of endogenous A production in the worms offers an opportunity to find a direct role of the A involvement in pathological behaviors [22]. In addition, predominantly intracellular expression of A provides another tool to address specific roles of intracellular A in relation to its toxicity. Substantial evidence implicates intracellular A oligomers in early events related to AD [16]. Intracellular A has also been observed in human brain neurons [23] and in triple transgenic AD mouse models, where its accumulation preceded neurofibrillary tangle formation [24]. This evidence supports the notion that A toxicity assayed in the worm model reflects A toxicity in mammalian neurons. A recent study indicates that the transgenic C. elegans model may be generally relevant to the proteotoxicity underlying neurodegenerative diseases [25]. Additionally, the strain has been used to investigate the role of insulin-like signaling and heat-shock factor in A proteotoxicity [26,27], providing excellent examples for the relevance of the C. elegans model to AD. There are several advantages of C. elegans over the mouse model for initial drug screening and target characterization. First, there are highly conserved biochemical pathways between worms and humans. Second, established transgenic mutant linking of human A expression with pathological behavioral phenotypes are easy to score. The worms have a relatively low cost of cultivation because of their small size, rapid life cycle, and short life span [28], which allow screening of thousands of animals over multiple generations on microtiter plates. The simple structure of its nervous system, consisting of only 302 neurons in an adult nematode, makes it valuable for screening drugs against age-associated neurodegeneration and the ease of genetic manipulations, which is evident in the availability of mutants and application of RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown. Several examples illustrate the power of C. elegans in screening for new drugs [29], including many known human drugs [30,31]. Some lead molecules originating from worm-based screening assays are in advanced stages of drug discovery [11]. Using the C. elegans model in the past years, we have uncovered effects of natural compounds on extension of the worms life span; [32] on a stress response protein, the small heat-shock protein hsp-16.2; [33] on age-related behavioral declines; [34] on muscle degeneration; [35] and on A-expression-induced pathological behaviors [22]. Most of those experiments would be difficult and might be impossible to perform in mice. In this chapter, we describe methods we have employed for compound screening and pharmacological evaluations of potential AD drugs using the C. elegans model.
The psychoactive effect of a drug usually refers to a chemical agent that exerts an action upon the central nervous system (CNS), alters brain function, and, consequently, produces a temporary change in an individuals mood, feelings, perception, and/or behavior. Such agents may be prescribed as therapeutic medications or used (or abused) as recreational drugs. In each case, the subjective effects produced by such agents are generally not accessible to independent verification by an observer. However, methods were developed about 50 years ago whereby human subjects could self-rate their experiences on questionnaires after administration of a drug [1]. Generally, these self-inventories require subjects to provide information about themselves and are considered valuable because they venture below the surface to glean the effect of a drug on an individual. Also, they are convenient because they (usually) do not require the services of a group of raters or interviewers. Their chief disadvantage may be that individuals might not completely understand the effect of the drug or their drug experience and therefore might not always give an accurate report. The drug discrimination (DD) paradigm is an assay of, and relates to, the subjective effect of drugs in nonhuman animals or humans. In a typical DD experiment, there are four basic components: (1) the subject, (2) the dose of drug that exerts an effect on the subject and precedes a response by the subject, (3) an appropriate (or correct) response, and (4) presentation of reinforcement. The drug effect that leads to a behavioral event (i.e., particular response) and signals that reinforcement is available is called the discriminative stimulus. A wide variety of psychoactive drugs can serve as discriminative stimuli (see below). In laboratory subjects, discriminative control by (usually) two treatments is established through the use of reinforcement (reward). When subjects receive a dose of a drug, it functions as a signal that prompts a correct behavioral response and results in the presentation of a reward. In other words, the effect of the drug is used as a help or aid to control appropriate behavioral responding by signaling that reinforcement is (or will be) available. Subjects are usually trained to distinguish administration of a particular dose of a particular drug (i.e., the training dose of a training drug) from administration of saline vehicle (i.e., usually a 0.9% sodium chloride solution that is often used as a solvent for many parenterally administered drugs). In a subjects course of training sessions, the dose of drug is administered (i.e., drug sessions) and lever presses on the drug-designated lever (for that subject) produce reinforcement. In other training sessions, saline is administered (i.e., vehicle sessions) and responses on the (alternate) saline-designated lever produce reinforcement. The DD procedure can be characterized as a highly sensitive and very specific drug detection method that provides both quantitative and qualitative data on the effect of a training drug in relation to the effect of a test (i.e., challenge) agent. Historically, DD studies are linked by a common requirement that subjects must perform an appropriate (or correct) response that indicates a distinction was made between drug and nondrug conditions. As such, when employed with animals or humans, a subjects response permits an experimenter to determine if a drug effect has been perceived. An excellent source of information on DD studies can be found at the Drug Discrimination Bibliography Web site (http://www.dd-database.org). The Web site, established and maintained by Drs. Ian P. Stolerman and Jonathan B. Kamien, is funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and contains close to 4000 DD references published between 1951 and the present. The citations include DD abstracts, journal articles, reviews, book chapters, and books. In addition, the Web site can be navigated to selectively retrieve references on particular training drugs, drug classes, test drugs, authors, and DD methodologies.
Understanding what an animal learns when exposed to novelty is of great interest to behavioral neuroscientists, but it can be challenging to understand what information is acquired in a particular learning session. The behavior of an animal has to be quantified using either visual or mechanical measures of a particular response. One way of elucidating mechanisms involved in discrete learning sessions is to study associative learning processes. Simplistically, associative learning is an adaptive process that allows an organism to learn to anticipate events. One form of associative learning that has been used in multiple species, including humans, is eye-blink conditioning. The most common species used, the rabbit, has yielded interesting results, especially in identifying and elucidating the involvement of the cerebral cortex. Similar procedures have been used in cats, rats, and humans. Another form of associative learning that has gained popularity with behavioral pharmacologists is fear conditioning. While the eye-blink procedure has overlap with context/cue fear conditioning and in many cases yields similar results, there are some basic differences between fear conditioning and eye-blink conditioning. One main difference is that eye-blink conditioning takes many more training trials to establish. Fear conditioning has gained popularity, in large part as a result of the need to characterize mutant mice and the effects of genetic alterations; therefore, this chapter primarily focuses on fear conditioning. Fear conditioning to either a cue or a context represents a form of associative learning that has been well used in many species [1]. The majority of the experiments reported in the literature involve the mouse; however, there is also a generous proportion of the literature devoted to the rat. There are also several reports in higher species that are not covered in this chapter. In general any of the procedures described in this chapter can be used for either the rat or the mouse. The dependent measure used in contextual and cued (delay or trace) fear conditioning is a freezing response that takes place following pairing of an unconditioned stimulus (US), such as foot shock or air puff, with a conditioned stimulus (CS), a particular context and/or such a cue. In the case of rats and mice, this US is generally a foot shock. Obviously, if in a conditioning context one administers a foot shock that is paired with a tone, there will be learning not only to the tone, but also to the context. Two types of conditioning that are typically employed are delay or trace conditioning. Delay conditioning refers to a situation in which the US is administered to co-terminate with or occur immediately after the CS. Trace conditioning differs from delay conditioning in that the US follows an empty (trace) interval that separates the cessation of the CS from the onset of the US. Trace conditioning adds additional complexity to delay conditioning, as the time interval between the CS and US requires the formation of a temporal relationship between the two stimuli. In this chapter we discuss the various challenges inherent in this type of procedure in order to enable the experimenter to set the conditions to best answer the questions being posed. One of the biggest advantages of cued and contextual fear conditioning in the rodent is that they are forms of passive learning that can be used in many strains of mice and rats, even when more pronounced motor deficits are problematic in other learning assays. As a consequence of these procedural advantages, contextual fear conditioning is gaining popularity, especially in the phenotyping of transgenic mice.
Depression is one of several disorders affecting mood, along with mania, hypomania, and bipolar disorders. The present chapter focuses on behavioral assessment of antidepressant action in animals with a focus on simple tests performed in rodents. Many of the primary symptoms of depression (depressed mood, low self-esteem, guilt, difficulty in concentration, suicidal ideation, thoughts of death) are by their nature difficult to model in animals. This problem is further confounded by their unknown etiology. Several theories have been proposed [1] but most theories of depression concur in suggesting that stressful life events play an important role. There is also a small genetic component, as demonstrated by substantially increased risk in families with heritability being estimated at between 40% and 70%, leading to a much greater incidence than observed in the general population, which is nevertheless very high at around 10% [2].
Human anxiety disorders are broadly grouped according to symptomology and responsiveness to pharmacological and psychological treatment [1,2]. Generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder are the two primary classifications of pathological anxiety in humans. The distinguishing feature of generalized anxiety disorder is a pervading sense of unrealistic worry about everyday life situations. In contrast, panic attacks constitute the primary symptom of panic disorder. These events are characterized as sudden, extreme fear accompanied by autonomic nervous system arousal [3]. Similar changes in physiological indicators and behavioral responses to fear and painful stimuli in humans and other animals suggest the possibility of homologous or analogous, ethologically motivated defensive responses [410] In the description of human anxiety disorders, the concepts of state and trait anxiety have a long history. However, it is only recently that these concepts have been suggested as a means of differentiating situational anxiety-like behavior in rodents from anxiety that transcends the situation and is an enduring condition in the animal [11]. The former is the focus of the rodent behavioral tests reviewed in this chapter. Procedures are designed to trigger ethologically relevant conflict or conditioned behaviors. The latter is most often associated with selective breeding, e.g., the high versus low anxiety-related traits in the high anxiety-related behavior (HAB) versus low anxiety-related behavior (LAB) rats [12], inbred mouse strains such as BALB/c, and mice with relevant targeted gene mutations [13,14]. In an attempt to model human pathological anxiety in rodents, a wide range of behavioral testing paradigms have been developed [8,1519]. Many of these tests induce a fearful response through an aversive event or anticipated aversive event. Others integrate an approachavoidance conflict designed to inhibit an ongoing behavior that is characteristic for the animal, such as contrasting the tendency of mice to engage in exploratory activity or social investigation against the aversive properties of an open, brightly lit, or elevated space. The premise that basic physiological mechanisms underlying fear in rodents can be equated to similar mechanisms operating in humans provides a degree of face validity for these paradigms [7,9,10]. In rodents, these responses are deemed appropriate and adaptive for the current conditions, whereas in humans, anxiety disorders constitute maladaptive or pathological responses to the existing situation. Further exploration of rodent neuroanatomy and neurochemistry involved in fear extinction and inhibition of conditioned fear could offer important insights into effective targets for novel pharmacological treatment of pathological human anxiety [20]. Although rats have been the rodent of choice for much of the preclinical research on anxiety-like behavior, recent technical advances in molecular genetics have placed the mouse in the forefront of neuropsychiatric research [7,13,2126]. This has resulted in the adaptation of many well-validated behavioral tests of anxiety from rats to mice, with varying degrees of success. This chapter offers a sampling of well-established tests of anxiety-like behavior in mice that use an ethological conflict. The interested researcher is directed to the classic source literature for more information on other types of anxiety-based tests, including conditioning paradigms [2729], punishment-induced conflict tests [18,19,30,31], developmental models [32,33], and aversive tests [5,34].
Over the years, drug self-administration procedures in animals have been found to be valid and reliable for determining the abuse liability of drugs in humans. It is well established that animals will self-administer most drugs that are abused by humans [16,17]. In particular, studies in nonhuman primates have made a significant contribution to the field of drug abuse research. Nonhuman primates are ideal subjects since they are phylogenetically more closely related to humans than are other species [18]. Potential species differences in drug metabolism also illustrate the importance of nonhuman primate models in substance abuse research. Thus, we can apply information obtained from nonhuman primates to problems of human drug abuse with greater accuracy. This chapter discusses methods of self-administration in non-human primates, including different preparations and schedules of drug reinforcement. While the focus is primarily on self-administration of psychoactive stimulants such as cocaine, the methodology and general principles apply to other pharmacological classes including opiates, benzodiazepines, and alcohol.
Water maze tasks have been used for over a quarter century in testing rodent spatial navigation memory [1]. Although initially developed for rats, they have also been useful in evaluating memory in mice, often using scaled down pool sizes. The major advantage of the water maze tasks over dry mazes is increased motivation to escape, and hence more rapid performance within the maze. Typical trials in water mazes are limited to 60 sec, while dry maze trials often last much longer. This permits higher throughput and increased efficiency when large numbers of animals require evaluation.
Since the early part of the 20th century, a variety of experimental procedures have been developed for animals that employ the escape from water as a means to motivate learning and memory processes [14]. Water maze tasks primarily designed to measure spatial learning and recall have become quite useful for evaluating the effects of aging, experimental lesions, and drug effects, especially in rodents. For more than 25 years the Morris water maze (MWM) [5] has been the task most extensively used and accepted by behavioral physiologists and pharmacologists. A cursory literature search revealed that well over 2500 journal articles have been published since 1982 in which this model (or variations of the model) was used to assess and compare spatial learning and memory in rodents. The MWM, while simple at first glance, is a challenging task for rodents that employs a variety of sophisticated mnemonic processes. These processes encompass the acquisition and spatial localization of relevant visual cues that are subsequently processed, consolidated, retained, and then retrieved in order to successfully navigate and thereby locate a hidden platform to escape the water [5] (see also review [6]). The general processes used for visuospatial navigation in rats also contribute considerably to human day-to-day cognitive processes. Importantly, several lines of evidence confirm the utility of the model for investigations relevant to the study of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric illnesses where cognition is impaired (e.g., Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease, schizophrenia). While one would readily acknowledge the differences in complexity between human and rodent behaviors, several salient observations regarding the utility of the MWM are notable: (1) The functional integrity of forebrain cholinergic systems, which are essential for efficient performance of the MWM, appears to be consistently disrupted in patients who suffer from AD. This disruption correlates well with the degree of dementia (see reviews [7,8]) and is also present in many PD patients who suffer cognitive decline [9,10]. (2) Cortical and hippocampal projections from the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) and medial septum (MS), respectively, are reproducibly devastated in AD (reviewed [7]) and accordingly, reductions in central cholinergic activity in rodents resulting from brain lesions (e.g., NBM, MS, etc.) and age reproducibly impair spatial learning in the MWM (reviewed [6]). (3) Other data implicate the hippocampus as an essential structure for place learning [11], which, incidentally, is commonly atrophic in patients with AD [12,13]. It is interesting to note that the hippocampal formation (in particular the hippocampal-dentate complex and the adjacent entorhinal cortex), which undergoes significant degeneration with age (and particularly so in the setting of dementia), is believed to be intimately involved in cognitive mapping and the facilitation of context-dependent behavior in a changing spatio-temporal setting (reviewed [14]). Evidence to support this premise is now available from living humans where computerized virtual water maze tasks have been shown to be highly sensitive to hippocampal dysfunction. For example, in a virtual analogue of the classic MWM hidden platform task (with a three-dimensional pool), patients with unilateral hippocampal resections were severely impaired in their performance relative to age-matched controls and age-matched patients who had extra-hippocampal resections [15]. (4) Anticholinergic agents (e.g., scopolamine), which are routinely used to impair performance in the MWM, also impair memory in humans and worsen the dementia in those with AD [16] (see also review [17]). (5) Finally, it is also important to note that spatial orientation, navigation, learning, and recall (which are used extensively in the MWM) are quite commonly disrupted in patients with dementia. Visuospatial and visuoperceptual deficits and topographic disorientation are detectable very early in the course of AD and become more pronounced as the disease progresses [1820]. The common observations of spatial and visual agnosia in AD patients also indicate the disruption of complex processes that involve both visual pathways and mnemonic processing [21,22]. The MWM procedure offers a number of advantages as a means of assessing cognitive function in rodents when compared to others methods: (1) It requires no pretraining period and can be accomplished in a short period of time with a relatively modest number of animals. For example, young adult, unimpaired (control) rats can accomplish the most commonly employed versions of the task with asymptotic levels of performance achieved in 1020 trials, generally requiring no more than a few days of testing. (2) Through the use of training as well as probe or transfer trials, learning as well as retrieval processes (spatial bias) [5] can be analyzed and compared between groups. (3) The confounding nature of olfactory trails or cues is eliminated. (4) Through the use of video tracking devices and the measure of swim speeds, non-mnemonic behaviors or strategies (i.e., taxon, praxis, thygmotaxis, etc.) can be delineated and motoric or motivational deficits can be identified. (5) Visible platform tests can identify gross visual deficits that might confound interpretation of results obtained from standard MWM testing. (6) By changing the platform location, both learning and relearning experiments can be accomplished. Accordingly, several doses of experimental drugs can be tested in the same group of animals. (7) While immersion into water may be somewhat unpleasant, more aversive procedures such as food deprivation or exposure to electric shock are circumvented. (8) Through the use of curtains, partitions, etc., operation of the video tracking system by the experimenter out of site of the test subjects also reduces distraction. (9) Finally, the MWM is quite easy to set up in a relatively small laboratory, is comparatively less expensive to operate than many types of behavioral tasks, and is easy to master by research and technical personnel. We have found the method quite useful in drug discovery and development studies for screening compounds for potential cognitive enhancing effects [23], as well as delineating deleterious effects of neurotoxicants on cognition [24]. For a more extensive discussion of the various MWM procedures and their advantages, see Morris [5] and reviews [6,25,26].
Models are used to represent complex problems in simplified formsphysics, chemistry, and biology all make good use of models. The most familiar are the mathematical sorts that form the basis of natural science theory. In the life sciences, the concept of modeling can extend further to include experimental procedures and nonhuman subjects. For example, a neuroscientist might employ a rat running in a radial-arm maze to study working memory processes, or a mouse in an open-field test to study anxiety. The value of a model is primarily a function of its fidelity: in the case of a theoretical model, fidelity is measured in terms of predicted findings; in the case of biological models, the issue is couched in terms of validity. It is this second kind of model that concerns us in this chapter on neuroscience methods, where the challenge of model species is particularly acute because behavioral and brain processes are both extraordinarily complex, and the problem is to find species that display both interesting behavior and easily accessible neural processes. Rats and mice, unquestionably the most successful models in neuroscience, have been extremely effective in helping determine which mammalian brain regions and neurotransmitter systems involved in cognition, learning, and other varieties of behavioral function. But the invertebrate Aplysia, a marine mollusk, has also served as a molecular model of memory processes [1]. Such seemingly unrelated model species are useful to the extent that they balance external validity, simplicity, and cost. Most recently these considerations have led researchers in behavioral neuroscience to use fish, a sort of middle ground between rodents and mollusks. In this chapter we review progress in the behavioral neuroscience of the diminutive zebrafish (Danio rerio), a species that has already firmly established itself as a model of vertebrate development, and now opens new doors for the investigation of brain mechanisms. Zebrafish are sometimes identified as an alternative model (relative to classic rodent models), but the term complementary model might be more appropriate since it addresses the use of fish in addition to classic mammalian models. Some questions, such as about the role of frontal cortical and hippocampal structures in learning and memory, cannot be studied with fish since these are not evident (but see [2]). But other attributes of fish make them valuable models in behavioral neuroscience research. Developmental processes can be continuously visualized in species that have a clear chorion (egg sack). Reporter systems can highlight specific neural systems so that their proliferation, differentiation, migration, and projections can be easily discerned. Reversible genetic suppression through the morpholino technique can determine the importance of specific molecular mechanisms for neurodevelopment. Numerous mutants available also help with the evaluation of molecular mechanisms throughout life. Finally, fish are easily bred in great numbers and develop rapidly, reducing the cost of experimentation and significantly increasing research throughputpotentially, more experiments can be run in less time to answer any number of questions. The merit of fish models is now a matter of record. Zebrafish, in particular, have been well used in genetics, neuroscience, pharmacology, and toxicology (e.g., see [37]). The next and ongoing step is to extend the zebrafish model to pursue questions of behavioral neuroscience, an undertaking that requires valid, reliable, and efficient methods of behavioral assessment.
The basal ganglia were once believed to function as part of an extrapyramidal motor system, operating separately from the pyramidal tract [1,2]. However, this concept has been discarded for two fundamental reasons. First, the basal ganglia have been shown to be an intrinsic part of well-defined anatomical circuits that not only receive cortical input but also send projections, via the thalamus, back to those cortical areas that control motor output. Second, a wealth of experimental work has shown that the striatum, the main input structure for the basal ganglia, can no longer be regarded purely as a motor structure. The observation that striatal damage could induce deficits in cognitive function led researchers such as H. Enger Rosvold and Ivan Divac to state that the striatum may reflect the function of those areas of neocortex that project to it [3]. These pioneers investigating striatal function laid the foundation for the functional loop concept that proposes multiple, topographically arranged basal ganglia circuits that serve as substrates for motor, oculomotor, prefrontal, and limbic functions [4]. The theory that the striatum may mediate a wide variety of functions reflecting its diverse cortical innervation has become evident in studies of patients with basal ganglia disorders. Thus, impairments in cognitive function are now well documented in patients with neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntingtons disease (HD) or Parkinsons disease (PD), disorders which were once regarded as entirely movement related. Attempts to examine disease states such as HD in experimental animals can provide both insight into normal brain function and a means by which to assess potential therapeutic strategies. In either scenario, an operant analysis of behavior can prove particularly powerful. The detailed functional analyses that are permitted by operant paradigms not only allow more specific questions to be asked of normal brain function, but can also provide experimental paradigms that are extremely sensitive to brain insults and subsequent recovery.
The purpose of the workshop was to convene representatives from a variety of voluntary health organizations with experience in establishing and developing translational research programs supported by venture philanthropy strategies. Participants provided valuable insight into a wide range of considerations for other voluntary health organizations who are seeking to start or develop their translational research programs. Discussions centered on best practices and lessons learned in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness in translational research.
Dual-task performance as it relates to driving, such as tuning a radio or manipulating a cellular phone, forces drivers to divide their attention between the traffic demands and the in-car task. The present study investigated how concurrent spatial or non-spatial cognitive distractions mediated proximity judgments using vehicular stimuli. Utilizing a modified version of the task employed by [Elias, L.J., Robinson, B. in press. Drive on the right side of the road: perceptual asymmetries for judgments of automobile proximity. International Journal of Neuroscience.] the current study examined how mental navigation (spatial distraction) affected accuracy and response time for depth judgments on vehicular stimuli in each visual field. These were compared to a control condition in which no distraction was present, as well as when a semantic (non-spatial) distraction was present. We found that conversation of a navigational nature (i.e., spatial distraction) most negatively impacted accuracy and response time when processing dynamically changing vehicle proximity. Further, these deleterious effects appeared to be uniform throughout the visual field. Findings are related to driving while being distracted, with particular emphasis on the role of cerebral lateralization in dual-task performance.


Basal encephalocoeles are rare congenital abnormalities of the skull base. The authors describe a rare case of spontaneous CSF leak and meningitis secondary to an intra-sphenoidal encephalocoele. Initial endoscopic transsphenoidal repair was unsuccessful, necessitating a combined subtemporal and transsphenoidal approach to close the defect.





The hippocampal involvement in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients has been known for more than a decade, however, its relationship to clinical manifestations including memory deficits and topographical differentiation from Alzheimer disease (AD) remain unclear. In order to clarify the anatomopathological features in the hippocampus and their relevance to disease-specific memory deficits in ALS patients, topography and cytopathology of the hippocampal lesions along the perforant pathway were quantitatively and semiquantitatively surveyed in 14 ALS patients with extramotor involvement. These pathological findings were compared with clinical characteristics assessed from their clinical records. Cytoplasmic inclusions initially appear in the granular cells of the dentate gyrus (DG) and superficial small neurons of the transentorhinal cortex (TEC) with mild subicular degeneration (stage I: inclusion stage). Subsequent gliosis and neuronal loss of the TEC, concomitant with presynaptic degeneration of the outer molecular layer of the DG, suggests an extension of the degeneration through the perforant pathway (stage II: early perforant stage). In a more advanced stage, the presynaptic degeneration is more evident with moderate to severe neuronal loss in the TEC (stage III: advanced perforant stage). This advanced stage was associated with episodic memory deficits mimicking AD in some ALS patients. This ALS pathology initiated by cytoplasmic inclusions and neuronal loss in layer II-III of the TEC is different from neurofibrillary tangles of AD, dominant in layer II-III of the entorhinal cortex. Because this involvement of the TEC-molecular DG projection and subiculum is specific to ALS, it will provide a basis for clinical characterization of memory deficits of ALS, which could be distinct from those of AD.
There are no conventional lymphatics in the brain but physiological studies have revealed a substantial and immunologically significant lymphatic drainage from brain to cervical lymph nodes. Cerebrospinal fluid drains via the cribriform plate and nasal mucosa to cervical lymph nodes in rats and sheep and to a lesser extent in humans. More significant for a range of human neurological disorders is the lymphatic drainage of interstitial fluid (ISF) and solutes from brain parenchyma along capillary and artery walls. Tracers injected into grey matter, drain out of the brain along basement membranes in the walls of capillaries and cerebral arteries. Lymphatic drainage of antigens from the brain by this route may play a significant role in the immune response in virus infections, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and multiple sclerosis. Neither antigen-presenting cells nor lymphocytes drain to lymph nodes by the perivascular route and this may be a factor in immunological privilege of the brain. Vessel pulsations appear to be the driving force for the lymphatic drainage along artery walls, and as vessels stiffen with age, amyloid peptides deposit in the drainage pathways as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Blockage of lymphatic drainage of ISF and solutes from the brain by CAA may result in loss of homeostasis of the neuronal environment that may contribute to neuronal malfunction and dementia. Facilitating perivascular lymphatic drainage of amyloid-beta (Abeta) in the elderly may prevent the accumulation of Abeta in the brain, maintain homeostasis and provide a therapeutic strategy to help avert cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease.

The extracellular space (ECS) diffusion parameters influence the movement of ions, neuroactive substances, hormones and metabolites in the nervous tissue. They also affect extrasynaptic transmission, a mode of signal transmission dependent solely on diffusion. This review compares in detail two methods for studying diffusion in the brain: the real-time iontophoretic tetramethylammonium method for ECS volume fraction and tortuosity measurements and diffusion weighted-magnetic resonance imaging for measuring the apparent diffusion coefficient of water. The results obtained using both methods under physiological conditions (post-natal development, ageing) or in pathologies (brain injury, ischaemia) and their similarities and differences are discussed.
The neuronal doctrine, which shaped the development of neuroscience, was born from a long-lasting struggle between reticularists, who assumed internal continuity of neural networks and neuronists, who defined the brain as a network of physically separated cellular entities, defined as neurones. Modern views regard the brain as a complex of constantly interacting cellular circuits, represented by neuronal networks embedded into internally connected astroglial syncytium. The neuronal-glial circuits endowed with distinct signalling cascades form a 'diffuse nervous net' suggested by Golgi, where millions of synapses belonging to very different neurones are integrated first into neuronal-glial-vascular units and then into more complex structures connected through glial syncytium. These many levels of integration, both morphological and functional, presented by neuronal-glial circuitry ensure the spatial and temporal multiplication of brain cognitive power.
Binge Drinking (BD) pattern is firmly established among adolescents and young people. This pattern has raised a strong concern within the neuroscience community due to its possible impact on specific brain regions still maturing. Research with animal models demonstrates that BD may have serious structural and functional effects during these ages. Some regions like the prefrontal cortex or the hippocampus and the cognitive processes in which these structures play a role seem to be specific targets of alcohol. Results provided by the scarce studies carried out in humans support the evidence from previous animal experiments. However, we are far from being able to answer if this pattern of consumption has a special effect in the adolescent brain and what the short and long-term consequences are. Common limitations in human studies include the insufficient control of powerful confounding factors, the use of designs that does not allow differentiation between markers and effects, the use of reduced samples and the lack of replication studies. Although the innocuousness hypothesis is no longer sustained and experimental evidence has accumulated showing the risk associated with BD, results have been somewhat overinterpretated. The valuable contributions of cross-sectional designs should be complemented by the contributions of prospective longitudinal studies with appropriated sample sizes and a higher control of critical variables in order to identify short and long-term structural and neurocognitive consequences.
This historical review of gliogenesis begins with Schwann's introduction of the cell doctrine in 1839. Subsequent microscopic studies revealed the cellular structure of many organs and tissues, but the CNS was thought to be different. In 1864, Virchow created the concept that nerve cells are held together by a &quot;Nervenkitte&quot; which he called&quot;glia&quot; (for glue). He and his contemporaries thought that &quot;glia&quot; was an unstructured, connective tissue-like ground substance that separated nerve cells from each other and from blood vessels. Dieters, a pupil of Virchow, discovered that this ground substance contained cells, which he described and illustrated. Improvements in microscopes and discovery of metallic impregnation methods finally showed convincingly that the &quot;glia&quot; was not a binding substance. Instead, it was composed of cells, each separate and distinct from neighboring cells and each with its own characteristic array of processes. Light microscopic studies of developing and mature nervous tissue led to the discovery of different types of glial cells-astroglia, oligodendroglia, microglia, and ependymal cells in the CNS, and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Subsequent studies characterized the origins and development of each type of glial cell. A new era began with the introduction of electron microscopy, immunostaining, and in vitro maintenance of both central and peripheral nervous tissue. Other methods and models greatly expanded our understanding of how glia multiply, migrate, and differentiate. In 1985, almost a century and a half of study had produced substantial progress in our understanding of glial cells, including their origins and development. Major advances were associated with the discovery of new methods. These are summarized first. Then the origins and development of astroglia, oligodendroglia, microglia, ependymal cells, and Schwann cells are described and discussed. In general, morphology is emphasized. Findings related to cytodifferentiation, cellular interactions, functions, and regulation of developing glia have also been included.
Meso-diencephalic dopamine neurons (mdDA) neurons are located in the retrorubral field (RRF), substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) and give rise to prominent ascending axon projections. These so-called mesotelencephalic projections are organized into three main pathways: the mesostriatal, mesocortical and mesolimbic pathways. Mesotelencephalic pathways in the adult nervous system have been studied in much detail as a result of their important physiological functions and their implication in psychiatric, neurological and neurodegenerative disease. In comparison, relatively little is known about the formation of these projection systems during embryonic and postnatal development. However, understanding the formation of mdDA neurons and their projections is essential for the design of effective therapies for mdDA neuron-associated neurological and neurodegenerative disorders. Here we summarize our current knowledge of the ontogeny of mdDA axon projections in subsystems of the developing rodent central nervous system (CNS) and discuss the cellular and molecular mechanisms that mediate mdDA axon guidance in these CNS regions.
In this chapter we review work on neurotrophic factors for midbrain dopaminergic neurons mainly from the past decade, with a focus on neurotrophins and fibroblast growth factors. We summarize data obtained from animal models of Parkinson's disease, review analyses of neurotrophin, neurotrophin receptor and FGF-2 knockout mice and put these into context with data obtained from patients with Parkinson's disease and from postmortem studies. We provide a brief overview on several other factors (EGF, TGF-alpha, IGF, CNTF, PDGF, interleukins) and their capacity to promote survival and protect lesioned DAergic neurons. TGF-betas are reviewed in a separate chapter (Roussa et al, this volume).


The brain contains a number of distinct regions that share expression ofdopamine (DA) and its requisite biosynthetic machinery, but otherwise encompass a diverse array of features and functions. Across the vertebrate family, the olfactory bulb (OB) contains the major DA system in the forebrain. OB DA cells are primarily periglomerular interneurons that define the glomerular structures in which they receive innervation from olfactory receptor neurons as well as mitral and tufted cells, the primary OB output neurons. The OB DA cells are necessary for both discrimination and the dynamic range over which odorant sensory information can be detected. In the embryo, OB DA neurons are derived from the ventricular area of the evaginating telencephalon, the dorsal lateral ganglionic eminence and the septum. However, most OB DA interneurons are generated postnatally and continue to be produced throughout adult life from neural stem cells in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and rostral migratory stream. Adult born OB DA neurons are capable of integrating into existing circuits and do not appear to degenerate in Parkinson's disease. Several genes have been identified that regulate the differentiation of OB DA interneurons from neural stem cells. These include transcription factors that modify the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the first enzyme in the DA biosynthetic pathway and a reliable marker of the DA phenotype. Elucidation of the molecular genetic pathways of OB DA differentiation may advance the development of strategies to treat neurological disease.

Pulmonary neuroepithelial bodies (NEB) act as airway oxygen sensors and produce serotonin, a variety of neuropeptides and are involved in autonomic nervous system control of breathing, especially during the neonatal period. We now report that NEB cells also express a GABAergic signaling loop that is increased by prenatal nicotine exposure. In this study, cultured monkey NEB cells show hypoxia-evoked action potentials and hypoxia-sensitive K(+) current. As shown by both immunofluorescence and RT-PCR, monkey NEB cells synthesize and contain serotonin. The monkey NEB cells express the beta2 and beta3 GABA_A receptor subunits, GAD and also express alpha7, alpha4 and beta4 nicotinic receptor (nAChR) subunits. The alpha7 nAChR is co-expressed with GAD in NEB. The numbers of NEB and beta3 GABA_A receptor subunits expressed in NEB cells in lungs from control newborn monkeys were compared to lungs from animals that received nicotine during gestation. Prenatal nicotine exposure increased the numbers of NEB by 46% in lung and the numbers of NEB cells expressing GAD and GABA_A beta3 receptors increased by 67% and 66%, respectively. This study suggests that prenatal nicotine exposure can modulate NEB function by increasing the numbers of NEB cells and by increasing both GAD expression and beta3 GABA_A receptor subunit expression. The interaction of the intrinsic GABAergic system in the lung with nicotinic receptors in PNEC/NEB may provide a mechanism to explain the link between smoking during pregnancy and SIDS.
Many animals rely on vision for navigating through complex environments and for avoiding specific obstacles during locomotion. Navigation and obstacle avoidance are tasks that depend on gathering information about the environment by vision and using this information at later times to guide limb and body movements. Here we review studies demonstrating the use of short-term visual memory during walking in humans and cats. Our own investigations have demonstrated that cats have the ability to retain a memory of an obstacle they have stepped over with the forelegs for many minutes and to use this memory to guide stepping of the hindlegs to avoid the remembered obstacle. A brain region that may be critically involved in the retention of memories of the location of obstacles is the posterior parietal cortex. Recordings from neurons in area 5 in the posterior parietal cortex in freely walking cats have revealed the existence of neurons whose activity is strongly correlated with the location of an obstacle relative to the body. How these neurons might be used to regulate motor commands remains to be established. We believe that studies on obstacle avoidance in walking cats have the potential to significantly advance our understanding of visuo-motor transformations. Current knowledge about the brain regions and pathways underlying visuo-motor transformations during walking are reviewed.

Human immunodeficiency virus Type 1 (HIV-1) infection and associated diseases continue to represent major health problem worldwide. FOXO transcriptional factors play an important role in the regulation of cell apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, stress resistance, metabolism and differentiation. This chapter will discuss the diverse functions of FOXO in different cell types including T-cells, macrophages, neurons and astrocytes within the context of HIV-1 infection. Given the overwhelming evidence that FOXO proteins influence the cell fate of immune cells and involve in the homeostasis of the central nervous system (CNS), we will also discuss the potential role of FOXO factors in HIV-1-associated neurological disorders.
Despite effective and safe therapies for major depressive disorder (MDD), the current arsenal of antidepressant therapies does not fully satisfy the needs of patients or physicians. Many patients are only partial responders or are treatment resistant and side effects interfere with compliance. The majority of antidepressants directly affect monoamine neurotransmission within the central nervous system. Moving beyond this mechanism has been a challenge because of the lack of knowledge about the underlying etiology and pathophysiology of MDD. Provided in this report is a review of some of the major new advances in MDD research that suggest the possibility of novel and improved future therapeutic options. Emphasis is placed on studies of unipolar, but not bipolar, depression. New therapies include dual and triple monoamine uptake inhibitors, non-conventional antidepressants such as tianeptine, and a number of augmentation strategies. In addition, studies are underway on a number of mechanisms of action that might yield the next therapeutic advance. These include agents that interact with endocannabiniod systems, examination of natural products, and compounds that influence neuropeptide systems such as galanin and melanin-concentrating hormone, and growth and neurotrophic factors. Epigenetic mechanisms involving histone modification are also being explored. An area of intensive investigation is glutamate neurotransmission. Data support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor antagonists are effective in MDD individuals resistant to conventional therapies. The potential of metabotropic glutamate receptors as novel targets is also discussed. Accumulating evidence supports the idea that amplification of AMPA receptor function is a critical link in the transduction processes involved antidepressant effects.
Epidemiological studies have established that sleep disorders are common and often untreated. Besides having a negative impact on overall health, these conditions can significantly disrupt normal daily functions. While a number of drugs are employed in the treatment of sleep disorders, safety, tolerability, and variable efficacy limit their utility. Clinical developments in the area have been facilitated especially by advances in neurobiology and neuropharmacology. In this regard, a wide array of neuroactive substances has been found to be responsible for regulating sleep and wakefulness. Advances in the understanding of neurotransmitter and hormone receptor mechanisms and classifications have led to new opportunities for developing novel therapeutics for treating sleep disorders. Provided in this report is an overview of some of the more prevalent sleep disorders, including narcolepsy, insomnia, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, and restless legs syndrome, with a summary and critique of medications used to treat these conditions. For each disorder, information is provided on recent approaches taken to develop novel therapeutics based on laboratory findings relating to the underlying biological abnormalities associated with the condition, in addition to approaches that leverage existing therapeutics to develop new treatment options for patients. Significant advances in the future await a better understanding of the underlying pathophysiology of these conditions and of the neurobiological alterations associated with these disorders. It is hoped that some of the research directions described herein will stimulate additional research in this area and thereby help foster the discovery of novel agents for treating major sleep disorders.
TPA023 is a GABA(A) alpha2/alpha3 subtype-selective modulator which in preclinical species has anxiolytic-like activity but does not produce sedative-like properties and is without abuse potential. It has good oral bioavailability in rat and dog but not in rhesus monkey (respective oral bioavailability values of 36, 54, and 1%), and in all the three species the half-life after i.v. administration was relatively short (0.6-1.5 h). The plasma concentrations of TPA023 required to produce 50% receptor occupancy were 21-25, 19, and 9 ng/mL in rats, baboons, and humans, respectively. In man, TPA023 has a half-life of around 3-6h when administered as an immediate release formulation, but exposure was more prolonged when it was formulated into a controlled release, gel extrusion module (GEM) tablet. In vivo metabolism was via t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation. A drug-drug interaction study with itraconazole confirmed in vitro metabolic results implicating CYP3A enzymes as the major contributors to in vivo oxidative metabolism. The maximum tolerated doses in healthy, normal volunteers were 2 and 8mg for the immediate-release and GEM formulations, respectively. A post hoc analysis of three separate Phase IIa studies, all of which were halted prematurely, showed that TPA023 reduced scores on the Hamilton Anxiety Scale to a significantly greater extent than placebo. In addition, TPA023 has recently been reported to produce a trend toward improved cognitive performance in a small group of schizophrenia patients. Collectively, these data demonstrate that the alpha2/alpha3-selective partial agonist efficacy of TPA023 translates into a novel pharmacological profile.
In the in vivo experiments on anaesthetized sheep, it was presently examined whether muscarinic receptor antagonists with diverse selectivity affect the release of VIP in response to electrical stimulation of the parasympathetic chorda tympanic nerve differently, and if the changes in the release could be associated to altered secretory and vasodilator responses. The location of the muscarinic receptor subtypes was examined also. In the experiments, blood was collected out of the submandibular venous drainage before and during electrical stimulation of chorda tympani nerve in the absence and presence either of pirenzepine or methoctramine. While metchoctramine increased the output of protein, pirenzepine inhibited flow of saliva and increased protein output, vasodilatation, and VIP output. In morphological examinations, the inhibitory muscarinic M4 receptor occurred interacinarily in the gland. It is concluded that prejunctional muscarinic receptors, most likely of the M4 subtype, exert inhibitory modulation of the parasympathetic release of VIP in the ovine submandibular gland.
Testosterone levels have been shown to decrease in the face of social defeat in several mammalian species. Among humans, the loss of social status has been studied primarily in the context of athletic competition, with winners having higher testosterone levels than losers. This study examined testosterone levels in relation to peer victimization (bullying) in a sample of 151 boys and girls aged 12-13. Statistically controlling for age and pubertal status, results indicated that on average verbally bullied girls produced less testosterone and verbally bullied boys produced more testosterone than their nonbullied counterparts. Similar trends were evident comparing social and physical bullying with testosterone. Sex differences are discussed in terms of empirically validated differences in coping styles, as girls tend to internalize, whereas boys tend to externalize, their abuse.




This paean composed on the occasion of the inaugural Bernauer W. Newton Trust presentation celebrates the personal and professional culture of 50 years of mentorship, teaching, and research by the American Society for Clinical Hypnosis (ASCH). This review of current neuroscience concepts of therapeutic hypnosis and psychotherapy is made possible by the cooperation and dedication of all members of our society. Emerging pathways of psychosocial genomic research, which will lead to new directions for our society, are highlighted for their impact on our professional practice in the present and future.



PROBLEM STATEMENT: Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) and its cognate targets, the Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMPs), were differentially expressed in human brain samples with or without HIV-1 infection or HIV-1 Encephalitis (HIVE). APPROACH: A through literature review demonstrated that cell culture models of Central Nervous System (CNS) cell types had been used to illustrate the intricate temporal patterns of TIMP-1/MMP expression, regulated by a variety of inflammatory cytokines. RESULTS: As MMPs and TIMP-1 can significantly altered the extracellular environment and cell signaling, the differential regulation of TIMP-1/MMP expression in neuroinflammation can impact neuronal function and survival in disease conditions. TIMP-1 pro-survival effects had been demonstrated in a variety of cell types including CNS neurons, protecting cells from a wide range of stress and insults. TIMP-1, also known to interact with non-MMP targets, altered cell behavior. In this review, we discussed the possibility that the upregulation of TIMP-1 by glia in acute neuroinflammation may be a neuroprotective response. CONCLUSION: It will be important to delineate the effects of TIMP-1 on neurons and identify receptors and downstream signaling pathways, in order to evaluate TIMP-1 as a therapeutic strategy for neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases.
The impact of parental substance use on the emotional and behavioral adjustment of their adolescent children was examined over 5 years. A representative sample of 220 parents with HIV (PWH) and 330 adolescent children in New York City were repeatedly assessed. Some parents never used marijuana or hard drugs over the 5 years (nonusers). Among those who were users, substance use varied over time. PWH who used substances during a specific 3-month period were classified as active users and those who abstained from substance use were classified as inactive users. Longitudinal regression analyses were used to analyze the impact of variations in patterns of substance use over time on their adolescent children's emotional adjustment and behavioral problems. PWH relapse exacerbated adolescent substance use, trouble with peers, and adolescent emotional distress. Even time-limited reductions in parents' substance abuse can have a significant positive impact on their adolescent children's emotional and behavioral adjustment. Interventions that address parental substance use among PWH should be developed to ameliorate the impact of substance use relapse on their adolescents.
The activity of placental amino acid transporters is decreased in intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), but the underlying regulatory mechanisms have not been established. Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway has been shown to decrease the activity of the system L amino acid transporter in human placental villous fragments, and placental mTOR activity is decreased in IUGR. In the present study, we used cultured primary trophoblast cells to study mTOR regulation of placental amino acid transporters in more detail and to test the hypothesis that mTOR alters amino acid transport activity by changes in transporter expression. Inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin significantly reduced the activity of system A (-17%), system L (-28%), and taurine (-40%) amino acid transporters. mRNA expression of isoforms of the three amino acid transporter systems in response to mTOR inhibition was measured using quantitative real-time PCR. mRNA expression of l-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1; a system L isoform) and taurine transporter was reduced by 13% and 50%, respectively; however, mTOR inhibition did not alter the mRNA expression of system A isoforms (sodium-coupled neutral amino acid transporter-1, -2, and -4), LAT2, or 4F2hc. Rapamycin treatment did not significantly affect the protein expression of any of the transporter isoforms. We conclude that mTOR signaling regulates the activity of key placental amino acid transporters and that this effect is not due to a decrease in total protein expression. These data suggest that mTOR regulates placental amino acid transporters by posttranslational modifications or by affecting transporter translocation to the plasma membrane.
Visceral hypersensitivity is the leading complaint of functional bowel disorders. Central sensitization mediated by glutamate receptor activation is implicated in pathophysiology of visceral pain. The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is the principal mediator of glutamate clearance to terminate glutamate-mediated responses. Transgenic mice overexpressing human EAAT2 (EAAT2 mice), which exhibited a twofold enhanced glutamate uptake, showed 39% less writhing response to intraperitoneal acetic acid than nontransgenic littermates. Moreover, EAAT2 transgenic mice showed a 53-64% reduction in visceromotor response (VMR) to colorectal distension (CRD) in assessments of the response to graded increase in pressures. Corroborating the involvement of enhanced glutamate uptake, wild-type mice treated for 1 wk with ceftriaxone, an EAAT2 expression activator, showed a 49-70% reduction in VMR to CRD. Moreover, systemic pretreatment with the selective EAAT2 transporter blocker dihydrokainate reversed the ceftriaxone-blunted nociceptive response to CRD. However, the enhanced VMR to CRD produced by intracolonic ethanol was not significantly attenuated by 1-wk ceftriaxone pretreatment. The data suggest that enhanced glutamate uptake provides protective effects against colonic distension-induced nociception and represents an exciting new mechanistic approach leading to better therapeutic options to visceral pain disorders.
It has been proposed that there is an &quot;apparent monosynaptic&quot; connection between gastric vagal afferent nerve terminals and inhibitory projection neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and that two efferent parallel pathways from the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) influence peripheral organs associated with these reflexes (6). The purpose of our study was to verify the validity of these views as they relate to basal control of gastric motility. To test the validity of a direct connection of vagal afferent terminals (known to release l-glutamate) directly impacting second-order projection neurons, we evaluated the effect of GABA(A) receptor blockade in the area of the medial subnucleus of the tractus solitarius (mNTS) on gastric motility. Microinjection of bicuculline methiodide into the mNTS produced robust decreases in gastric motility (-1.6 +/- 0.2 mmHg, P &lt; 0.05, n = 23), which were prevented by cervical vagotomy and by pretreatment with kynurenic acid microinjected into the mNTS. Kynurenic acid per se had no effect on gastric motility. However, after GABA(A) receptor blockade in the mNTS, kynurenic acid produced a robust increase in gastric motility. To test for the contribution of two parallel efferent DMV pathways, we assessed the effect of either intravenous atropine methylbromide or N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester on baseline motility and on decreases in gastric motility induced by GABA(A) receptor blockade in the mNTS. Only atropine methylbromide altered baseline motility and prevented the effects of GABA(A) receptor blockade on gastric motility. Our data demonstrate the presence of intra-NTS GABAergic signaling between the vagal afferent nerve terminals and inhibitory projection neurons in the NTS and that the cholinergic-cholinergic excitatory pathway comprises the functionally relevant efferent arm of the vagovagal circuit.
In complicated pregnancy, fetal hypoxemia rarely occurs in isolation but is often accompanied by fetal acidemia. There is growing clinical concern about the combined effects of fetal hypoxemia and fetal acidemia on neonatal outcome. However, the effects on the fetal defense responses to acute hypoxemia during fetal acidemia are not well understood. This study tested the hypothesis that fetal acidemia affects the fetal defense responses to acute hypoxemia. The hypothesis was tested by investigating, in the late-gestation sheep fetus surgically prepared for long-term recording, the in vivo effects of acute fetal acidemia on 1) the fetal cardiovascular responses to acute hypoxemia and 2) the neural and endocrine mechanisms mediating these responses. Under general anesthesia, five sheep fetuses at 0.8 gestation were instrumented with catheters and Transonic flow probes around the femoral and umbilical arteries. After 5 days, animals were subjected to an acute hypoxemia protocol during intravenous infusion of saline or treatment with acidified saline. Treatment with acidified saline reduced fetal basal pH from 7.35 +/- 0.01 to 7.29 +/- 0.01 but did not alter basal cardiovascular variables, blood glucose, or plasma concentrations of catecholamines, ACTH, and cortisol. During hypoxemia, treatment with acidified saline increased the magnitude of the fetal bradycardia and femoral vasoconstriction and concomitantly increased chemoreflex function and enhanced the increments in plasma concentrations of catecholamines, ACTH, and cortisol. Acidemia also reversed the increase in umbilical vascular conductance during hypoxemia to vasoconstriction. In conclusion, the data support our hypothesis and show that acute acidemia markedly alters fetal hemodynamic, metabolic, and endocrine responses to acute hypoxemia.
Persons with schizophrenia who have insight of their disorders might experience depression, hopelessness, and related suicidality. Although the concept of self-complexity appears to be highly relevant as a self-regulating mechanism in the process of coping with depression and hopelessness in populations without schizophrenia, it hardly plays a role in current discussions of the determinants of harmful insight in schizophrenia. In this article the correlates of the harmful impact of insight among persons with schizophrenia and the possible buffering role of self-complexity against harmful influences of insight are discussed.
Thirty years ago, the study of the brain lesions of a patient who had remained in a coma for eight years, together with my experience on the degree of wakefulness of animals with similar lesions, compelled me to reflecting on the level of consciousness that our patient had. Recent findings from functional magnetic resonance image, that have shown aspects of speech perception, emotional processing, language comprehension and even conscious awareness might be retained in patients who behaviourally meet all of the criteria that define the vegetative state, have allowed me to make new neuroscientists and ethical reflections.
Clinical Neurophysiology is a medical speciality whose aim is the study of the nervous and muscular system for diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic purposes. This article analyses the basic objective pursued by this discipline, the techniques it employs and its recognition as a medical speciality. The article briefly reviews its definition and scope, how it is structured at present and the future possibilities it offers.
Carbon-fiber microelectrodes (CFMEs) have been a useful tool for measuring rapid changes in neurotransmitters because of their small size, sensitivity, and good electrochemical properties. In this article, we highlight recent advances using CFMEs for measuring neurotransmitters in vivo. Dopamine has been a primary neurotransmitter of interest but direct electrochemical detection of other neurochemicals including nitric oxide and adenosine has also been investigated. Surface treatments have been studied to enhance electrode sensitivity, such as covalent modification or the addition of a layer of carbon nanotubes. Enzyme-modified microelectrodes that detect non-electroactive compounds further extend the usefulness of CFMEs beyond the traditional monoamines. CFMEs continue to be used in vivo to understand basic neurobiological mechanisms and the actions of pharmacological agents, including drugs of abuse. Advances in sensitivity and instrumentation now allow CFMEs to be used for measurements of natural dopamine release that occur during behavioral experiments. A new technique combining electrochemistry with electrophysiology at a single microelectrode facilitates a better understanding of neurotransmitter concentrations and their effects on cell firing. Future research in this field will likely concentrate on fabricating smaller electrodes and electrode arrays, as well as expanding the use of CFMEs in neuroscience beyond dopamine.
The breeding female or &quot;queen&quot; naked mole-rat has a uniquely elongated body morphology attributed to the lengthening of the lumbar vertebral column that occurs during pregnancy. It is unknown whether this vertebral growth is a continuous process, or associated only with early reproductive experience. We compared pregnancy-related bone elongation in nascent primiparous queens and established queens to determine if this vertebral expansion was a lifelong process in these females. We also investigated the impact of lactation on vertebral elongation in these mole-rats because it is known to be a time of significant bone loss in other mammals. Our data show that after eight or more pregnancies, established queens no longer experienced a net gain in lumbar spine length over the reproductive cycle, whereas the nascent breeders demonstrated significant spine lengthening over this time. Despite the lack of net spine lengthening in established breeders, our results indicated that these queens still experienced some pregnancy-specific vertebral elongation. In naked mole-rats, pregnancy-induced bone elongation may serve the dual purposes of first lengthening the spine, and then once optimal spine size is achieved, serving as a homeostatic mechanism that prepares the spine for the mineral demands of lactation. Anat Rec, 2009. (c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
This article discusses factors in the design, commissioning, project management, and intellectual property protection of developments within a new clinical anatomy facility in the United Kingdom. The project was aimed at creating cost-effective facilities that would address widespread concerns over anatomy teaching, and support other activities central to the university mission-namely research and community interaction. The new facilities comprise an engaging learning environment and were designed to support a range of pedagogies appropriate to the needs of healthcare professionals at different stages of their careers. Specific innovations include integrated workstations each comprising of a dissection table, with removable top sections, an overhead operating light, and ceiling-mounted camera. The tables incorporate waterproof touch-screen monitors to display images from the camera, an endoscope or a database of images, videos, and tutorials. The screens work independently so that instructors can run different teaching sessions simultaneously and students can progress at different speeds to suit themselves. Further, database access is provided from within an integrated anatomy and pathology museum and display units dedicated to the correlation of cross-sectional anatomy with medical imaging. A new functional neuroanatomy modeling system, called the BrainTower, has been developed to aid integration of anatomy with physiology and clinical neurology. Many aspects of the new facility are reproduced within a Mobile Teaching Unit, which can be driven to hospitals, colleges, and schools to provide appropriate work-based education and community interaction.
The increasing complexity of human body models enabled by advances in diagnostic imaging, computing, and growing knowledge calls for the development of a new generation of systems for intelligent exploration of these models. Here, we introduce a novel paradigm for the exploration of digital body models illustrating cerebral vasculature. It enables dynamic scene compositing, real-time interaction combined with animation, correlation of 3D models with sectional images, quantification as well as 3D manipulation-independent labeling and knowledge-related meta labeling (with name, diameter, description, variants, and references). This novel exploration is incorporated into a 3D atlas of cerebral vasculature with arteries and veins along with the surrounding surface and sectional neuroanatomy derived from 3.0 Tesla scans. This exploration paradigm is useful in medical education, training, research, and clinical applications. It enables development of new generation systems for rapid and intelligent exploration of complicated digital body models in real time with dynamic scene compositing from highly parcellated 3D models, continuous navigation, and manipulation-independent labeling with multiple features.
Some animals have been shown to be able to remember which type of food they hoarded or encountered in which location and how long ago (what-where-when memory). In this study, we test whether magpies (Pica pica) also show evidence of remembering these different aspects of a past episode. Magpies hid red- and blue-dyed pellets of scrambled eggs in a large tray containing wood shavings. They were allowed to make as many caches as they wanted. The birds were then returned either the same day or the next day to retrieve the pellets. If they returned the same day, one colour of pellets was replaced with wooden beads of similar size and colour, while if they returned the next day this would happen to the other colour. Over just a few trials, the birds learned to only search for the food pellets, and ignore the beads, of the appropriate colour for the given retention interval. A probe trial in which all items were removed showed that the birds persisted in searching for the pellets and not the beads. This shows that magpies can remember which food item they hoarded where, and when, even if the food items only differ from each other in their colour and are dispersed throughout a continuous caching substrate.
Over the last few years, psychiatry has had to deal more in depth with the mutation of social frames and of problems expressed by the community, which has changed itself, in particular at a cultural level. The historical attitude of psychiatry, which is to combine a scientific approach with recognizing the rights of all individuals involved in the healing system, can be very helpful in keeping services in touch with the new needs of society and places the neurosciences in a peculiar position.
While the function of dystrophin in muscle disease has been thoroughly investigated, dystrophin and associated proteins also have important roles in the central nervous system. Many patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies (D/BMD) have cognitive impairment, learning disability, and an increased incidence of some neuropsychiatric disorders. Accordingly, dystrophin and members of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex (DGC) are found in the brain where they participate in macromolecular assemblies that anchor receptors to specialized sites within the membrane. In neurons, dystrophin and the DGC participate in the postsynaptic clustering and stabilization of some inhibitory GABAergic synapses. During development, alpha-dystroglycan functions as an extracellular matrix receptor controlling, amongst other things, neuronal migration in the developing cortex and cerebellum. Several types of congenital muscular dystrophy caused by impaired alpha-dystroglycan glycosylation cause neuronal migration abnormalities and mental retardation. In glial cells, the DGC is involved in the organization of protein complexes that target water-channels to the plasma membrane. Finally, mutations in the gene encoding epsilon-sarcoglycan cause the neurogenic movement disorder, myoclonus-dystonia syndrome implicating epsilon-sarcoglycan in dopaminergic neurotransmission. In this review we describe the recent progress in defining the role of the DGC and associated proteins in the brain.
Actin cytoskeleton remodeling is a critical step of regulated exocytosis in many secretory cell types, including neuroendocrine cells. While the classical model considers the cortical actin network as a physical barrier preventing the uncontrolled recruitment of secretory granules to the plasma membrane docking sites, recent evidence supports the idea that actin polymerization also plays a more active role in the late stages of exocytosis. However, the molecular machinery underlying this positive function of actin in the course of exocytosis remains largely unknown. Here, we propose that the neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factor, intersectin-1L, activates the GTPase Cdc42, which in turn provides de novo actin filaments that are important for calcium-regulated exocytosis in PC12 cells.
Together with the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins, fusogenic cone-shaped lipids, such as phosphatidic acid (PA), have been recently shown to be important actors in membrane fusion during exocytosis. Phospholipase D (PLD) appears to be the main provider of PA at the exocytotic site in neuroendocrine cells. We show here that ribosomal S6 kinase 2 (RSK2) stimulates PLD activity through the phosphorylation of Thr147 in the PLD1 amino-terminal Phox-homology domain. In PC12 cells, depletion of RSK2 dramatically prevents PA synthesis at exocytotic sites and inhibits hormone release. Expression of PLD1 phosphomimetic mutants fully restores secretion in cells depleted of RSK2, suggesting that RSK2 is a critical upstream signaling element in the activation of PLD1 to produce the lipids required for exocytosis.
G(i/o) protein-coupled receptors, signaling through G protein-dependent and protein-independent pathways, have prominent effects on secretion by modulating calcium signaling and regulating the size of the releasable secretory pool, the rates of exocytosis and endocytosis, and de novo synthesis. Pituitary cells fire action potentials spontaneously, and the associated calcium influx is sufficient to maintain prolactin (PRL) release but not gonadotropin release at high and steady levels for many hours. Such secretion, termed intrinsic, spontaneous, or basal, reflects fusion of secretory vesicles triggered by the cell type-specific pattern of action potentials. In lactotrophs, activation of endothelin ET(A) and dopamine D(2) receptors causes inhibition of spontaneous electrical activity and basal adenylyl cyclase activity accompanied with inhibition of basal PRL release. Agonist-induced inhibition of cAMP production and firing of action potentials is abolished in cells with blocked pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G(i/o) signaling pathway. However, agonist-induced inhibition of PRL release is only partially relieved in such treated cells, indicating that both receptors also inhibit exocytosis downstream of cAMP/calcium signaling. The PTX-insensitive step in agonist-induced inhibition of PRL release is not affected by inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase and glycogen synthase kinase-3 but is partially rescued by downregulation of the G(z)alpha expression. Thus, ET(A) and D(2) receptors inhibit basal PRL release not only by blocking electrical activity but also by desensitizing calcium-secretion coupling.
Phosphatidylinositol-4, 5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P(2)] has been implicated in the priming of large dense-core vesicles in many secretory cells; however, its role in the Ca(2+)-dependent secretory activity in pituitary cells remains elusive. We assessed the effect of elevated intracellular PI(4,5)P(2) on the kinetics of Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, using a whole-cell patch-clamp technique in wild-type mouse melanotrophs from fresh pituitary tissue slices. We found that 1 micromol/L PI(4,5)P(2) significantly increased Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis of vesicles that need to go through ATP-dependent reactions; however, the exocytosis of release-ready vesicles (ATP-independent release) and voltage-activated Ca(2+) currents remained unaffected. We suggest that PI(4,5)P(2) increases the size of the readily releasable vesicle pool by regulating the effectiveness of vesicular mobilization and fusion in an ATP-dependent manner.
In rapid synapses, neurotransmitter quanta are emitted in less than 100 mus, often at a high frequency. Using fast cryofixation of synapses, we found a very brief (2-3 ms) change affecting intramembrane particles in presynaptic membrane. Vesicle openings also occurred but after a significant delay. The particle change is most probably linked to mediatophore, a proteolipid of 220 kDa. Mediatophore aggregates were demonstrated in active zones of the presynaptic membrane. Reconstituted in liposomes, Xenopus oocytes, and neuroblastoma cells, mediatophore releases acetylcholine in a Ca(2+)-dependent and quantal manner, mimicking physiological release. In restricted presynaptic &quot;nanodomains,&quot; Ca(2+) concentration explosively reaches a high level and then vanishes with a time constant of 300-400 micros. Among the processes contributing to the fast phase of Ca(2+) buffering, a vesicular Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport plays a major role. Energized by the Vesicular-ATPase-dependent proton gradient, the antiport has a low affinity for Ca(2+). We inactivated the Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport using bafilomycin A1, which annihilates the proton gradient. As a result, the postsynaptic potential was increased in duration for about 3 ms, an effect caused by persistence of transmitter release. A similar change was obtained by replacing extracellular Ca(2+) by strontium, which inhibits the antiport. The antiport function, therefore, is to abbreviate the presynaptic Ca(2+) signal, making transmitter release briefer. This allows transmission to operate at high frequency. Following a brief period of stimulation, calcium transiently accumulates in synaptic vesicles where it is exchanged against transmitter. Calcium is subsequently cleared from the terminal, most probably by exocytosis.
The aim of this study was to define when an insulin-positive cell becomes functional in vivo and starts to exocytose insulin in a regulated nutrient-dependent manner. Insulin-positive cells appear in embryonic life (midgestation) and complete their maturation, presumably around birth. In order to work with embryonic and newborn endocrine pancreas, we used organotypic slices. The mouse embryonic pancreas slices show high basal insulin release that is not further elevated by high glucose levels. Despite the presence of functional voltage-activated ion channels, the cells are not electrically active in the presence of secretagogues. At birth, the high basal insulin release drops and, after postnatal day 2, the insulin-positive cells show both adult-like bursting electrical activity and hormone release induced by high glucose levels. These properties allowed us to define them as beta cells. Despite the apparent stability of the transcription factor profile reported in insulin-positive cells during late-embryonic life, functional beta cells appear only 2 days after birth.

The mechanisms involved in selective motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis remain unknown more than 135 years after the disease was first described. Although most cases have no known cause, mutations in the gene encoding Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) have been implicated in a fraction of familial cases of the disease. Transgenic mouse models with mutations in the SOD1 gene and other ALS genes develop pathology reminiscent of the disorder, including progressive death of motor neurons, and have provided insight into the pathogenesis of the disease but have consistently failed to predict therapeutic efficacy in humans. However, emerging research has demonstrated that mutations and pathology associated with the TDP-43 gene and protein may be more common than SOD1 mutations in familial and sporadic ALS. Putative mechanisms of toxicity targeting motor neurons include oxidative damage, accumulation of intracellular aggregates, mitochondrial dysfunction, defects in axonal transport, growth factor deficiency, aberrant RNA metabolism, glial cell pathology, and glutamate excitotoxicity. Convergence of these pathways is likely to mediate disease onset and progression.

Multipotent retinal progenitors undergo a varied number of divisions to produce clones of heterogeneous sizes and cell types. We describe the transition from a proliferating progenitor to a differentiated postmitotic cell and discuss how controls of proliferation operate within individual cells as well as in the whole tissue. We discuss how extracellular and intracellular signaling, transcriptional regulation, cell cycle kinetics, interkinetic nuclear migration, orientation of cell division, and epigenetic modifications all interact to regulate a progenitor's transition from division to differentiation. We also propose some directions for future research.
This review describes the three classical models (mosaic, positional, and polarization) proposed to explain blastocyst formation and summarizes the evidence concerning them. It concludes that the polarization model incorporates elements of the other two models and best explains most known information. I discuss key requirements of a molecular basis for the generation and stabilization of polarity and identify ezrin/E-cadherin, PAR proteins, and Cdx2 as plausible key molecular players. I also discuss the idea of a network process operating to build cell allocations progressively into committed differences. Finally, this review critically considers the possibility of developmental information being encoded within the oocyte and zygote. No final decision can be reached on a mechanism of action underlying any encoded information, but a cell interaction process model is preferred over one that relies solely on differential inheritance.
Fast exocytosis of synaptic vesicles differs from other membrane fusion reactions by being under tight temporal control by the intracellular calcium concentration. This is achieved by subjecting the SNARE-dependent fusion pathway to additional layers of control, both upstream and downstream of the assembly of the fusogenic SNARE-complex. Here, I review conflicting views on the function of the core fusion machinery consisting of the SNAREs, Munc18, complexin, and synaptotagmin. Munc18 controls docking of vesicles to the plasma membrane and initial SNARE-complex assembly, whereas complexin and synaptotagmin cooperate in holding the SNARE complex in an intermediate release-ready or cocked state. Different effects of complexin and synaptotagmin shape the energy landscape for fusion and make final fusion calcium triggered. The final steps are fusion pore formation and expansion, which allow release of the water-soluble vesicle content. The fusion pore remains the most elusive part of the exocytosis pathway, owing to its short lifetime.
In the past 25 years, the field of HIV prevention research has been transformed repeatedly. Today, effective HIV prevention requires a combination of behavioral, biomedical, and structural intervention strategies. Risk of transmitting or acquiring HIV is reduced by consistent male- and female-condom use, reductions in concurrent and/or sequential sexual and needle-sharing partners, male circumcision, and treatment with antiretroviral medications. At least 144 behavioral prevention programs have been found effective in reducing HIV transmission acts; however, scale up of these programs has not occurred outside of the United States. A series of recent failures of HIV-prevention efficacy trials for biomedical innovations such as HIV vaccines, treating herpes simplex 2 and other sexually transmitted infections, and diaphragm and microbicide barriers highlights the need for behavioral strategies to accompany biomedical strategies. This challenges prevention researchers to reconceptualize how cost-effective, useful, realistic, and sustainable prevention programs will be designed, delivered, tested, and diffused. The next generation of HIV prevention science must draw from the successes of existing evidence-based interventions and the expertise of the market sector to integrate preventive innovations and behaviors into everyday routines.
Since the work of Golgi and Cajal, light microscopy has remained a key tool for neuroscientists to observe cellular properties. Ongoing advances have enabled new experimental capabilities using light to inspect the nervous system across multiple spatial scales, including ultrastructural scales finer than the optical diffraction limit. Other progress permits functional imaging at faster speeds, at greater depths in brain tissue, and over larger tissue volumes than previously possible. Portable, miniaturized fluorescence microscopes now allow brain imaging in freely behaving mice. Complementary progress on animal preparations has enabled imaging in head-restrained behaving animals, as well as time-lapse microscopy studies in the brains of live subjects. Mouse genetic approaches permit mosaic and inducible fluorescence-labeling strategies, whereas intrinsic contrast mechanisms allow in vivo imaging of animals and humans without use of exogenous markers. This review surveys such advances and highlights emerging capabilities of particular interest to neuroscientists.
We review the modulatory effects of the catecholamine neurotransmitters noradrenaline and dopamine on prefrontal cortical function. The effects of pharmacologic manipulations of these systems, sometimes in comparison with the indoleamine serotonin (5-HT), on performance on a variety of tasks that tap working memory, attentional-set formation and shifting, reversal learning, and response inhibition are compared in rodents, nonhuman primates, and humans using, in a behavioral context, several techniques ranging from microiontophoresis and single-cell electrophysiological recording to pharmacologic functional magnetic resonance imaging. Dissociable effects of drugs and neurotoxins affecting these monoamine systems suggest new ways of conceptualizing state-dependent fronto-executive functions, with implications for understanding the molecular genetic basis of mental illness and its treatment.
Neurons are among the most highly polarized cell types in the body, and the polarization of axon and dendrites underlies the ability of neurons to integrate and transmit information in the brain. Significant progress has been made in the identification of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the establishment of neuronal polarity using primarily in vitro approaches such as dissociated culture of rodent hippocampal and cortical neurons. This model has led to the predominant view suggesting that neuronal polarization is specified largely by stochastic, asymmetric activation of intracellular signaling pathways. Recent evidence shows that extracellular cues can play an instructive role during neuronal polarization in vitro and in vivo. In this review, we synthesize the recent data supporting an integrative model whereby extracellular cues orchestrate the intracellular signaling underlying the initial break of neuronal symmetry leading to axon-dendrite polarization.
Mood disorders collectively account for a substantial proportion of disease burden across the globe and have a devastating impact on quality of life and occupational function. Here we evaluate recent progress in understanding the neurocognitive mechanisms involved in the manifestation of mood disorders. We focus on four domains of cognitive function that are altered in patients with depression: executive control, memory, affective processing, and feedback sensitivity. These alterations implicate a distributed neural circuit composed of multiple sectors of the prefrontal cortex in interaction with subcortical regions (striatum, thalamus) and temporal lobe structures (amygdala, hippocampus). Affective processing and feedback sensitivity are highly sensitive to serotonergic manipulation and are targeted by antidepressant treatments. By drawing together cognitive, neuroanatomical, and pharmacological tiers of research, we identify treatment targets and directions for future investigation to identify people at risk, minimize relapse, and maximize long-term beneficial outcomes for those suffering from depression.
Serotonin is a neuromodulator that is extensively entangled in fundamental aspects of brain function and behavior. We present a computational view of its involvement in the control of appetitively and aversively motivated actions. We first describe a range of its effects in invertebrates, endowing specific structurally fixed networks with plasticity at multiple spatial and temporal scales. We then consider its rather widespread distribution in the mammalian brain. We argue that this is associated with a more unified representational and functional role in aversive processing that is amenable to computational analyses with the kinds of reinforcement learning techniques that have helped elucidate dopamine's role in appetitive behavior. Finally, we suggest that it is only a partial reflection of dopamine because of essential asymmetries between the natural statistics of rewards and punishments.
Sensory experience and learning alter sensory representations in cerebral cortex. The synaptic mechanisms underlying sensory cortical plasticity have long been sought. Recent work indicates that long-term cortical plasticity is a complex, multicomponent process involving multiple synaptic and cellular mechanisms. Sensory use, disuse, and training drive long-term potentiation and depression (LTP and LTD), homeostatic synaptic plasticity and plasticity of intrinsic excitability, and structural changes including formation, removal, and morphological remodeling of cortical synapses and dendritic spines. Both excitatory and inhibitory circuits are strongly regulated by experience. This review summarizes these findings and proposes that these mechanisms map onto specific functional components of plasticity, which occur in common across the primary somatosensory, visual, and auditory cortices.
Neuroimaging, especially BOLD fMRI, has begun to identify how variability in brain function contributes to individual differences in complex behavioral traits. In parallel, pharmacological fMRI and multimodal PET/fMRI are identifying how variability in molecular signaling pathways influences individual differences in brain function. Against this background, functional genetic polymorphisms are being utilized to understand the origins of variability in signaling pathways as well as to model efficiently how such emergent variability impacts behaviorally relevant brain function. This article provides an overview of a research strategy seeking to integrate these complementary technologies and utilizes existing empirical data to illustrate its effectiveness in illuminating the neurobiology of individual differences in complex behavioral traits. The article also discusses how such efforts can contribute to the identification of predictive markers that interact with environmental factors to precipitate disease and to develop more effective and individually tailored treatment regimes.
The ultimate goal of neural interface research is to create links between the nervous system and the outside world either by stimulating or by recording from neural tissue to treat or assist people with sensory, motor, or other disabilities of neural function. Although electrical stimulation systems have already reached widespread clinical application, neural interfaces that record neural signals to decipher movement intentions are only now beginning to develop into clinically viable systems to help paralyzed people. We begin by reviewing state-of-the-art research and early-stage clinical recording systems and focus on systems that record single-unit action potentials. We then address the potential for neural interface research to enhance basic scientific understanding of brain function by offering unique insights in neural coding and representation, plasticity, brain-behavior relations, and the neurobiology of disease. Finally, we discuss technical and scientific challenges faced by these systems before they are widely adopted by severely motor-disabled patients.
Diffusion imaging can be used to estimate the routes taken by fiber pathways connecting different regions of the living brain. This approach has already supplied novel insights into in vivo human brain anatomy. For example, by detecting where connection patterns change, one can define anatomical borders between cortical regions or subcortical nuclei in the living human brain for the first time. Because diffusion tractography is a relatively new technique, however, it is important to assess its validity critically. We discuss the degree to which diffusion tractography meets the requirements of a technique to assess structural connectivity and how its results compare to those from the gold-standard tract tracing methods in nonhuman animals. We conclude that although tractography offers novel opportunities it also raises significant challenges to be addressed by further validation studies to define precisely the limitations and scope of this exciting new technique.
The development of precise connectivity patterns during the establishment of the nervous system depends on the regulated action of diverse, conserved families of guidance cues and their neuronal receptors. Determining how these signaling pathways function to regulate axon growth and guidance is fundamentally important to understanding wiring specificity in the nervous system and will undoubtedly shed light on many neural developmental disorders. Considerable progress has been made in defining the mechanisms that regulate the correct spatial and temporal distribution of guidance receptors and how these receptors in turn signal to the growth cone cytoskeleton to control steering decisions. This review focuses on recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms mediating growth cone guidance with a particular emphasis on the control of guidance receptor regulation and signaling.
Theories tell how and why things work; how and why one variable is related to another. Research findings that are theory based can be placed in a framework that advances science further than findings that are unconnected to formal theory. However, much of the research in smoking cessation is atheoretical. This review of nursing research on smoking cessation published from 1989 through 2008 revealed that nearly half of the studies were based on explicit formal theories. The transtheoretical model and self-efficacy theory were the most frequently used explicit theories with most theories emanating from psychology. Five nursing theories were identified in this review. Studies that used implicit rather than explicit theories dealt with five major concepts: nicotine dependence, social support, high-risk situations, mood-affect, and the influence of clinical diagnosis. Largely missing from this set of studies were investigations based on biobehavioral models, including genetics and neuroscience. The relevance of the theories and concepts identified in this review to current clinical guidelines on smoking cessation is discussed. With their grounding in theory and their expert knowledge of clinical issues, nurses are in an excellent position to develop theories that will help researchers in every discipline make sense of smoking cessation.
Feeding is a physiological process, influenced by genetic factors and the environment. In recent years, many studies have been performed to unravel the involvement of genetics in both eating behavior and its pathological forms: eating disorders and obesity. In this review, we provide a condensed introduction on the neurological aspects of eating and we describe the current status of research into the genetics of eating behavior, primarily focused on specific traits such as taste, satiation, and hunger. This is followed by an overview on the genetic studies done to unravel the heritable background of obesity and eating disorders. We examine the discussion currently taking place in the field of genetics of complex disorders and phenotypes on how to perform good and powerful studies, with the use of large-scale whole-genome association studies as one of the possible solutions. In the final part of this review, we give our view on the latest developments, including endophenotype approaches and animal studies. Studies of endophenotypes of eating behavior may help to identify core traits that are genetically influenced. Such studies would yield important knowledge on the underlying biological scaffold on which diagnostic criteria for eating disorders could be based and would provide information to influence eating behavior toward healthier living.
Given the very difficult odyssey of my early years, who could have imagined the incredible and successful journey that constituted my life path after age 13? I was born into a Jewish family in Breslau, Germany, right before the rise of Nazism and Hitler's election. After Kristallnacht, when my father was taken to Buchenwald Concentration Camp, we had to leave Germany as soon as possible. The first opportunity came in May of 1939, when we boarded the SS St. Louis bound for Havana, Cuba. Almost all passengers were denied entrance into Cuba, and the ship had to go back to Europe, where I ended up in France. In December of 1939, during World War II, I was fortunate to be able to leave France. This time I made it to Cuba, where my father was already in residence. A year later, my entire family was allowed into the United States. I took advantage of all the educational resources in this land of opportunity. I graduated valedictorian of my high school class and earned a four-year scholarship to Rutgers University, where I obtained a Bachelor of Science degree. I went on to earn a Master's degree from the University of Connecticut and finally a PhD from the University of Illinois. Within two months after graduating from Illinois, I was hired as an assistant professor of nutritional biochemistry at Rutgers, where I enjoyed a most productive research and teaching career. My PhD research involved tryptophan and niacin metabolism in the chick, and upon arrival at Rutgers I continued amino acid studies with the goal of assessing the essential amino acid requirements for egg production. This research was crowned with success and was followed with amino acid requirement studies for maintenance and for growth in rabbits, and ultimately with a reevaluation of requirements in adult humans. An outgrowth of the maintenance requirements led to a series of investigations into the metabolism of histidine, histamine, and carnosine (a histidine-containing dipeptide). Histamine, we found, plays an important role in wound healing and stress management. Pyridoxal phosphate is the cofactor for the enzyme histidine decarboxylase required for histamine synthesis and similarly serves as a cofactor for hydroxytryptophan decarboxylase, the enzyme that is part of the pathway to serotonin synthesis. Investigations into these pathways led to interesting findings: brain concentrations of serotonin could be increased by supplementing the diet of rats with tryptophan and pyridoxine; the elevated brain serotonin levels had behavioral consequences. Alcohol craving, addiction, and withdrawal symptoms are affected by serotonin concentrations in the brain, and alleviation of these conditions can be achieved with simultaneous administration of serotonin and dopamine agonists. In the midst of our early amino acid studies, we serendipitously also became involved with lipid metabolism in relation to atherosclerosis and blood cholesterol in a chicken model. This work led to the recognition that soluble fibers, like pectin, had strong cholesterol-lowering properties that were beneficial in lowering the incidence of coronary plaque formation. The research success that I have enjoyed has been coupled with the gift of three accomplished children who are making important contributions as professionals in their fields of endeavor. My wife and I are also blessed with 10 wonderful grandchildren, our pride and joy!
In the early twentieth century, Sir Henry Dale and others described brilliant studies of autonomic neurotransmission utilizing acetylcholine and noradrenaline. However, within the past 60 years, new discoveries have changed our understanding of the organization of the autonomic nervous system, including the structure and function of the nonsynaptic autonomic neuroeffector junction, the multiplicity of neurotransmitters, cotransmission, neuromodulation, dual control of vascular tone by perivascular nerves and endothelial cells, the molecular biology of receptors, and trophic signaling. Further, it is now recognized that an outstanding feature of autonomic neurotransmission is the inherent plasticity afforded by its structural and neurochemical organization and the interaction between expression of neural mediators and environmental factors. In this way, autonomic neurotransmission is matched to ongoing changes in demands and can sometimes be compensatory in pathophysiological situations.
A number of exciting findings have been made in astrocytes during the past 15 years that have led many researchers to redefine how the brain works. Astrocytes are now widely regarded as cells that propagate Ca(2+) over long distances in response to stimulation, and, similar to neurons, release transmitters (called gliotransmitters) in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner to modulate a host of important brain functions. Although these discoveries have been very exciting, it is essential to place them in the proper context of the approaches used to obtain them to determine their relevance to brain physiology. This review revisits the key observations made in astrocytes that greatly impact how they are thought to regulate brain function, including the existence of widespread propagating intercellular Ca(2+) waves, data suggesting that astrocytes signal to neurons through Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate, and evidence for the presence of vesicular machinery for the regulated exocytosis of gliotransmitters.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) are key activity-dependent signals regulating synaptic transmission throughout the central nervous system. Accordingly, eCBs are involved in neural functions ranging from feeding homeostasis to cognition. There is great interest in understanding how exogenous (e.g., cannabis) and endogenous cannabinoids affect behavior. Because behavioral adaptations are widely considered to rely on changes in synaptic strength, the prevalence of eCB-mediated long-term depression (eCB-LTD) at synapses throughout the brain merits close attention. The induction and expression of eCB-LTD, although remarkably similar at various synapses, are controlled by an array of regulatory influences that we are just beginning to uncover. This complexity endows eCB-LTD with important computational properties, such as coincidence detection and input specificity, critical for higher CNS functions like learning and memory. In this article, we review the major molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying eCB-LTD, as well as the potential physiological relevance of this widespread form of synaptic plasticity.
There is a convergence between cognitive models of imitation, constructs derived from social psychology studies on mimicry and empathy, and recent empirical findings from the neurosciences. The ideomotor framework of human actions assumes a common representational format for action and perception that facilitates imitation. Furthermore, the associative sequence learning model of imitation proposes that experience-based Hebbian learning forms links between sensory processing of the actions of others and motor plans. Social psychology studies have demonstrated that imitation and mimicry are pervasive, automatic, and facilitate empathy. Neuroscience investigations have demonstrated physiological mechanisms of mirroring at single-cell and neural-system levels that support the cognitive and social psychology constructs. Why were these neural mechanisms selected, and what is their adaptive advantage? Neural mirroring solves the &quot;problem of other minds&quot; (how we can access and understand the minds of others) and makes intersubjectivity possible, thus facilitating social behavior.
Social cognition in humans is distinguished by psychological processes that allow us to make inferences about what is going on inside other people-their intentions, feelings, and thoughts. Some of these processes likely account for aspects of human social behavior that are unique, such as our culture and civilization. Most schemes divide social information processing into those processes that are relatively automatic and driven by the stimuli, versus those that are more deliberative and controlled, and sensitive to context and strategy. These distinctions are reflected in the neural structures that underlie social cognition, where there is a recent wealth of data primarily from functional neuroimaging. Here I provide a broad survey of the key abilities, processes, and ways in which to relate these to data from cognitive neuroscience.
Neuropsychological studies show that cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are distinct from age-associated cognitive decline. Quantitative and qualitative differences are apparent across many cognitive domains, but are especially obvious in episodic memory (particularly delayed recall), semantic knowledge, and some aspects of executive functions. The qualitatively distinct pattern of deficits is less salient in very old AD patients than in younger AD patients. Although decline in episodic memory is usually the earliest cognitive change that occurs prior to the development of the AD dementia syndrome, asymmetry in cognitive abilities may also occur in this &quot;preclinical&quot; phase of the disease and predict imminent dementia. Discrete patterns of cognitive deficits occur in AD and several neuropathologically distinct age-associated neurodegenerative disorders. Knowledge of these differences helps to clinically distinguish among various causes of dementia and provides useful models for understanding brain-behavior relationships that mediate cognitive abilities affected in various neurodegenerative diseases.


BACKGROUND: While the neural substrates and cognitive components of creativity have received considerable attention in cognitive neuroscience, the creative use of language in social interaction has been less well studied. As part of a broader program of research on language-and-memory-in-use in individuals with hippocampal amnesia, we analyzed verbal play, a creative use of language that is pervasive in everyday communicative interaction. AIMS: To identify instances of creative uses of language in the protocols of social and collaborative interactions, to characterize the qualitative nature, and to determine the frequency of these interactions initiated by participants with hippocampal amnesia vs. comparison participants in order to ascertain whether amnesia impairs this aspect of social communication. METHODS AND PROCEDURES: This study uses quantitative group comparisons and detailed discourse analysis to analyze verbal play in the interactional discourse sessions of 4 participants with hippocampal amnesia and 4 healthy (demographically matched) comparison participants, each interacting with a familiar partner while completing a collaborative referencing task and with a researcher between task trials. RESULTS: All participants used verbal play. However, significantly fewer episodes were initiated in sessions with amnesia participants (312) and by participants with amnesia themselves (187) than in sessions with comparison participants (572) and by comparison participants (395). No significant group differences were observed for interactional forms, resources, or functions. Qualitative differences were also observed in amnesia sessions (e.g., more rotely produced episodes, lack of thematically linked episodes). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that hippocampal amnesia disrupts the creative use of language in social interaction and accord with our previous work pointing to impairments in language-and-memory-in-use more broadly. These findings highlight the interdependence of language and memory especially in the interactional aspects of communication.
The (14)N(rho, alpha)(11)C reaction on N(2)-O(2) or N(2)-H(2) gaseous systems as targets in proton bombardment allows for the production of [(11)C]CO(2) and [(11)C]CH(4.) We report the target production of [(11)C]CH(4) and the gas phase iodination to produce [(11)C]CH(3)I with high specific radioactivity (SA). SA was calculated for four different radiopharmaceuticals produced in-house from both target produced [(11)C]CO(2) and [(11)C]CH(4.) For [(11)C]raclopride we obtained an average SA of 3908 GBq/mumol (106000 Ci/mmol) at the end of bombardment for the last 52 productions, which is a 32-fold increase compared to when using the in-house [(11)C]CO(2) target.
A fully automated synthesis of the important 5HT(1A) receptor radioligand, [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 (I), was developed based on the optimized one-pot &quot;wet&quot; synthesis procedure. A modern automated apparatus was constructed from commercially available components and operated via LabView software. In average, (906+/-525)MBq (n=94) of (I) was obtained from 40 min bombardment at 50 microA beam current within 50 min synthesis time. The specific radioactivity (SA) at the time of injection was (50.5+/-29.3)GBq/mumol (n=94).

This article reviews the nature and use of the journal impact factor and other common bibliometric measures for assessing research in the sciences and social sciences based on data compiled by Thomson Reuters. Journal impact factors are frequently misused to assess the influence of individual papers and authors, but such uses were never intended. Thomson Reuters also employs other measures of journal influence, which are contrasted with the impact factor. Finally, the author comments on the proper use of citation data in general, often as a supplement to peer review. This review may help government policymakers, university administrators, and individual researchers become better acquainted with the potential benefits and limitations of bibliometrics in the evaluation of research.



Temporal aspects of suicide risk after homicide using survival analytic method are not fully known and the risk estimates are almost exclusively based on studies of less than 10 years of follow-up. We investigated a population based cohort of 167 Swedish homicide offenders from 1970 to 1980 for which causes of death during the following minimum of 22 years were investigated using survival analysis. Twenty nine suicides (17.4%) occurred during the follow-up representing 30% of the total mortality. A high proportion of suicides (72%) occurred early, within 2 years after the homicide. The suicides continued to accumulate during the following decades after the homicide and the cumulative suicide risk was 18.6%. A very high proportion of violent suicide method (86%) was found. Suicide mortality was heavily skewed towards the first years after the homicide. Homicide offenders have very high short term suicide risk and the suicide risk persists over the entire adult lifespan. Homicide is a strong predictor of future suicide and similar biological mechanisms may be involved in violent criminality and suicidal behavior.
This pilot study evaluated the effect of Family Connections (FC), a Dialectical Behavior Therapy-based manualized skills training program, for family members of suicide attempters. The DBT-based skills training program aims to enhance the knowledge of wide range research based aspects of suicidal behavior and treatment recommendations. Furthermore it includes skills training for interpersonal relationships and also offers family members an opportunity to share their experiences. Thirteen participants completed the 9-week program with pre- and post self-report questionnaires. The results showed significant reduction in burden, improved psychic health and an increase in well-being regarding the relation with the patient. These results provide support for the need and importance of a DBT-based skills training program addressed specifically to family members of suicide attempters.
In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that phthalocyanine tetrasulfonate (PcTS), a cyclic tetrapyrrole compound, is an efficient antiscrapie drug. To investigate the spectrum of PcTS against prion diseases, we tested the effect of PcTS on two mouse-adapted human strains. We also tested PcTS in rodents infected with two scrapie strains (139A and 263K). PcTS treatment significantly prolonged mean survival times of all infected animals. These results show that PcTS is effective on different prion strains, confirming its potential use for prion therapy.

Bilateral cochlear implants (CIs) may offer deaf children a range of advantages compared to unilateral CIs. However, speech perception in noise is mainly facilitated by better-ear effects and much less by interaural comparisons or true 'binaural' hearing. Little is known about the development of the binaural auditory system with CIs provided at a young age. It is possible that, as with adults, binaural sensitivity exists but is not accessed due to technical limitations in electrical stimulation methods. In this paper, we present results on binaural hearing in children with bilateral CIs. Binaural masking level differences (BMLDs) were measured for a 180-degree phase shift in a 125-Hz sinusoid, presented in a 50-Hz-wide noise band and modulating a 1000-pps carrier pulse train. Stimuli were presented to a single electrode in the middle of the electrode array at both ears. Eight children between 6 and 15 years of age participated in this study. Six children had a significantly better detection threshold when the signal was out of phase (dichotic) between two ears than when it was in phase (diotic), with a mean difference (BMLD) of 6.4 dB. The present results show that children with bilateral CIs are sensitive to binaural cues in electrical stimuli, similar to adults, even when implants are provided at a later age and with a longer delay between implantations.
It is well established that in the majority of the population language processing is lateralized to the left hemisphere. Evidence suggests that lateralization is also present in the brainstem. In the current study, the syllable /da/ was presented monaurally to the right and left ears and electrophysiological responses from the brainstem were recorded in adults with symmetrical interaural click-evoked responses. Responses to the right-ear presentation occurred earlier than those to left-ear presentation in two peaks of the frequency following response (FFR) and approached significance for the third peak of the FFR and the offset peak. Interestingly, there were no differences in interpeak latencies indicating the response to right-ear presentation simply occurred earlier over this region. Analyses also showed more robust frequency encoding when stimuli were presented to the right ear than the left ear. The effect was found for the harmonics of the fundamental that correspond to the first formant of the stimulus, but was not seen in the fundamental frequency range. The results suggest that left lateralization of processing acoustic elements important for discriminating speech extends to the auditory brainstem and that these effects are speech specific.
KCNQ1 and KCNQ4 voltage-gated potassium channel subunits play key roles in hearing. Other members of the KCNQ family also encode slow, low voltage-activated K(+) M currents. We have previously reported the presence of M-like K(+) currents in sensory hair cells, and expression of Kcnq family genes in the cochlea. Here, we describe Kcnq2/3 gene expression and distribution of M channel subunits KCNQ2 and 3 in the cochlea. By using RT-PCR, we found expression of Kcnq2 in the modiolus and organ of Corti, while Kcnq3 expression was also detected in the cochlear lateral wall. Five alternative splice variants of the Kcnq2 gene, one of which has not been reported previously, were identified in the rat cochlea. KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 immunoreactivities were observed in spiral ganglion auditory neurons. In addition, the unmyelinated parts of the nerve fibers innervating hair cells and synaptic regions under hair cells showed KCNQ2 immunoreactivity. KCNQ3 immunoreactivity was also prominent in spiral ganglion satellite cells. These findings suggest that cochlear M channels play important roles in regulation of cellular excitability and maintenance of cochlear K(+) homeostasis in the auditory system.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is an inflammatory disease of the peripheral nervous system that is probably autoimmune in origin. Different components of the adaptive and innate immunity may be responsible for the aberrant response towards nerve antigens. To investigate this, we examined lymphocyte subsets and regulatory T cell (Treg) function in the blood of CIDP patients, healthy controls (HC) and subjects with non-immune mediated neuropathies (other neuropathies, ON). We used flow cytometry to determine the frequency of monocytes, B cells, natural killer (NK) and NK-T cells, total and activated CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, effector memory and central memory CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, and CD4(+)CD25(high)Foxp3(+) Tregs. Treg function was studied after polyclonal stimulation and antigen specific stimulation with myelin protein peptides in CIDP and HC. There was an increased frequency of monocytes (p = 0.02) and decreased frequency of NK cells (p = 0.02) in CIDP compared with HC but not ON. There were no significant differences in other populations. Treg function was impaired in CIDP compared to HC (p = 0.02), whilst T cell proliferation to myelin protein peptides before and after depletion of Tregs was not different between patients and controls. This study shows increased circulating monocytes and reduced NK cells in CIDP. Although Treg frequency was not altered, we confirm that Tregs display a defect of suppressive function. Myelin protein peptides were not the target of the altered peripheral regulation of the immune response. The mechanisms of peripheral immune tolerance in CIDP and their relevance to the pathogenesis deserve further exploration.
Alix and ESCRT proteins are required for membrane fission during viral budding and egress and during the abscission stage of cytokinesis. These common roles have suggested that Alix functions as an ESCRT protein, a conclusion challenged by the finding that unlike ESCRTs, which control the formation of multivesicular endosomes, Alix does not influence the degradation of the EGF receptor. We previously showed that Alix controls neuronal death by an unknown mechanism, but dependent on its interaction with ESCRT proteins. Since then, numerous reports have shown that ESCRTs participate in macroautophagy. Given the direct interaction between ESCRTs and Alix, together with the known contribution of autophagy to cell death, it was hypothesized that Alix controls autophagy and thereby cell death. Our recent published results show that this is not the case. ESCRT protein activity therefore needs Alix for viral budding and cytokinesis but not for autophagy. The function of ESCRT can thus be clearly be disconnected from that of Alix.
Cerebral imaging and olfactory disorders: a review. Olfactory disorders are often misjudged and rarely given due clinical consideration. Nevertheless, they occur in a wide range of neurological disorders, and their evaluation can help in diagnosis. Whereas psychophysical tests have been used to evaluate olfactory dysfunction in numerous diseases, functional brain imaging using olfactory stimuli is an emergent technique and few studies have been published to date. After a reminder of cerebral imaging and analysis techniques and a rapid description of our actual knowledge of olfactory processes in healthy subjects, the current review focuses on cerebral imaging studies performed on patients with neurological disorders and presenting olfactory dysfunction. Neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, migraine, multiple chemical sensitivity and schizophrenia are examined.
We report on a patient with visual agnosia for line drawings and silhouette pictures following cerebral infarction in the region of the right posterior cerebral artery. The patient retained the ability to recognize real objects and their photographs, and could precisely copy line drawings of objects that she could not name. This case report highlights the importance of clinicians and researchers paying special attention to avoid overlooking agnosia in such cases. The factors that lead to problems in the identification of stimuli other than real objects in agnosic cases are discussed.
Quality of life (QOL) is an important clinical endpoint, but it remarkably varies in patients with similar neurological conditions. This study explored the role of spirituality (i.e., the complex of personal transcendence, connectedness, purpose, and values) in determining QOL in chronic neurological disorders.~Seventy-two patients with epilepsy, brain tumours or ischemic or immune-mediate brain damage compiled inventories for QOL (WHOQOL 100), spirituality (Spiritual, Religious and Personal Beliefs, WHOSRPB), depression (Beck Depression Inventory, BDI), anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, STAI), and cognitive self-efficacy (Multiple Ability Self-Report Questionnaire, MASQ) and underwent neuropsychological testing. With respect to 45 healthy controls, the patients reported worse QOL, with no difference between the four patient subgroups. Factor analyses of the WHOSRPB, STAI, and BDI scores and of the MASQ and neuropsychological test scores yielded four (Personal Meaning, Inner Energy, Awe and Openness, Mood) and three factors (Control Functions, Cognition, Memory), respectively. Mood, Cognition, Inner Energy, schooling, and subjective health status correlated with the WHOQOL scores, but at regression analysis only Mood and Inner Energy predicted QOL. This suggests that spirituality, as a personal dimension distinct from mood, contributes to determine QOL. A multidimensional assessment of QOL, including personal facets, may explain differences between patients with chronic neurological disorders.
Critical to development of new therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the ability to detect clinical or pathological change over time. Clinical outcome measures typically used in therapeutic trials have unfortunately proven to be relatively variable and somewhat insensitive to change in this slowly progressive disease. For this reason, development of surrogate biomarkers that identify significant disease-associated brain changes are necessary to expedite treatment development in AD. Since AD pathology is present in the brain many years prior to clinical manifestation, ideally we want to develop biomarkers of disease that identify abnormal brain structure or function even prior to cognitive decline. Magnetic resonance imaging, fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, new amyloid imaging techniques, and spinal fluid markers of AD all have great potential to provide surrogate endpoint measures for AD pathology. The Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (ADNI) was developed for the distinct purpose of evaluating surrogate biomarkers for drug development in AD. Recent evidence from ADNI demonstrates that imaging may provide more sensitive, and earlier, measures of disease progression than traditional clinical measures for powering clinical drug trials in Alzheimer's disease. This review discusses recently presented data from the ADNI dataset, and the importance of imaging in the future of drug development in AD.
Amyloid imaging represents a major advance in neuroscience, enabling the detection and quantification of pathologic protein aggregations in the brain. In this review we survey current amyloid imaging techniques, focusing on positron emission tomography (PET) with (11)carbon-labelled Pittsburgh Compound-B ((11)C-PIB), the most extensively studied and best validated tracer. PIB binds specifically to fibrillar beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposits, and is a sensitive marker for Abeta pathology in cognitively normal older individuals and patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). PIB-PET provides us with a powerful tool to examine in vivo the relationship between amyloid deposition, clinical symptoms, and structural and functional brain changes in the continuum between normal aging and AD. Amyloid imaging studies support a model in which amyloid deposition is an early event on the path to dementia, beginning insidiously in cognitively normal individuals, and accompanied by subtle cognitive decline and functional and structural brain changes suggestive of incipient AD. As patients progress to dementia, clinical decline and neurodegeneration accelerate and proceed independently of amyloid accumulation. In the future, amyloid imaging is likely to supplement clinical evaluation in selecting patients for anti-amyloid therapies, while MRI and FDG-PET may be more appropriate markers of clinical progression.
Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are associated with characteristic patterns of neuropathological spread in the brain. Disease progression is usually accompanied by regional atrophy that can be detected noninvasively using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A wealth of data has demonstrated the value of quantitative measurements of regional atrophy in AD, suggesting that volumetric MRI (vMRI) may be a useful clinical tool. vMRI provides biological evidence of neurodegenerative disease in patients with cognitive impairment. However, several hurdles impede implementation of vMRI in clinical practice. These include a lack of standardized MRI acquisition protocols, spatial distortions in MRI data, labor-intensive vMRI methods susceptible to interoperator variability, a lack of normative ranges for volume measures, and difficulty integrating vMRI in clinical workflow. Advances in vMRI have resulted from multi-institutional studies of brain imaging, such as the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), and help address these challenges. New, fully-automated measures of brain structure volumes coupled with large, multi-center studies using standardized MRI protocols now allow the development of age-adjusted normative ranges for vMRI. Such advances are critical for providing physicians a framework for assessing the pattern and degree of regional atrophy in a patient's brain and applying vMRI in clinical practice.
Increased knowledge of the cognitive abilities of mini-pigs is needed due to their increasing use in behavioral neuroscience research. Here, six female Yucatan mini-pigs performed tasks thought to measure timing behavior (temporal response differentiation, TRD), learning (incremental repeated acquisition, IRA), and motivation (progressive ratio, PR). Daily 30-min sessions for food reinforcers required a lever press be maintained for at least 10 but no longer than 14s (TRD), learning a new sequence of lever presses each test day (IRA) or an escalating number of presses for subsequent reinforcers (PR). All animals performed PR two days/week while three performed TRD five days/week and the other three performed IRA five days/week. Over the four test weeks, no animal completed TRD training and only one appeared to progress. For this task, lever press maintenance appeared difficult since by choice, the pigs used a front hoof, rather than the snout, to press the lever. IRA subjects showed gradually increasing performance with response rates comparable to those of rats but below those of children and monkeys and accuracy below that for rats. PR response rates were higher than those typically reported for rats, but lower than for adult rhesus monkeys or children. Physical differences in the way that each species responds likely account for these differences.
Many G-protein-coupled receptors, including the alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor, form homo-dimers or oligomers. Mutation of hydrophobic residues in transmembrane domains I and IV alters the organization of the alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor oligomer, with transmembrane domain IV playing a critical role. These mutations also result in endoplasmic reticulum trapping of the receptor. Following stable expression of this alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor mutant, cell surface delivery, receptor function and structural organization were recovered by treatment with a range of alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor antagonists that acted at the level of the endoplasmic reticulum. This was accompanied by maturation of the mutant receptor to a terminally N-glycosylated form, and only this mature form was trafficked to the cell surface. Co-expression of the mutant receptor with an otherwise wild-type form of the alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor that is unable to bind ligands resulted in this wild-type variant also being retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. Ligand-induced cell surface delivery of the mutant alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor now allowed co-recovery to the plasma membrane of the ligand-binding-deficient mutant. These results demonstrate that interactions between alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor monomers occur at an early stage in protein synthesis, that ligands of the alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor can act as pharmacological chaperones to allow a structurally compromised form of the receptor to pass cellular quality control, that the mutated receptor is not inherently deficient in function and that an oligomeric assembly of ligand-binding-competent and -incompetent forms of the alpha(1b)-adrenoceptor can be trafficked to the cell surface by binding of a ligand to only one component of the receptor oligomer.
The use of endocrine agents is a safe and effective treatment in the management of hormone-sensitive breast cancer. Unfortunately, sooner or later, tumor cells develop resistance to endocrine manipulation making useless this approach. During the last decade, new molecules and intracellular signaling pathways involved in endocrine resistance have been identified. Several studies have documented that estrogen receptor signaling may maintain a pivotal role in the tumor growth despite the failure of a previous hormonal treatment. In this review we will discuss the general principles for optimizing the choice of endocrine therapy based on an understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for resistance to the different anti-hormonal agents.
Lactoferrin (Lf) is an 80 kDa iron-binding protein of the transferrin family that is abundantly expressed in most biological fluids. It is now recognized that this glycoprotein is a key element in the mammalian immune system, playing an important role in host defence against infection and excessive inflammation. Although the mechanisms underlying Lf immunomodulatory properties have not been fully elucidated yet, evidence indicates that the capacity of this molecule to directly interact with antigen presenting cells (APCs), i.e. monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs), may play a critical role. At the cellular level, Lf modulates important aspects of APC biology, including migration and cell activation, whereas at the molecular level it affects expression of soluble immune mediators, such as cytokines, chemokines and other effector molecules, thus contributing to the regulation of inflammation and immunity. While the iron-binding property was originally believed to be solely responsible for the plethora of host defence activities ascribed to Lf, it is now known that other mechanisms contribute to the broad spectrum of anti-infective and anti-inflammatory properties of this protein. Recent results suggest that at least some of the immunomodulatory effects of Lf rely on its capacity to form complexes with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This review focuses on the effects of Lf on APC biology and function, highlighting known and putative mechanisms that underlie Lf immunomodulatory effects. The importance of LPS-binding capacity of Lf and LPS receptors, as well as of Lf-induced type 1 interferon (IFN) expression in some of these effects is also discussed.
The present study investigates the effects of a weak (+/-200 microT(pk)), pulsed, extremely low frequency magnetic field (ELF MF) upon the human electroencephalogram (EEG). We have previously determined that exposure to pulsed ELF MFs can affect the EEG, notably the alpha frequency (8-13 Hz) over the occipital-parietal region of the scalp. In the present study, subjects (n = 32) were exposed to two different pulsed MF sequences (1 and 2, used previously) that differed in presentation rate, in order to examine the effects upon the alpha frequency of the human EEG. Results suggest that compared to sham exposure, alpha activity was lowered over the occipital-parietal regions of the brain during exposure to Sequence 1, while alpha activity over the same regions was higher after Sequence 2 exposure. These effects occurred after approximately 5 min of pulsed MF exposure. The results also suggest that a previous exposure to the pulsed MF sequence determined subjects' responses in the present experiment. This study supports our previous observation of EEG changes after 5 min pulsed ELF MF exposure. The results of this study are also consistent with existing EEG experiments of ELF MF and mobile phone effects upon the brain.
Citrate, an organic trivalent anion, is a major substrate for generation of energy in most cells. It is produced in mitochondria and used either in the Krebs' cycle or released into cytoplasm through a specific mitochondrial carriers. Citrate can also be taken up from blood through different plasma membrane transporters. In the cytoplasm, citrate can be used ultimately for fatty acid synthesis, which is increased in cancer cells. Here, we review the ways in which citrate can be transported and discuss the changes in transport and metabolism that occur in cancer cells. The primary focus is on the prostate gland, which is known to produce and release large amounts of citrate during its normal secretory function. The significant changes that occur in citrate-related metabolism and transport in prostate cancer are the second focus. This review strives to relate these mechanisms to molecular biology on the one hand and to clinical applications on the other.





Spatially selective attention allows for the preferential processing of relevant stimuli when more information than can be processed in detail is presented simultaneously at distinct locations. Temporally selective attention may serve a similar function during speech perception by allowing listeners to allocate attentional resources to time windows that contain highly relevant acoustic information. To test this hypothesis, event-related potentials were compared in response to attention probes presented in six conditions during a narrative: concurrently with word onsets, beginning 50 and 100 ms before and after word onsets, and at random control intervals. Times for probe presentation were selected such that the acoustic environments of the narrative were matched for all conditions. Linguistic attention probes presented at and immediately following word onsets elicited larger amplitude N1s than control probes over medial and anterior regions. These results indicate that native speakers selectively process sounds presented at specific times during normal speech perception.
Defective differentiation of invasive, placental trophoblast cells has been associated with several pregnancy-related disorders. This study examines the molecular, functional, and morphological differentiation of lineage-specific, trophoblast giant cells under a gradient of oxygen concentrations. Low oxygen (3%) inhibited differentiation, but this inhibition was relieved in a stepwise fashion with increasing levels of oxygen. The oxygen-sensitive hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF1A) is a major transcriptional regulator of the cellular response to low oxygen, and increased HIF1A protein levels and activity corresponded with the maintenance of the stem cell-like state and inhibition of trophoblast differentiation in low oxygen. Furthermore, constitutive expression of an oxygen-insensitive, active form of HIF1A protein mimicked the effects of low oxygen, inhibiting the differentiation of trophoblast giant cells. This study is the first to delineate the stepwise effects of oxygen on the activation of the trophoblast giant cell differentiation process and establishes a new paradigm from which to investigate trophoblast differentiation. In addition, this is the first reported study to demonstrate that constitutive HIF1A activity mediates oxygen's inhibition of differentiation. These results suggest that a dysregulation of HIF1A could contribute to impaired placental development.
We describe herein the medicinal chemistry approach which led to the discovery of a novel pyridine-3-carboxamide series of CB(2) receptor agonists. The SAR of this new template was evaluated and culminated in the identification of analogue 14a which demonstrated efficacy in an in vivo model of inflammatory pain.
Cytoplasmic domains of gap junction proteins (connexins) are involved in channel gating, voltage and pH sensitivity, and contain binding sites for partner proteins. However, their secondary structure is incompletely characterized and comparisons among the connexins is totally lacking. Circular dichroism (CD) was used to study the conformational properties of synthetic peptides corresponding to the highly divergent amino acid sequences of cytoplasmic domains of connexin (Cx)32, Cx36, and Cx43. We report that whereas peptides were largely unstructured in aqueous buffer, certain peptides in 30% trifluoroethanol (TFE) showed considerable helical content. These structured peptides correspond to analogous regions in each of the three connexin cytoplasmic domains. This first comparative study of conformational properties of connexin cytoplasmic domains reveals protein domains that may play similar roles in channel function and protein-protein interactions.
Blood-oxygenation-level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive technique that has become increasingly popular in the neurosciences. It measures the proportion of oxygenated haemoglobin in specific areas of the brain, mirroring blood flow and therefore function. Here we review how the findings from functional studies impact on areas of gynaecological practice as diverse as chronic pain, continence, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder. Finally we review some of the more novel applications of the technique, such as imaging of pelvic floor function and the effects of hypoxia on the fetus.



A male patient diagnosed elsewhere as having multiple sclerosis (MS) was recently referred to our MS centre. Despite the presence of scattered T2-hyperintense MS-like lesions on MRI and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) oligoclonal bands, his MS diagnosis was unpersuasive. Distal symmetric hypotonia, tendon areflexia and distal muscle weakness were present. A mostly demyelinating sensory polyneuropathy was disclosed at electroneurography. Serum IgM band, free monoclonal light chains and increased anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein IgM were detected. At 18 months later, and after three intravenous Ig treatments, a clinical electroneurographic improvement was evident along with the disappearance of some brain MRI lesions, reduction of serum anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) IgM level and of the number of CSF oligoclonal bands. Although the cause/effect relation cannot be proven, we hypothesise that not only peripheral but also central demyelination may be related to the presence of anti-MAG antibodies with central nervous system (CNS) patterns on MRI resembling those seen in MS.
Factitious disorder (FD) is a condition characterised by the intentional production of illness to assume the sick role in the absence of external incentive. It is an illness that can be challenging, frustrating and troublesome for busy clinicians, and is easily misdiagnosed. Nonetheless, an accurate diagnosis is essential given that FD can lead to irreversible health consequences and unnecessary cost to society. This report describes the case of a middle-aged man with FD presenting as type 1 diabetes mellitus with recurrent hypoglycaemic episodes.
The corticospinal tract influences the distal musculature more than the proximal, and the mechanisms involved in recovery of proximal muscle strength after stroke are unclear. A 65 year old man developed right shoulder weakness due to infarction in the left precentral gyrus. MRI showed a 3 mm cortical-subcortical ischaemic lesion in the superior genu of the left precentral gyrus medially to the knob-like structure corresponding to the motor area of the hand. Two months after stroke, when the patient was able to abduct the right arm against gravity and seven months after stroke when the patient had almost completely recovered, maximal TMS of the contralateral and ipsilateral motor cortex during voluntary contraction did not evoke a MEP in the right deltoid either with a focal or a non-focal coil. Recovery of proximal muscles in these cases may be mediated by elements other than the fast corticospinal neurones responsible for MEP generation.
Urinary frequency, urgency and nocturia are common complaints in Parkinson's disease (PD). The hypothesis most widely proposed to explain neurogenic bladder symptoms in PD is that cell loss in the substantia nigra may cause detrusor hyperactivity due to a loss in the D1 receptor-mediated tonic inhibition of the micturition reflex, although other causes including anti-parkinsonian medication cortical effects have been considered.1 We present the clinical and pathological findings of a patient with parkinsonism who presented with prominent dysautonomia and a poor response to dopaminergic medications and was considered to have possible multiple system atrophy parkinsonism (MSA-P). Pathological examination revealed that the patient had PD with -synuclein pathology in the Onuf's nucleus (ON).
Cardioembolic stroke is an important cause of stroke in young people. Cardioembolism classically causes infarcts in multiple vascular territories. In the case described here a young woman developed cardioembolic stroke secondary to atrial myxoma. The presentation was atypical in that the woman had no systemic manifestations of her myxoma.
SERMs act as ER agonists in bone despite their antagonistic properties in other tissues. As well as inhibiting bone remodelling, this effect may involve stimulation of osteoblast activity, in light of evidence from recent in vivo studies. However, progress in exploring this action has been hampered by a lack of accurate in vitro models. For example, ER antagonists are reported to stimulate reporter assays based on estrogen target genes in osteoblasts, contrary to their inhibitory effects in vivo. We examined whether evaluating global aspects of ER function provides a more accurate reflection of ER activation in osteoblasts, based on the use of morphological and/or transcriptional read-outs with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-receptor chimeras. Osteoblast-like (ROS and U2OS) and breast cancer (MCF7) cells were transfected with a human ERalpha-GFP fusion protein, and treated with ER agonists (17beta-estradiol, and dienestrol), antagonists (ICI 182,780 and ZK 164015) and SERMs (tamoxifen, raloxifene, 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-HT) and hexestrol). We investigated cellular compartmentalisation of these constructs by fluorescence microscopy, nuclear mobility by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), and global activation of estrogenic transcription using a ERE-luc reporter. SERMs caused a modest increase in ERE-luc activity in osteoblast-like cells (but not in breast cells), and a reduction in nuclear mobility in breast (but not osteoblast-like) cells. These studies were then repeated using a GFP chimera where the human GR ligand binding domain (LBD) was replaced by the human ERalpha LBD (ERGR-GFP), combined with a GRE-luc reporter. Interestingly, SERMs increased both cytoplasmic to nuclear translocation of ERGR-GFP, and GRE-luc reporter activity, in osteoblast-like (but not breast) cells. Indeed, transcriptional responses to SERMs in osteoblast-like cells were considerably greater with the ERGR/GRE-luc than the ERalpha/ERE-luc system, 4-HT inducing 300 and 25% increases in reporter activity respectively. ER antagonists were entirely without effect. We conclude that evaluation of global estrogenic activity, as opposed to activation of a specific target gene, provides a more accurate read-out for osteoblast stimulation. In particular, ERGR-mediated GRE-luc activity provides a high signal response to estrogen agonists and SERMs, in a cell context dependent manner closely resembling that observed in vivo. Further studies utilising this system are justified to explore the mechanistic basis for estrogenic stimulation of osteoblast activity, and to identify newer SERMs capable of targeting this activity.



Atherosclerosis presents a massive healthcare burden in both the developing and developed world. There is mounting evidence relating to the involvement of haemodynamic factors in the pathogenesis of this process. This article aims to review the current understandings that have developed in this area, and to present a demonstrative case study obtained using state of the art computational fluid dynamics (CFD) methodology to model and analyse haemodynamic factors within the atheromatous carotid artery bifurcation.
Unlike semantic degradation disorders, the mechanisms and the anatomical underpinnings of semantic access disorders are still unclear. We report the results of a case series study on the effects of temporal lobe gliomas on semantic access abilities of a group of 20 patients. Patients were tested 1-2 days before and 4-6 days after the removal of the tumour. Their semantic access skills were assessed with two spoken word-to-picture matching tasks, which aimed to separately control for rate of presentation, consistency and serial position effects (Experiment 1) and for word frequency and semantic distance effects (Experiment 2). These variables have been held to be critical in characterizing access in contrast to degraded-store semantic deficits, with access deficits characterized by inconsistency of response, better performance with slower presentation rates and with semantically distant stimuli, in the absence of frequency effects. Degradation deficits show the opposite pattern. Our results showed that low-grade slowly growing tumours tend not to produce signs of access problems. However, high-grade tumours especially within the left hemisphere consistently produce strong semantic deficits of a clear access type: response inconsistency and strong semantic distance effects in the absence of word frequency effects were detected. However, effects of presentation rate and serial position were very weak, suggesting non-refractory behaviour in the tumour patients tested. This evidence, together with the results of lesion overlapping, suggests the presence of a type of non-refractory semantic access deficit. We suggest that this deficit could be caused by the disconnection of posterior temporal lexical input areas from semantic system.
In synaesthesia, stimulation of a sensory modality triggers abnormal additional perceptions. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) was used in 18 grapheme-colour synaesthetes to investigate the neuro-anatomical basis of their abnormal perceptions. More specifically, we tested the hypothesis that in synaesthesia altered connectivity in temporo-occipital and parietal areas may be associated with grey matter (GM) changes. The data reveal increased GM volumes in fusiform and intraparietal cortices. These findings are consistent with the two-stage model of grapheme-colour synaesthesia implying cross-activation at the level of the fusiform gyrus (FG) and 'hyperbinding' at the level of the parietal cortex. The observed structural differences in grapheme-colour synaesthetes with abnormal additional perceptions may also shed some light on the neural bases of abnormal perceptions in neurological and psychiatric disorders.
The motor systems that generate feeding-related behaviors of gastropod mollusks provide exceptional opportunities for increasing our understanding of neural homologies and the evolution of neural networks. This report examines the neural control of feeding in Helisoma trivolvis, a pulmonate snail that ingests food by rasping or scraping material from the substrate, and Aplysia californica, an opisthobranch sea slug that feeds by using a grasping or seizing motion. Two classes of neurons that are present in the buccal ganglia of both species are considered: (1) clusters of peptidergic mechanoafferent cells that transmit sensory information from the tongue-like radula/odontophore complex to the central motor circuit; and (2) sets of octopamine-immunoreactive interneurons that are intrinsic to the feeding network. We review evidence that suggests homology of these cell types and propose that their roles have been largely conserved in the control of food-scraping and food-grasping consummatory behaviors. We also consider significant differences in the feeding systems of Aplysia and Helisoma that are associated with the existence of radular closure in Aplysia, an action that does not occur in Helisoma. It is hypothesized that a major adaptation in the innervation patterns of analogous, possibly homologous muscles could distinguish the food-scraping versus food-grasping species. It appears that although core CPG elements have been largely conserved in this system, the neuromuscular elements that they regulate have been more evolutionarily labile.
Molluscan preparations have yielded seminal discoveries in neuroscience, but the experimental advantages of this group have not, until now, been complemented by adequate molecular or genomic information for comparisons to genetically defined model organisms in other phyla. The recent sequencing of the transcriptome and genome of Aplysia californica, however, will enable extensive comparative studies at the molecular level. Among other benefits, this will bring the power of individually identifiable and manipulable neurons to bear upon questions of cellular function for evolutionarily conserved genes associated with clinically important neural dysfunction. Because of the slower rate of gene evolution in this molluscan lineage, more homologs of genes associated with human disease are present in Aplysia than in leading model organisms from Arthropoda (Drosophila) or Nematoda (Caenorhabditis elegans). Research has hardly begun in molluscs on the cellular functions of gene products that in humans are associated with neurological diseases. On the other hand, much is known about molecular and cellular mechanisms of long-term neuronal plasticity. Persistent nociceptive sensitization of nociceptors in Aplysia displays many functional similarities to alterations in mammalian nociceptors associated with the clinical problem of chronic pain. Moreover, in Aplysia and mammals the same cell signaling pathways trigger persistent enhancement of excitability and synaptic transmission following noxious stimulation, and these highly conserved pathways are also used to induce memory traces in neural circuits of diverse species. This functional and molecular overlap in distantly related lineages and neuronal types supports the proposal that fundamental plasticity mechanisms important for memory, chronic pain, and other lasting alterations evolved from adaptive responses to peripheral injury in the earliest neurons. Molluscan preparations should become increasingly useful for comparative studies across phyla that can provide insight into cellular functions of clinically important genes.
Analysis of the origin and evolution of neurons is crucial for revealing principles of organization of neural circuits with unexpected implications for genomic sciences, biomedical applications and regenerative medicine. This article presents an overview of some controversial ideas about the origin and evolution of neurons and nervous systems, focusing on the independent origin of complex brains and possible independent origins of neurons. First, earlier hypotheses related to the origin of neurons are summarized. Second, the diversity of nervous systems and convergent evolution of complex brains in relation to current views about animal phylogeny is discussed. Third, the lineages of molluscs and basal metazoans are used as illustrated examples of multiple origins of complex brains and neurons. Finally, a hypothesis about the independent origin of complex brains, centralized nervous systems and neurons is outlined. Injury-associated mechanisms leading to secretion of signal peptides (and related molecules) can be considered as evolutionary predecessors of inter-neuronal signaling and the major factors in the appearance of neurons in the first place.


Social experience plays an important role in regulating the neural, physiological and hormonal changes that accompany the expression of reproductive behavior in vertebrates. This suite of functions is sexually dimorphic, with different neural control areas preeminent in males and females. In anuran amphibians, social experience comes in the form of acoustic communication, which is central to their reproductive behavior. We sought to determine whether acoustic cues regulate cell proliferation in the brain of adult green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea). Our results show that both male and female treefrogs that heard a conspecific chorus during the breeding season exhibited increased brain cell proliferation compared to animals that heard random tones. Increased cell proliferation, as assessed by the number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-immunoreactive (BrdU+) cells, were found near the ventricles of acoustically sensitive brain regions such as the preoptic area (POA) and the infundibular hypothalamus (IF). Sex differences emerged in the location of this socially modulated cell proliferation: increases occurred primarily in the male POA and the female IF. In addition, gonadal steroid hormones might have played a role in the social modulation of cell proliferation: by statistically control- ling for hormone level, we revealed that androgens might influence socially induced increases in BrdU+ cells in the male POA, but estrogen did not contribute to socially induced increases in the female IF. These results indicate that the reception of social cues increases cell proliferation in brain regions mediating sexual behavior and endocrine regulation, and moreover that social modulation of cell proliferation occurs in a sexually differentiated fashion.
During the 2008 Karger Workshop considerable progress was made towards defining a model or structural plan, valid for the prosencephalon of all vertebrates. The presentations demonstrated that the following features, which are valid for tetrapods, also hold true for most groups of fish: (1) The diencephalon proper is clearly composed of three neuromeres, p1-p3; (2) in the pallium four, rather than three, fundamental longitudinal zones can be distinguished; (3) during ontogenesis, numerous GABA-ergic elements migrate tangentially from the subpallium to the pallium.
Compared to land vertebrates and the other fishes, the basal ray-finned fishes and teleosts have morphologically unusual forebrains. The telencephalic pallium is everted, and its diencephalic inputs arise largely--not from what is clearly the dorsal thalamus but rather--from an enigmatic group of migrated nuclei of the basal diencephalon. The subpallia exhibit much less variation than the pallia. The polypteriforms have a long, thin pallial sheet that can be divided into four zones which recent data suggest could correspond to the ventral, lateral, dorsal, and medial pallia of tetrapods, with some caveats. In sturgeons and gars, the pallium is thicker and divisible into three or four zones. The data available for sturgeons and gars are not sufficient for the formulation of more than a barely working hypothesis, although a review of the existing literature has illuminated some basic unresolved issues in these taxa. The voluminous literature on the pallium of teleosts is briefly summarized. The thickened pallium is divided into four zones which are compared with those of the polypteriforms and those of the tetrapods. The topographical position of the primary olfactory target in the pallium is lateral, which is unexpected in an everted pallium. Several recent hypotheses have sought to explain this organization: partial eversion, caudolateral eversion and displacement, simple eversion with changed olfactory connections, and not quite so simple an eversion with preserved topology. These hypotheses are evaluated and some persisting problems are enumerated.
Side biases in behavior, reflecting lateral specializations of the brain, are widespread amongst vertebrates. We studied laterality in the Australian lungfish (Neoceratodus forsteri) to gain insight into the evolution of the complementary specializations of predator avoidance (right hemisphere) and foraging behavior (left hemisphere). Because N. forsteri is the closest extant ancestor of the first land-dwelling vertebrates, knowledge of laterality in this species should provide a missing link in the transition from fish to tetrapods. Predator escape responses were elicited by generating pressure waves and a significant bias for C-start responses to the left side was found. This bias was unaffected by activity levels that change according to a diurnal cycle: activity is higher in the dark phase than the light phase. A complementary bias to turn to the right side was found during feeding behavior. This pattern of opposite-side specializations matches that known for fish, anurans, reptiles, birds and, as some evidence indicates, also mammals. Hence, we conclude that it is a homologous pattern of lateralization that evolved in early aquatic vertebrates and was retained as they made the transition to land-dwelling tetrapods.
The forebrain of actinopterygian fishes differs from that of other vertebrates in that it consists of a pair of solid lobes. Lateral ventricles surrounded by nervous tissue are entirely lacking. Comparative anatomical and embryological studies have shown that the unusual configuration of the forebrain in actinopterygians results from an outward bending or eversion of the dorsal portions of its lateral walls. Due to this eversion, the telencephalic roof plate is transformed into a wide, membranous structure which surrounds the dorsal and lateral parts of the solid lobes and is attached to their lateral or ventrolateral aspects. The taeniae, i.e. the lines of attachment of the widened roof plate, represent important landmarks in actinopterygian forebrains. In the present paper, the process of eversion is specified and quantified. It is pointed out that recent suggestions to modify the original eversion concept lack an empirical basis. Eversion is the antithesis of the inward bending or inversion that occurs in the forebrains of most other vertebrates. The forebrain lobes in actinopterygians, like those in other vertebrates, comprise a pallium and a subpallium, both of which include a number of distinct cell masses. The morphological interpretations of these cell masses over the past 130 years are reviewed and evaluated in light of a set of carefully selected criteria for homologous relationships. Special attention is paid to the interpretation of a cell mass known as Dp, situated in the caudolateral portion of the pallium in teleosts (by far the largest clade of living actinopterygians). Based on its position close to the taenia, and given the everted condition of the pallium in teleosts, this cell mass clearly corresponds with the medial pallium in inverted forebrains; however, Dp receives a dense olfactory input, and it shares this salient feature with the lateral pallium, rather than with the medial pallium of inverted forebrains. There is presently no consensus regarding the homology of Dp. Several recent authors [Wullimann and Mueller, 2004; Yamamoto et al., 2007] consider the lateral pallium in inverted forebrains and Dp in teleosts to be homologous because they believe that these cell masses originate from the same germinative zones, but that Dp attains its ultimate position only through migration. On the other hand, the present author believes that Dp is situated in the immediate vicinity of its germinative zone and that it represents a specialized part of the lateral pallial zone in teleosts, a zone that can be homologized topologically with the medial pallium in inverted forebrains. Further, it is proposed that the lateral olfactory tract in teleosts, which supplies most of the olfactory fibers to Dp, is not homologous to the same-named tract in the inverted forebrains of most other vertebrates.
The neuroanatomical characteristics of vasotocin (VT) and vasopressin (VP) systems have been described in numerous species from diverse vertebrate groups, including teleost fish. However, there are very few teleost species in which VT's effects on social behavior have been established and the neural circuits associated with that regulation fully described. We have previously shown that VT inhibits social approach behaviors in goldfish via actions in the hindbrain. Here we further describe that primitive VT circuit, as well as others throughout the goldfish brain that might contribute to social regulation in this species. In particular, we highlight forebrain projections to the dorsal telencephalon that have not been described previously in any teleost, projections to limbic forebrain areas, most notably the medial division of the dorsal telencephalon and the ventral telencephalon, and midbrain projections to the optic tectum and torus semicircularis that have rarely been described. However, the most dense VT projection in goldfish is to the hindbrain, particularly to motor divisions of the vagal complex and to area postrema, which we argue might influence social approach behaviors through autonomic regulatory mechanisms. Because hindbrain VT projections are some of the most primitive in vertebrates, we suggest they might represent an ancestral mechanism through which VT influenced social behavior.
Kisspeptins are a recently identified class of neuropeptides belonging to the RFamide peptide family. Despite growing evidence supporting kisspeptin as a key regulator of reproduction, data addressing whether kisspeptin is a conserved reproductive signal are lacking. We investigated the distribution of kisspeptin in adult green anole lizards (Anolis carolinensis) via immunohistochemistry. Additionally, we examined the possibility of a sexual dimorphism in kisspeptin expression. Kisspeptin immunoreactivity was observed rostrally in the preoptic area and caudally in an area lateral to the dorsal hypothalamic nucleus in both male and female anoles. These kisspeptin immunoreactive cells are associated with vesiculated fibers traveling through the paraventricular zone of the hypothalamus and preoptic area and extending into the rostral telencephalon. Preabsorption of the antiserum with gonadotropin inhibitory hormone (GnIH), a second RFamide peptide known to cross-react with the kisspeptin antiserum, eliminated staining of the caudal population of cells but retained staining in the rostral population, suggesting that kisspeptin is present in this area. Preabsorption with kisspeptin eliminated all immunoreactivity. These preabsorption results suggest that kisspeptin is restricted to a single population in the preoptic area in anoles. No sex differences were found in kisspeptin immunoreactive cell number. The presence of kisspeptin RFamide peptide in the green anole suggests that this reproductive regulatory signal is indeed evolutionarily conserved. Whether this reproductive signal functions similarly in regulating the reproductive axis of ectotherms requires further study.
Recent studies have greatly increased our knowledge of telencephalic organization in ray-finned fishes and terrestrial vertebrates, particularly amphibians. In contrast, little new information has been generated on telencephalic organization in lobe-finned fishes. The coelacanth, Latimeria, and three genera of lungfishes constitute the living lobe-finned fishes. Latimeria is extremely rare and critically endangered, so the living lungfishes, therefore, offer the only feasible source of new information on telencephalic organization in lobe-finned fishes. A re-examination of the cytoarchitectonics of the telencephalon in the Spotted African Lungfish has allowed the generation of a new model of telencephalic organization in lungfishes. To begin to test this model, examination was made of the telencephalic distribution of acetylcholinesterase, enkephalin, the neurotensin-related hexapeptide LANT6, nitric oxide synthase (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase), substance P, and tyrosine hydroxylase. This distribution supports the new model and suggests that the medial pallial-subpallial border, the striatopallidal systems, and the amygdalar organization in this lungfish are more similar to these features in terrestrial vertebrates than was previously suspected.
PAX6 expression was examined during early development of the diencephalon and midbrain of Alligator using an immunocytochemical methodology. These observations focused on the basal plate to determine whether diencephalic prosomere organization in this region followed a pattern previously identified for alar plate areas. PAX6 expression was also described in alar diencephalic regions and the adjacent midbrain. PAX6 (+) cells in the basal plate were first seen in prosomere 1 at stage 7, in the midbrain at stage 10, and lastly in prosomeres 2 and 3 at stage 11. By stage 12, a nearly continuous column of PAX6 (+) cells extended from the midbrain basal plate through the entire diencephalon. In the diencephalon, PAX6 (+) cells in the basal plate were of greatest number in prosomere 1, least in prosomere 2, and intermediate in prosomere 3. This pattern of PAX6 expression distinguished these individual basal plate prosomeres. These results indicate that basal plate prosomeres follow a pattern similar to alar plate prosomereric organization during the later stages of early diencephalon development. Over a comparable time period of early diencephalon development, similar observations have been made in chick basal plate. In Alligator and chick, PAX6 expression in the basal plate is similar in the midbrain and prosomere 1 but different in prosomeres 2 and 3: present in Alligator and absent in chick. In alar plate areas of the Alligator diencephalon, PAX6 expression follows a similar pattern to that described for chick and mouse. These similarities in PAX6 expression in alar diencephalic prosomeres suggest that this is a common feature of amniotes. Differential PAX6 expression in alar prosomere 1 and the midbrain in Alligator is similar to that described for a wide range of species which suggests that these features are common to all vertebrates.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune inflammatory disease that presents clinically with a range of symptoms including motor, sensory, and cognitive dysfunction as well as demyelination and lesion formation in brain and spinal cord. A variety of animal models of MS have been developed that share many of the pathological hallmarks of MS including motor deficits (ascending paralysis), demyelination and axonal damage of central nervous system (CNS) tissue. In recent years, neuropathic pain has been recognized as a prevalent symptom of MS in a majority of patients. To date, there have been very few investigations into sensory disturbances in animal models of MS. The current work contains the first assessment of hind paw mechanical allodynia (von Frey test) over the course of a relapsing-remitting myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (MOG-EAE) rat model of MS and establishes the utility of this model in examining autoimmune induced sensory dysfunction. We demonstrate periods of both decreased responsiveness to touch that precedes the onset of hind limb paralysis, and increased responsiveness (allodynia) that occurs during the period of motor deficit amelioration traditionally referred to as symptom remission. Furthermore, we tested the ability of our recently characterized anti-inflammatory IL-10 gene therapy to treat the autoimmune inflammation induced behavioral symptoms and tissue histopathological changes. This therapy is shown here to reverse inflammation induced paralysis, to reduce disease associated reduction in sensitivity to touch, to prevent the onset of allodynia, to reverse disease associated loss of body weight, and to suppress CNS glial activation associated with disease progression in this model.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a chronic pain condition that usually arises from an injury or as a complication from a surgical procedure. CRPS can result from multiple mechanisms including active processes involving both the peripheral and the central nervous system and sickness like responses involving interactions between the immune and nervous systems. In animal models both peripheral and central sensitization as well as loss of inhibition has been implicated in neuropathic pain states. Glial cells, in particular microglia and astrocytes, are the immunocompetent cells in the central nervous system and are activated following tissue injury or inflammation. In animal studies, activated glia have been shown to be both necessary and sufficient for enhanced nociception. Using immunohistochemical techniques, this study evaluated the degree of astrocytic and microglial activation as well as neuronal loss in autopsy tissue from the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal cord of a patient afflicted with CRPS as compared to four control individuals. The major findings of this study are that in long standing CRPS there was significant posterior horn cell loss and activation of both microglia and astrocytes most prominently at the level of the original injury but extending throughout the entire length of the spinal cord. Our hope is that the data obtained from this and other studies of autopsy material may aid in elucidating the mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of CRPS, which may lead to the refinement of current therapies as well as novel treatments.
This study examined the dose-dependent effects of Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on the acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition (PPI) in male Long-Evans rats. LPS is known to stimulate the innate immune system and result in behavior modifications referred to as &quot;sickness behaviors&quot;. The purpose of this study was to assess the ability of LPS to modulate sensorimotor reflexes (Startle-Only trials) and/or sensory processing (PPI trials). Rats were injected intraperitoneally with LPS (50, 100 or 200 microg/kg LPS, n=9/group) or saline vehicle (n=14) on 2 test days 72 h apart. Subjects were placed in a familiar startle box apparatus where startle response magnitudes were recorded following 115 dB Startle-Only trials and PPI trials (with prepulses at +3, +6 and +12 dB above background noise). Analysis of Startle-Only trials indicated a significant dose-dependent effect of LPS on Test Day 1. The 200 microg/kg LPS group exhibited significantly reduced startle response magnitude relative to all other treatments. On the PPI trials no LPS groups displayed significantly different performance from vehicle controls. Also, DayxDrug interactions for both Startle-Only and PPI trial types indicated behavioral tolerance to LPS. LPS reduced the acoustic startle response in a dose-dependent manner on Test Day 1. From the PPI data, it is evident that all treatment groups elicited near-normal inhibition levels indicating adequate sensory function. In combination, the results suggest that the range of sickness behaviors following LPS-administration to adult rats includes decreased non-voluntary motor activity as reflected by reduced startle magnitude.
Higher levels of proinflammatory cytokines are found in Parkinson's disease (PD) patient's brains and inflammation is thought to be a major contributor to the neurodegeneration. During the inflammatory process, microglial release of proinflammatory cytokines act on the endothelium of blood-brain barrier (BBB) cells to stimulate upregulation of adhesion molecules. Consequently, this upregulation leads to the recruitment of passing T cells and monocytes, which express the counter receptors, that then go on to release more cytokines [Whitton, P.S., 2007. Inflammation as a causative factor in the aetiology of Parkinson's disease, Br. J. Pharmacol. 50, 963-976; Kortekaas, R., Leenders, K.L., Van Oostrom, J.C., Vaalburg, W., Bart, J., Willemsen, A.T., Hendrikse, N.H., 2005. Blood-brain barrier dysfunction in parkinsonian midbrain in vivo, Ann. Neurol. 57, 176-179]. In addition, a systemic inflammatory response results in the production of cytokines which circulate in the blood and communicate with neurons within the brain. Thus, a central inflammatory reaction interacts with peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) modulating immune activity. The present study investigates levels of production and expression of cyto/chemokines by PBMCs in PD patients. Basal and LPS-induced levels of MCP-1, RANTES, MIP-1alpha, IL-8, IFNgamma, IL-1beta and TNFalpha were significantly higher in PD patients than in HC subjects (p&lt;0.001), as determined by RT-PCR and Elisa methods. Cyto/chemokine levels were significantly correlated with UPDRS III and H/Y stage (p&lt;0.001). The Pearson's correlation coefficient (R) was also used to assess the strength of the relationship between NF-kappaBp65 levels and all studied cyto/chemokines and between NF-kappaBp65, UPDRS III and H/Y score in PD patients. The overall results strengthen and extend the knowledge of the peripheral dysregulation in the cytokine network associated with PD.
We previously reported that aging F344XBN rats are more vulnerable to disruptions of memory consolidation processes following an injection of Escherichia coli than are young rats. Furthermore, this disruption was specific to hippocampal-dependent memory. In the present study we examined the time course of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1 beta in young and old rats following a peripheral injection of E. coli. Compared to young rats, aging rats treated with E. coli showed an exaggerated and prolonged up-regulation of IL-1 beta protein in the hippocampus, but not in hypothalamus, parietal cortex, prefrontal cortex, serum or spleen. Aging rats showed greater hippocampal IL-1 beta protein levels than their young counterparts 4h after E. coli, and these levels remained significantly elevated for 8 but not 14 days after E. coli. In a second experiment, aging rats exhibited anterograde memory consolidation impairments 4 and 8 days after an E. coli injection, but not after 14 days. A third experiment revealed that following an E. coli injection, bacterial clearance from the spleen and peritoneum was not impaired in aged rats, suggesting that elevations in hippocampal IL-1 beta were not mediated by impaired clearance in the periphery in aging rats. These data suggest that the exaggerated and prolonged elevation of IL-1 beta, specifically in the hippocampus, may be responsible for hippocampal-dependent memory impairments observed in aging rats following a bacterial infection.
This work investigated associations of age-related brain atrophy and functional neural networks identified using multivariate analyses of BOLD fMRI data in young and elder participants (young, N=37; mean age=25; elders, N=15; mean age=74). Two networks were involved in retaining increasing loads of verbal information in working memory. Network utilizations were used to test associations between function and indices of grey matter volume changes using voxel based morphometry. Global changes in brain volume were not associated with the secondary network. Lower regional grey matter volume in the left pre-central gyrus within the primary network was associated with increased secondary network utilization independent of age group. Decreased regional grey matter volume was associated with increased age only in the elders. Increased secondary network expression was associated with increased slope of reaction times across memory load, in the elders. These results support the theory of neural compensation, that elder participants recruit additional neural resources to maintain task performance in the face of age-related decreases in regional grey matter volume.
This study tested the production of tensed finite verbs and participles referring to the past and future in agrammatic speakers of Turkish. The agrammatic speakers did not make more time reference errors in tensed verbs than in participles. This is interesting because tense in general cannot therefore be the main problem, since time reference for participles lacking tense inflection is as difficult as for verbs with tense inflection. Besides that, the past tense/perfect aspect was found to be more difficult to produce for the agrammatic speakers than the future tense/imperfect aspect. None of the current theories on agrammatic deficits can explain why reference to the past/perfect aspect is more difficult than reference to future/imperfect aspect, although a similar finding was reported for Dutch by Bastiaanse [Bastiaanse, R. (2008). Production of verbs in base-position by Dutch agrammatic speakers: Inflection versus finiteness. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 21, 104-119]. We present a remoteness model of time reference to account for the data.
Instead of assessing activation in distinct brain regions, approaches to investigating the networks underlying distinct brain functions have come into the focus of neuroscience research. Here, we provide a completely data-driven framework for assessing functional and causal connectivity in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, employing Granger's causality. We investigate the networks underlying story processing in 17 healthy children (8f, 9m, 10.4+/-2.8 years, 6.5-15.4 years). Extensive functional connectivity exists between brain regions, including some not detected in standard random effects analyses. Causal connectivity analyses demonstrate a clear dominance of left-sided language regions for both forward and backward interactions with other network nodes. We believe our approach to be useful in helping to assess language networks in the normal or pathological setting; it may also aid in providing better starting estimates for the more hypothesis-driven approaches like structural equation or dynamic causal modeling.
In this study, event-related potentials (ERPs) were used to trace the temporal dynamics of phonological consistency and phonetic combinability in the reading of Chinese phonograms. The data showed a significant consistency-by-combinability interaction at N170. High phonetic combinability characters elicited greater negativity at N170 than did low phonetic combinability characters, and the combinability effect was only found in the reading of high consistency characters. The results support the phonological mapping hypothesis of the reading-related N170 effect and suggest that the earlier stages of visual word recognition are shaped by the mapping of orthography to phonology even in Chinese. Moreover, our data revealed both consistency and combinability effects at P200 and N400, accounted for by the two-stage framework for visual word recognition. That is, characters with high combinability or high consistency facilitated the earlier stages of orthographic or phonological processing which were due to increased activation at the perceptual level; consequently, less positive P200 was demonstrated. In the later stages, high combinability or high consistency characters were associated with a larger semantic neighborhood, which increased semantic competition and exaggerated the N400 effect. These data support the assumption of radical-based inputs proposed by the lexical constituent model. However, the phonetic consistency effects found at N170 and P200 cannot be reconciled with the current framework of the lexical constituent model. A possible revision will be discussed.
We examined the inter-rater reliability for the evaluation of patients with cervical dystonia by using the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS) (translated into Japanese). The TWSTRS is a rating scale that assesses patients with cervical dystonia by grading their symptoms on a subscale of severity, disability, and pain. This study used to TWSTRS-severity scores to examine the inter-rater reliability among 27 evaluators (neurologists) by using videotaped images of 2 patients. Along with the total-severity score on the TWSTRS, the intra-class correlation (ICC) and the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval were calculated as indices of inter-rater reliability. A high ICC of 0.745 was obtained. The ICC obtained from another study conducted outside Japan was 0.763, which is almost equivalent to the result of our study. Thus, the TWSTRS has a favorable inter-rater reliability which suggests that this scale was sufficiently reliable to be used as an accurate and easily available rating tool during the treatment of cervical dystonia.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive procedure of cortical stimulation, in which weak direct currents are used to polarize target brain regions. Depending on the polarity of the stimulation, tDCS can increase (anodal tDCS) or decrease (cathodal tDCS) cortical excitability in the stimulated brain regions and thereby enable the investigation of the causal relationships between brain activity and behavior. Recently, tDCS has been increasingly used to investigate human cognitive and motor functions in both healthy volunteers and neurological patients. Although tDCS generally produces diffuse cortical stimulation over a period of time, it has several advantages over other brain-stimulation tools such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). First, since tDCS produces less artifacts such as acoustic noise and muscle twitching, it is more suitable for double-blind, sham-controlled studies and clinical applications. Second, tDCS is not very expensive and can be performed with compact equipment, it can be easily combined with ongoing projects in neuroscience and psychology laboratories. Third, the facilitation of motor and cognitive functions by anodal tDCS may have great potential for cognitive and motor enhancement, for example, to support learning in healthy volunteers and to expedite the rehabilitation process in neurological patients. Finally, thus far, seizure incidents have not been reported in tDCS studies, tDCS has thus become a complementary tool to TMS and occupies a unique position in current cognitive neuroscience.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a surgical treatment involving the implantation of a medical device, which sends electrical impulses to specific parts of the brain. DBS in select brain regions has provided remarkable therapeutic benefits for treatment-resistant movement and affective disorders such as Parkinson's disease. DBS directly alters brain activity in a controlled manner, and its effects are reversible. Lately, DBS treatment has been used for the treatment of various psychiatric disorders, such as obsessive compulsive disorder, Tourette syndrome, and severe depression. However, DBS therapies for affective disorders are still at their experimental stage, and some scientists point out that there may be a risk involved, because the device implanted in a person's brain may alter his/her brain function and hence his personal identity. With support from the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), Japanese government, we conducted international research on the effects of DBS therapies for psychiatric disorders, examined the safety of such therapies, and clarified the conditions for proper application of the DBS technique. The research items were as follows: (1) safety issues concerning the deterioration of DBS electrodes and the possibilities of developing new and better materials, (2) the role of coordinators who mediate between patients and DBS devices, (3) social concerns regarding personality changes/brain plasticity, (4) re-examination of ethical debates on prefrontal lobotomy (lessons from the past), (5) possible use of DBS for the purpose of brain enhancement, and (6) end users' expectations and fears toward DBS.
The use of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for mental disorders has been discussed in Japan from the viewpoint of ethical problems. Trials of experimental therapies require a basis of sound scientific rationale. New standard therapy emerges from such trials through detailed analysis of the outcome and side effects. Long-suffering patients with intractable symptoms may desperately seek an experimental therapy even though it has not yet been accepted as standard therapy. The ethical committee of each institution evaluates the level of scientific rationale and the expected level of benefits on the bias of the reported data, and decides whether the patients can receive the experimental therapy. However, the use of DBS for mental disorders is not based on sound scientific rational, since the disease mechanisms involved are far from understood. The data reported from the previous trials are insufficient for assuring the satisfactory results for mental disoder patients. Most institutions in Japan do not accept such levels of scientific rationale and expected benefits. Furthermore, from the cultural perspective, strong skepticism exists in Japan with regard to surgical interventions for mental disorders. Such an attitude is unexpectedly in harmony with many of the subjects currently discussed in the field of neuroethics. For example, who has the right to control DBS? How does someone decide the level of control of mental function by DBS? These questions are related to the discussion on how human society is formed and how the ethics are decided by considering both scientific rationale and human society.
Recent advances in neuroscience opened up new technical possibilities, such as enabling possible human mindreading, neuroenhancement, and application of brain-machine-interface into everyday life, as well as the advent of new powerful psychotropic drugs. In addition to the conventional problems in bioethics, such as obtaining informed consent, neuroscience technology has generated new array of ethical questions. The social impact of advanced brain science or neuroscience and its technological applications is a major topic in bioethics, which is frequently termed as &quot;Neuroethics.&quot; Here, we summarize the ethical, legal, and social issues of cutting-edge brain science by analyzing a classic science fiction novel entitled &quot;Flowers for Algernon&quot; authored by Daniel Keyes (1966). Three aspects of social problems faced by brain science are apparent: biomedical risk assessment, issues related to human subjectivity and identity, and socio-cultural value of brain science technology. To understand this last aspect, enhancement-achievement and/or enhancement-treatment dichotomy can prove useful. In addition, we introduced the first national poll results in Japan (n=2,500) on the social impact of brain science. Although half the respondents believed that the advancement of brain science can aid individuals in the future, 56% of respondents suggested the necessity for guidelines or regulation policies mediating brain science. Technological application of brain science in treatment is generally accepted; however, not just for the personal purpose or enhancement of the normal function. In this regard, it is important to hold further discussions including the general public.
There have been considerable disputes the positioning of neuroethics as a new field since its emergence in 2002. It is the novelty of the neuroethical issues and the necessity for updated moral approaches to them that leading exponents of neuroethics have emphasized; advances in neurosciences have created an entirely new field of moral inquiries that the conventional bioethics had never noticed. Futher, as neuroethics embraces the subdivision of ethics in neuroscience, it should take precedence over bioethics, which depends on the fundamental moral concepts without questioning their bases. Many bioethicists have squarely opposed these insistences and thereby detected the claim of neuroethics exceptionalism: the asserted newness of issues comes mainly from the ignorance of exponents of this new field regarding accumulated bioethical inquiries, so that the overlapping concerns between bioethics and neuroethics are passed on to the future by them. Moreover, bioethicists point out that the recent tendency of Balkanization in the field of bioethics could endanger the integrity of moral investigations. Subfields of bioethics, such as geneethics, neuroethics, nanoethics and so on, originate consecutively, entail wastage of valuable time and money, and increase the risk of fragmentizing moral considerations in an inconsistent way. By reviewing this controversy between neuroethics and bioethics, I argue that the relevant scientific investigations and technologies, which have appeared to promote the proliferation of bioethical sub-disciplines to date, are beginning to converge into 1 complex that demands not the division into subspecialities but the novel integration of bioethical inquiries: it is time to attempt the unification of bioethical applied ethics for moral considerations regarding nano-bio-info-cogno convergent technologies.
Neuroethics was originated in 2002 in the United States. In 2004, the Research Institute of Science and Technology for Society (RISTEX), a subsection of Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), launched a neuroethics research group as the first research group to focus on the academic study and public engagement in neuroethics in Japan. In this article, the authors summarize the activities of RISTEX, JST during the brief history of neuroethics in Japan, and subsequently compare their current activities in neuroethics to those in other Western countries. We also introduce brief results of public survey of neuroscience research in Japan that suggest the significance of ethics and education regarding neuroscience to overview the future vision on neuroethics. We further discuss the role of neuroscientists in the future progress in neuroethics.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. We have studied alterations in gene expression in the substantia nigra, the caudate nucleus and putamen of four PD patients and four matched controls using custom designed Agilent microarrays. To gain insight into changes in gene expression during early stages of dopaminergic neurodegeneration, we selectively investigated the relatively spared parts of the PD substantia nigra, and correlated gene expression changes with alterations in neuronal density. We identified changes in the expression of 287 transcripts in the substantia nigra, 16 transcripts in the caudate nucleus and four transcripts in the putamen. For selected transcripts, transcriptional alterations were confirmed with qPCR on a larger set of seven PD cases and seven matched controls. We detected concerted changes in functionally connected groups of genes. In the PD substantia nigra, we observed strong evidence for a reduction in neurotrophic support and alterations in axon guidance cues. As the changes occur in relatively spared parts of the PD substantia nigra, they suggest novel disease mechanisms involving neurotrophic support and axon guidance in early stages of cellular stress events, ultimately leading to dopaminergic cell death in PD.
The brain is a complex system, which produces emergent properties such as those associated with activity-dependent plasticity in processes of learning and memory. Therefore, understanding the integrated structures and functions of the brain is well beyond the scope of either superficial or extremely reductionistic approaches. Although a combination of zoom-in and zoom-out strategies is desirable when the brain is studied, constructing the appropriate interfaces to connect all levels of analysis is one of the most difficult challenges of contemporary neuroscience. Is it possible to build appropriate models of brain function and dysfunctions with computational tools? Among the best-known brain dysfunctions, epilepsies are neurological syndromes that reach a variety of networks, from widespread anatomical brain circuits to local molecular environments. One logical question would be: are those complex brain networks always producing maladaptive emergent properties compatible with epileptogenic substrates? The present review will deal with this question and will try to answer it by illustrating several points from the literature and from our laboratory data, with examples at the behavioral, electrophysiological, cellular and molecular levels. We conclude that, because the brain is a complex system compatible with the production of emergent properties, including plasticity, its functions should be approached using an integrated view. Concepts such as brain networks, graphics theory, neuroinformatics, and e-neuroscience are discussed as new transdisciplinary approaches dealing with the continuous growth of information about brain physiology and its dysfunctions. The epilepsies are discussed as neurobiological models of complex systems displaying maladaptive plasticity.
The discovery of non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurotransmission in the gut and bladder in the early 1960's is described as well as the identification of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) as a transmitter in these nerves in the early 1970's. The concept of purinergic cotransmission was formulated in 1976 and it is now recognized that ATP is a cotransmitter in all nerves in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Two families of receptors to purines were recognized in 1978, P1 (adenosine) receptors and P2 receptors sensitive to ATP and adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Cloning of these receptors in the early 1990's was a turning point in the acceptance of the purinergic signalling hypothesis and there are currently 4 subtypes of P1 receptors, 7 subtypes of P2X ion channel receptors and 8 subtypes of G protein-coupled receptors. Both short-term purinergic signalling in neurotransmission, neuromodulation and neurosecretion and long-term (trophic) purinergic signalling of cell proliferation, differentiation, motility, death in development and regeneration are recognized. There is now much known about the mechanisms underlying ATP release and extracellular breakdown by ecto-nucleotidases. The recent emphasis on purinergic neuropathology is discussed, including changes in purinergic cotransmission in development and ageing and in bladder diseases and hypertension. The involvement of neuron-glial cell interactions in various diseases of the central nervous system, including neuropathic pain, trauma and ischemia, neurodegenerative diseases, neuropsychiatric disorders and epilepsy are also considered.
Cellular metabolism of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been widely studied, but the function of the protein remains elusive. APP knock out mice do not show any phenotype, due to in vivo compensation by APLP genes, encoding proteins similar to APP. In order to study the neuronal metabolism of APP, human APP has been expressed in rat cortical neurons in culture. Following differentiation in culture, rat cortical neurons are organized into networks of connected cells, which show neuronal activity in the form of spontaneous and synchronous calcium oscillations. Expression of human APP in these neuronal networks inhibits calcium oscillations, while downregulation of endogenous APP expression increases the frequency and decreases the amplitude of oscillations. Therefore, APP controls neuronal calcium homeostasis and excitability. In the same experimental model, APP is also able to control the neuronal synthesis of cholesterol. Finally, the APP carboxy terminal domain is involved in the epigenetic control of gene expression. Modulation of neuronal expression of APP allows to identify several important functions of the precursor of the amyloid peptide found in senile plaques of Alzheimer disease.
Herpes encephalitis can be a life-threatening condition, despite early instauration of acyclovir treatment. In particular patients may succumb to rapidly progressive cerebral oedema. We report a 66-year patient with a Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) of 6 and incipient uncus herniation of the right temporal lobe on the third day. Decompressive hemicraniectomy was immediately performed. The long-term outcome was satisfactory with unassisted gait and a Barthel Index score of 70 after 9 months.


Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder. Although PD is diagnosed and recognized by the associated motor symptoms, historically the associated non-motor symptoms have been clinically under-appreciated. One of the most distressing of the non-motor symptoms is a sleep-wake pattern disturbance, estimated to affect more than 60% of people living with PD. A review of the literature utilizing the Human Response to Illness Model as an organizing framework will facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the far-reaching impact of sleep disturbances in PD. The four concepts of the model, including the physiological, pathophysiological, experiential, and behavioural perspectives, provide a foundation for holistic insight into this issue. In turn, this will facilitate a greater understanding of the neuroscience nursing educational, interventional and research opportunities that can optimize an individual's adaptation to this response.
Pediatric neuroscience nurses deal with many children with hydrocephalus. This paper will provide a review of hydrocephalus with a specific focus on third ventriculostomy. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is an accepted treatment option for patients with obstructive hydrocephalus. At the Alberta Children's Hospital in Calgary, Alberta, we have been performing ETV for 15 years. This experience has helped us better understand the complications and benefits of ETV. The author will provide data on the complications specific to ETV in pediatric patients at the Alberta Children's Hospital. A case report comparing neurocognitive testing before and after ETV will be shared. An additional case report of a patient with a spontaneous third ventriculostomy will help illustrate our understanding of the natural history of hydrocephalus.
The purpose of this meta-analysis was to estimate the efficacy of prophylactic administration of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists for postoperative vomiting (POV) in pediatric craniotomy patients at 24 hours. By updating a previously published systematic literature search, we found a recently published pediatric study to combine with the one already identified. The two published randomized placebo-controlled trials were combined for a total of 135 participants aged 2 to 20 (79 treatment and 56 controls). The only study drug was ondansetron. The combined relative risk (RR) of vomiting was not statistically significant in the treatment group compared to the control group (RR = 0.77; 95% CI: 0.50-1.19). There was also no evidence of efficacy for ondansetron in reducing the use of rescue antiemetics in the treatment group compared to the control group (RR = .71; 95% CI: 0.34-1.49). While combining these randomized placebo-controlled trials did not show efficacy for ondansetron in preventing POV in craniotomy patients aged 2 to 20, a clinically significant effect cannot be excluded, as even the combined sample size remained small. Thus, there is no current evidence for or against this class of drugs for preventing POV in children after craniotomy, and clinical decision-making must be based on studies in other populations and clinical experience. Ongoing assessment of nausea and vomiting and ongoing evaluation of the effectiveness of treatments in individual children and young adults remains an essential part of perianesthesia and postoperative neuroscience nursing.
Despite the proliferation of literature related to nurse-family relationships, little is known about such relationships in acute care neuroscience environments. A grounded theory study illuminated the experiences of nurses caring for families of patients with acquired brain injuries in the context of acute care hospital environments. Nurses, working in pressure-cooker-like environments, tried to meet information and emotional needs of families. During data analysis, a communication pattern emerged that impacted on nurses' experiences and relationships with families. This communication pattern, known as a double bind, contributed to a pattern of nursing that emerged and offers an explanation for the behaviours of the nurses in coping with family members. Nurses felt &quot;damned if they did and damned if they didn't&quot;. To provide family-centred care, we need to fully understand the experiences of nurses caring for these families. This paper describes the concept of double bind and its application to neuroscience nursing.
Suicide gene therapy has been used for the treatment of a variety of cancers. We reported previously the in vitro efficacy of the Herpes Simplex Virus Thymidine kinase (HSV-tk)/ganciclovir (GCV) system to mediate cytotoxicity in oral squamous cancer cells, using transferrin (Tf)-lipoplexes, prepared from cationic liposomes composed of 1,2-dioleoyl-3-(trimethylammonium) propane (DOTAP) and cholesterol. In the present study, we evaluated the antitumoral efficacy mediated by this lipoplex formulation in two suicide gene therapy strategies, HSV-tk/GCV and cytosine deaminase (CD)/5-fluorocytosine (5-FC), using a syngeneic, orthotopic murine model for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The cellular and molecular events associated with the antitumoral response elicited by both the therapeutic approaches were investigated by analyzing tumor cell death, tumor-infiltrating immune cells and tumor cytokine microenvironment. Significant tumor reduction was achieved upon intratumoral delivery of HSV-tk or CD genes mediated by Tf-lipoplexes, followed by intraperitoneal injection of GCV or 5-FC, respectively. Enhanced apoptosis, the recruitment of NK cells, CD4 and CD8 T-lymphocytes and an increase in the levels of several cytokines/chemokines were observed within the tumors. These observations suggest that suicide gene therapy with lipoplexes modifies the tumor microenvironment, and leads to the recruitment of immune effector cells that can act as adjuvants in reducing the tumor size.

Background. The conserved noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs) that function to regulate gene expression are essential for the development and function of the brain and heart. Changes in miRNA expression profiles are associated with an increased risk for developing neurodegenerative disorders as well as heart failure. Here, the hypothesis of how miRNA-regulated pathways could contribute to comorbid neurological and cardiovascular disorders will be discussed. Presentation. Changes in miRNA expression occurring in the brain and heart could have an impact on coexisting neurological and cardiovascular characteristics by (1) modulating organ function, (2) accentuating cellular stress, and (3) impinging on neuronal and/or heart cell survival. Testing. Evaluation of miRNA expression profiles in the brain and heart tissues from individuals with comorbid neurodegenerative and cardiovascular disorders will be of great importance and relevance. Implications. Careful experimental design will shed light to the deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms tying up those different but yet somehow connected diseases.
The mechanisms underlying the development and progression of psychiatric illnesses are only partially known. Clinical data suggest blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown and inflammation are involved in some patients groups. Here we put forward the &quot;BBB hypothesis&quot; and abnormal blood-brain communication as key mechanisms leading to neuronal dysfunction underlying disturbed cognition, mood, and behavior. Based on accumulating clinical data and animal experiments, we propose that events within the &quot;neurovascular unit&quot; are initiated by a focal BBB breakdown, and are associated with dysfunction of brain astrocytes, a local inflammatory response, pathological synaptic plasticity, and increased network connectivity. Our hypothesis should be validated in animal models of psychiatric diseases and BBB breakdown. Recently developed imaging approaches open the opportunity to challenge our hypothesis in patients. We propose that molecular mechanisms controlling BBB permeability, astrocytic functions, and inflammation may become novel targets for the prevention and treatment of psychiatric disorders.
Patients with Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) have an increased risk of developing neoplasms. The most common brain tumors, found in 15%-20% of NF1 patients, are hypothalamic-optic gliomas, followed by brainstem and cerebellar pilocytic astrocytomas. These tumors generally have a benign nature. NF1 patients are predisposed to a 5-fold increased incidence of high-grade astrocytomas, which are usually located in supratentorial regions of the brain. We present an NF1 patient who developed a high-grade astrocytoma in the posterior fossa and discuss possible pathophysiological mechanisms.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a serine-threonine kinase important for different cellular processes. Involved in tau protein hyperphosphorylation and apoptotic neuronal death, two main neuropathological markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Prion-related encephalopathies (PRE), Cdk5 also participates in cell cycle regulation. However, the precise relationship between cell cycle reactivation and Cdk5 dysregulation in AD and PRE remains unclear. To determine Cdk5 involvement in the triggering of an abortive cell cycle by amyloid-beta (Abeta) and prion (PrP) peptides, associated with AD and PRE pathogenesis, we examined the levels/activation of several cell cycle-associated proteins in cultured cortical neurons treated with Abeta1-40 and PrP106-126 peptides. Peptide treatments significantly increased Cdk4, phospho-retinoblastoma and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) levels, whereas phospho-histone H3 remained invariable, suggesting cell cycle arrest before the M phase. Moreover, Abeta1-40 and PrP106-126 largely augmented the number of PCNA-immunoreactive cells with fragmented nuclei. The Cdk5 inhibitor roscovitine and the calpain inhibitor MDL28170 prevented the alterations in cell cycle markers induced by both peptides. The data obtained suggest that Abetaand PrP peptides induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry through a mechanism involving Cdk5 dysregulation. Therefore, cell cycle reactivation mediated by Cdk5 can underlie the neurodegenerative processes that occur in AD and PRE.
Many receptors that are employed for the engulfment of apoptotic cells are also used for the recognition and phagocytosis of bacteria. Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk (TAM) are important in the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells by macrophages. Animals lacking these receptors are hypersensitive to bacterial products. In this report, we examine whether the TAM receptors are involved in the phagocytosis of bacteria. We found that macrophages lacking Mertk, Axl, Tyro3 or all three receptors were equally efficient in the phagocytosis of Gram-negative E. coli. Similarly, the phagocytosis of E. coli and Gram-positive S. aureus bioparticles by macrophages lacking TAM receptors was equal to wild-type. In addition, we found that Mertk did not play a role in killing of extracellular E. coli or the replication status of intracellular Francisella tularensis. Thus, while TAM receptors may regulate signal transduction to bacterial components, they are not essential for the phagocytosis and killing of bacteria.
How HIV-1 affects the monocyte proteome is incompletely understood. We posit that one functional consequence of virus-exposure to the monocyte is the facilitation of protein transformation from the cytosol to the plasma membrane (PM). To test this, cell surface labeling with CyDye fluorophores followed by 2 dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D DIGE) and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed. Fifty three percent of HIV-1 induced proteins were PM associated. These were linked, in large measure, to cellular activation and oxidative stress. They included, but not limited to, biliverdin reductase, leukotriene hydrolase A(4), heat shock protein 70, and cystatin B. HIV-1 induced PM protein translocation was associated with cathepsin B- and caspase 9, 3-dependent apoptosis. In contrast, PMA-treated monocytes bypassed caspase 3, 9 pathways and lead to cathepsin B-dependent necrosis. These results demonstrate that HIV-1 uniquely affects monocyte activation and oxidative stress. These do not affect viral infection dynamics but are linked to stress-induced cell death.
Pharmacological up-regulation of heat shock proteins (hsps) rescues motoneurons from cell death in a mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. However, the relationship between increased hsp expression and neuronal survival is not straightforward. Here we examined the effects of two pharmacological agents that induce the heat shock response via activation of HSF-1, on stressed primary motoneurons in culture. Although both arimoclomol and celastrol induced the expression of Hsp70, their effects on primary motoneurons in culture were significantly different. Whereas arimoclomol had survival-promoting effects, rescuing motoneurons from staurosporin and H(2)O(2) induced apoptosis, celastrol not only failed to protect stressed motoneurons from apoptosis under same experimental conditions, but was neurotoxic and induced neuronal death. Immunostaining of celastrol-treated cultures for hsp70 and activated caspase-3 revealed that celastrol treatment activates both the heat shock response and the apoptotic cell death cascade. These results indicate that not all agents that activate the heat shock response will necessarily be neuroprotective.
Programmed cell death contributes to neurological diseases and may involve mitochondrial dysfunction with redistribution of apoptogenic proteins. We examined neuronal death to elucidate whether the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway and the crosstalk between caspase-dependent/-independent injury was differentially recruited by stressors implicated in neurodegeneration. After exposure of cultured cerebellar granule cells to various insults, the progression of injury was correlated with mitochondrial involvement, including the redistribution of intermembrane space (IMS) proteins, and patterns of protease activation. Injury occurred across a continuum from Bax- and caspase-dependent (trophic- factor withdrawal) to Bax-independent, calpain-dependent (excitotoxicity) injury. Trophic-factor withdrawal produced classical recruitment of the intrinsic pathway with activation of caspase-3 and redistribution of cytochrome c, whereas excitotoxicity induced early redistribution of AIF and HtrA2/Omi, elevation of intracellular calcium and mitochondrial depolarization. Patterns of engagement of neuronal programmed cell death and the redistribution of mitochondrial IMS proteins were canonical, reflecting differential insult-dependencies.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in chronic liver disease is characterized by neuropsychiatric and motor disturbances and associated with a net increase of inhibitory neurotransmission. Though many studies, mostly carried out in animal models, have linked dysfunctions of single neurotransmitter systems with the pathogenesis of HE, reports concerning neurotransmitter receptor alterations are controversial. Little is known about the situation in humans. We carried out a multireceptor assessment of HE-associated changes in neurotransmitter receptor densities and affinities in human post-mortem brain samples. Dissociation constants and densities of different binding sites for glutamate, GABA, acetylcholine, norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine and adenosine were determined by in vitro binding assays and quantitative receptor autoradiography in the motor cortex and putamen of HE and control brains. HE cases do not build a homogeneous group, but differ concerning direction and intensity of binding site density divergences from control values. The acetylcholine M2 binding site dissociation constant was significantly higher in HE brains. Nicotinic acetylcholine and adenosine type 1 and 2A densities were significantly down-regulated in the putamen of HE brains. Our data suggest that neurotransmitter alterations are probably not the primary key factor responsible for the neuropsychiatric and motor disturbances associated with HE.
Clinicians have long used lithium to treat manic depression. They have also observed that lithium causes granulocytosis and lymphopenia while it enhances immunological activities of monocytes and lymphocytes. In fact, clinicians have long used lithium to treat granulocytopenia resulting from radiation and chemotherapy, to boost immunoglobulins after vaccination, and to enhance natural killer activity. Recent studies revealed a mechanism that ties together these disparate effects of lithium. Lithium acts through multiple pathways to inhibit glycogen synthetase kinase-3beta (GSK3 beta). This enzyme phosphorylates and inhibits nuclear factors that turn on cell growth and protection programs, including the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) and WNT/beta-catenin. In animals, lithium upregulates neurotrophins, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3 (NT3), as well as receptors to these growth factors in brain. Lithium also stimulates proliferation of stem cells, including bone marrow and neural stem cells in the subventricular zone, striatum, and forebrain. The stimulation of endogenous neural stem cells may explain why lithium increases brain cell density and volume in patients with bipolar disorders. Lithium also increases brain concentrations of the neuronal markers n-acetyl-aspartate and myoinositol. Lithium also remarkably protects neurons against glutamate, seizures, and apoptosis due to a wide variety of neurotoxins. The effective dose range for lithium is 0.6-1.0 mM in serum and &gt;1.5 mM may be toxic. Serum lithium levels of 1.5-2.0 mM may have mild and reversible toxic effects on kidney, liver, heart, and glands. Serum levels of &gt;2 mM may be associated with neurological symptoms, including cerebellar dysfunction. Prolonged lithium intoxication &gt;2 mM can cause permanent brain damage. Lithium has low mutagenic and carcinogenic risk. Lithium is still the most effective therapy for depression. It &quot;cures&quot; a third of the patients with manic depression, improves the lives of about a third, and is ineffective in about a third. Recent studies suggest that some anticonvulsants (i.e., valproate, carbamapazine, and lamotrigene) may be useful in patients that do not respond to lithium. Lithium has been reported to be beneficial in animal models of brain injury, stroke, Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal cord injury, and other conditions. Clinical trials assessing the effects of lithium are under way. A recent clinical trial suggests that lithium stops the progression of ALS.
The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (velocardiofacial/DiGeorge syndrome) is a neurogenetic condition associated with visuospatial deficits, as well as elevated rates of attentional disturbance, mood disorder, and psychosis. Previously, we detected pronounced cortical thinning in superior parietal and right parieto-occipital cortices in patients with this syndrome, regions critical for visuospatial processing. Here we applied cortical pattern-matching algorithms to structural magnetic resonance images obtained from 21 children with confirmed 22q11.2 deletions (ages 8-17) and 13 demographically matched comparison subjects, in order to map cortical thickness across the medial hemispheric surfaces. In addition, cortical models were remeshed in frequency space to compute their surface complexity. Cortical maps revealed a pattern of localized thinning in the ventromedial occipital-temporal cortex, critical for visuospatial representation, and the anterior cingulate, a key area for attentional control. However, children with 22q11.2DS showed significantly increased gyral complexity bilaterally in occipital cortex. Regional gray matter volumes, particularly in medial frontal cortex, were strongly correlated with both verbal and nonverbal cognitive functions. These findings suggest that aberrant parieto-occipital brain development, as evidenced by both increased complexity and cortical thinning in these regions, may be a neural substrate for the deficits in visuospatial and numerical understanding characteristic of this syndrome.
Animal research suggests that the consolidation of fear and extinction memories depends on N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors. Using a fear conditioning and extinction paradigm in healthy normal volunteers, we show that postlearning administration of the NMDA partial agonist D-cycloserine (DCS) facilitates fear memory consolidation, evidenced behaviorally by enhanced skin conductance responses, relative to placebo, for presentations of a conditioned stimulus (CS) at a memory test performed 72 h later. DCS also enhanced CS-evoked neural responses in a posterior hippocampus/collateral sulcus region and in the medial prefrontal cortex at test. Our data suggest a role for NMDA receptors in regulating fear memory consolidation in humans.
Momentary fluctuations of baseline activity have been shown to influence responses to sensory stimulation both behaviorally and neurophysiologically. This suggests that perceptual awareness does not solely arise from physical stimulus properties. Here we studied whether the momentary state of the brain immediately before stimulus presentation indicates how a physically unique but perceptually ambiguous stimulus will be perceived. A complex Necker cube was intermittently presented and subjects indicated whether their perception changed with respect to the preceding presentation. EEG was recorded from 256 channels. The prestimulus brain-state was defined as the spatial configuration of the scalp potential map within the 50 ms before stimulus arrival, representing the sum of all momentary ongoing brain processes. Two maps were found that doubly dissociated perceptual reversals from perceptual stability. For EEG sweeps classified as either map, distributed inverse solutions were computed and statistically compared. This yielded activity confined to a region in right inferior parietal cortex that was significantly more active before a perceptual reversal. In contrast, no significant topographic differences of the evoked potentials elicited by stable vs. reversed Necker cubes were found. This indicates that prestimulus activity in right inferior parietal cortex is associated with the perceptual change.




Conventional antiplatelet agents such as aspirin, ticlopidine, and clopidogrel are currently used in the prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. However, side effects such as bleeding complications and gastrointestinal disorders and, in some patients, resistance have made the development of new agents desirable. Recently, thromboxane receptors (thromboxane and prostaglandin endoperoxide PGG2-PGH2 receptors) called TP receptors have received increasing attention. These receptors are membrane-bound G-coupled receptors found not only on platelets but also on macrophages, monocytes, vascular endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells. Antagonists of TP receptors have advantages over aspirin as they not only block the effect of thromboxane A2 on platelets, but also inhibit other ligands such as prostaglandin endoperoxides and isoprostanes. Given the distribution of TP receptors in platelets, in circulating inflammatory cells, in the vascular wall and in atherosclerotic plaques, they also inhibit the effects of thromboxane A2 over TP receptors on vascular cells or in the plaque. Terutroban (Triplion or S18886), a new oral specific TP receptor antagonist, has, aside from being an antithrombotic agent, important vascular properties. It improves endothelial function and has an antiatherosclerotic effect. The potential therapeutic applications of terutroban in the prevention of atherothrombosis, particularly in the cerebrovascular and cardiovascular fields including stroke and coronary artery disease, are based on a number of convincing experimental animal and clinical studies. A large trial is currently comparing the efficacy and safety of terutroban versus aspirin in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events in patients who have suffered a stroke or transient ischemic attack (PERFORM Study).


Emotional and behavioral disturbances are a frequent complication in stroke survivors. They are underdiagnosed, have a high impact on quality of life and are often a precipitant of institutionalization. For the caregivers of stroke survivors, these disturbances are a main cause of exhaustion. Health professionals have an insufficient training in their diagnosis and management which demands qualified skills and dedication of a multiprofessional team. In this article, we update some of the most common or relevant poststroke emotional and behavioral disturbances, including poststroke mania and poststroke depression, poststroke anxiety disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder, personality changes with focus on apathy and disturbances of emotional expression control. Significant advances in the management of poststroke emotional and behavioral disturbances will need the use of comparable instruments and methods and multicenter collaboration.
The Safe Implementation of Thrombolysis in Stroke Monitoring Study (SITS-MOST) of 6,483 patients treated with intravenous alteplase within 3 h after stroke onset showed that this treatment was as safe and as effective in clinical practice as in randomized controlled trials. SITS-MOST was based on the SITS registry, available over a secure Internet connection. The SITS registry today includes over 22,000 treatment files on intravenous thrombolysis with an inclusion rate of 1,200-1,300 new files every 4 months. SITS now opens for other interventions than intravenous thrombolysis and will soon be available as an optional general stroke register. After SITS-MOST, the registry is generating new information on outcome predictors, treatments in patients in later time windows, patients with hyperdense middle cerebral artery signs, and several publications are in preparation. Important information is currently collected on the effect on door-to-needle time and safety of a broad implementation of thrombolysis in a later time window.
High blood pressure (BP) is present in 80% of patients with acute ischaemic stroke and is independently associated with poor outcome. Although this epidemiology suggests that BP should be lowered acutely, concerns about dysfunctional cerebral autoregulation suggest otherwise. Several small randomised trials have assessed cerebral blood flow with various antihypertensive classes and agents in acute ischaemic stroke. Overall, these studies showed no change in cerebral perfusion, although the numbers of studies and patients are limited and there are methodological problems with some trials. There are no large published randomised trials assessing outcome with BP lowering in acute stroke. Calcium channel blockers did not alter outcome after ischaemic stroke (29 trials, 7,665 patients). However, some trials, especially those testing intravenous calcium channel blockers (INWEST) or oral beta-receptor antagonists (BEST) reported real or potential hazard. In contrast, oral candesartan reduced combined vascular events in 339 patients with ischaemic stroke (ACCESS) although it had no effect on disability. The CHHIPS trial found that death was reduced in patients randomised to active treatment (labetalol, lisinopril) as compared with placebo. Two larger trials reported that glucose-potassium-insulin therapy (GIST) or magnesium (IMAGES) lowered BP but had no effect on functional outcome. The INTERACT pilot trial studied patients with intracerebral haemorrhage and found that an intensive BP-lowering regime non-significantly reduced haematoma expansion. There are four large ongoing trials examining whether to continue or stop pre-stroke antihypertensive therapy (COSSACS, ENOS) or lower BP in acute stroke (ENOS, SCAST) or haemorrhage (INTERACT 2).
Neuronal death produced by cerebral ischemia activates innate immunity by Toll-like receptors and triggers inflammatory response. This response is necessary to remove cell debris and to start regenerative process. However, inflammatory response could exacerbate cerebral damage and it is involved in secondary brain damage. Therefore, organisms have developed different mechanisms to regulate inflammatory response. An accurate balance between inflammation and anti-inflammation is necessary to assure the removal of cell debris and to avoid secondary cell damage. New therapeutic targets could be designed to obtain a correct modulation of the immune system and to reduce cerebral brain damage after cerebral ischemia. In this paper, we review the function of the immune system in cerebral ischemia, particularly inflammation and immunomodulation.
Although hundreds of genetic association studies of ischaemic stroke have been published, the failure to replicate associations has led to scepticism about their findings. Possible explanations for this failure are: (1) a false-positive association in the initial study; (2) a false-negative association in a replication study; (3) methodological differences (e.g. study populations or study designs). We review underlying causes for replication failure, such as small sample size, multiple testing and publication bias, and methods to deal with these problems. We also make suggestions about the design of genetic association studies in ischaemic stroke with regard to stroke subtype classification, candidate pathways, subgroups, intermediate phenotypes and potential clinical impact.



Dithiocarbamates have a wide spectrum of applications in industry, agriculture, and medicine, with new applications being investigated. Past studies have suggested that the neurotoxicity of some dithiocarbamates may result from copper accumulation, protein oxidative damage, and lipid oxidation. The polarity of a dithiocarbamate's nitrogen substituents influences the lipophilicity of the copper complexes that it generates and thus potentially determines its ability to promote copper accumulation within nerve and induce myelin injury. In the current study, a series of dithiocarbamate-copper complexes differing in their lipophilicity were evaluated for their relative abilities to promote lipid peroxidation determined by malondialdehyde levels generated in an ethyl arachidonate oil-in-water emulsion. In a second component of this study, rats were exposed to either N,N-diethyldithiocarbamate or sarcosine dithiocarbamate; both generated dithiocarbamate-copper complexes that were lipid- and water-soluble, respectively. Following the exposures, brain, tibial nerve, spinal cord, and liver tissue copper levels were measured by inductively coupled mass spectroscopy to assess the relative abilities of these two dithiocarbamates to promote copper accumulation. Peripheral nerve injury was evaluated using grip strengths, nerve conduction velocities, and morphologic changes at the light microscope level. Additionally, the protein expression levels of glutathione transferase alpha and heme-oxygenase-1 in nerve were determined, and the quantity of protein carbonyls was measured to assess levels of oxidative stress and injury. The data provided evidence that dithiocarbamate-copper complexes are redox active and that the ability of dithiocarbamate complexes to promote lipid peroxidation is correlated to the lipophilicity of the complex. Consistent with neurotoxicity requiring the formation of a lipid-soluble copper complex, significant increases in copper accumulation, oxidative stress, and myelin injury were produced by N,N-diethyldithiocarbamate but not by sarcosine dithiocarbamate.
Olfactory mental images are defined as short-term memory representations of olfactory events that give rise to the experience of &quot;smelling with the mind's nose.&quot; The present paper reviewed converging evidences that support the view that as visual mental images, odor mental images preserve some aspects of olfactory percepts. The role of olfactomotor mechanisms in recalling olfactory mental images from long-term memory to short-term memory is also discussed.
This study investigated developmental and sex-related differences in affective decision making, using a two-deck version of Children's Gambling Task administered to 3- and 4-year-old children. The main findings were that 4-year-old children displayed better decision-making performance than 3-year-olds. This effect was independent of developmental changes in inductive reasoning, language, and working memory. There were also sex differences in decision-making performance, which were apparent only in 3-year-old children and favored girls. Moreover, age predicted awareness of task and the correlation between the latter and decision-making performance was significant, but only in 4-year-old children. This study thus indicates that there is a remarkable developmental leap in affective decision making, whose effects are apparent around the age of 4, which according to our results, also marks the age when the correlation of declarative knowledge and decision-making performance becomes significant.
We report a fatal case of airway obstruction. A tracheostomized, spontaneously breathing 39-year-old man developed dyspnea, cardiac, and respiratory arrest after tracheal cannula replacement. Inspection of the cannula showed a blood clot obstructing the tube. Autopsy showed pink foam in the trachea, pulmonary hyperinflation, and congested lung parenchyma. Histological examination showed acute pulmonary emphysema without any sign of blood inhalation. The probable pathophysiological mechanism is a clot creating a one-way valve allowing inspiration but not expiration, resulting in dyspnea and pulmonary hyperinflation.


Bone is the most frequent site of breast cancer metastasis, and once such metastasis occurs, complete remission is extremely difficult to achieve. In an effort to define the mechanisms underlying metastatic spread of breast cancer to bone, we previously developed and characterized the highly bone metastatic 4T1E/M3 mouse breast cancer cells. We found that following injection into mice, 4T1E/M3 cells exhibited greater bone metastasis and greater in vitro anchorage-independent growth and cell migration than their parental cells (4T1E). We also found that expression of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) is crucially involved in these metastatic activities of 4T1E/M3 cells. In the present study, our analysis of gene and protein expression revealed that production of chemokine CCL2 (MCP-1) is dramatically reduced in 4T1E/M3 cells, and that restoration of CCL2 expression in 4T1E/M3 cells diminishes their metastasis to bone and lung. Overexpression of CCL2 in 4T1E/M3 cells significantly reduced not only in vitro anchorage-independent cell growth and cell migration, but also mRNA and cell surface expression of ICAM-1. Conversely, knocking down CCL2 in 4T1E parental cells augmented their metastatic spread to spine and lung. The expression of ICAM-1 was also upregulated in 4T1E-derived CCL2 knockdown cells. Taken together, these results suggest that CCL2 expression may negatively regulate breast cancer metastasis to bone marrow and lung in our model and that expression of ICAM-1 plays a crucial role in that process.

1. There is an increasing demand in diagnostic radiology for extracting additional morphological and functional quantitative parameters from three-dimensional computed tomography (CT) images. Synchrotron radiation computed tomography (SRCT) is the state-of-the-art method in preclinical X-ray CT, because its performance is close to the theoretical limits in terms of accuracy and precision. 2. The SRCT method with monochromatic X-ray beams yields absolute high-Z element contrast agent concentrations, without errors arising from beam hardening or scatter artefacts, by using digital subtraction techniques of the sinograms. Each pixel of the reconstructed difference images provides a quantitative concentration versus time curve of inhaled or injected high-Z contrast agents (xenon or iodine) with a high sensitivity. This is the key point of two functional imaging techniques that were developed at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility: brain perfusion and lung function (ventilation and perfusion). 3. These two imaging techniques provide parametric images expressed in absolute perfusion parameters (blood volume, blood flow, mean transit time and capillary permeability) or ventilation parameters (lung volume, regional lung ventilation, bronchial lumen size, regional airway and lung compliance) with a high accuracy and precision. 4. The aim of the present brief review is to give a snapshot of the status and perspectives of these two imaging techniques, with emphasis on the performances and interests for functional imaging. Two separate sections will then describe the results obtained so far using SRCT as an in vivo functional imaging tool for measuring changes in haemodynamics and ventilation, in the investigation of experimental pathophysiology and in the effects of therapeutic intervention.
1. Constriction of cerebral arteries is considered to depend on L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs); however, many previous studies have used antagonists with potential non-selective actions. Our aim was to determine the expression and function of VDCCs in the rat basilar artery. 2. The relative expression of VDCC subtypes was assessed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Data were correlated with physiological studies of vascular function. Domains I-II of the T channel subtypes expressed in the rat basilar artery were cloned and sequenced. 3. Blockade of L-type channels with nifedipine had no effect on vascular tone. In contrast, in the presence of nifedipine, hyperpolarization of short arterial segments produced relaxation, whereas depolarization of quiescent segments evoked constriction. 4. The mRNA and protein for L- and T-type VDCCs were strongly expressed in the main basilar artery and side branches, with Ca(V)3.1 and Ca(V)1.2 the predominant subtypes. 5. T-Type VDCC blockers (i.e. 1 micromol/L mibefradil, 10 micromol/L pimozide and 100 micromol/L flunarizine) decreased intracellular calcium in smooth muscle cells, relaxed and hyperpolarized arteries, whereas nickel chloride (100 micromol/L) had no effect. In contrast with nifedipine, 10 micromol/L nimodipine produced hyperpolarization and relaxation. 6. When arteries were relaxed with 10 micromol/L U73122 (a phospholipase C inhibitor) in the presence of nifedipine, 40 mmol/L KCl evoked depolarization and constriction, which was significantly reduced by 1 micromol/L mibefradil. 7. Sequencing of domains I-II revealed splice variants of Ca(V)3.1, which may impact on channel activity. 8. We conclude that vascular tone of the rat basilar artery results from calcium influx through nifedipine-insensitive VDCCs with pharmacology consistent with Ca(V)3.1 T-type channels.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a condition characterized by discomfort at rest and urge to move focused on the legs. RLS may occur as an idiopathic, often hereditary condition (primary RLS), or in association with medical conditions (secondary RLS) including iron deficiency, uremia, and polyneuropathy. Current understanding of the pathophysiology of RLS points to the involvement of three interrelated components: dopaminergic dysfunction, impaired iron homeostasis, and genetic mechanisms. The diagnosis of RLS is made according to the consensus criteria by a National Institutes of Health panel: 1) an urge to move the legs, usually accompanied by uncomfortable sensations; 2) beginning or worsening during rest; 3) relieved by movement; and 4) worse, or only occurring, in the evening or at night. The differential diagnosis of RLS aims to: 1) distinguish RLS from other disorders with RLS-like symptoms and 2) identify secondary forms, with investigation of underlying diseases. The treatment of RLS demands a clinical evaluation to rule out and cure causes of secondary RLS, including iron supplementation when deficient, and to eliminate the triggering factors. The presence of neuropathy should be especially investigated in nonhereditary, late-onset RLS, in view of a possible treatment of the underlying disease. The first line treatment for idiopathic RLS is represented by dopamine agonists, in particular nonergot-derived ropinirole and pramipexole, whereas ergot dopamine agonists (cabergoline and pergolide) are no longer in first-line use given the risks of cardiac valvulopathy. Although no comparative trials have been published, a meta-analysis of pramipexole versus ropinirole suggests differences in efficacy and tolerability favoring pramipexole.
CT angiography (CTA) is increasingly being utilized in the initial diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage. While active bleeding from an intracranial aneurysm has been demonstrated on conventional angiography, CT angiogram findings of active aneurysmal hemorrhage are not well described. We present a case of an actively bleeding anterior communicating artery aneurysm demonstrated by CT angiography. The initial CTA demonstrated the extravasation of contrast from the anterior communicating artery. A second CT scan less than 1h later confirmed the ongoing hemorrhage, with extension of hemorrhage into the subarachnoid cisterns and the ventricular system. Recognition of active aneurismal hemorrhage by CTA may modify plan of treatment and follow-up imaging.

&quot;Tumour-to-tumour&quot; phenomenon is a rare event; meningioma has been reported as the most common primary intracranial tumour to harbour metastases, the majority of which arise from breast and lung carcinomas. Several hypotheses have been previously proposed to explain this occurrence, but the exact mechanisms responsible for the development of metastases in meningiomas are not known. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy could be useful to hypothesize this uncommon event, but its preoperative diagnosis remains highly difficult. Two patients are reported, with breast and renal carcinoma metastases in an intracranial meningioma. Pathogenetic mechanisms and neuroimaging features are discussed. A brief review of the literature is presented.

Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), a mitochondrial disease, is clinically characterized by a bilateral subacute loss of central vision consecutive to optic nerve involvement. In some cases of LHON, neurological features are reported including multiple sclerosis-like (MSL) phenotype. We report one additional male patient displaying LHON-MSL associated with the prevalent G11778A mutation and review the cases with expendable data published so far in the literature. We discuss the respective roles of inflammation and energetic metabolism dysregulation in the development of brain lesions. We propose to treat these patients early with both antioxidative and immunosuppressive drugs in order to avoid further handicap.





The prospect of cell therapy for incurable neurodegenerative disease excites scientists, the public, and patients alike. Clinical and scientific enthusiasm must, however, always be tempered by methodological rigor and by the overwhelming imperative of protecting vulnerable sufferers. We tentatively suggest that, in the case of autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), the balance between our current understanding of their biology and an informed assessment of their probable safety allows a case to be made for cautious pilot clinical studies.





Time is a dimension tightly associated with the biology of living species. There are cycles of varied lengths in biological activities, from very short (ultradian) rhythms to rhythms with a period of approximately one day (circadian) and rhythms with longer cycles, of a week, a month, a season, or even longer. These rhythms are generated by endogenous biological clocks, i.e. time-keeping structures, rather than being passive reactions to external fluctuations. In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the major pacemaker. The pineal gland, which secretes melatonin, is the major pacemaker in other phyla. There also exist biological clocks generating circadian rhythms in peripheral tissues, for example the liver. A series of clock genes generates the rhythm through positive and negative feedback effect of proteins on their own synthesis, and this system oscillates with a circadian period. External factors serve as indicators of the astronomical (solar) time and are called zeitgebers, literally time-givers. Light is the major zeitgeber, which resets daily the SCN circadian clock. In the absence of zeitgebers, the circadian rhythm is said to be free running; it has a period that differs from 24 hours. The SCN, together with peripheral clocks, enables a time-related homeostasis, which can become disorganized in its regulation by external factors (light, social activities, food intake), in the coordination and relative phase position of rhythms, or in other ways. Disturbances of rhythms are found in everyday life (jet lag, shift work), in sleep disorders, and in several psychiatric disorders including affective disorders. As almost all physiological and behavioural functions in humans occur on a rhythmic basis, the possibility that advances, delays or desynchronization of circadian rhythms might participate in neurological and psychiatric disorders has been a theme of research. In affective disorders, a decreased circadian amplitude of several rhythms as well as a phase advance or delay have been described, leading to hypotheses about changes in biological clocks themselves or in their sensitivity to environmental factors, such as light or social cues. Molecular genetics studies have suggested the involvement of circadian clock genes, but no tight association has yet been found. Agomelatine is an antidepressant, agonist at melatonergic MT(1), MT(2) receptors and antagonist at 5-HT(2C) receptors, and is able to phase advance circadian rhythms in humans. The fact that non-pharmacological (light therapy, sleep deprivation, rhythm therapy) and pharmacological (lithium, antidepressants, agomelatine) therapies of affective disorders influence circadian rhythms indicates that biological clocks play a role in the pathophysiology of these disorders.
Being the most delicate organ of the body, the brain is protected against potentially toxic substances by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which restricts the entry of most pharmaceuticals into the brain. The developmental process for new drugs for the treatment of CNS disorders has not kept pace with progress in molecular neurosciences because most of the new drugs discovered are unable to cross the BBB. The clinical failure of CNS drug delivery may be attributed largely to a lack of appropriate drug delivery systems. Localized and controlled delivery of drugs at their desired site of action is preferred because it reduces toxicity and increases treatment efficiency. The present review provides an insight into some of the recent advances made in the field of brain drug delivery.The various strategies that have been explored to increase drug delivery into the brain include (i) chemical delivery systems, such as lipid-mediated transport, the prodrug approach and the lock-in system; (ii) biological delivery systems, in which pharmaceuticals are re-engineered to cross the BBB via specific endogenous transporters localized within the brain capillary endothelium; (iii) disruption of the BBB, for example by modification of tight junctions, which causes a controlled and transient increase in the permeability of brain capillaries; (iv) the use of molecular Trojan horses, such as peptidomimetic monoclonal antibodies to transport large molecules (e.g. antibodies, recombinant proteins, nonviral gene medicines or RNA interference drugs) across the BBB; and (v) particulate drug carrier systems. Receptor-mediated transport systems exist for certain endogenous peptides, such as insulin and transferrin, enabling these molecules to cross the BBB in vivo.The use of polymers for local drug delivery has greatly expanded the spectrum of drugs available for the treatment of brain diseases, such as malignant tumours and Alzheimer's disease. In addition, various drug delivery systems (e.g. liposomes, microspheres, nanoparticles, nanogels and bionanocapsules) have been used to enhance drug delivery to the brain. Recently, microchips and biodegradable polymers have become important in brain tumour therapy.The intense search for alternative routes of drug delivery (e.g. intranasal drug delivery, convection-enhanced diffusion and intrathecal/intraventricular drug delivery systems) has been driven by the need to overcome the physiological barriers of the brain and to achieve high drug concentrations within the brain. For more than 30 years, considerable efforts have been made to enhance the delivery of therapeutic molecules across the vascular barriers of the CNS. The current challenge is to develop drug delivery strategies that will allow the passage of drug molecules through the BBB in a safe and effective manner.
Exposure to a traumatic event is required for the diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The symptoms of PTSD are believed to reflect stress-induced changes in neurobiological systems and/or an inadequate adaptation of neurobiological systems to exposure to severe stressors. More recently, there have been attempts to link the identified neurobiological changes to the specific features that constitute PTSD, such as altered mechanisms of learning and extinction, sensitization to stress, and arousal. Furthermore, there have been efforts to understand whether certain neurobiological changes in PTSD reflect preexisting vulnerability factors rather than consequences of trauma exposure or correlates of PTSD. Genetic variability, sex differences, and developmental exposures to stress influence neurobiological systems and moderate PTSD risk. On the basis of these findings, important hypotheses for developing novel strategies to identify subjects at risk, promote resilience, and devise targets for the prevention or treatment of PTSD can be derived.
Social cognition involves automatic and stimulus-driven processes; these may be important in mediating stereotypes in the community and schemas and transference in the clinic setting. Significant differences in self-related processing and other-related processing may also lead to important biases in our view of the other. The psychobiology of social cognition is gradually being delineated, and may be useful in understanding these phenomena, and in responding appropriately. In the clinic, schemas can be rigorously assessed, and schema-focused psychotherapy may be useful in a number of indications.
The opening of the deepest undersea tunnel in the world (264 m below sea level, 5600 m in length) replaced the ferry from the island of Hitra to the mainland in Norway. This event provoked phobic anxiety for traveling through the undersea tunnel in a number of individuals in the area. A treatment program for tunnel phobia was designed to test whether such a phobia could be mitigated by procedures previously proven effective in the treatment of other phobias. The program was presented to 18 persons with a specific phobia for tunnels and included a general discussion on the construction of undersea tunnels, given by an engineer from the tunnel construction company, and on phobic anxiety. It further consisted of gradual exposure to the tunnel in situ. Treatment effects were strong. All patients were able to travel on their own by car through the tunnel after the treatment. Their somatic complaints and phobic thoughts related to the tunnel were substantially reduced, and their mastery of tunnel driving was convincingly increased compared with the wait-list reference group.
Now that genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are dominating the landscape of genetic research on neuropsychiatric syndromes, investigators are being faced with complexity on an unprecedented scale. It is now clear that phenomics, the systematic study of phenotypes on a genome-wide scale, comprises a rate-limiting step on the road to genomic discovery. To gain traction on the myriad paths leading from genomic variation to syndromal manifestations, informatics strategies must be deployed to navigate increasingly broad domains of knowledge and help researchers find the most important signals. The success of the Gene Ontology project suggests the potential benefits of developing schemata to represent higher levels of phenotypic expression. Challenges in cognitive ontology development include the lack of formal definitions of key concepts and relations among entities, the inconsistent use of terminology across investigators and time, and the fact that relations among cognitive concepts are not likely to be well represented by simple hierarchical &quot;tree&quot; structures. Because cognitive concept labels are labile, there is a need to represent empirical findings at the cognitive test indicator level. This level of description has greater consistency, and benefits from operational definitions of its concepts and relations to quantitative data. Considering cognitive test indicators as the foundation of cognitive ontologies carries several implications, including the likely utility of cognitive task taxonomies. The concept of cognitive &quot;test speciation&quot; is introduced to mark the evolution of paradigms sufficiently unique that their results cannot be &quot;mated&quot; productively with others in meta-analysis. Several projects have been initiated to develop cognitive ontologies at the Consortium for Neuropsychiatric Phenomics (www.phenomics.ucla.edu), in the hope that these ultimately will enable more effective collaboration, and facilitate connections of information about cognitive phenotypes to other levels of biological knowledge. Several free web applications are available already to support examination and visualisation of cognitive concepts in the literature (PubGraph, PubAtlas, PubBrain) and to aid collaborative development of cognitive ontologies (Phenowiki and the Cognitive Atlas). It is hoped that these tools will help formalise inference about cognitive concepts in behavioural and neuroimaging studies, and facilitate discovery of the genetic bases of both healthy cognition and cognitive disorders.
The verbs cause, enable, and prevent express beliefs about the way the world works. We offer a theory of their meaning in terms of the structure of those beliefs expressed using qualitative properties of causal models, a graphical framework for representing causal structure. We propose that these verbs refer to a causal model relevant to a discourse and that &quot;A causes B&quot; expresses the belief that the causal model includes a link from A to B. &quot;A enables/allows B&quot; entails that the model includes a link from A to B, that A represents a category of events necessary for B, and that an alternative cause of B exists. &quot;A prevents B&quot; entails that the model includes a link from A to B and that A reduces the likelihood of B. This theory is able to account for the results of four experiments as well as a variety of existing data on human reasoning.
Frequency trajectory is a better measure to investigate age-limited learning effects than age of acquisition (AoA) ratings (Zevin, J. D., &amp; Seidenberg, M. S. (2002). Age of acquisition effects in word reading and other tasks. Journal of Memory and Language, 47(1), 1-29). The current study uses frequency trajectory as a variable to investigate age-limited learning effects in Chinese character recognition, and tests predictions of the arbitrary mapping hypothesis as applied in a non-alphabetic writing system. In Experiment 1, regression analyses showed that, compared to rated AoA, frequency trajectory of characters was less affected by other lexical properties, and could explain a significant proportion of variance of AoA. In Experiment 2, the frequency trajectory and predictability from orthography to pronunciation of characters were orthogonally manipulated in a character naming task. The frequency trajectory effect appeared only for the arbitrary mapping condition. In Experiment 3, frequency trajectory and predictability from orthography to meaning of characters were manipulated in a semantic category judgment task. The frequency trajectory effects were found only when the mapping from orthography to semantic is less consistent. In summary, the study confirmed that AoA is a genuine factor affecting word processing, and the AoA effects were limited to those situations in which mapping between input and output representation was arbitrary. These results provide strong cross-linguistic evidence in support of the arbitrary mapping hypothesis.
To investigate whether conscious judgments of movement onset are based solely on pre-movement signals (i.e., premotor or efference copy signals) or whether sensory feedback (i.e., reafferent) signals also play a role, participants judged the onset of finger and toe movements that were either active (i.e., self initiated) or passive (i.e., initiated by the experimenter). Conscious judgments were made by reporting the position of a rotating clock hand presented on a computer screen and were then compared to the actual measured time of movement onset. In line with previous studies, judgment errors were found to be anticipatory for both finger and toe movements. There was a significant difference between judgment errors for active and passive movements, with judgments of active movements being more anticipatory than judgments of passive movements. This is consistent with a pre-movement (from here on referred to as an &quot;efferent&quot;) account of action awareness because premotor and efference copy signals are only present in active movements, whereas the main source of movement information in passive movements is sensory feedback which is subject to time delays of conduction (and hence predicts later judgment times for passive movements). However, judgments of active toe movement onset time were less anticipatory than judgments of active finger movement onset time. This pattern of results is not consistent with a pure efferent account of conscious awareness of action onset - as this account predicts more anticipatory judgments for toe movements compared to finger movements. Instead, the data support the idea that conscious judgments of movement onset are based on efferent (i.e., premotor, efference copy) and reafferent (i.e., feedback from the movement) components.
Recent results from a variety of different kinds of experiments, mainly using behavior as an assay, and ranging from laboratory selection experiments to gene interaction studies, show that a much wider range of genes can affect phenotype than those identified as &quot;core genes&quot; in classical mutant screens. Moreover, very pleiotropic genes can produce specific phenotypes when mild variants are combined. These studies also show that gene networks readily change configuration and the relationships between interacting genes in response to the introduction of additional genetic variants, suggesting that the networks range widely and have a high degree of flexibility and malleability. Such flexibility, in turn, offers a plausible mechanism for the molding of phenotypes through microevolution, as a prerequisite to making a suitable environment for the acceptance of newly arising large-effect mutations in the transition from microevolution to macroevolution.
Geranylgeranyltransferase I (GGT) is a protein prenyltransferase that mediates lipid modification of some proteins such as Rho family small GTPases. Since the activation of Rho GTPases mediates tumorgenesis and metastasis, GGT has become an attractive target for anti-tumor drug design. Although GGT is extensively expressed in the brain, the function of GGT in central nervous system (CNS) is totally unknown. We have previously shown that GGT was involved in neuromuscular synaptogenesis. In this study, we report that neuronal activity- and brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF)-dependent dendritic morphogenesis requires activation of GGT. Furthermore, GGT was activated by depolarization or BDNF in cultured neurons or in hippocampus of the mice under novelty exploration test, suggesting that neuronal activity activates GGT in vitro and in vivo. In this addendum, we further discuss the significance of this study and the possible implication to the field.
Endophilin B1 is a member of the endophilin family that is localized predominantly to intracellular membranes. Also known as Bax-interacting factor-1 (Bif-1), this protein has been observed to regulate the membrane dynamics of various intracellular compartments, such as the control of mitochondrial morphology and autophagosome formation in fibroblast. Endophilin B1 is expressed in the brain, but its functions in neurons had remained unknown. Recently, we have observed a novel role of endophilin B1 in neurons where it controls the trafficking of TrkA, cognate receptor for the prototypic neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF). Knock-down of endophilin B1 expression induces precocious targeting of NGF/TrkA to late endosomes and lysosomes, thereby leading to reduced TrkA levels. This is accompanied by marked attenuation of NGF-induced gene transcription and neurite outgrowth. Our observations suggest that endophilin B1 regulates TrkA level and downstream functions by controlling the movement of TrkA to late endosomes/lysosomes, possibly acting at the level of early endosomes.
Human kinase Akt has been shown to be activated at the plasma membrane upon generation of the cell membrane bound second messenger phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Several components in the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway have been found in the detergent-resistant plasma membrane compartments, lipid rafts. Increasing evidence also suggests crucial roles of lipid rafts in the activation of Akt in different cell types. However, the regulatory mechanisms of Akt activation at different microdomains of the plasma membrane are not clear. Using a newly developed genetically encodable fluorescent kinase reporter based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), AktAR, we studied spatio-temporal dynamics of Akt activity within plasma membrane microdomains in live-cell context. Our studies suggest that Akt activity is turned on more rapidly in lipid rafts upon growth factor stimulation, and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) or insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1) stimulated Akt activity is differentially regulated between raft and non-raft regions of the plasma membrane.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from a range of nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins. Recently, we described a novel route to neurotrophin-dependent gene activation in neurons, which requires the S-nitrosylation of nuclear HDAC2 by the gaseous molecule nitric oxide (NO).1 We have further investigated the NO-dependent regulation of HDACs in neurons. Using a fluorogenic deacetylation assay, we show that NO decreases the enzymatic activity of a subgroup of neuronal HDACs in vitro and that this inhibition is not due to damaging modifications such as oxidation or tyrosine nitration. The neuronal HDACs whose catalytic activity is inhibited by NO are entirely those that are localized in the cytoplasm. These observations support and extend the concept that nitric oxide is a key regulator of HDAC function in mammalian neurons.
It is generally assumed, both in common-sense argumentations and scientific concepts, that brains and neurons represent late evolutionary achievements which are present only in more advanced animals. Here we overview recently published data clearly revealing that our understanding of bacteria, unicellular eukaryotic organisms, plants, brains and neurons, rooted in the Aristotelian philosophy is flawed. Neural aspects of biological systems are obvious already in bacteria and unicellular biological units such as sexual gametes and diverse unicellular eukaryotic organisms. Altogether, processes and activities thought to represent evolutionary 'recent' specializations of the nervous system emerge rather to represent ancient and fundamental cell survival processes.
Sex has been postulated as one of the factors mediating heterogeneity in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This study investigated the sex differences in OCD with respect to sociodemographics, symptom profile, and comorbidity including spectrum disorders. Two hundred thirty-one subjects diagnosed with OCD by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, criteria were included in the study. The subjects were evaluated by extensive clinical and semistructured interviews by expert clinical psychiatrists, and diagnosis was made by consensus. Male (n = 166) and female (n = 65) subjects with OCD were compared with respect to the data obtained. Males with OCD tended to have an earlier onset and had more symmetry/religious obsessions and miscellaneous compulsions. Males also showed a tendency to have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Female subjects were more likely to be married, have cleaning compulsions and be associated with trichotillomania. The findings support the hypothesis that there are sex differences in OCD, but the results are only partly comparable with other studies, suggesting that the phenotypic expression of OCD is possibly dependent on a complex interaction among biologic, personal, and cultural factors.
The paper describes a framework for efficient sharing of knowledge between research groups, which have been working for several years without flaws. The obstacles in cooperation are connected primarily with the lack of platforms for effective exchange of experimental data, models, and algorithms. The solution to these problems is proposed by construction of the platform (EEG.pl) with the semantic aware search scheme between portals. The above approach implanted in the international cooperative projects like NEUROMATH may bring the significant progress in designing efficient methods for neuroscience research.
Knowledge of brain connectivity is an important aspect of modern neuroscience, to understand how the brain realizes its functions. In this work, neural mass models including four groups of excitatory and inhibitory neurons are used to estimate the connectivity among three cortical regions of interests (ROIs) during a foot-movement task. Real data were obtained via high-resolution scalp EEGs on two populations: healthy volunteers and tetraplegic patients. A 3-shell Boundary Element Model of the head was used to estimate the cortical current density and to derive cortical EEGs in the three ROIs. The model assumes that each ROI can generate an intrinsic rhythm in the beta range, and receives rhythms in the alpha and gamma ranges from other two regions. Connectivity strengths among the ROIs were estimated by means of an original genetic algorithm that tries to minimize several cost functions of the difference between real and model power spectral densities. Results show that the stronger connections are those from the cingulate cortex to the primary and supplementary motor areas, thus emphasizing the pivotal role played by the CMA_L during the task. Tetraplegic patients exhibit higher connectivity strength on average, with significant statistical differences in some connections. The results are commented and virtues and limitations of the proposed method discussed.

Traditionally, modeling of neurobiological systems has involved development of computer-based simulations. As opposed to physical experimentation, simulations tend to over-simplify environmental conditions. Yet, in many cases such environmental conditions are critical to experiment outcome. In the case of animal behavior, simulation-only arenas can serve as a preliminary platform for model experimentation. Realistic physical environments are required for final evaluation of model correctness. In this paper we present our work with physical robots as testbed for animal behavior experimentation under realistic environmental conditions.
This work describes the neuro-robotics paradigm: the fusion of neuroscience and robotics. The fusion of neuroscience and robotics, called neuro-robotics, is fundamental to develop robotic systems to be used in functional support, personal assistance and neuro-rehabilitation. While usually the robotic device is considered as a &quot;tool&quot; for neuroscientific studies, a breakthrough is obtained if the two scientific competences and methodologies converge to develop innovative platforms to go beyond robotics by including novel models to design better robots. This paper describes three robotic platforms developed at the ARTS lab of Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, implementing neuro-robotic design paradigm.
This presentation will review the effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for movement disorders in patients, and the cellular mechanisms that may explain these effects.
In neurophysiology, it is important to determine the causal relationships between neuronal sites. The major problem with existing methods for quantifying the causality in the brain, e.g. Granger causality, is that they assume an multi-variate autoregressive signal model for the multi-channel EEG signals and do not take the nonlinear dependencies between neuronal oscillations into account. In this paper, we propose to quantify the causality of the interactions based on the directed information (DI) criterion, which measures the information flow between two signals over time. The proposed measure is applied to real EEG data from control and schizophrenic subject groups. The significance of the computed DI values are verified by Fourier bootstrapping technique.
Multichannel neural activities such as EEG or ECoG in a brain computer interface can be classified with subset selection algorithms running on large feature dictionaries describing subject specific features in spectral, temporal and spatial domain. While providing high accuracies in classification, the subset selection techniques are associated with long training times due to the large feature set constructed from multichannel neural recordings. In this paper we study a novel denoising technique for reducing the dimensionality of the feature space which decreases the computational complexity of the subset selection step radically without causing any degradation in the final classification accuracy. The denoising procedure was based on the comparison of the energy in a particular time segment and in a given scale/level to the energy of the raw data. By setting denoising threshold a priori the algorithm removes those nodes which fail to capture the energy in the raw data in a given scale. We provide experimental studies towards the classification of motor imagery related multichannel ECoG recordings for a brain computer interface. The denoising procedure was able to reach the same classification accuracy without denoising and a computational complexity around 5 times smaller. We also note that in some cases the denoised procedure performed better classification.
A growing number of brain monitoring tools for medical and biomedical applications such as surgery have been developed. Although many assistive technologies (e.g., brain computer interface (BCI) systems) aiming to restore cognitive-motor deficits are under development, no functional neural indicator or brain biomarker able to track the cortical dynamics of the brain when interacting with new tools and/or novel environments in ecological situations are available. Therefore this study aimed to investigate potential biomarkers reflecting the dynamic cognitive-motor states of subjects who had to learn a new tool. These biomarkers were derived from phase synchronization measures of electroencephalographic (EEG) signals (coherence, phase locking value (PLV)). The findings indicate a linear decrease of phase synchronization for both movement planning and execution as subjects adapt during tool learning. These changes were correlated with enhanced kinematics as the task progressed. These non-invasive biomarkers may play a role in bioengineering applications and particularly in BCI systems, allowing the establishment of co-adaptation/cooperation between the user's brain and the decoding algorithm to design adaptive neuroprostheses.
Humans are remarkable in their ability to adapt to changes in the dynamics of a movement. The mechanisms by which the brain controls body movements are important in the fields of robotics and neurosciences. Robots are largely used to study the adaptive properties of human motor system. If rehabilitation robots are used in conjunction with techniques for functional brain imaging, in principle the motor learning can be facilitated for rehabilitation purposes. In this study, we use motor imagery technique to improve the learning rate in a robot-based adaptation task. We tried to determine whether humans can learn an internal model of a complex mixed force field (V+P) that was the sum of a velocity-dependent force field (V) and a position-dependent force field (P). The results suggest that the motor learning can be influenced by mental practice and could be used to increase the rate of adaptation.
The ability to observe functional and morphological changes in the brain is critical in understanding behavioral and developmental neuroscience. With advances in electronics and miniaturization, electrophysiological recordings from awake, behaving animals has allowed investigators to perform a multitude of behavioral studies by observing changes as an animal is engaged in certain tasks. Imaging offers advantages of observing structure as well as function, and the ability to monitor activity over large areas. However, imaging from an awake, behaving animal has not been explored well. We present the design and characterization of a miniaturized epi-illuminated optical system that is part of a larger goal to perform optical imaging in awake, behaving animals. The system comprises of a tunable light source and imaging optics in a small footprint of 18 mm diameter, 18 mm height and weight 5.7 grams. It offers a spatial illumination non-uniformity of 3.2% over a maximum field of view of 1.5 mm x 1.5 mm, negligible temporal illumination and temperature variation and controllable magnification. Uncorrected radial distortion was 5.3% (corrected to 1.8%) and the spatial frequency response was comparable to a reference system. The system was used to image cortical vasculature in an anesthetized rat.
Identification of multiple simultaneously recorded neural spike train recordings is an important task in understanding neuronal dependency, functional connectivity, and temporal causality in neural systems. An assessment of the functional connectivity in a group of ensemble cells was performed using a regularized point process generalized linear model (GLM) that incorporates temporal smoothness or contiguity of the solution. An efficient convex optimization algorithm was then developed for the regularized solution. The point process model was applied to an ensemble of neurons recorded from the cat motor cortex during a skilled reaching task. The implications of this analysis to the coding of skilled movement in primary motor cortex is discussed.
