Our previous studies have demonstrated that the effects of the immune cytokine interferon- (IFN-) in immune-mediated demyelinating diseases are mediated, at least in part, by the unfolded protein response (UPR) in oligodendrocytes. Data indicate that some biological effects of IFN- are elicited through activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-B (NF-B). Interestingly, it has been shown that activation of the pancreatic endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) branch of the UPR triggers NF-B activation. In this study, we showed that IFN--induced NF-B activation was associated with activation of PERK signaling in the oligodendroglial cell line Oli-neu. We further demonstrated that blockage of PERK signaling diminished IFN--induced NF-B activation in Oli-neu cells. Importantly, we showed that NF-B activation in oligodendrocytes correlated with activation of PERK signaling in transgenic mice that ectopically express IFN- in the central nervous system (CNS), and that enhancing IFN--induced activation of PERK signaling further increased NF-B activation in oligodendrocytes. Additionally, we showed that suppression of the NF-B pathway rendered Oli-neu cells susceptible to the cytotoxicity of IFN-, reactive oxygen species, and reactive nitrogen species. Our results indicate that the UPR is involved in IFN--induced NF-B activation in oligodendrocytes and suggest that NF-B activation by IFN- represents one mechanism by which IFN- exerts its effects on oligodendrocytes in immune-mediated demyelinating diseases.
Norepinephrine (NE) is thought to play important roles in the consolidation and retrieval of long-term memories, but its role in the processing and memorization of complex acoustic signals used for vocal communication has yet to be determined. We have used a combination of gene expression analysis, electrophysiological recordings and pharmacological manipulations in zebra finches to examine the role of noradrenergic transmission in the brain's response to birdsong, a learned vocal behavior that shares important features with human speech. We show that noradrenergic transmission is required for both the expression of activity-dependent genes and the long-term maintenance of stimulus-specific electrophysiological adaptation that are induced in central auditory neurons by stimulation with birdsong. Specifically, we show that the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM), an area directly involved in the auditory processing and memorization of birdsong, receives strong noradrenergic innervation. Song-responsive neurons in this area express -adrenergic receptors and are in close proximity to noradrenergic terminals. We further show that local -adrenergic antagonism interferes with song-induced gene expression, without affecting spontaneous or evoked electrophysiological activity, thus dissociating the molecular and electrophysiological responses to song. Moreover, -adrenergic antagonism disrupts the maintenance but not the acquisition of the adapted physiological state. We suggest that the noradrenergic system regulates long-term changes in song-responsive neurons by modulating the gene expression response that is associated with the electrophysiological activation triggered by song. We also suggest that this mechanism may be an important contributor to long-term auditory memories of learned vocalizations.
Reward processing abnormalities have been implicated in the pathophysiology of negative symptoms such as anhedonia and avolition in schizophrenia. However, studies examining neural responses to reward anticipation and receipt have largely relied on instrumental tasks, which may confound reward processing abnormalities with deficits in response selection and execution. 25 chronic, medicated outpatients with schizophrenia and 20 healthy controls underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging using a pavlovian reward prediction paradigm with no response requirements. Subjects passively viewed cues that predicted subsequent receipt of monetary reward or non-reward, and blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal was measured at the time of cue presentation and receipt. At the group level, neural responses to both reward anticipation and receipt were largely similar between groups. At the time of cue presentation, striatal anticipatory responses did not differ between patients and controls. Right anterior insula demonstrated greater activation for nonreward than reward cues in controls, and for reward than nonreward cues in patients. At the time of receipt, robust responses to receipt of reward vs. nonreward were seen in striatum, midbrain, and frontal cortex in both groups. Furthermore, both groups demonstrated responses to unexpected versus expected outcomes in cortical areas including bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Individual difference analyses in patients revealed an association between physical anhedonia and activity in ventral striatum and ventromedial prefrontal cortex during anticipation of reward, in which greater anhedonia severity was associated with reduced activation to money versus no-money cues. In ventromedial prefrontal cortex, this relationship held among both controls and patients, suggesting a relationship between anticipatory activity and anhedonia irrespective of diagnosis. These findings suggest that in the absence of response requirements, brain responses to reward receipt are largely intact in medicated individuals with chronic schizophrenia, while reward anticipation responses in left ventral striatum are reduced in those patients with greater anhedonia severity.
Gene inactivation through RNA interference (RNAi) has proven to be a valuable tool for studying gene function in C. elegans. When combined with tissue-specific gene inactivation methods, RNAi has the potential to shed light on the function of a gene in distinct tissues. In this study we characterized C. elegans rrf-1 mutants to determine their ability to process RNAi in various tissues. These mutants have been widely used in RNAi studies to assess the function of genes specifically in the C. elegans germline. Upon closer analysis, we found that two rrf-1 mutants carrying different loss-of-function alleles were capable of processing RNAi targeting several somatically expressed genes. Specifically, we observed that the intestine was able to process RNAi triggers efficiently, whereas cells in the hypodermis showed partial susceptibility to RNAi in rrf-1 mutants. Other somatic tissues in rrf-1 mutants, such as the muscles and the somatic gonad, appeared resistant to RNAi. In addition to these observations, we found that the rrf-1(pk1417) mutation induced the expression of several transgenic arrays, including the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16. Unexpectedly, rrf-1(pk1417) mutants showed increased endogenous expression of the DAF-16 target gene sod-3; however, the lifespan and thermo-tolerance of rrf-1(pk1417) mutants were similar to those of wild-type animals. In sum, these data show that rrf-1 mutants display several phenotypes not previously appreciated, including broader tissue-specific RNAi-processing capabilities, and our results underscore the need for careful characterization of tissue-specific RNAi tools.
Multisensory learning and resulting neural brain plasticity have recently become a topic of renewed interest in human cognitive neuroscience. Music notation reading is an ideal stimulus to study multisensory learning, as it allows studying the integration of visual, auditory and sensorimotor information processing. The present study aimed at answering whether multisensory learning alters uni-sensory structures, interconnections of uni-sensory structures or specific multisensory areas. In a short-term piano training procedure musically naive subjects were trained to play tone sequences from visually presented patterns in a music notation-like system [Auditory-Visual-Somatosensory group (AVS)], while another group received audio-visual training only that involved viewing the patterns and attentively listening to the recordings of the AVS training sessions [Auditory-Visual group (AV)]. Training-related changes in cortical networks were assessed by pre- and post-training magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings of an auditory, a visual and an integrated audio-visual mismatch negativity (MMN). The two groups (AVS and AV) were differently affected by the training. The results suggest that multisensory training alters the function of multisensory structures, and not the uni-sensory ones along with their interconnections, and thus provide an answer to an important question presented by cognitive models of multisensory training.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP, encoded by Calca) is a classic marker of nociceptive dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. Despite years of research, it is unclear what stimuli these neurons detect in vitro or in vivo. To facilitate functional studies of these neurons, we genetically targeted an axonal tracer (farnesylated enhanced green fluorescent protein; GFP) and a LoxP-stopped cell ablation construct (human diphtheria toxin receptor; DTR) to the Calca locus. In culture, 10-50% (depending on ligand) of all CGRP-GFP-positive (+) neurons responded to capsaicin, mustard oil, menthol, acidic pH, ATP, and pruritogens (histamine and chloroquine), suggesting a role for peptidergic neurons in detecting noxious stimuli and itch. In contrast, few (2.21.3%) CGRP-GFP(+) neurons responded to the TRPM8-selective cooling agent icilin. In adult mice, CGRP-GFP(+) cell bodies were located in the DRG, spinal cord (motor neurons and dorsal horn neurons), brain and thyroid-reproducibly marking all cell types known to express Calca. Half of all CGRP-GFP(+) DRG neurons expressed TRPV1, 25% expressed neurofilament-200, &lt;10% contained nonpeptidergic markers (IB4 and Prostatic acid phosphatase) and almost none (&lt;1%) expressed TRPM8. CGRP-GFP(+) neurons innervated the dorsal spinal cord and innervated cutaneous and visceral tissues. This included nerve endings in the epidermis and on guard hairs. Our study provides direct evidence that CGRP(+) DRG neurons respond to agonists that evoke pain and itch and constitute a sensory circuit that is largely distinct from nonpeptidergic circuits and TRPM8(+)/cool temperature circuits. In future studies, it should be possible to conditionally ablate CGRP-expressing neurons to evaluate sensory and non-sensory functions for these neurons.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease in which the etiology of 90 percent of the patients is unknown. Pesticide exposure is a major risk factor for PD, and paraquat (PQ), pyridaben (PY) and maneb (MN) are amongst the most widely used pesticides. We studied mRNA expression using transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) in the ventral midbrain (VMB) and striatum (STR) of PQ, PY and paraquat+maneb (MNPQ) treated mice, followed by pathway analysis. We found concordance of signaling pathways between the three pesticide models in both the VMB and STR as well as concordance in these two brain areas. The concordant signaling pathways with relevance to PD pathogenesis were e.g. axonal guidance signaling, Wnt/-catenin signaling, as well as pathways not previously linked to PD, e.g. basal cell carcinoma, human embryonic stem cell pluripotency and role of macrophages, fibroblasts and endothelial cells in rheumatoid arthritis. Human PD pathways previously identified by expression analysis, concordant with VMB pathways identified in our study were axonal guidance signaling, Wnt/-catenin signaling, IL-6 signaling, ephrin receptor signaling, TGF- signaling, PPAR signaling and G-protein coupled receptor signaling. Human PD pathways concordant with the STR pathways in our study were Wnt/-catenin signaling, axonal guidance signaling and G-protein coupled receptor signaling. Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor delta (Ppard) and G-Protein Coupled Receptors (GPCRs) were common genes in VMB and STR identified by network analysis. In conclusion, the pesticides PQ, PY and MNPQ elicit common signaling pathways in the VMB and STR in mice, which are concordant with known signaling pathways identified in human PD, suggesting that these pathways contribute to the pathogenesis of idiopathic PD. The analysis of these networks and pathways may therefore lead to improved understanding of disease pathogenesis, and potential novel therapeutic targets.

Kidins220 (Kinase D interacting substrate of 220 kDa)/ARMS (Ankyrin Repeat-rich Membrane Spanning) is a scaffold protein highly expressed in the nervous system. Previous work on neurons with altered Kidins220/ARMS expression suggested that this protein plays multiple roles in synaptic function. In this study, we analyzed the effects of Kidins220/ARMS ablation on basal synaptic transmission and on a variety of short-term plasticity paradigms in both excitatory and inhibitory synapses using a recently described Kidins220 full knockout mouse. Hippocampal neuronal cultures prepared from embryonic Kidins220(-/-) (KO) and wild type (WT) littermates were used for whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of spontaneous and evoked synaptic activity. Whereas glutamatergic AMPA receptor-mediated responses were not significantly affected in KO neurons, specific differences were detected in evoked GABAergic transmission. The recovery from synaptic depression of inhibitory post-synaptic currents in WT cells showed biphasic kinetics, both in response to paired-pulse and long-lasting train stimulation, while in KO cells the respective slow components were strongly reduced. We demonstrate that the slow recovery from synaptic depression in WT cells is caused by a transient reduction of the vesicle release probability, which is absent in KO neurons. These results suggest that Kidins220/ARMS is not essential for basal synaptic transmission and various forms of short-term plasticity, but instead plays a novel role in the mechanisms regulating the recovery of synaptic strength in GABAergic synapses.
All basal ganglia subnuclei have recently been identified in lampreys, the phylogenetically oldest group of vertebrates. Furthermore, the interconnectivity of these nuclei is similar to mammals and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (dopaminergic) fibers have been detected within the input layer, the striatum. Striatal processing is critically dependent on the interplay with the dopamine system, and we explore here whether D2 receptors are expressed in the lamprey striatum and their potential role. We have identified a cDNA encoding the dopamine D2 receptor from the lamprey brain and the deduced protein sequence showed close phylogenetic relationship with other vertebrate D2 receptors, and an almost 100% identity within the transmembrane domains containing the amino acids essential for dopamine binding. There was a strong and distinct expression of D2 receptor mRNA in a subpopulation of striatal neurons, and in the same region tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive synaptic terminals were identified at the ultrastructural level. The synaptic incidence of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive boutons was highest in a region ventrolateral to the compact layer of striatal neurons, a region where most striatal dendrites arborise. Application of a D2 receptor agonist modulates striatal neurons by causing a reduced spike discharge and a diminished post-inhibitory rebound. We conclude that the D2 receptor gene had already evolved in the earliest group of vertebrates, cyclostomes, when they diverged from the main vertebrate line of evolution (560 mya), and that it is expressed in striatum where it exerts similar cellular effects to that in other vertebrates. These results together with our previous published data (Stephenson-Jones et al. 2011, 2012) further emphasize the high degree of conservation of the basal ganglia, also with regard to the indirect loop, and its role as a basic mechanism for action selection in all vertebrates.
The basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) is a critical component of the neural circuit regulating fear learning. During fear learning and recall, the amygdala and other brain regions, including the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, exhibit phase-locked oscillations in the high delta/low theta frequency band (2-6 Hz) that have been shown to contribute to the learning process. Network oscillations are commonly generated by inhibitory synaptic input that coordinates action potentials in groups of neurons. In the rat BLA, principal neurons spontaneously receive synchronized, inhibitory input in the form of compound, rhythmic, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), likely originating from burst-firing parvalbumin interneurons. Here we investigated the role of compound IPSPs in the rat and rhesus macaque BLA in regulating action potential synchrony and spike-timing precision. Furthermore, because principal neurons exhibit intrinsic oscillatory properties and resonance between 4 and 5 Hz, in the same frequency band observed during fear, we investigated whether compound IPSPs and intrinsic oscillations interact to promote rhythmic activity in the BLA at this frequency. Using whole-cell patch clamp in brain slices, we demonstrate that compound IPSPs, which occur spontaneously and are synchronized across principal neurons in both the rat and primate BLA, significantly improve spike-timing precision in BLA principal neurons for a window of 300 ms following each IPSP. We also show that compound IPSPs coordinate the firing of pairs of BLA principal neurons, and significantly improve spike synchrony for a window of 130 ms. Compound IPSPs enhance a 5 Hz calcium-dependent membrane potential oscillation (MPO) in these neurons, likely contributing to the improvement in spike-timing precision and synchronization of spiking. Activation of the cAMP-PKA signaling cascade enhanced the MPO, and inhibition of this cascade blocked the MPO. We discuss these results in the context of spike-timing dependent plasticity and modulation by neurotransmitters important for fear learning, such as dopamine.
How and where object and spatial information are perceptually integrated in the brain is a central question in visual cognition. Single-unit physiology, scalp EEG, and fMRI research suggests that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is a critical locus for object-spatial integration. To test the causal participation of the PFC in an object-spatial integration network, we studied ten patients with unilateral PFC damage performing a lateralized object-spatial integration task. Consistent with single-unit and neuroimaging studies, we found that PFC lesions result in a significant behavioral impairment in object-spatial integration. Furthermore, by manipulating inter-hemispheric transfer of object-spatial information, we found that masking of visual transfer impairs performance in the contralesional visual field in the PFC patients. Our results provide the first evidence that the PFC plays a key, causal role in an object-spatial integration network. Patient performance is also discussed within the context of compensation by the non-lesioned PFC.
SynCAM1 is an adhesion molecule involved in synaptic differentiation and organization. SynCAM1 is also expressed in astroglial cells where it mediates astrocyte-to astrocyte and glial-neuronal adhesive communication. In astrocytes, SynCAM1 is functionally linked to erbB4 receptors, which are involved in the control of both neuronal/glial development and mature neuronal and glial function. Here we report that mice carrying a dominant-negative form of SynCAM1 specifically targeted to astrocytes (termed GFAP-DNSynCAM1 mice) exhibit disrupted diurnal locomotor activity with enhanced and more frequent episodes of activity than control littermates during the day (when the animals are normally sleeping) accompanied by shorter periods of rest. GFAP-DNSynCAM1 mice also display high levels of basal activity in the dark period (the rodent's awake/active time) that are attenuated by the psychostimulant D,L-amphetamine, and reduced anxiety levels in response to both avoidable and unavoidable provoking stimuli. These results indicate that disruption of SynCAM1-dependent astroglial function results in behavioral abnormalities similar to those described in animals model of attention-deficit hyperactive disorder (ADHD), and suggest a hitherto unappreciated contribution of glial cells to the pathophysiology of this disorder.

A major challenge in cancer research field is to define molecular features that distinguish cancer stem cells from normal stem cells. In this study, we compared microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles in human glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells using combined microarray and deep sequencing analyses. These studies allowed us to identify a set of 10 miRNAs that are considerably up-regulated or down-regulated in glioblastoma stem cells. Among them, 5 miRNAs were further confirmed to have altered expression in three independent lines of glioblastoma stem cells by real-time RT-PCR analysis. Moreover, two of the miRNAs with increased expression in glioblastoma stem cells also exhibited elevated expression in glioblastoma patient tissues examined, while two miRNAs with decreased expression in glioblastoma stem cells displayed reduced expression in tumor tissues. Furthermore, we identified two oncogenes, NRAS and PIM3, as downstream targets of miR-124, one of the down-regulated miRNAs; and a tumor suppressor, CSMD1, as a downstream target of miR-10a and miR-10b, two of the up-regulated miRNAs. In summary, this study led to the identification of a set of miRNAs that are differentially expressed in glioblastoma stem cells and normal neural stem cells. Characterizing the role of these miRNAs in glioblastoma stem cells may lead to the development of miRNA-based therapies that specifically target tumor stem cells, but spare normal stem cells.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is the most frequent human Prion-related disorder (PrD). The detection of 14-3-3 protein in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is used as a molecular diagnostic criterion for patients clinically compatible with CJD. However, there is a pressing need for the identification of new reliable disease biomarkers. The pathological mechanisms leading to accumulation of 14-3-3 protein in CSF are not fully understood, however neuronal loss followed by cell lysis is assumed to cause the increase in 14-3-3 levels, which also occurs in conditions such as brain ischemia. Here we investigated the relation between the levels of 14-3-3 protein, Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and expression of the prion protein (PrP) in CSF of sporadic and familial CJD cases. Unexpectedly, we found normal levels of LDH activity in CJD cases with moderate levels of 14-3-3 protein. Increased LDH activity was only observed in a percentage of the CSF samples that also exhibited high 14-3-3 levels. Analysis of the PrP expression pattern in CSF revealed a reduction in PrP levels in all CJD cases, as well as marked changes in its glycosylation pattern. PrP present in CSF of CJD cases was sensitive to proteases. The alterations in PrP expression observed in CJD cases were not detected in other pathologies affecting the nervous system, including cases of dementia and tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV-1 associated myelopathy (HAM/TSP). Time course analysis in several CJD patients revealed that 14-3-3 levels in CSF are dynamic and show a high degree of variability during the end stage of the disease. Post-mortem analysis of brain tissue also indicated that 14-3-3 protein is upregulated in neuronal cells, suggesting that its expression is modulated during the course of the disease. These results suggest that a combined analysis of 14-3-3 and PrP expression pattern in CSF is a reliable biomarker to confirm the clinical diagnosis of CJD patients and follow disease progression.
Mice fed a single daily meal at intervals within the circadian range exhibit food anticipatory activity. Previous investigations strongly suggest that this behaviour is regulated by a circadian pacemaker entrained to the timing of fasting/refeeding. The neural correlate(s) of this pacemaker, the food entrainable oscillator (FEO), whether found in a neural network or a single locus, remain unknown. This study used a canonical property of circadian pacemakers, the ability to continue oscillating after removal of the entraining stimulus, to isolate activation within the neural correlates of food entrainable oscillator from all other mechanisms driving food anticipatory activity. It was hypothesized that continued anticipatory activation of central nuclei, after restricted feeding and a return to ad libitum feeding, would elucidate a neural representation of the signaling circuits responsible for the timekeeping component of the food entrainable oscillator. Animals were entrained to a temporally constrained meal then placed back on ad libitum feeding for several days until food anticipatory activity was abolished. Activation of nuclei throughout the brain was quantified using stereological analysis of c-FOS expressing cells and compared against both ad libitum fed and food entrained controls. Several hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei remained activated at the previous time of food anticipation, implicating them in the timekeeping mechanism necessary to track previous meal presentation. This study also provides a proof of concept for an experimental paradigm useful to further investigate the anatomical and molecular substrates of the FEO.
Segregating objects from background, and determining which of many concurrent stimuli belong to the same object, remains one of the most challenging unsolved problems both in neuroscience and in technical applications. While this phenomenon has been investigated in depth in vision and audition it has hardly been investigated in olfaction. We found that for honeybees a 6-ms temporal difference in stimulus coherence is sufficient for odor-object segregation, showing that the temporal resolution of the olfactory system is much faster than previously thought.

Psychology and neuroscience have a long-standing tradition of studying blind individuals to investigate how visual experience shapes perception of the external world. Here, we study how blind people experience their own body by exposing them to a multisensory body illusion: the somatic rubber hand illusion. In this illusion, healthy blindfolded participants experience that they are touching their own right hand with their left index finger, when in fact they are touching a rubber hand with their left index finger while the experimenter touches their right hand in a synchronized manner (Ehrsson et al. 2005). We compared the strength of this illusion in a group of blind individuals (n = 10), all of whom had experienced severe visual impairment or complete blindness from birth, and a group of age-matched blindfolded sighted participants (n = 12). The illusion was quantified subjectively using questionnaires and behaviorally by asking participants to point to the felt location of the right hand. The results showed that the sighted participants experienced a strong illusion, whereas the blind participants experienced no illusion at all, a difference that was evident in both tests employed. A further experiment testing the participants' basic ability to localize the right hand in space without vision (proprioception) revealed no difference between the two groups. Taken together, these results suggest that blind individuals with impaired visual development have a more veridical percept of self-touch and a less flexible and dynamic representation of their own body in space compared to sighted individuals. We speculate that the multisensory brain systems that re-map somatosensory signals onto external reference frames are less developed in blind individuals and therefore do not allow efficient fusion of tactile and proprioceptive signals from the two upper limbs into a single illusory experience of self-touch as in sighted individuals.


Brief high-power laser pulses applied onto the hairy skin of the distal end of a limb generate a double sensation related to the activation of A- and C-fibres, referred to as first and second pain. However, neurophysiological and behavioural responses related to the activation of C-fibres can be studied reliably only if the concomitant activation of A-fibres is avoided. Here, using a novel CO(2) laser stimulator able to deliver constant-temperature heat pulses through a feedback regulation of laser power by an online measurement of skin temperature at target site, combined with an adaptive staircase algorithm using reaction-time to distinguish between responses triggered by A- and C-fibre input, we show that it is possible to estimate robustly and independently the thermal detection thresholds of A-fibres (46.91.7C) and C-fibres (39.81.7C). Furthermore, we show that both thresholds are dependent on the skin temperature preceding and/or surrounding the test stimulus, indicating that the A- and C-fibre afferents triggering the behavioural responses to brief laser pulses behave, at least partially, as detectors of a change in skin temperature rather than as pure level detectors. Most importantly, our results show that the difference in threshold between A- and C-fibre afferents activated by brief laser pulses can be exploited to activate C-fibres selectively and reliably, provided that the rise in skin temperature generated by the laser stimulator is well-controlled. Our approach could constitute a tool to explore, in humans, the physiological and pathophysiological mechanisms involved in processing C- and A-fibre input, respectively.

The ventromedial medulla (VM), subdivided in a rostral (RVM) and a caudal (CVM) part, has a powerful influence on the spinal cord. In this study, we have identified the distribution of glycine and GABA containing neurons in the VM with projections to the cervical spinal cord, the lumbar dorsal horn, and the lumbar ventral horn. For this purpose, we have combined retrograde tracing using fluorescent microspheres with fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2) and GAD67 mRNAs to identify glycinergic and/or GABAergic (Gly/GABA) neurons. Since the results obtained with FISH for GlyT2, GAD67, or GlyT2 + GAD67 mRNAs were not significantly different, we concluded that glycine and GABA coexisted in the various projection neurons. After injections in the cervical cord, we found that 29%  1 (SEM) of the retrogradely labeled neurons in the VM were Gly/GABA (RVM: 43%; CVM: 21%). After lumbar dorsal horn injections 31%  3 of the VM neurons were Gly/GABA (RVM: 45%; CVM: 12%), and after lumbar ventral horn injections 25%  2 were Gly/GABA (RVM: 35%; CVM: 17%). In addition, we have identified a novel ascending Gly/GABA pathway originating from neurons in the area around the central canal (CC) throughout the spinal cord and projecting to the RVM, emphasizing the interaction between the ventromedial medulla and the spinal cord. The present study has now firmly established that GABA and glycine are present in many VM neurons that project to the spinal cord. These neurons strongly influence spinal processing, most notably the inhibition of nociceptive transmission.

Amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, but its normal physiological functions are less clear. Combined deletion of the APP and APP-like protein 2 (APLP2) genes in mice results in post-natal lethality, suggesting that APP performs an essential, if redundant, function during embryogenesis. We previously showed that injection of antisense morpholino to reduce APP levels in zebrafish embryos caused convergent-extension defects. Here we report that a reduction in APP levels causes defective axonal outgrowth of facial branchiomotor and spinal motor neurons, which involves disorganized axonal cytoskeletal elements. The defective outgrowth is caused in a cell-autonomous manner and both extracellular and intracellular domains of human APP are required to rescue the defective phenotype. Interestingly, wild-type human APP rescues the defective phenotype but APPswe mutation, which causes familial AD, does not. Our results show that the zebrafish model provides a powerful system to delineate APP functions in vivo and to study the biological effects of APP mutations.
Pathological conditions affect several stages of neurogenesis in the adult brain, including proliferation, survival, cell fate, migration, and functional integration. Here we explored how a pathological environment modulates the heterogeneous afferent synaptic input that shapes the functional properties of newly formed neurons. We analyzed the expression of adhesion molecules and other synaptic proteins on adult-born hippocampal neurons formed after electrically-induced partial status epilepticus (pSE). New cells were labeled with a GFP-retroviral vector one week after pSE. One and three weeks thereafter, synaptic proteins were present on dendritic spines and shafts, but without differences between pSE and control group. In contrast, at six weeks, we found fewer dendritic spines and decreased expression of the scaffolding protein PSD-95 on spines, without changes in expression of the adhesion molecules N-cadherin or neuroligin-1, primarily located at excitatory synapses. Moreover, we detected an increased expression of the inhibitory scaffolding protein gephyrin in newborn but not mature neurons after SE. However, this increase was not accompanied by a difference in GABA expression, and there was even a region-specific decrease in the adhesion molecule neuroligin-2 expression, both in newborn and mature neurons. Neuroligin-2 clusters co-localized with presynaptic cholecystokinin terminals, which were also reduced. The expression of neuroligin-4 and glycine receptor was unchanged. Increased postsynaptic clustering of gephyrin, without an accompanying increase in GABAergic input or neuroligin-2 and -4 expression, the latter important for clustering of GABA(A) and glycine receptors, respectively, could imply an increased but altered inhibitory connectivity specific for newborn neurons. The changes were transient and expression of both gephyrin and NL-2 was normalized 3 months post-SE. Our findings indicate that seizure-induced brain pathology alters the sub-cellular expression of synaptic adhesion molecules and scaffolding proteins related to particularly inhibitory but also excitatory synapses, which may yield functional consequences for the integration of adult-born neurons.


Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and intelligence (IQ) are both heritable phenotypes. Overlapping genetic effects have been suggested to influence both, with neuroimaging work suggesting similar overlap in terms of morphometric properties of the brain. Together, this evidence suggests that the brain changes characteristic of ADHD may vary as a function of IQ. This study investigated this hypothesis in a sample of 108 children with ADHD and 106 typically developing controls, who participated in a cross-sectional anatomical MRI study. A subgroup of 64 children also participated in a diffusion tensor imaging scan. Brain volumes, local cortical thickness and average cerebral white matter microstructure were analyzed in relation to diagnostic group and IQ. Dimensional analyses investigated possible group differences in the relationship between anatomical measures and IQ. Second, the groups were split into above and below median IQ subgroups to investigate possible differences in the trajectories of cortical development. Dimensionally, cerebral gray matter volume and cerebral white matter microstructure were positively associated with IQ for controls, but not for ADHD. In the analyses of the below and above median IQ subgroups, we found no differences from controls in cerebral gray matter volume in ADHD with below-median IQ, but a delay of cortical development in a number of regions, including prefrontal areas. Conversely, in ADHD with above-median IQ, there were significant reductions from controls in cerebral gray matter volume, but no local differences in the trajectories of cortical development.In conclusion, the basic relationship between IQ and neuroanatomy appears to be altered in ADHD. Our results suggest that there may be multiple brain phenotypes associated with ADHD, where ADHD combined with above median IQ is characterized by small, more global reductions in brain volume that are stable over development, whereas ADHD with below median IQ is associated more with a delay of cortical development.
The temporoparietal junction (TPJ) is a key node in the brain's ventral attention network (VAN) that is involved in spatial awareness and detection of salient sensory stimuli, including pain. The anatomical basis of this network's right-lateralized organization is poorly understood. Here we used diffusion-weighted MRI and probabilistic tractography to compare the strength of white matter connections emanating from the right versus left TPJ to target regions in both hemispheres. Symmetry of structural connectivity was evaluated for connections between TPJ and target regions that are key cortical nodes in the right VAN (insula and inferior frontal gyrus) as well as target regions that are involved in salience and/or pain (putamen, cingulate cortex, thalamus). We found a rightward asymmetry in connectivity strength between the TPJ and insula in healthy human subjects who were scanned with two different sets of diffusion-weighted MRI acquisition parameters. This rightward asymmetry in TPJ-insula connectivity was stronger in females than in males. There was also a leftward asymmetry in connectivity strength between the TPJ and inferior frontal gyrus, consistent with previously described lateralization of language pathways. The rightward lateralization of the pathway between the TPJ and insula supports previous findings on the roles of these regions in stimulus-driven attention, sensory awareness, interoception and pain. The findings also have implications for our understanding of acute and chronic pains and stroke-induced spatial hemineglect.
Even though a growing body of research has shown that the processing of action language affects the planning and execution of motor acts, several aspects of this interaction are still hotly debated. The directionality (i.e. does understanding action-related language induce a facilitation or an interference with the corresponding action?), the time course, and the nature of the interaction (i.e. under what conditions does the phenomenon occur?) are largely unclear. To further explore this topic we exploited a go/no-go paradigm in which healthy participants were required to perform arm reaching movements toward a target when verbs expressing either hand or foot actions were shown, and to refrain from moving when abstract verbs were presented. We found that reaction times (RT) and percentages of errors increased when the verb involved the same effector used to give the response. This interference occurred very early, when the interval between verb presentation and the delivery of the go signal was 50 ms, and could be elicited until this delay was about 600 ms. In addition, RTs were faster when subjects used the right arm than when they used the left arm, suggesting that action-verb understanding is left-lateralized. Furthermore, when the color of the printed verb and not its meaning was the cue for movement execution the differences between RTs and error percentages between verb categories disappeared, unequivocally indicating that the phenomenon occurs only when the semantic content of a verb has to be retrieved. These results are compatible with the theory of embodied language, which hypothesizes that comprehending verbal descriptions of actions relies on an internal simulation of the sensory-motor experience of the action, and provide a new and detailed view of the interplay between action language and motor acts.
C. elegans is an excellent model system for studying neuroscience using genetics because of its relatively simple nervous system, sequenced genome, and the availability of a large number of transgenic and mutant strains. Recently, microfluidic devices have been used for high-throughput genetic screens, replacing traditional methods of manually handling C. elegans. However, the orientation of nematodes within microfluidic devices is random and often not conducive to inspection, hindering visual analysis and overall throughput. In addition, while previous studies have utilized methods to bias head and tail orientation, none of the existing techniques allow for orientation along the dorso-ventral body axis. Here, we present the design of a simple and robust method for passively orienting worms into lateral body positions in microfluidic devices to facilitate inspection of morphological features with specific dorso-ventral alignments. Using this technique, we can position animals into lateral orientations with up to 84% efficiency, compared to 21% using existing methods. We isolated six mutants with neuronal development or neurodegenerative defects, showing that our technology can be used for on-chip analysis and high-throughput visual screens.


This field study investigated the release of testosterone and cortisol of a vicarious winning experience in Spanish fans watching the finals between Spain and the Netherlands in the 2010 FIFA World Cup Soccer. Spanish fans (n = 50) watched the match with friends or family in a public place or at home and also participated in a control condition. Consistent with hypotheses, results revealed that testosterone and cortisol levels were higher when watching the match than on a control day. However, neither testosterone nor cortisol levels increased after the victory of the Spanish team. Moreover, the increase in testosterone secretion was not related to participants' sex, age or soccer fandom, but the increase in total cortisol secretion during the match was higher among men than among women and among fans that were younger. Also, increases in cortisol secretion were greater to the degree that people were a stronger fan of soccer. Level of fandom further appeared to account for the sex effect, but not for the age effect. Generally, the testosterone data from this study are in line with the challenge hypothesis, as testosterone levels of watchers increased to prepare their organism to defend or enhance their social status. The cortisol data from this study are in line with social self-preservation theory, as higher cortisol secretion among young and greater soccer fans suggests that especially they perceived that a negative outcome of the match would threaten their own social esteem.

Blood vessels and adjacent cells form perivascular stem cell niches in adult tissues. In this perivascular niche, a stem cell with mesenchymal characteristics was recently identified in some adult somatic tissues. These cells are pericytes that line the microvasculature, express mesenchymal markers and differentiate into mesodermal lineages but might even have the capacity to generate tissue-specific cell types. Here, we isolated, purified and characterized a previously unrecognized progenitor population from two different regions in the adult human brain, the ventricular wall and the neocortex. We show that these cells co-express markers for mesenchymal stem cells and pericytes in vivo and in vitro, but do not express glial, neuronal progenitor, hematopoietic, endothelial or microglial markers in their native state. Furthermore, we demonstrate at a clonal level that these progenitors have true multilineage potential towards both, the mesodermal and neuroectodermal phenotype. They can be epigenetically induced in vitro into adipocytes, chondroblasts and osteoblasts but also into glial cells and immature neurons. This progenitor population exhibits long-term proliferation, karyotype stability and retention of phenotype and multipotency following extensive propagation. Thus, we provide evidence that the vascular niche in the adult human brain harbors a novel progenitor with multilineage capacity that appears to represent mesenchymal stem cells and is different from any previously described human neural stem cell. Future studies will elucidate whether these cells may play a role for disease or may represent a reservoir that can be exploited in efforts to repair the diseased human brain.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6 or GRM6) belongs to the class III of the metabotropic glutamate receptor family. It is the only known mGluR that mediates direct synaptic transmission in the nervous system and is thought to mediate the ON-response in the ON-pathway of the vertebrate retina. Phylogenetic and gene structure analysis indicated that the zebrafish genome harbours two mglur6 paralogs, mglur6a and mglur6b. Besides expression in the inner nuclear layer and distinct regions in the brain, both mglur6 paralogs are expressed in ganglion cells of the retina, an expression pattern which can also be observed in the downstream effector molecules gnaoa and gnaob. This unexpected expression pattern is consistent with immunohistological labeling using a peptide antibody specific for the mGluR6b paralog. These expression patterns contradict the existing view that mGluR6 is solely located on ON-bipolar cells where it functions in signal transmission. Consistent with expression in ON-bipolar cells, we report a decreased b-wave amplitude in the electroretinogram after morpholino-based downregulation of mGluR6b, showing a function in the ON response. Our data suggest more widespread functions of mGluR6 mediated signaling in the central nervous system, possibly including sign reversing synapses in the inner retina.
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) seems to be involved in regulation of synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis. BDNF plasma and serum levels have been associated with depression, Alzheimer's disease, and other psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. In a community sample, drawn from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA), we examined whether BDNF plasma concentration was associated with rates of age-related change in cognitive performance (n=429) and regional brain volume (n=59). Plasma BDNF levels, which were significantly higher in females (p&lt;0.05), were not associated with either concurrent cognitive performance or rates of age-related change in performance across cognitive domains (p's&gt;0.05). Sex differences in the relationship between BDNF and the trajectories of regional brain volume changes were observed for the whole brain and frontal white matter volumes (p&lt;0.05), whereby lower plasma BDNF was associated with steeper volume decline in females but not males. Together, our findings contribute to furthering the understanding of the relationships between plasma BDNF, structural brain integrity and cognition. Potential mechanisms mediating these relationships merit further investigation.
Proliferation of glia and immune cells is a common pathological feature of many neurodegenerative diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, to investigate the role of proliferating cells in motor neuron disease, SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice were treated intracerebroventicularly (i.c.v.) with the anti-mitotic drug cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). I.c.v. delivery of Ara-C accelerated disease progression in SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS. Ara-C treatment caused substantial decreases in the number of microglia, NG2+ progenitors, Olig2+ cells and CD3+ T cells in the lumbar spinal cord of symptomatic SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice. Exacerbation of disease was also associated with significant alterations in the expression inflammatory molecules IL-1, IL-6, TGF- and the growth factor IGF-1.
Modulation of cerebral Rho GTPases activity in mice brain by intracerebral administration of Cytotoxic Necrotizing Factor 1 (CNF1) leads to enhanced neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity and improves learning and memory. To gain more insight into the interactions between CNF1 and neuronal cells, we used primary neuronal and astrocytic cultures from rat embryonic brain to study CNF1 effects on neuronal differentiation, focusing on dendritic tree growth and synapse formation, which are strictly modulated by Rho GTPases. CNF1 profoundly remodeled the cytoskeleton of hippocampal and cortical neurons, which showed philopodia-like, actin-positive projections, thickened and poorly branched dendrites, and a decrease in synapse number. CNF1 removal, however, restored dendritic tree development and synapse formation, suggesting that the toxin can reversibly block neuronal differentiation. On differentiated neurons, CNF1 had a similar effacing effect on synapses. Therefore, a direct interaction with CNF1 is apparently deleterious for neurons. Since astrocytes play a pivotal role in neuronal differentiation and synaptic regulation, we wondered if the beneficial in vivo effect could be mediated by astrocytes. Primary astrocytes from embryonic cortex were treated with CNF1 for 48 hours and used as a substrate for growing hippocampal neurons. Such neurons showed an increased development of neurites, in respect to age-matched controls, with a wider dendritic tree and a richer content in synapses. In CNF1-exposed astrocytes, the production of interleukin 1, known to reduce dendrite development and complexity in neuronal cultures, was decreased. These results demonstrate that astrocytes, under the influence of CNF1, increase their supporting activity on neuronal growth and differentiation, possibly related to the diminished levels of interleukin 1. These observations suggest that the enhanced synaptic plasticity and improved learning and memory described in CNF1-injected mice are probably mediated by astrocytes.
Brain images contain information suitable for automatically sorting subjects into categories such as healthy controls and patients. We sought to identify morphometric criteria for distinguishing controls (n=28) from patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), 60 with and 20 without hippocampal atrophy (TLE-HA and TLE-N, respectively), and for determining the presumed side of seizure onset. The framework employs multi-atlas segmentation to estimate the volumes of 83 brain structures. A kernel-based separability criterion was then used to identify structures whose volumes discriminate between the groups. Next, we applied support vector machines (SVM) to the selected set for classification on the basis of volumes. We also computed pairwise similarities between all subjects and used spectral analysis to convert these into per-subject features. SVM was again applied to these feature data. After training on a subgroup, all TLE-HA patients were correctly distinguished from controls, achieving an accuracy of 96  2% in both classification schemes. For TLE-N patients, the accuracy was 86  2% based on structural volumes and 91  3% using spectral analysis. Structures discriminating between patients and controls were mainly localized ipsilaterally to the presumed seizure focus. For the TLE-HA group, they were mainly in the temporal lobe; for the TLE-N group they included orbitofrontal regions, as well as the ipsilateral substantia nigra. Correct lateralization of the presumed seizure onset zone was achieved using hippocampi and parahippocampal gyri in all TLE-HA patients using either classification scheme; in the TLE-N patients, lateralization was accurate based on structural volumes in 86  4%, and in 94  4% with the spectral analysis approach. Unilateral TLE has imaging features that can be identified automatically, even when they are invisible to human experts. Such morphometric image features may serve as classification and lateralization criteria. The technique also detects unsuspected distinguishing features like the substantia nigra, warranting further study.

The vertebrate habenulae (Hb) is an evolutionary conserved dorsal diencephalic nuclear complex that relays information from limbic and striatal forebrain regions to the ventral midbrain. One key feature of this bilateral nucleus is the presence of left-right differences in size, cytoarchitecture, connectivity, neurochemistry and/or gene expression. In teleosts, habenular asymmetry has been associated with preferential innervation of left-right habenular efferents into dorso-ventral domains of the midbrain interpeduncular nucleus (IPN). However, the degree of conservation of this trait and its relation to the structural asymmetries of the Hb are currently unknown. To address these questions, we performed the first systematic comparative analysis of structural and connectional asymmetries of the Hb in teleosts. We found striking inter-species variability in the overall shape and cytoarchitecture of the Hb, and in the frequency, strength and to a lesser degree, laterality of habenular volume at the population level. Directional asymmetry of the Hb was either to the left in D. rerio, E. bicolor, O. latipes, P. reticulata, B. splendens, or to the right in F. gardneri females. In contrast, asymmetry was absent in P. scalare and F. gardneri males at the population level, although in these species the Hb displayed volumetric asymmetries at the individual level. Inter-species variability was more pronounced across orders than within a single order, and coexisted with an overall conserved laterotopic representation of left-right habenular efferents into dorso-ventral domains of the IPN. These results suggest that the circuit design involving the Hb of teleosts promotes structural flexibility depending on developmental, cognitive and/or behavioural pressures, without affecting the main midbrain connectivity output, thus unveiling a key conserved role of this connectivity trait in the function of the circuit. We propose that ontogenic plasticity in habenular morphogenesis underlies the observed inter-species variations in habenular asymmetric morphology.
A valuable experimental model for the pathogenesis of anxiety disorders is that they originate from a learned association between an intrinsically non-aversive event (Conditioned Stimulus, CS) and an anticipated disaster (Unconditioned Stimulus, UCS). Most anxiety disorders, however, do not evolve from a traumatic experience. Insights from neuroscience show that memory can be modified post-learning, which may elucidate how pathological fear can develop after relatively mild aversive events. Worrying--a process frequently observed in anxiety disorders--is a potential candidate to strengthen the formation of fear memory after learning. Here we tested in a discriminative fear conditioning procedure whether worry strengthens associative fear memory. Participants were randomly assigned to either a Worry (n = 23) or Control condition (n = 25). After fear acquisition, the participants in the Worry condition processed six worrisome questions regarding the personal aversive consequences of an electric stimulus (UCS), whereas the Control condition received difficult but neutral questions. Subsequently, extinction, reinstatement and re-extinction of fear were tested. Conditioned responding was measured by fear-potentiated startle (FPS), skin conductance (SCR) and UCS expectancy ratings. Our main results demonstrate that worrying resulted in increased fear responses (FPS) to both the feared stimulus (CS(+)) and the originally safe stimulus (CS(-)), whereas FPS remained unchanged in the Control condition. In addition, worrying impaired both extinction and re-extinction learning of UCS expectancy. The implication of our findings is that they show how worry may contribute to the development of anxiety disorders by affecting associative fear learning.
Food intake and body weight are controlled by a variety of central and peripheral factors, but the exact mechanisms behind these processes are still not fully understood. Here we show that that macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (MIC-1/GDF15), known to have anorexigenic effects particularly in cancer, provides protection against the development of obesity. Both under a normal chow diet and an obesogenic diet, the transgenic overexpression of MIC-1/GDF15 in mice leads to decreased body weight and fat mass. This lean phenotype was associated with decreased spontaneous but not fasting-induced food intake, on a background of unaltered energy expenditure and reduced physical activity. Importantly, the overexpression of MIC-1/GDF15 improved glucose tolerance, both under normal and high fat-fed conditions. Altogether, this work shows that the molecule MIC-1/GDF15 might be beneficial for the treatment of obesity as well as perturbations in glucose homeostasis.

Cholecystokinin (CCK) facilitates the process of satiation via activation of vagal afferent neurons innervating the upper gastrointestinal tract. Recent findings indicate CCK acts on these neurons via a ruthenium red (RuR) sensitive pathway that involves members of the vanilloid (V) subfamily of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. To further test this mechanism, the mouse provides an ideal model in which genetic tools could be applied. However, whether CCK acts by similar mechanism(s) in mice has not been determined. In the present study we explored the actions of CCK on nodose neurons isolated from Sprague Dawley (SD) rat and two strains of mice; C57BL/6 and BalbC using fluorescence-based calcium imaging. With minor exceptions nodose neurons isolated from all species/strains behaved similarly. They all respond to brief depolarization with a large calcium transient. A significant subset of neurons responded to capsaicin (CAP), a TRPV1 agonist, although neurons from C57BL/6 were 10-fold more sensitive to CAP than SD rats or BalbC mice, and a significantly smaller fraction of neurons from BalbC mice responded to CAP. CCK-8 dose-dependently activated a subpopulation of neurons with similar dose dependency, percent responders, and overlap between CCK and CAP responsiveness. In all species/strains CCK-8 induced activation was significantly attenuated (but not completely blocked) by pretreatment with the TRPV channel blocker RuR. Surprisingly, the CCK analogue JMV-180, which is reported to have pure antagonistic properties in rat but mixed agonist/antagonist properties in mice, behaved as a pure antagonist to CCK in both rat and mouse neurons. The pure antagonistic action of JMV-180 in this in vitro preparation suggests that prior reported differential effects of JMV-180 on satiation in rats versus mouse must be mediated by a site other than vagal afferent activation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by genetic and environmental factors. Abnormal accumulation and aggregation of alpha-synuclein (a-syn) within neurons, and mutations in the a-syn and UCH-L1 genes have been shown to play a role in the pathogenesis of PD. In light of recent reports suggesting an interaction between a-synuclein and UCH-L1, we investigated the effects of UCH-L1 inhibition on a-syn distribution and expression levels in primary neurons and hippocampal tissues derived from non transgenic (non tg) and a-syn over expressing tg mice. We show that suppression of UCH-L1 activity increased a-syn levels in control, non tg neurons, and resulted in a concomitant accumulation of presynaptic a-syn in these neurons. In contrast, blocking UCH-L1 activity in a-syn over expressing neurons decreased a-syn levels, and enhanced its synaptic clearance. In vitro studies verified the LDN-induced inhibition of UCH-L1 had minimal effect on LC3 (a marker of autophagy) in control cells, in cells over expressing a-syn UCH-L1 inhibition resulted in increased LC3 activity. These findings suggest a possible differential role of UCH-L1 function under normal and pathological conditions. Furthermore, in the context of a-syn-induced pathology, modulation of UCH-L1 activity could serve as a therapeutic tool to enhance the autophagy pathway and induce clearance of the observed accumulated/aggregated a-syn species in the PD brain.

White matter microstructure and volume show synchronous developmental patterns in children. White matter volume increases considerably during development. Fractional anisotropy, a measure for white matter microstructural directionality, also increases with age. Development of white matter volume and development of white matter microstructure seem to go hand in hand. The extent to which the same or different genetic and/or environmental factors drive these two aspects of white matter maturation is currently unknown. We mapped changes in white matter volume, surface area and diffusion parameters in mono- and dizygotic twins who were scanned at age 9 (203 individuals) and again at age 12 (126 individuals). Over the three-year interval, white matter volume (+6.0%) and surface area (+1.7%) increased, fiber bundles expanded (most pronounced in the left arcuate fasciculus and splenium), and fractional anisotropy increased (+3.0%). Genes influenced white matter volume (heritability ~85%), surface area (~85%), and fractional anisotropy (locally 7% to 50%) at both ages. Finally, volumetric white matter growth was negatively correlated with fractional anisotropy increase (r = -0.62) and this relationship was driven by environmental factors. In children who showed the most pronounced white matter growth, fractional anisotropy increased the least and vice-versa. Thus, white matter development in childhood may reflect a process of both expansion and fiber optimization.
Diabetic conditions are associated with modified brain function, namely with cognitive deficits, through largely undetermined processes. More than understanding the underlying mechanism, it is important to devise novel strategies to alleviate diabetes-induced cognitive deficits. Caffeine (a mixed antagonist of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors) emerges as a promising candidate since caffeine consumption reduces the risk of diabetes and effectively prevents memory deficits caused by different noxious stimuli. Thus, we took advantage of a novel animal model of type 2 diabetes to investigate the behavioural, neurochemical and morphological modifications present in the hippocampus and tested if caffeine consumption might prevent these changes. We used a model closely mimicking the human type 2 diabetes condition, NONcNZO10/LtJ mice, which become diabetic at 7-11 months when kept under an 11% fat diet. Caffeine (1 g/l) was applied in the drinking water from 7 months onwards. Diabetic mice displayed a decreased spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze accompanied by a decreased density of nerve terminal markers (synaptophysin, SNAP25), mainly glutamatergic (vesicular glutamate transporters), and increased astrogliosis (GFAP immunoreactivity) compared to their wild type littermates kept under the same diet. Furthermore, diabetic mice displayed up-regulated A(2A) receptors and down-regulated A(1) receptors in the hippocampus. Caffeine consumption restored memory performance and abrogated the diabetes-induced loss of nerve terminals and astrogliosis. These results provide the first evidence that type 2 diabetic mice display a loss of nerve terminal markers and astrogliosis, which is associated with memory impairment; furthermore, caffeine consumption prevents synaptic dysfunction and astrogliosis as well as memory impairment in type 2 diabetes.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the severity of cognitive symptoms is better correlated with the levels of soluble amyloid-beta (A) rather than with the deposition of fibrillar A in amyloid plaques. In APP/PS1 mice, a murine model of AD, at 8 months of age the cerebellum is devoid of fibrillar A, but dosage of soluble A(1-42), the form which is more prone to aggregation, showed higher levels in this structure than in the forebrain. Aim of this study was to investigate the alterations of intrinsic membrane properties and of synaptic inputs in Purkinje cells (PCs) of the cerebellum, where only soluble A is present. PCs were recorded by whole-cell patch-clamp in cerebellar slices from wild-type and APP/PS1 mice. In APP/PS1 PCs, evoked action potential discharge showed enhanced frequency adaptation and larger afterhyperpolarizations, indicating a reduction of the intrinsic membrane excitability. In the miniature GABAergic postsynaptic currents, the largest events were absent in APP/PS1 mice and the interspike intervals distribution was shifted to the left, but the mean amplitude and frequency were normal. The ryanodine-sensitive multivescicular release was not altered and the postsynaptic responsiveness to a GABA(A) agonist was intact. Climbing fiber postsynaptic currents were normal but their short-term plasticity was reduced in a time window of 100-800 ms. Parallel fiber postsynaptic currents and their short-term plasticity were normal. These results indicate that, in the cerebellar cortex, chronically elevated levels of soluble A(1-42) are associated with alterations of the intrinsic excitability of PCs and with alterations of the release of GABA from interneurons and of glutamate from climbing fibers, while the release of glutamate from parallel fibers and all postsynaptic mechanisms are preserved. Thus, soluble A(1-42) causes, in PCs, multiple functional alterations, including an impairment of intrinsic membrane properties and synapse-specific deficits, with differential consequences even in different subtypes of glutamatergic synapses.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of upper and lower motor neurons. ALS is considered to be a complex trait and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have implicated a few susceptibility loci. However, many more causal loci remain to be discovered. Since it has been shown that genetic variants associated with complex traits are more likely to be eQTLs than frequency-matched variants from GWAS platforms, we conducted a two-stage genome-wide screening for eQTLs associated with ALS. In addition, we applied an eQTL analysis to finemap association loci. Expression profiles using peripheral blood of 323 sporadic ALS patients and 413 controls were mapped to genome-wide genotyping data. Subsequently, data from a two-stage GWAS (3,568 patients and 10,163 controls) were used to prioritize eQTLs identified in the first stage (162 ALS, 207 controls). These prioritized eQTLs were carried forward to the second sample with both gene-expression and genotyping data (161 ALS, 206 controls). Replicated eQTL SNPs were then tested for association in the second-stage GWAS data to find SNPs associated with disease, that survived correction for multiple testing. We thus identified twelve cis eQTLs with nominally significant associations in the second-stage GWAS data. Eight SNP-transcript pairs of highest significance (lowest p = 1.27  10(-51)) withstood multiple-testing correction in the second stage and modulated CYP27A1 gene expression. Additionally, we show that C9orf72 appears to be the only gene in the 9p21.2 locus that is regulated in cis, showing the potential of this approach in identifying causative genes in association loci in ALS. This study has identified candidate genes for sporadic ALS, most notably CYP27A1. Mutations in CYP27A1 are causal to cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis which can present as a clinical mimic of ALS with progressive upper motor neuron loss, making it a plausible susceptibility gene for ALS.
Fluorescent staining of astrocytes without damaging or interfering with normal brain functions is essential for intravital microscopy studies. Current methods involved either transgenic mice or local intracerebral injection of sulforhodamine 101. Transgenic rat models rarely exist, and in mice, a backcross with GFAP transgenic mice may be difficult. Local injections of fluorescent dyes are invasive. Here, we propose a non-invasive, specific and ubiquitous method to stain astrocytes in vivo. This method is based on iv injection of sulforhodamine dyes and is applicable on rats and mice from postnatal age to adulthood. The astrocytes staining obtained after iv injection was maintained for nearly half a day and showed no adverse reaction on astrocytic calcium signals or electroencephalographic recordings in vivo. The high contrast of the staining facilitates the image processing and allows to quantify 3D morphological parameters of the astrocytes and to characterize their network. Our method may become a reference for in vivo staining of the whole astrocytes population in animal models of neurological disorders.
Zebrafish are a widely utilised animal model in developmental genetics, and owing to recent advances in our understanding of zebrafish behaviour, their utility as a comparative model in behavioural neuroscience is beginning to be realised. One widely reported behavioural measure is the novel tank-diving assay, which has been often cited as a test of anxiety and stress reactivity. Despite its wide utilisation, and various validations against anxiolytic drugs, reporting of pre-test housing has been sparse in the literature. As zebrafish are a shoaling species, we predicted that housing environment would affect their stress reactivity and, as such, their response in the tank-diving procedure. In our first experiment, we tested various aspects of housing (large groups, large groups with no contact, paired, visual contact only, olfactory contact only) and found that the tank diving response was mediated by visual contact with conspecifics. We also tested the basal cortisol levels of group and individually housed fish, and found that individually housed individuals have lower basal cortisol levels. In our second experiment we found ethanol appeared to have an anxiolytic effect with individually housed fish but not those that were group housed. In our final experiment, we examined the effects of changing the fishes' water prior to tank diving as an additional acclimation procedure. We found that this had no effect on individually housed fish, but appeared to affect the typical tank diving responses of the group housed individuals. In conclusion, we demonstrate that housing represents an important factor in obtaining reliable data from this methodology, and should be considered by researchers interested in comparative models of anxiety in zebrafish in order to refine their approach and to increase the power in their experiments.
Estrogen and estrogen-related compounds have been shown to have very potent cytoprotective properties in a wide range of disease models, including an in vitro model of Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA). This study describes a potential estrogen receptor (ER)-independent mechanism by which estrogens act to protect human FRDA skin fibroblasts from a BSO-induced oxidative insult resulting from inhibition of de novo glutathione (GSH) synthesis. We demonstrate that phenolic estrogens, independent of any known ER, are able to prevent lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial membrane potential (m) collapse, maintain ATP at near control levels, increase oxidative phosphorylation and maintain activity of aconitase. Estrogens did not, however, prevent BSO from depleting GSH or induce an increased expression level of GSH. The cytoprotective effects of estrogen appear to be due to a direct overall reduction in oxidative damage to the mitochondria, enabling the FRDA fibroblast mitochondria to generate sufficient ATP for energy requirements and better survive oxidative stress. These data support the hypothesis that phenol ring containing estrogens are possible candidate drugs for the delay and/or prevention of FRDA symptoms.
Mirror neurons are single cells found in macaque premotor and parietal cortices that are active during action execution and observation. In non-human primates, mirror neurons have only been found in relation to object-directed movements or communicative gestures, as non-object directed actions of the upper limb are not well characterized in non-human primates. Mirror neurons provide important evidence for motor simulation theories of cognition, sometimes referred to as the direct matching hypothesis, which propose that observed actions are mapped onto associated motor schemata in a direct and automatic manner. This study, for the first time, directly compares mirror responses, defined as the overlap between action execution and observation, during object directed and meaningless non-object directed actions. We present functional MRI data that demonstrate a clear dissociation between object directed and non-object directed actions within the human mirror system. A premotor and parietal network was preferentially active during object directed actions, whether observed or executed. Moreover, we report spatially correlated activity across multiple voxels for observation and execution of an object directed action. In contrast to predictions made by motor simulation theory, no similar activity was observed for non-object directed actions. These data demonstrate that object directed and meaningless non-object directed actions are subserved by different neuronal networks and that the human mirror response is significantly greater for object directed actions. These data have important implications for understanding the human mirror system and for simulation theories of motor cognition. Subsequent theories of motor simulation must account for these differences, possibly by acknowledging the role of experience in modulating the mirror response.
Understanding how the brain processes stimuli in a rich natural environment is a fundamental goal of neuroscience. Here, we showed a feature film to 10 healthy volunteers during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of hemodynamic brain activity. We then annotated auditory and visual features of the motion picture to inform analysis of the hemodynamic data. The annotations were fitted to both voxel-wise data and brain network time courses extracted by independent component analysis (ICA). Auditory annotations correlated with two independent components (IC) disclosing two functional networks, one responding to variety of auditory stimulation and another responding preferentially to speech but parts of the network also responding to non-verbal communication. Visual feature annotations correlated with four ICs delineating visual areas according to their sensitivity to different visual stimulus features. In comparison, a separate voxel-wise general linear model based analysis disclosed brain areas preferentially responding to sound energy, speech, music, visual contrast edges, body motion and hand motion which largely overlapped the results revealed by ICA. Differences between the results of IC- and voxel-based analyses demonstrate that thorough analysis of voxel time courses is important for understanding the activity of specific sub-areas of the functional networks, while ICA is a valuable tool for revealing novel information about functional connectivity which need not be explained by the predefined model. Our results encourage the use of naturalistic stimuli and tasks in cognitive neuroimaging to study how the brain processes stimuli in rich natural environments.
Recent studies have reported the detection of the human neurotropic virus, JCV, in a significant population of brain tumors, including medulloblastomas. Accordingly, expression of the JCV early protein, T-antigen, which has transforming activity in cell culture and in transgenic mice, results in the development of a broad range of tumors of neural crest and glial origin. Evidently, the association of T-antigen with a range of tumor-suppressor proteins, including p53 and pRb, and signaling molecules, such as -catenin and IRS-1, plays a role in the oncogenic function of JCV T-antigen. We demonstrate that T-antigen expression is suppressed by glucose deprivation in medulloblastoma cells and in glioblastoma xenografts that both endogenously express T-antigen. Mechanistic studies indicate that glucose deprivation-mediated suppression of T-antigen is partly influenced by 5'-activated AMP kinase (AMPK), an important sensor of the AMP/ATP ratio in cells. In addition, glucose deprivation-induced cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase is blocked with AMPK inhibition, which also prevents T-antigen downregulation. Furthermore, T-antigen prevents G1 arrest and sustains cells in the G2 phase during glucose deprivation. On a functional level, T-antigen downregulation is partially dependent on reactive oxygen species (ROS) production during glucose deprivation, and T-antigen prevents ROS induction, loss of ATP production, and cytotoxicity induced by glucose deprivation. Additionally, we have found that T-antigen is downregulated by the glycolytic inhibitor, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), and the pentose phosphate inhibitors, 6-aminonicotinamide and oxythiamine, and that T-antigen modulates expression of the glycolytic enzyme, hexokinase 2 (HK2), and the pentose phosphate enzyme, transaldolase-1 (TALDO1), indicating a potential link between T-antigen and metabolic regulation. These studies point to the possible involvement of JCV T-antigen in medulloblastoma proliferation and the metabolic phenotype and may enhance our understanding of the role of viral proteins in glycolytic tumor metabolism, thus providing useful targets for the treatment of virus-induced tumors.
The olfactory cortex encompasses several anatomically distinct regions each hypothesized to provide differential representation and processing of specific odors. Studies exploring whether or not the diversity of olfactory bulb input to olfactory cortices has functional meaning, however, are lacking. Here we tested whether two anatomically major olfactory cortical structures, the olfactory tubercle (OT) and piriform cortex (PCX), differ in their neural representation and processing dynamics of a small set of diverse odors by performing in vivo extracellular recordings from the OT and PCX of anesthetized mice. We found a wealth of similarities between structures, including odor-evoked response magnitudes, breadth of odor tuning, and odor-evoked firing latencies. In contrast, only few differences between structures were found, including spontaneous activity rates and odor signal-to-noise ratios. These results suggest that despite major anatomical differences in innervation by olfactory bulb mitral/tufted cells, the basic features of odor representation and processing, at least within this limited odor set, are similar within the OT and PCX. We predict that the olfactory code follows a distributed processing stream in transmitting behaviorally and perceptually-relevant information from low-level stations.
While the importance of physical abilities and motor coordination is non-contested in sport, more focus has recently been turned toward cognitive processes important for different sports. However, this line of studies has often investigated sport-specific cognitive traits, while few studies have focused on general cognitive traits. We explored if measures of general executive functions can predict the success of a soccer player. The present study used standardized neuropsychological assessment tools assessing players' general executive functions including on-line multi-processing such as creativity, response inhibition, and cognitive flexibility. In a first cross-sectional part of the study we compared the results between High Division players (HD), Lower Division players (LD) and a standardized norm group. The result shows that both HD and LD players had significantly better measures of executive functions in comparison to the norm group for both men and women. Moreover, the HD players outperformed the LD players in these tests. In the second prospective part of the study, a partial correlation test showed a significant correlation between the result from the executive test and the numbers of goals and assists the players had scored two seasons later. The results from this study strongly suggest that results in cognitive function tests predict the success of ball sport players.
The effects of tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation on axonal transport were investigated in the optic nerve of mice transgenic for human mutant P301S tau. Transport was examined using cholera toxin B tracing. Retrograde transport was reduced in transgenic mice at 3 and 5 months of age, when compared to C57/Bl6 control mice. Anterograde axonal transport was also reduced in 3-month-old transgenic mice. Mild excitotoxic injury of retinal ganglion cells resulted in greater nerve cell loss in retinas from 3- and 5-month old P301S transgenic mice, when compared to controls. In conjunction with the detection of abnormal tau in the optic nerve in human and experimental glaucoma, the present findings suggest that tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation may constitute targets for neuroprotective therapies in glaucoma as well as tauopathies.
In the developing mammalian brain, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is thought to play an excitatory rather than an inhibitory role due to high levels of intracellular Cl(-) in immature neurons. This idea, however, has been questioned by recent studies which suggest that glucose-based artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) may be inadequate for experiments on immature and developing brains. These studies suggest that immature neurons may require alternative energy sources, such as lactate or pyruvate. Lack of these other energy sources is thought to result in artificially high intracellular Cl(-) concentrations, and therefore a more depolarized GABA receptor (GABAR) reversal potential. Since glucose metabolism can vary widely among different species, it is important to test the effects of these alternative energy sources on different experimental preparations. We tested whether pyruvate affects GABAergic transmission in isolated brains of developing wild type Xenopus tadpoles in vitro by recording the responsiveness of tectal neurons to optic nerve stimulation, and by measuring currents evoked by local GABA application in a gramicidin perforated patch configuration. We found that, in contrast with previously reported results, the reversal potential for GABAR-mediated currents does not change significantly between developmental stages 45 and 49. Partial substitution of glucose by pyruvate had only minor effects on both the GABA reversal potential, and the responsiveness of tectal neurons at stages 45 and 49. Total depletion of energy sources from the ACSF did not affect neural responsiveness. We also report a strong spatial gradient in GABA reversal potential, with immature cells adjacent to the lateral and caudal proliferative zones having more positive reversal potentials. We conclude that in this experimental preparation standard glucose-based ACSF is an appropriate extracellular media for in vitro experiments.
Transplantation of neural stems cells (NSCs) could be a useful means to deliver biologic therapeutics for late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we conducted a small preclinical investigation of whether NSCs could be modified to express metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9), a secreted protease reported to degrade aggregated A peptides that are the major constituents of the senile plaques. Our findings illuminated three issues with using NSCs as delivery vehicles for this particular application. First, transplanted NSCs generally failed to migrate to amyloid plaques, instead tending to colonize white matter tracts. Second, the final destination of these cells was highly influenced by how they were delivered. We found that our injection methods led to cells largely distributing to white matter tracts, which are anisotropic conduits for fluids that facilitate rapid distribution within the CNS. Third, with regard to MMP9 as a therapeutic to remove senile plaques, we observed high concentrations of endogenous metalloproteinases around amyloid plaques in the mouse models used for these preclinical tests with no evidence that the NSC-delivered enzymes elevated these activities or had any impact. Interestingly, MMP9-expressing NSCs formed substantially larger grafts. Overall, we observed long-term survival of NSCs in the brains of mice with high amyloid burden. Therefore, we conclude that such cells may have potential in therapeutic applications in AD but improved targeting of these cells to disease-specific lesions may be required to enhance efficacy.
p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is an essential kinase involved in myogenic differentiation. Although many substrates of p38 MAPK have been identified, little is known about its upstream activators during myogenic differentiation. TRAF6 is known to function in cytokine signaling during inflammatory responses. However, not much is known about its role in myogenic differentiation and muscle regeneration. We showed here that TRAF6 and its intrinsic ubiquitin E3 ligase activity are required for myogenic differentiation. In mouse myoblasts, knockdown of TRAF6 compromised the p38 MAPK and Akt pathways, while deliberate activation of either pathway rescued the differentiation defect caused by TRAF6 knockdown. TAK1 acted as a key signal transducer downstream of TRAF6 in myogenic differentiation. In vivo, knockdown of TRAF6 in mouse muscles compromised the injury-induced muscle regeneration without impairing macrophage infiltration and myoblast proliferation. Collectively, we demonstrated that TRAF6 promotes myogenic differentiation and muscle regeneration via the TAK1/p38 MAPK and Akt pathways.
In order to select actions appropriate to current needs, a subject must identify relationships between actions and events. Control over the environment is determined by the degree to which action consequences can be predicted, as described by action-outcome contingencies--i.e. performing an action should affect the probability of the outcome. We evaluated in a first experiment adaptation to contingency changes in rats with neurotoxic lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex. Results indicate that this brain region is not critical to adjust instrumental responding to a negative contingency where the rats must refrain from pressing a lever, as this action prevents reward delivery. By contrast, this brain region is required to reduce responding in a non-contingent situation where the same number of rewards is freely delivered and actions do not affect the outcome any more. In a second experiment, we determined that this effect does not result from a different perception of temporal relationships between actions and outcomes since lesioned rats adapted normally to gradually increasing delays in reward delivery. These data indicate that the medial prefrontal cortex is not directly involved in evaluating the correlation between action--and reward--rates or in the perception of reward delays. The deficit in lesioned rats appears to consist of an abnormal response to the balance between contingent and non-contingent rewards. By highlighting the role of prefrontal regions in adapting to the causal status of actions, these data contribute to our understanding of the neural basis of choice tasks.
The interplay between anatomical connectivity and dynamics in neural networks plays a key role in the functional properties of the brain and in the associated connectivity changes induced by neural diseases. However, a detailed experimental investigation of this interplay at both cellular and population scales in the living brain is limited by accessibility. Alternatively, to investigate the basic operational principles with morphological, electrophysiological and computational methods, the activity emerging from large in vitro networks of primary neurons organized with imposed topologies can be studied. Here, we validated the use of a new bio-printing approach, which effectively maintains the topology of hippocampal cultures in vitro and investigated, by patch-clamp and MEA electrophysiology, the emerging functional properties of these grid-confined networks. In spite of differences in the organization of physical connectivity, our bio-patterned grid networks retained the key properties of synaptic transmission, short-term plasticity and overall network activity with respect to random networks. Interestingly, the imposed grid topology resulted in a reinforcement of functional connections along orthogonal directions, shorter connectivity links and a greatly increased spiking probability in response to focal stimulation. These results clearly demonstrate that reliable functional studies can nowadays be performed on large neuronal networks in the presence of sustained changes in the physical network connectivity.
Development of the adult olfactory system of the moth Manduca sexta depends on reciprocal interactions between olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) axons growing in from the periphery and centrally-derived glial cells. Early-arriving ORN axons induce a subset of glial cells to proliferate and migrate to form an axon-sorting zone, in which later-arriving ORN axons will change their axonal neighbors and change their direction of outgrowth in order to travel with like axons to their target areas in the olfactory (antennal) lobe. These newly fasciculated axon bundles will terminate in protoglomeruli, the formation of which induces other glial cells to migrate to surround them. Glial cells do not migrate unless ORN axons are present, axons fail to fasciculate and target correctly without sufficient glial cells, and protoglomeruli are not maintained without a glial surround. We have shown previously that Epidermal Growth Factor receptors and the IgCAMs Neuroglian and Fasciclin II play a role in the ORN responses to glial cells. In the present work, we present evidence for the importance of glial Fibroblast Growth Factor receptors in glial migration, proliferation, and survival in this developing pathway. We also report changes in growth patterns of ORN axons and of the dendrites of olfactory (antennal lobe) neurons following blockade of glial FGFR activation that suggest that glial FGFR activation is important in reciprocal communication between neurons and glial cells.
Explosive blast results in multiple organ injury and polytrauma, the intensity of which varies with the nature of the exposure, orientation, environment and individual resilience. Blast overpressure alone may not precisely indicate the level of body or brain injury after blast exposure. Assessment of the extent of body injury after blast exposure is important, since polytrauma and systemic factors significantly contribute to blast-induced traumatic brain injury. We evaluated the activity of plasma enzymes including aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) at different time points after blast exposure using a mouse model of single and repeated blast exposures to assess the severity of injury. Our data show that activities of all the enzymes in the plasma were significantly increased as early as 1 h after blast exposure. The elevated enzyme activity remained up to 6 h in an overpressure dose-dependent manner and returned close to normal levels at 24 h. Head-only blast exposure with body protection showed no increase in the enzyme activities suggesting that brain injury alone does not contribute to the systemic increase. In contrast to plasma increase, AST, ALT and LDH activity in the liver and CK in the skeletal muscle showed drastic decrease at 6 h after blast exposures. Histopathology showed mild necrosis at 6 h and severe necrosis at 24 h after blast exposures in liver and no changes in the skeletal muscle suggesting that the enzyme release from the tissue to plasma is probably triggered by transient cell membrane disruption from shockwave and not due to necrosis. Overpressure dependent transient release of tissue enzymes and elevation in the plasma after blast exposure suggest that elevated enzyme activities in the blood can be potentially used as a biological dosimeter to assess the severity of blast injury.
Although consciousness can be brought to bear on both perceptual and internally generated information, little is known about how these different cognitive modes are coordinated. Here we show that between-participant variance in thoughts unrelated to the task being performed (known as task unrelated thought, TUT) is associated with longer response times (RT) when target presentation occurs during periods when baseline Pupil Diameter (PD) is increased. As behavioral interference due to high baseline PD can reflect increased tonic activity in the norepinephrine system (NE), these results might implicate high tonic NE activity in the facilitation of TUTs. Based on these findings, it is hypothesised that high tonic mode NE leads to a generalised de-amplification of task relevant information that prioritses internally generated thought and insulates it from the potentially disruptive events taking place in the external environment.

Agonist-induced internalization of transmembrane receptors is a widespread biological phenomenon that also may serve as a mechanism for synaptic plasticity. Here we show that the agonist AMPA causes a depression of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) signaling at glutamate synapses in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in slices from developing, but not from mature, rats. This developmentally restricted agonist-induced synaptic depression is expressed as a total loss of AMPAR signaling, without affecting NMDA receptor (NMDAR) signaling, in a large proportion of the developing synapses, thus creating AMPAR silent synapses. The AMPA-induced AMPAR silencing is induced independently of activation of mGluRs and NMDARs, and it mimics and occludes stimulus-induced depression, suggesting that this latter form of synaptic plasticity is expressed as agonist-induced removal of AMPARs. Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) rendered the developing synapses resistant to the AMPA-induced depression, indicating that LTP contributes to the maturation-related increased stability of these synapses. Our study shows that agonist binding to AMPARs is a sufficient triggering stimulus for the creation of AMPAR silent synapses at developing glutamate synapses.
Neuroinflammation and blood brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The neuropeptide substance P (SP) is an important mediator of both neuroinflammation and BBB dysfunction through its NK1 receptor in a process known as neurogenic inflammation. Increased SP content has previously been reported following 6-OHDA treatment in vitro, with the levels of SP correlating with cell death. The present study used an in vivo 6-OHDA lesion model to determine if dopaminergic degeneration was associated with increased SP in the substantia nigra and whether this degeneration could be prevented by using a SP, NK1 receptor antagonist. Unilateral, intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesions were induced and SP (10 g/2 L) or the NK1 receptor antagonists, N-acetyl-L-tryptophan (2 L at 50 nM) or L-333,060 (2 L at 100 nM), administered immediately after the neurotoxin. Nigral SP content was then determined using immunohistochemical and ELISA methods, neuroinflammation and barrier integrity was assessed using Iba-1, ED-1, GFAP and albumin immunohistochemistry, while dopaminergic cell loss was assessed with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Motor function in all animals was assessed using the rotarod task. Intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesioning produced an early and sustained increase in ipsilateral nigral SP content, along with a breakdown of the BBB and activation of microglia and astrocytes. Further exacerbation of SP levels accelerated disease progression, whereas NK1 receptor antagonist treatment protected dopaminergic neurons, preserved barrier integrity, reduced neuroinflammation and significantly improved motor function. We propose that neurogenic inflammation contributes to dopaminergic degeneration in early experimental PD and demonstrate that an NK1 receptor antagonist may represent a novel neuroprotective therapy.
The modern metaphor of the brain is that of a dynamic information processing device. In the current study we investigate how a core cognitive network of the human brain, the perceptual decision system, can be characterized regarding its spatiotemporal representation of task-relevant information. We capitalize on a recently developed information theoretic framework for the analysis of simultaneously acquired electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging data (fMRI) (Ostwald et al. (2010), NeuroImage 49: 498-516). We show how this framework naturally extends from previous validations in the sensory to the cognitive domain and how it enables the economic description of neural spatiotemporal information encoding. Specifically, based on simultaneous EEG-fMRI data features from n = 13 observers performing a visual perceptual decision task, we demonstrate how the information theoretic framework is able to reproduce earlier findings on the neurobiological underpinnings of perceptual decisions from the response signal features' marginal distributions. Furthermore, using the joint EEG-fMRI feature distribution, we provide novel evidence for a highly distributed and dynamic encoding of task-relevant information in the human brain.
Different visual stimuli have been shown to recruit different mental imagery strategies. However the role of specific visual stimuli properties related to body context and posture in mental imagery is still under debate. Aiming to dissociate the behavioural correlates of mental processing of visual stimuli characterized by different body context, in the present study we investigated whether the mental rotation of stimuli showing either hands as attached to a body (hands-on-body) or not (hands-only), would be based on different mechanisms. We further examined the effects of postural changes on the mental rotation of both stimuli. Thirty healthy volunteers verbally judged the laterality of rotated hands-only and hands-on-body stimuli presented from the dorsum- or the palm-view, while positioning their hands on their knees (front postural condition) or behind their back (back postural condition). Mental rotation of hands-only, but not of hands-on-body, was modulated by the stimulus view and orientation. Additionally, only the hands-only stimuli were mentally rotated at different speeds according to the postural conditions. This indicates that different stimulus-related mechanisms are recruited in mental rotation by changing the bodily context in which a particular body part is presented. The present data suggest that, with respect to hands-only, mental rotation of hands-on-body is less dependent on biomechanical constraints and proprioceptive input. We interpret our results as evidence for preferential processing of visual- rather than kinesthetic-based mechanisms during mental transformation of hands-on-body and hands-only, respectively.
Mutation of the melanocortin-receptor 4 (MC4R) is the most frequent cause of severe obesity in humans. Binding of agouti-related peptide (AgRP) to MC4R involves the co-receptor syndecan-3, a heparan sulfate proteoglycan. The proteoglycan can be structurally modified by the enzyme heparanase. Here we tested the hypothesis that heparanase plays a role in food intake behaviour and energy balance regulation by analysing body weight, body composition and food intake in genetically modified mice that either lack or overexpress heparanase. We also assessed food intake and body weight following acute central intracerebroventricular administration of heparanase; such treatment reduced food intake in wildtype mice, an effect that was abolished in mice lacking MC4R. By contrast, heparanase knockout mice on a high-fat diet showed increased food intake and maturity-onset obesity, with up to a 40% increase in body fat. Mice overexpressing heparanase displayed essentially the opposite phenotypes, with a reduced fat mass. These results implicate heparanase in energy balance control via the central melanocortin system. Our data indicate that heparanase acts as a negative modulator of AgRP signaling at MC4R, through cleavage of heparan sulfate chains presumably linked to syndecan-3.
Methamphetamine (meth) is a highly addictive and widely abused psychostimulant. Repeated use of meth can quickly lead to dependence, and may be accompanied by a variety of persistent psychiatric symptoms and cognitive impairments. The neuroadaptations underlying motivational and cognitive deficits produced by chronic meth intake remain poorly understood. Altered glutamate neurotransmission within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum has been linked to both persistent drug-seeking and cognitive dysfunction. Therefore, the current study investigated changes in presynaptic mGluR receptors within corticostriatal circuitry after extended meth self-administration. Rats self-administered meth (or received yoked-saline) in 1 hr/day sessions for 7 days (short-access) followed by 14 days of 6 hrs/day (long-access). Rats displayed a progressive escalation of daily meth intake up to 6 mg/kg per day. After cessation of meth self-administration, rats underwent daily extinction or abstinence without extinction training for 14 days before being euthanized. Synaptosomes from the medial PFC, nucleus accumbens (NAc), and the dorsal striatum (dSTR) were isolated and labeled with membrane-impermeable biotin in order to measure surface mGluR2/3 and mGluR7 receptors. Extended access to meth self-administration followed by abstinence decreased surface and total levels of mGluR2/3 receptors in the NAc and dSTR, while in the PFC, only a loss of surface mGluR2/3 and mGluR7 receptors was detected. Daily extinction trials reversed the downregulation of mGluR2/3 receptors in the NAc and dSTR and mGluR7 in the PFC, but downregulation of surface mGluR2/3 receptors in the PFC was present regardless of post-meth experience. Thus, extinction learning can selectively restore some populations of downregulated mGluRs after prolonged exposure to meth. The present findings could have implications for our understanding of the persistence (or recovery) of meth-induced motivational and cognitive deficits.
The ability to detect novel sounds in a complex acoustic context is crucial for survival. Neurons from midbrain through cortical levels adapt to repetitive stimuli, while maintaining responsiveness to rare stimuli, a phenomenon called stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA). The site of origin and mechanism of SSA are currently unknown. We used microiontophoretic application of gabazine to examine the role of GABA(A)-mediated inhibition in SSA in the inferior colliculus, the midbrain center for auditory processing. We found that gabazine slowed down the process of adaptation to high probability stimuli but did not abolish it, with response magnitude and latency still depending on the probability of the stimulus. Blocking GABA(A) receptors increased the firing rate to high and low probability stimuli, but did not completely equalize the responses. Together, these findings suggest that GABA(A)-mediated inhibition acts as a gain control mechanism that enhances SSA by modifying the responsiveness of the neuron.
Texture discontinuities are a fundamental cue by which the visual system segments objects from their background. The neural mechanisms supporting texture-based segmentation are therefore critical to visual perception and cognition. In the present experiment we employ an EEG source-imaging approach in order to study the time course of texture-based segmentation in the human brain. Visual Evoked Potentials were recorded to four types of stimuli in which periodic temporal modulation of a central 3 figure region could either support figure-ground segmentation, or have identical local texture modulations but not produce changes in global image segmentation. The image discontinuities were defined either by orientation or phase differences across image regions. Evoked responses to these four stimuli were analyzed both at the scalp and on the cortical surface in retinotopic and functional regions-of-interest (ROIs) defined separately using fMRI on a subject-by-subject basis. Texture segmentation (tsVEP: segmenting versus non-segmenting) and cue-specific (csVEP: orientation versus phase) responses exhibited distinctive patterns of activity. Alternations between uniform and segmented images produced highly asymmetric responses that were larger after transitions from the uniform to the segmented state. Texture modulations that signaled the appearance of a figure evoked a pattern of increased activity starting at 143 ms that was larger in V1 and LOC ROIs, relative to identical modulations that didn't signal figure-ground segmentation. This segmentation-related activity occurred after an initial response phase that did not depend on the global segmentation structure of the image. The two cue types evoked similar tsVEPs up to 230 ms when they differed in the V4 and LOC ROIs. The evolution of the response proceeded largely in the feed-forward direction, with only weak evidence for feedback-related activity.
The glutamate transporter GLT-1 is responsible for the largest proportion of total glutamate transport. Recently, it has been demonstrated that ceftriaxone (CEF) robustly increases GLT-1 expression. In addition, physiological studies have shown that GLT-1 up-regulation strongly affects synaptic plasticity, and leads to an impairment of the prepulse inhibition, a simple form of information processing, thus suggesting that GLT-1 over-expression may lead to dysfunctions of large populations of neurons. To test this possibility, we assessed whether CEF affects cortical electrical activity by using chronic electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings in male WKY rats. Spectral analysis showed that 8 days of CEF treatment resulted in a delayed reduction in EEG theta power (7-9 Hz) in both frontal and parietal derivations. This decrease peaked at day 10, i.e., 2 days after the end of treatment, and disappeared by day 16. In addition, we found that the same CEF treatment increased motor activity, especially when EEG changes are more prominent. Taken together, these data indicate that GLT-1 up-regulation, by modulating glutamatergic transmission, impairs the activity of widespread neural circuits. In addition, the increased motor activity and prepulse inhibition alterations previously described suggest that neural circuits involved in sensorimotor control are particularly sensitive to GLT-1 up-regulation.
Sources of plasma glucose excursions (PGE) following a glucose tolerance test enriched with [U-(13)C]glucose and deuterated water were directly resolved by (13)C and (2)H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy analysis of plasma glucose and water enrichments in rat. Plasma water (2)H-enrichment attained isotopic steady-state within 2-4 minutes following the load. The fraction of PGE derived from endogenous sources was determined from the ratio of plasma glucose position 2 and plasma water (2)H-enrichments. The fractional gluconeogenic contributions to PGE were obtained from plasma glucose positions 2 and 5 (2)H-positional enrichment ratios and load contributions were estimated from plasma [U-(13)C]glucose enrichments. At 15 minutes, the load contributed 265% of PGE while 142% originated from gluconeogenesis in healthy control rats. Between 15 and 120 minutes, the load contribution fell whereas the gluconeogenic contribution remained constant. High-fat fed animals had significant higher 120-minute blood glucose (1736 mg/dL vs. 13910 mg/dL, p&lt;0.05) and gluconeogenic contributions to PGE (595 mg/dL vs. 383 mg/dL, p&lt;0.01) relative to standard chow-fed controls. In summary, the endogenous and load components of PGE can be resolved during a glucose tolerance test and these measurements revealed that plasma glucose synthesis via gluconeogenesis remained active during the period immediately following a glucose load. In rats that were placed on high-fat diet, the development of glucose intolerance was associated with a significantly higher gluconeogenic contribution to plasma glucose levels after the load.

Humans make systematic errors in the 3D interpretation of the optic flow in both passive and active vision. These systematic distortions can be predicted by a biologically-inspired model which disregards self-motion information resulting from head movements (Caudek, Fantoni, &amp; Domini 2011). Here, we tested two predictions of this model: (1) A plane that is stationary in an earth-fixed reference frame will be perceived as changing its slant if the movement of the observer's head causes a variation of the optic flow; (2) a surface that rotates in an earth-fixed reference frame will be perceived to be stationary, if the surface rotation is appropriately yoked to the head movement so as to generate a variation of the surface slant but not of the optic flow. Both predictions were corroborated by two experiments in which observers judged the perceived slant of a random-dot planar surface during egomotion. We found qualitatively similar biases for monocular and binocular viewing of the simulated surfaces, although, in principle, the simultaneous presence of disparity and motion cues allows for a veridical recovery of surface slant.



Joint degeneration observed in the rat monoiodoacetate (MIA) model of osteoarthritis shares many histological features with the clinical condition. The accompanying pain phenotype has seen the model widely used to investigate the pathophysiology of osteoarthritis pain, and for preclinical screening of analgesic compounds. We have investigated the pathophysiological sequellae of MIA used at low (1 mg) or high (2 mg) dose. Intra-articular 2 mg MIA induced expression of ATF-3, a sensitive marker for peripheral neuron stress/injury, in small and large diameter DRG cell profiles principally at levels L4 and 5 (levels predominated by neurones innervating the hindpaw) rather than L3. At the 7 day timepoint, ATF-3 signal was significantly smaller in 1 mg MIA treated animals than in the 2 mg treated group. 2 mg, but not 1 mg, intra-articular MIA was also associated with a significant reduction in intra-epidermal nerve fibre density in plantar hindpaw skin, and produced spinal cord dorsal and ventral horn microgliosis. The 2 mg treatment evoked mechanical pain-related hypersensitivity of the hindpaw that was significantly greater than the 1 mg treatment. MIA treatment produced weight bearing asymmetry and cold hypersensitivity which was similar at both doses. Additionally, while pregabalin significantly reduced deep dorsal horn evoked neuronal responses in animals treated with 2 mg MIA, this effect was much reduced or absent in the 1 mg or sham treated groups. These data demonstrate that intra-articular 2 mg MIA not only produces joint degeneration, but also evokes significant axonal injury to DRG cells including those innervating targets outside of the knee joint such as hindpaw skin. This significant neuropathic component needs to be taken into account when interpreting studies using this model, particularly at doses greater than 1 mg MIA.
Although people are generally interested in how the brain functions, neuroscience education for the public is hampered by a lack of low cost and engaging teaching materials. To address this, we developed an open-source tool, the SpikerBox, which is appropriate for use in middle/high school educational programs and by amateurs. This device can be used in easy experiments in which students insert sewing pins into the leg of a cockroach, or other invertebrate, to amplify and listen to the electrical activity of neurons. With the cockroach leg preparation, students can hear and see (using a smartphone oscilloscope app we have developed) the dramatic changes in activity caused by touching the mechanosensitive barbs. Students can also experiment with other manipulations such as temperature, drugs, and microstimulation that affect the neural activity. We include teaching guides and other resources in the supplemental materials. These hands-on lessons with the SpikerBox have proven to be effective in teaching basic neuroscience.
Clearing of dead cells is a fundamental process to limit tissue damage following brain injury. Engulfment has classically been believed to be performed by professional phagocytes, but recent data show that non-professional phagocytes are highly involved in the removal of cell corpses in various situations. The role of astrocytes in cell clearance following trauma has however not been studied in detail. We have found that astrocytes actively collect and engulf whole dead cells in an in vitro model of brain injury and thereby protect healthy neurons from bystander cell death. Time-lapse experiments showed that migrating neurons that come in contact with free-floating cell corpses induced apoptosis, while neurons that migrate through groups of dead cells, garnered by astrocytes, remain unaffected. Furthermore, apoptotic cells are present within astrocytes in the mouse brain following traumatic brain injury (TBI), indicating a possible role for astrocytes in engulfment of apoptotic cells in vivo. qRT-PCR analysis showed that members of both ced pathways and Megf8 are expressed in the cell culture, indicating their possible involvement in astrocytic engulfment. Moreover, addition of dead cells had a positive effect on the protein expression of MEGF10, an ortholog to CED1, known to initiate phagocytosis by binding to phosphatidylserine. Although cultured astrocytes have an immense capacity for engulfment, seemingly without adverse effects, the ingested material is stored rather than degraded. This finding might explain the multinuclear astrocytes that are found at the lesion site in patients with various brain disorders.
Repetitive mirror symmetric bilateral upper limb may be a suitable priming technique for upper limb rehabilitation after stroke. Here we demonstrate neurophysiological and behavioural after-effects in healthy participants after priming with 20 minutes of repetitive active-passive bimanual wrist flexion and extension in a mirror symmetric pattern with respect to the body midline (MIR) compared to an control priming condition with alternating flexion-extension (ALT). Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) indicated that corticomotor excitability (CME) of the passive hemisphere remained elevated compared to baseline for at least 30 minutes after MIR but not ALT, evidenced by an increase in the size of motor evoked potentials in ECR and FCR. Short and long-latency intracortical inhibition (SICI, LICI), short afferent inhibition (SAI) and interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) were also examined using pairs of stimuli. LICI differed between patterns, with less LICI after MIR compared with ALT, and an effect of pattern on IHI, with reduced IHI in passive FCR 15 minutes after MIR compared with ALT and baseline. There was no effect of pattern on SAI or FCR H-reflex. Similarly, SICI remained unchanged after 20 minutes of MIR. We then had participants complete a timed manual dexterity motor learning task with the passive hand during, immediately after, and 24 hours after MIR or control priming. The rate of task completion was faster with MIR priming compared to control conditions. Finally, ECR and FCR MEPs were examined within a pre-movement facilitation paradigm of wrist extension before and after MIR. ECR, but not FCR, MEPs were consistently facilitated before and after MIR, demonstrating no degradation of selective muscle activation. In summary, mirror symmetric active-passive bimanual movement increases CME and can enhance motor learning without degradation of muscle selectivity. These findings rationalise the use of mirror symmetric bimanual movement as a priming modality in post-stroke upper limb rehabilitation.
The dementia of Alzheimer's type and brain ischemia are known to increase at comparable rates with age. Recent advances suggest that cerebral ischemia may contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, the neuropathological relationship between these two disorders is largely unclear. It has been demonstrated that axonopathy, mainly manifesting as impairment of axonal transport and swelling of the axon and varicosity, is a prominent feature in AD and may play an important role in the neuropathological mechanisms in AD. In this study, we investigated the early and chronic changes of the axons of neurons in the different brain areas (cortex, hippocampus and striatum) using in vivo tracing technique and grading analysis method in a rat model of transient focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (middle cerebral artery occlusion, MCAO). In addition, the relationship between the changes of axons and the expression of -amyloid 42 (A42) and hyperphosphorylated Tau, which have been considered as the key neuropathological processes of AD, was analyzed by combining tracing technique with immunohistochemistry or western blotting. Subsequently, we found that transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion produced obvious swelling of the axons and varicosities, from 6 hours after transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion even up to 4 weeks. We could not observe A plaques or overexpression of A42 in the ischemic brain areas, however, the site-specific hyperphosphorylated Tau could be detected in the ischemic cortex. These results suggest that transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion induce early and chronic axonal changes, which may be an important mechanism affecting the clinical outcome and possibly contributing to the development of AD after stroke.
Recent studies of the hippocampus have suggested that a network of genes is associated with the regulation of the GAD (GAD1) expression and may play a role in -amino butyric acid (GABA) dysfunction in schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD). To obtain a more detailed understanding of how GAD regulation may result in GABAergic dysfunction, we have developed an in vitro model in which GABA cells are differentiated from the hippocampal precursor cell line, HiB5. Growth factors, such as PDGF, and BDNF, regulate the GABA phenotype by inducing the expression of GAD and stimulating the growth of cellular processes, many with growth cones that form appositions with the cell bodies and processes of other GAD-positive cells. These changes are associated with increased expression of acetylated tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the post-synaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). The addition of BDNF, together with PDGF, increases the levels of mRNA and protein for GAD, as well as the high affinity GABA uptake protein, GAT1. These changes are associated with increased concentrations of GABA in the cytoplasm of &quot;differentiated&quot; HiB5 neurons. In the presence of Ca and K, newly synthesized GABA is released extracellularly. When the HiB5 cells appear to be fully differentiated, they also express GAD, parvalbumin and calbindin, and GluR subtypes as well as HDAC1, DAXX, PAX5, Runx2, associated with GAD regulation. Overall, these results suggest that the HiB5 cells can differentiate into functionally mature GABA neurons in the presence of gene products that are associated with GAD regulation in the adult hippocampus.
Mounting psychophysical evidence suggests that early visual computations are sensitive to the topological properties of stimuli, such as the determination of whether the object has a hole or not. Previous studies have demonstrated that the hole feature took some advantages during conscious perception. In this study, we investigate whether there exists a privileged processing for hole stimuli during unconscious perception. By applying a continuous flash suppression paradigm, the target was gradually introduced to one eye to compete against a flashed full contrast Mondrian pattern which was presented to the other eye. This method ensured that the target image was suppressed during the initial perceptual period. We compared the initial suppressed duration between the stimuli with and without the hole feature and found that hole stimuli required less time than no-hole stimuli to gain dominance against the identical suppression noise. These results suggest the hole feature could be processed in the absence of awareness, and there exists a privileged detection of hole stimuli during suppressed phase in the interocular rivalry.
Microglia are specialized immune cells of the brain. Upon insult, microglia initiate a cascade of cellular responses including a characteristic change in cell morphology. To study the dynamics of microglia immune response in situ, we developed an automated image analysis method that enables the quantitative assessment of microglia activation state within tissue based solely on cell morphology. Per cell morphometric analysis of fluorescently labeled microglia is achieved through local iterative threshold segmentation, which reduces errors caused by signal-to-noise variation across large volumes. We demonstrate, utilizing systemic application of lipopolysaccharide as a model of immune challenge, that several morphological parameters, including cell perimeter length, cell roundness and soma size, quantitatively distinguish resting versus activated populations of microglia within tissue comparable to traditional immunohistochemistry methods. Furthermore, we provide proof-of-concept data that monitoring soma size enables the longitudinal assessment of microglia activation in the mouse neocortex imaged via 2-photon in vivo microscopy. The ability to quantify microglia activation automatically by shape alone allows unbiased and rapid analysis of both fixed and in vivo central nervous system tissue.

DNA methyltransferases establish methylation patterns in cells and transmit these patterns over cell generations, thereby influencing each cell's epigenetic states. Three primary DNA methyltransferases have been identified in mammals: DNMT1, DNMT3A and DNMT3B. Extensive in vitro studies have investigated key properties of these enzymes, namely their substrate specificity and processivity. Here we study these properties in vivo, by applying novel statistical analysis methods to double-stranded DNA methylation patterns collected using hairpin-bisulfite PCR. Our analysis fits a novel Hidden Markov Model (HMM) to the observed data, allowing for potential bisulfite conversion errors, and yields statistical estimates of parameters that quantify enzyme processivity and substrate specificity. We apply this model to methylation patterns established in vivo at three loci in humans: two densely methylated inactive X (Xi)-linked loci (FMR1 and G6PD), and an autosomal locus (LEP), where methylation densities are tissue-specific but moderate. We find strong evidence for a high level of processivity of DNMT1 at FMR1 and G6PD, with the mean association tract length being a few hundred base pairs. Regardless of tissue types, methylation patterns at LEP are dominated by DNMT1 maintenance events, similar to the two Xi-linked loci, but are insufficiently informative regarding processivity to draw any conclusions about processivity at that locus. At all three loci we find that DNMT1 shows a strong preference for adding methyl groups to hemi-methylated CpG sites over unmethylated sites. The data at all three loci also suggest low (possibly 0) association of the de novo methyltransferases, the DNMT3s, and are consequently uninformative about processivity or preference of these enzymes. We also extend our HMM to reanalyze published data on mouse DNMT1 activities in vitro. The results suggest shorter association tracts (and hence weaker processivity), and much longer non-association tracts than human DNMT1 in vivo.
Abl tyrosine kinase and its effectors among the Rho family of GTPases each act to control dendritic morphogenesis in Drosophila. It has not been established, however, which of the many GTPase regulators in the cell link these signaling molecules in the dendrite. In axons, the bifunctional guanine exchange factor, Trio, is an essential link between the Abl tyrosine kinase signaling pathway and Rho GTPases, particularly Rac, allowing these systems to act coordinately to control actin organization. In dendritic morphogenesis, however, Abl and Rac have contrary rather than reinforcing effects, raising the question of whether Trio is involved, and if so, whether it acts through Rac, Rho or both. We now find that Trio is expressed in sensory neurons of the Drosophila embryo and regulates their dendritic arborization. trio mutants display a reduction in dendritic branching and increase in average branch length, whereas over-expression of trio has the opposite effect. We further show that it is the Rac GEF domain of Trio, and not its Rho GEF domain that is primarily responsible for the dendritic function of Trio. Thus, Trio shapes the complexity of dendritic arbors and does so in a way that mimics the effects of its target, Rac.

The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma has an indirect life cycle, in which felids are the definitive host. It has been suggested that this parasite developed mechanisms for enhancing its transmission rate to felids by inducing behavioral modifications in the intermediate rodent host. For example, Toxoplasma-infected rodents display a reduction in the innate fear of predator odor. However, animals with Toxoplasma infection acquired in the wild are more often caught in traps, suggesting that there are manipulations of intermediate host behavior beyond those that increase predation by felids. We investigated the behavioral modifications of Toxoplasma-infected mice in environments with exposed versus non-exposed areas, and found that chronically infected mice with brain cysts display a plethora of behavioral alterations. Using principal component analysis, we discovered that most of the behavioral differences observed in cyst-containing animals reflected changes in the microstructure of exploratory behavior and risk/unconditioned fear. We next examined whether these behavioral changes were related to the presence and distribution of parasitic cysts in the brain of chronically infected mice. We found no strong cyst tropism for any particular brain area but found that the distribution of Toxoplasma cysts in the brain of infected animals was not random, and that particular combinations of cyst localizations changed risk/unconditioned fear in the host. These results suggest that brain cysts in animals chronically infected with Toxoplasma alter the fine structure of exploratory behavior and risk/unconditioned fear, which may result in greater capture probability of infected rodents. These data also raise the possibility that selective pressures acted on Toxoplasma to broaden its transmission between intermediate predator hosts, in addition to felid definitive hosts.
In Western music, the major mode is typically used to convey excited, happy, bright or martial emotions, whereas the minor mode typically conveys subdued, sad or dark emotions. Recent studies indicate that the differences between these modes parallel differences between the prosodic and spectral characteristics of voiced speech sounds uttered in corresponding emotional states. Here we ask whether tonality and emotion are similarly linked in an Eastern musical tradition. The results show that the tonal relationships used to express positive/excited and negative/subdued emotions in classical South Indian music are much the same as those used in Western music. Moreover, tonal variations in the prosody of English and Tamil speech uttered in different emotional states are parallel to the tonal trends in music. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the association between musical tonality and emotion is based on universal vocal characteristics of different affective states.
Excess glutamate release and associated neurotoxicity contributes to cell death after spinal cord injury (SCI). Indeed, delayed administration of glutamate receptor antagonists after SCI in rodents improves tissue sparing and functional recovery. Despite their therapeutic potential, most glutamate receptor antagonists have detrimental side effects and have largely failed clinical trials. Topiramate is an AMPA-specific, glutamate receptor antagonists that is FDA-approved to treat CNS disorders. In the current study we tested whether topiramate treatment is neuroprotective after cervical contusion injury in rats. We report that topiramate, delivered 15-minutes after SCI, increases tissue sparing and preserves oligodendrocytes and neurons when compared to vehicle treatment. In addition, topiramate is more effective than the AMPA-receptor antagonist, NBQX. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report documenting a neuroprotective effect of topiramate treatment after spinal cord injury.
Following the successful application of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and promising results in clinical trials for obsessive compulsive disorder and major depression, DBS is currently being tested in small patient-populations with eating disorders and addiction. However, in spite of its potential use in a broad spectrum of disorders, the mechanisms of action of DBS remain largely unclear and optimal neural targets for stimulation in several disorders have yet to be established. Thus, there is a great need to examine site-specific effects of DBS on a behavioural level and to understand how DBS may modulate pathological behaviour. In view of the possible application of DBS in the treatment of disorders characterized by impaired processing of reward and motivation, like addiction and eating disorders, we examined the effect of DBS of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) on food-directed behavior. Rats were implanted with bilateral stimulation electrodes in one of three anatomically and functionally distinct sub-areas of the NAcc: the core, lateral shell (lShell) and medial shell (mShell). Subsequently, we studied the effects of DBS on food consumption, and the motivational and appetitive properties of food. The data revealed a functional dissociation between the lShell and mShell. DBS of the lShell reduced motivation to respond for sucrose under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement, mShell DBS, however, profoundly and selectively increased the intake of chow. DBS of the NAcc core did not alter any form of food-directed behavior studied. DBS of neither structure affected sucrose preference. These data indicate that the intake of chow and the motivation to work for palatable food can independently be modulated by DBS of subregions of the NAcc shell. As such, these findings provide important leads for the possible future application of DBS as a treatment for eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa.


The precise timing of events in the brain has consequences for intracellular processes, synaptic plasticity, integration and network behaviour. Pyramidal neurons, the most widespread excitatory neuron of the neocortex have multiple spike initiation zones, which interact via dendritic and somatic spikes actively propagating in all directions within the dendritic tree. For these neurons, therefore, both the location and timing of synaptic inputs are critical. The time window for which the backpropagating action potential can influence dendritic spike generation has been extensively studied in layer 5 neocortical pyramidal neurons of rat somatosensory cortex. Here, we re-examine this coincidence detection window for pyramidal cell types across the rat somatosensory cortex in layers 2/3, 5 and 6. We find that the time-window for optimal interaction is widest and shifted in layer 5 pyramidal neurons relative to cells in layers 6 and 2/3. Inputs arriving at the same time and locations will therefore differentially affect spike-timing dependent processes in the different classes of pyramidal neurons.
The present study addresses the problem whether negative priming (NP) is due to information processing in perception, recognition or selection. We argue that most NP studies confound priming and perceptual similarity of prime-probe episodes and implement a color-switch paradigm in order to resolve the issue. In a series of three identity negative priming experiments with verbal naming response, we determined when NP and positive priming (PP) occur during a trial. The first experiment assessed the impact of target color on priming effects. It consisted of two blocks, each with a different fixed target color. With respect to target color no differential priming effects were found. In Experiment 2 the target color was indicated by a cue for each trial. Here we resolved the confounding of perceptual similarity and priming condition. In trials with coinciding colors for prime and probe, we found priming effects similar to Experiment 1. However, trials with a target color switch showed such effects only in trials with role-reversal (distractor-to-target or target-to-distractor), whereas the positive priming (PP) effect in the target-repetition trials disappeared. Finally, Experiment 3 split trial processing into two phases by presenting the trial-wise color cue only after the stimulus objects had been recognized. We found recognition in every priming condition to be faster than in control trials. We were hence led to the conclusion that PP is strongly affected by perception, in contrast to NP which emerges during selection, i.e., the two effects cannot be explained by a single mechanism.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) sometimes develop impulsive compulsive behaviours (ICBs) due to their dopaminergic medication. We compared 26 impulsive and 27 non-impulsive patients with PD, both on and off medication, on a task that examined emotion bias in decision making. No group differences were detected, but patients on medication were less biased by emotions than patients off medication and the strongest effects were seen in patients with ICBs. PD patients with ICBs on medication also showed more learning from negative feedback and less from positive feedback, whereas off medication they showed the opposite effect.
One of the major difficulties in evaluating the efficacy of deep brain stimulation (DBS), or understanding its mechanism, is the need to distinguish the effects of stimulation itself from those of the lesion inevitably created during surgery. Recent work has shown that DBS of the subthalamic nucleus in Parkinson's disease greatly reduces the time it takes the eyes to make a saccade in response to a visual stimulus. Since this saccadic latency can be rapidly and objectively measured, we used it to compare the effects of surgery and of stimulation. We used a saccadometer to measure the saccadic latencies of 9 DBS patients (1) preoperatively, (2) the day after insertion of subthalamic nucleus electrodes, (3) three weeks later, prior to turning on the stimulator, and (4) after commencement of stimulation. Patients were on their anti-Parkinsonian medication throughout the study. It revealed an entirely unexpected and puzzling finding. As in previous studies an amelioration of symptoms is seen immediately after surgery, and then a further improvement when finally the stimulator is turned on, but in the case of saccadic latency the pattern is different: surgery produces a transient increase in latency, returning to baseline within three weeks, while subsequent stimulation reduced latency. Thus the differential effects of electrode placement and stimulation are completely different for saccades and for more general motor symptoms. This important finding rules out some over-simple interpretations of the mechanism of DBS, and needs to be taken into account in future attempts at modelling the neurophysiology of DBS.
Physiological state profoundly influences the expression of the behaviour of individuals and can affect social interactions between animals. How physiological state influences food sharing and social behaviour in social insects is poorly understood. Here, we examined the social interactions and food sharing behaviour of honeybees with the aim of developing the honeybee as a model for understanding how an individual's state influences its social interactions. The state of individual honeybees was manipulated by either starving donor bees or feeding them sucrose or low doses of ethanol to examine how a change in hunger or inebriation state affected the social behaviours exhibited by two closely-related nestmates. Using a lab-based assay for measuring individual motor behaviour and social behaviour, we found that behaviours such as antennation, willingness to engage in trophallaxis, and mandible opening were affected by both hunger and ethanol intoxication. Inebriated bees were more likely to exhibit mandible opening, which may represent a form of aggression, than bees fed sucrose alone. However, intoxicated bees were as willing to engage in trophallaxis as the sucrose-fed bees. The effects of ethanol on social behaviors were dose-dependent, with higher doses of ethanol producing larger effects on behaviour. Hungry donor bees, on the other hand, were more likely to engage in begging for food and less likely to antennate and to display mandible opening. We also found that when nestmates received food from donors previously fed ethanol, they began to display evidence of inebriation, indicating that ethanol can be retained in the crop for several hours and that it can be transferred between honeybee nestmates during trophallaxis.
Glutamine is the most abundant free amino acid in the human blood stream and is 'conditionally essential' to cells. Its intracellular levels are regulated both by the uptake of extracellular glutamine via specific transport systems and by its intracellular synthesis by glutamine synthetase (GS). Adding to the regulatory complexity, when extracellular glutamine is reduced GS protein levels rise. Unfortunately, this excess GS can be maladaptive. GS overexpression is neurotoxic especially if the cells are in a low-glutamine medium. Similarly, in low glutamine, the levels of multiple stress response proteins are reduced rendering cells hypersensitive to H(2)O(2), zinc salts and DNA damage. These altered responses may have particular relevance to neurodegenerative diseases of aging. GS activity and glutamine levels are lower in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, and a fraction of AD hippocampal neurons have dramatically increased GS levels compared with control subjects. We validated the importance of these observations by showing that raising glutamine levels in the medium protects cultured neuronal cells against the amyloid peptide, A. Further, a 10-day course of dietary glutamine supplementation reduced inflammation-induced neuronal cell cycle activation, tau phosphorylation and ATM-activation in two different mouse models of familial AD while raising the levels of two synaptic proteins, VAMP2 and synaptophysin. Together, our observations suggest that healthy neuronal cells require both intracellular and extracellular glutamine, and that the neuroprotective effects of glutamine supplementation may prove beneficial in the treatment of AD.
Prior semantic processing can enhance subsequent picture naming performance, yet the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying this effect and its longevity are unknown. This functional magnetic resonance imaging study examined whether different neurological mechanisms underlie short-term (within minutes) and long-term (within days) facilitation effects from a semantic task in healthy older adults. Both short- and long-term facilitated items were named significantly faster than unfacilitated items, with short-term items significantly faster than long-term items. Region of interest results identified decreased activity for long-term facilitated items compared to unfacilitated and short-term facilitated items in the mid-portion of the middle temporal gyrus, indicating lexical-semantic priming. Additionally, in the whole brain results, increased activity for short-term facilitated items was identified in regions previously linked to episodic memory and object recognition, including the right lingual gyrus (extending to the precuneus region) and the left inferior occipital gyrus (extending to the left fusiform region). These findings suggest that distinct neurocognitive mechanisms underlie short- and long-term facilitation of picture naming by a semantic task, with long-term effects driven by lexical-semantic priming and short-term effects by episodic memory and visual object recognition mechanisms.
Graph theoretical analysis of brain networks based on resting-state functional MRI (R-fMRI) has attracted a great deal of attention in recent years. These analyses often involve the selection of correlation metrics and specific preprocessing steps. However, the influence of these factors on the topological properties of functional brain networks has not been systematically examined. Here, we investigated the influences of correlation metric choice (Pearson's correlation versus partial correlation), global signal presence (regressed or not) and frequency band selection [slow-5 (0.01-0.027 Hz) versus slow-4 (0.027-0.073 Hz)] on the topological properties of both binary and weighted brain networks derived from them, and we employed test-retest (TRT) analyses for further guidance on how to choose the &quot;best&quot; network modeling strategy from the reliability perspective. Our results show significant differences in global network metrics associated with both correlation metrics and global signals. Analysis of nodal degree revealed differing hub distributions for brain networks derived from Pearson's correlation versus partial correlation. TRT analysis revealed that the reliability of both global and local topological properties are modulated by correlation metrics and the global signal, with the highest reliability observed for Pearson's-correlation-based brain networks without global signal removal (WOGR-PEAR). The nodal reliability exhibited a spatially heterogeneous distribution wherein regions in association and limbic/paralimbic cortices showed moderate TRT reliability in Pearson's-correlation-based brain networks. Moreover, we found that there were significant frequency-related differences in topological properties of WOGR-PEAR networks, and brain networks derived in the 0.027-0.073 Hz band exhibited greater reliability than those in the 0.01-0.027 Hz band. Taken together, our results provide direct evidence regarding the influences of correlation metrics and specific preprocessing choices on both the global and nodal topological properties of functional brain networks. This study also has important implications for how to choose reliable analytical schemes in brain network studies.
In vertebrate somatosensory systems, each mode of touch-pressure, temperature or pain is sensed by sensory endings of different dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which conducted to the specific cortical loci as nerve impulses. Therefore, direct electrical stimulation of the peripheral nerve endings causes an erroneous sensation to be conducted by the nerve. We have recently generated several transgenic lines of rat in which channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) transgene is driven by the Thy-1.2 promoter. In one of them, W-TChR2V4, some neurons were endowed with photosensitivity by the introduction of the ChR2 gene, coding an algal photoreceptor molecule. The DRG neurons expressing ChR2 were immunohistochemically identified using specific antibodies to the markers of mechanoreceptive or nociceptive neurons. Their peripheral nerve endings in the plantar skin as well as the central endings in the spinal cord were also examined. We identified that ChR2 is expressed in a certain population of large neurons in the DRG of W-TChR2V4. On the basis of their morphology and molecular markers, these neurons were classified as mechanoreceptive but not nociceptive. ChR2 was also distributed in their peripheral sensory nerve endings, some of which were closely associated with CK20-positive cells to form Merkel cell-neurite complexes or with S-100-positive cells to form structures like Meissner's corpuscles. These nerve endings are thus suggested to be involved in the sensing of touch. Each W-TChR2V4 rat showed a sensory-evoked behavior in response to blue LED flashes on the plantar skin. It is thus suggested that each rat acquired an unusual sensory modality of sensing blue light through the skin as touch-pressure. This light-evoked somatosensory perception should facilitate study of how the complex tactile sense emerges in the brain.
Denervation-induced changes in excitatory synaptic strength were studied following entorhinal deafferentation of hippocampal granule cells in mature ( 3 weeks old) mouse organotypic entorhino-hippocampal slice cultures. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed an increase in excitatory synaptic strength in response to denervation during the first week after denervation. By the end of the second week synaptic strength had returned to baseline. Because these adaptations occurred in response to the loss of excitatory afferents, they appeared to be in line with a homeostatic adjustment of excitatory synaptic strength. To test whether denervation-induced changes in synaptic strength exploit similar mechanisms as homeostatic synaptic scaling following pharmacological activity blockade, we treated denervated cultures at 2 days post lesion for 2 days with tetrodotoxin. In these cultures, the effects of denervation and activity blockade were not additive, suggesting that similar mechanisms are involved. Finally, we investigated whether entorhinal denervation, which removes afferents from the distal dendrites of granule cells while leaving the associational afferents to the proximal dendrites of granule cells intact, results in a global or a local up-scaling of granule cell synapses. By using computational modeling and local electrical stimulations in Strontium (Sr(2+))-containing bath solution, we found evidence for a lamina-specific increase in excitatory synaptic strength in the denervated outer molecular layer at 3-4 days post lesion. Taken together, our data show that entorhinal denervation results in homeostatic functional changes of excitatory postsynapses of denervated dentate granule cells in vitro.
Manipulations of voice pitch have been shown to alter attractiveness ratings, but whether preferences extend to very low or very high voice pitch is unknown. Here, we manipulated voice pitch in averaged men's and women's voices by 2 Hz intervals to create a range of male and female voices speaking monopthong vowel sounds and spanning a range of frequencies from normal to very low and very high pitch. With these voices, we used the method of constant stimuli to measure preferences for voice. Nineteen university students (ages: 20-25) participated in three experiments. On average, men preferred high-pitched women's voices to low-pitched women's voices across all frequencies tested. On average, women preferred men's voices lowered in pitch, but did not prefer very low men's voices. The results of this study may reflect selection pressures for men's and women's voices, and shed light on a perceptual link between voice pitch and vocal attractiveness.

Repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) is a membrane-bound protein that was originally identified as an axon guidance molecule in the chick retinotectal system. RGMa, one of the 3 isoforms found in mammals, is involved in laminar patterning, cephalic neural tube closure, axon guidance, and inhibition of axonal regeneration. In addition to its roles in the nervous system, RGMa plays a role in enhancing helper T-cell activation. Binding of RGM to its receptor, neogenin, is considered necessary to transduce these signals; however, information on the binding of RGM to neogenin is limited. Using co-immunoprecipitation studies, we have identified that the RGMa region required for binding to neogenin contains amino acids (aa) 259-295. Synthesized peptide consisting of aa 284-293 directly binds to the extracellular domain (ECD) of recombinant neogenin, and addition of this peptide inhibits RGMa-induced growth cone collapse in mouse cortical neurons. Thus, we propose that this peptide is a promising lead in finding reagents capable of inhibiting RGMa signaling.
Kainate receptor (KAR) subunits are believed to be involved in abnormal GABAergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus (HIPP) in schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder. Postmortem studies have shown changes in the expression of the GluR5/6 subunits of KARs in the stratum oriens (SO) of sectors CA2/3, where the basolateral amygdala (BLA) sends a robust projection. Previous work using a rat model of SZ demonstrated that BLA activation leads to electrophysiological changes in fast-spiking interneurons in SO of CA2/3. The present study explores KAR modulation of interneurons in CA2/3 in response to BLA activation. Intrinsic firing properties of these interneurons through KAR-mediated activity were measured with patch-clamp recordings from rats that received 15 days of picrotoxin infusion into the BLA. Chronic BLA activation induced changes in the firing properties of CA2/3 interneurons associated with modifications in the function of KARs. Specifically, the responsiveness of these interneurons to activation of KARs was diminished in picrotoxin-treated rats, while the after-hyperpolarization (AHP) amplitude was increased. In addition, we tested blockers of KAR subunits which have been shown to have altered gene expression in SO sector CA2/3 of SZ subjects. The GluR5 antagonist UBP296 further decreased AP frequency and increased AHP amplitude in picrotoxin-treated rats. Application of the GluR6/7 antagonist NS102 suggested that activation of GluR6/7 KARs may be required to maintain the high firing rates in SO interneurons in the presence of KA. Moreover, the GluR6/7 KAR-mediated signaling may be suppressed in PICRO-treated rats. Our findings indicate that glutamatergic activity from the BLA may modulate the firing properties of CA2/3 interneurons through GluR5 and GluR6/7 KARs. These receptors are expressed in GABAergic interneurons and play a key role in the synchronization of gamma oscillations. Modulation of interneuronal activity through KARs in response to amygdala activation may lead to abnormal oscillatory rhythms reported in SZ subjects.
We previously showed that middle-aged female rats sustain a larger infarct following experimental stroke as compared to younger female rats, and paradoxically, estrogen treatment to the older group is neurotoxic. Plasma and brain insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels decrease with age. However, IGF-1 infusion following stroke, prevents estrogen neurotoxicity in middle-aged female rats. IGF1 is neuroprotective and well tolerated, but also has potentially undesirable side effects. We hypothesized that microRNAs (miRNAs) that target the IGF-1 signaling family for translation repression could be alternatively suppressed to promote IGF-1-like neuroprotection. Here, we report that two conserved IGF pathway regulatory microRNAs, Let7f and miR1, can be inhibited to mimic and even extend the neuroprotection afforded by IGF-1. Anti-mir1 treatment, as late as 4 hours following ischemia, significantly reduced cortical infarct volume in adult female rats, while anti-Let7 robustly reduced both cortical and striatal infarcts, and preserved sensorimotor function and interhemispheric neural integration. No neuroprotection was observed in animals treated with a brain specific miRNA unrelated to IGF-1 (anti-miR124). Remarkably, anti-Let7f was only effective in intact females but not males or ovariectomized females indicating that the gonadal steroid environment critically modifies miRNA action. Let7f is preferentially expressed in microglia in the ischemic hemisphere and confirmed in ex vivo cultures of microglia obtained from the cortex. While IGF-1 was undetectable in microglia harvested from the non-ischemic hemisphere, IGF-1 was expressed by microglia obtained from the ischemic cortex and was further elevated by anti-Let7f treatment. Collectively these data support a novel miRNA-based therapeutic strategy for neuroprotection following stroke.
Most of what we know about cortical map development and plasticity comes from studies in mice and rats, and for the somatosensory cortex, almost exclusively from the whisker-dominated posteromedial barrel fields. Whiskers are the main effector organs of mice and rats, and their representation in cortex and subcortical pathways is a highly derived feature of murine rodents. This specialized anatomical organization may therefore not be representative of somatosensory cortex in general, especially for species that utilize other body parts as their main effector organs, like the hands of primates. For these reasons, we examined the emergence of whole body maps in developing rats using electrophysiological recording techniques. In P5, P10, P15, P20 and adult rats, multiple recordings were made in the medial portion of S1 in each animal. Subsequently, these functional maps were related to anatomical parcellations of S1 based on a variety of histological stains. We found that at early postnatal ages (P5) medial S1 was composed almost exclusively of the representation of the vibrissae. At P10, other body part representations including the hindlimb and forelimb were present, although these were not topographically organized. By P15, a clear topographic organization began to emerge coincident with a reduction in receptive field size. By P20, body maps were adult-like. This study is the first to describe how topography of the body develops in S1 in any mammal. It indicates that anatomical parcellations and functional maps are initially incongruent but become tightly coupled by P15. Finally, because anatomical and functional specificity of developing barrel cortex appears much earlier in postnatal life than the rest of the body, the entire primary somatosensory cortex should be considered when studying general topographic map formation in development.
A visual stimulus can be made invisible, i.e. masked, by the presentation of a second stimulus. In the sensory cortex, neural responses to a masked stimulus are suppressed, yet how this suppression comes about is still debated. Inhibitory models explain masking by asserting that the mask exerts an inhibitory influence on the responses of a neuron evoked by the target. However, other models argue that the masking interferes with recurrent or reentrant processing. Using computer modeling, we show that surround inhibition evoked by ON and OFF responses to the mask suppresses the responses to a briefly presented stimulus in forward and backward masking paradigms. Our model results resemble several previously described psychophysical and neurophysiological findings in perceptual masking experiments and are in line with earlier theoretical descriptions of masking. We suggest that precise spatiotemporal influence of surround inhibition is relevant for visual detection.
Secretory human prostatic acid phosphatase (hPAP) is glycosylated at three asparagine residues (N62, N188, N301) and has potent antinociceptive effects when administered to mice. Currently, it is unknown if these N-linked residues are required for hPAP protein stability and activity in vitro or in animal models of chronic pain. Here, we expressed wild-type hPAP and a series of Asn to Gln point mutations in the yeast Pichia pastoris X33 then analyzed protein levels and enzyme activity in cell lysates and in conditioned media. Pichia secreted wild-type recombinant (r)-hPAP into the media (6-7 mg protein/L). This protein was as active as native hPAP in biochemical assays and in mouse models of inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain. In contrast, the N62Q and N188Q single mutants and the N62Q, N188Q double mutant were expressed at lower levels and were less active than wild-type r-hPAP. The purified N62Q, N188Q double mutant protein was also 1.9 fold less active in vivo. The N301Q mutant was not expressed, suggesting a critical role for this residue in protein stability. To explicitly test the importance of secretion, a construct lacking the signal peptide of hPAP was expressed in Pichia and assayed. This &quot;cellular&quot; construct was not expressed at levels detectable by western blotting. Taken together, these data indicate that secretion and post-translational carbohydrate modifications are required for PAP protein stability and catalytic activity. Moreover, our findings indicate that recombinant hPAP can be produced in Pichia--a yeast strain that is used to generate biologics for therapeutic purposes.
Major depression is nearly twice as prevalent in women compared to men. In bipolar disorder, depressive episodes have been reported to be more common amongst female patients. Furthermore, periods of depression often correlate with periods of hormonal fluctuations. A link between hormone signaling and these mood disorders has, therefore, been suggested to exist in many studies. Estrogen, one of the primary female sex hormones, mediates its effect mostly by binding to estrogen receptors (ERs). Nuclear ERs function as transcription factors and regulate gene transcription by binding to specific DNA sequences. A nucleotide change in the binding sequence might alter the binding efficiency, which could affect transcription levels of nearby genes. In order to investigate if variation in ER DNA-binding sequences may be involved in mood disorders, we conducted a genome-wide study of ER DNA-binding in patients diagnosed with major depression or bipolar disorder. Association studies were performed within each gender separately and the results were corrected for multiple testing by the Bonferroni method. In the female bipolar disorder material a significant association result was found for rs6023059 (corrected p-value = 0.023; odds ratio (OR) 0.681, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.570-0.814), a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) placed downstream of the gene coding for transglutaminase 2 (TGM2). Thus, females with a specific genotype at this SNP may be more vulnerable to fluctuating estrogen levels, which may then act as a triggering factor for bipolar disorder.
Symptoms of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) are hypothesized to arise from dysfunction in brain networks linking the limbic system and cortical regions. Alterations in brain functional cortical connectivity in resting-state networks have been detected with functional imaging techniques, but neurophysiologic connectivity measures have not been systematically examined. We used weighted network analysis to examine resting state functional connectivity as measured by quantitative electroencephalographic (qEEG) coherence in 121 unmedicated subjects with MDD and 37 healthy controls. Subjects with MDD had significantly higher overall coherence as compared to controls in the delta (0.5-4 Hz), theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz), and beta (12-20 Hz) frequency bands. The frontopolar region contained the greatest number of &quot;hub nodes&quot; (surface recording locations) with high connectivity. MDD subjects expressed higher theta and alpha coherence primarily in longer distance connections between frontopolar and temporal or parietooccipital regions, and higher beta coherence primarily in connections within and between electrodes overlying the dorsolateral prefrontal cortical (DLPFC) or temporal regions. Nearest centroid analysis indicated that MDD subjects were best characterized by six alpha band connections primarily involving the prefrontal region. The present findings indicate a loss of selectivity in resting functional connectivity in MDD. The overall greater coherence observed in depressed subjects establishes a new context for the interpretation of previous studies showing differences in frontal alpha power and synchrony between subjects with MDD and normal controls. These results can inform the development of qEEG state and trait biomarkers for MDD.
The Pax2 transcription factor plays a crucial role in axon-guidance and astrocyte differentiation in the optic nerve head (ONH) during vertebrate visual system development. However, little is known about its function during regeneration. The fish visual system is in continuous growth and can regenerate. Mller cells and astrocytes of the retina and ONH play an important role in these processes. We demonstrate that pax2a in goldfish is highly conserved and at least two pax2a transcripts are expressed in the optic nerve. Moreover, we show two different astrocyte populations in goldfish: Pax2(+) astrocytes located in the ONH and S100(+) astrocytes distributed throughout the retina and the ONH. After peripheral growth zone (PGZ) cryolesion, both Pax2(+) and S100(+) astrocytes have different responses. At 7 days after injury the number of Pax2(+) cells is reduced and coincides with the absence of young axons. In contrast, there is an increase of S100(+) astrocytes in the retina surrounding the ONH and S100(+) processes in the ONH. At 15 days post injury, the PGZ starts to regenerate and the number of S100(+) astrocytes increases in this region. Moreover, the regenerating axons reach the ONH and the pax2a gene expression levels and the number of Pax2(+) cells increase. At the same time, S100(+)/GFAP(+)/GS(+) astrocytes located in the posterior ONH react strongly. In the course of the regeneration, Mller cell vitreal processes surrounding the ONH are primarily disorganized and later increase in number. During the whole regenerative process we detect a source of Pax2(+)/PCNA(+) astrocytes surrounding the posterior ONH. We demonstrate that pax2a expression and the Pax2(+) astrocyte population in the ONH are modified during the PGZ regeneration, suggesting that they could play an important role in this process.
Recent behavioral neuroscience research revealed that elementary reactive behavior can be improved in the case of cross-modal sensory interactions thanks to underlying multisensory integration mechanisms. Can this benefit be generalized to an ongoing coordination of movements under severe physical constraints? We choose a juggling task to examine this question. A central issue well-known in juggling lies in establishing and maintaining a specific temporal coordination among balls, hands, eyes and posture. Here, we tested whether providing additional timing information about the balls and hands motions by using external sound and tactile periodic stimulations, the later presented at the wrists, improved the behavior of jugglers. One specific combination of auditory and tactile metronome led to a decrease of the spatiotemporal variability of the juggler's performance: a simple sound associated to left and right tactile cues presented antiphase to each other, which corresponded to the temporal pattern of hands movement in the juggling task. A contrario, no improvements were obtained in the case of other auditory and tactile combinations. We even found a degraded performance when tactile events were presented alone. The nervous system thus appears able to integrate in efficient way environmental information brought by different sensory modalities, but only if the information specified matches specific features of the coordination pattern. We discuss the possible implications of these results for the understanding of the neuronal integration process implied in audio-tactile interaction in the context of complex voluntary movement, and considering the well-known gating effect of movement on vibrotactile perception.
The Sprouty (Spry) family of proteins represents endogenous regulators of downstream signaling pathways induced by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Using real time PCR, we detect a significant increase in the expression of Spry4 mRNA in response to NGF, indicating that Spry4 could modulate intracellular signaling pathways and biological processes induced by NGF and its receptor TrkA. In this work, we demonstrate that overexpression of wild-type Spry4 causes a significant reduction in MAPK and Rac1 activation and neurite outgrowth induced by NGF. At molecular level, our findings indicate that ectopic expression of a mutated form of Spry4 (Y53A), in which a conserved tyrosine residue was replaced, fail to block both TrkA-mediated Erk/MAPK activation and neurite outgrowth induced by NGF, suggesting that an intact tyrosine 53 site is required for the inhibitory effect of Spry4 on NGF signaling. Downregulation of Spry4 using small interference RNA knockdown experiments potentiates PC12 cell differentiation and MAPK activation in response to NGF. Together, these findings establish a new physiological mechanism through which Spry4 regulates neurite outgrowth reducing not only the MAPK pathway but also restricting Rac1 activation in response to NGF.
Familial Dysautonomia (FD; Hereditary Sensory Autonomic Neuropathy; HSAN III) manifests from a failure in development of the peripheral sensory and autonomic nervous systems. The disease results from a point mutation in the IKBKAP gene, which encodes the IKAP protein, whose function is still unresolved in the developing nervous system. Since the neurons most severely depleted in the disease derive from the neural crest, and in light of data identifying a role for IKAP in cell motility and migration, it has been suggested that FD results from a disruption in neural crest migration. To determine the function of IKAP during development of the nervous system, we (1) first determined the spatial-temporal pattern of IKAP expression in the developing peripheral nervous system, from the onset of neural crest migration through the period of programmed cell death in the dorsal root ganglia, and (2) using RNAi, reduced expression of IKBKAP mRNA in the neural crest lineage throughout the process of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) development in chick embryos in ovo. Here we demonstrate that IKAP is not expressed by neural crest cells and instead is expressed as neurons differentiate both in the CNS and PNS, thus the devastation of the PNS in FD could not be due to disruptions in neural crest motility or migration. In addition, we show that alterations in the levels of IKAP, through both gain and loss of function studies, perturbs neuronal polarity, neuronal differentiation and survival. Thus IKAP plays pleiotropic roles in both the peripheral and central nervous systems.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by a progressive loss of lower motor neurons in the spinal cord. The incretin hormone, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), facilitates insulin signaling, and the long acting GLP-1 receptor agonist exendin-4 (Ex-4) is currently used as an anti-diabetic drug. GLP-1 receptors are widely expressed in the brain and spinal cord, and our prior studies have shown that Ex-4 is neuroprotective in several neurodegenerative disease rodent models, including stroke, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Here we hypothesized that Ex-4 may provide neuroprotective activity in ALS, and hence characterized Ex-4 actions in both cell culture (NSC-19 neuroblastoma cells) and in vivo (SOD1 G93A mutant mice) models of ALS. Ex-4 proved to be neurotrophic in NSC-19 cells, elevating choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, as well as neuroprotective, protecting cells from hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress and staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Additionally, in both wild-type SOD1 and mutant SOD1 (G37R) stably transfected NSC-19 cell lines, Ex-4 protected against trophic factor withdrawal-induced toxicity. To assess in vivo translation, SOD1 mutant mice were administered vehicle or Ex-4 at 6-weeks of age onwards to end-stage disease via subcutaneous osmotic pump to provide steady-state infusion. ALS mice treated with Ex-4 showed improved glucose tolerance and normalization of behavior, as assessed by running wheel, compared to control ALS mice. Furthermore, Ex-4 treatment attenuated neuronal cell death in the lumbar spinal cord; immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated the rescue of neuronal markers, such as ChAT, associated with motor neurons. Together, our results suggest that GLP-1 receptor agonists warrant further evaluation to assess whether their neuroprotective potential is of therapeutic relevance in ALS.
Spectral integration properties show topographical order in cat primary auditory cortex (AI). Along the iso-frequency domain, regions with predominantly narrowly tuned (NT) neurons are segregated from regions with more broadly tuned (BT) neurons, forming distinct processing modules. Despite their prominent spatial segregation, spectrotemporal processing has not been compared for these regions. We identified these NT and BT regions with broad-band ripple stimuli and characterized processing differences between them using both spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) and nonlinear stimulus/firing rate transformations. The durations of STRF excitatory and inhibitory subfields were shorter and the best temporal modulation frequencies were higher for BT neurons than for NT neurons. For NT neurons, the bandwidth of excitatory and inhibitory subfields was matched, whereas for BT neurons it was not. Phase locking and feature selectivity were higher for NT neurons. Properties of the nonlinearities showed only slight differences across the bandwidth modules. These results indicate fundamental differences in spectrotemporal preferences--and thus distinct physiological functions--for neurons in BT and NT spectral integration modules. However, some global processing aspects, such as spectrotemporal interactions and nonlinear input/output behavior, appear to be similar for both neuronal subgroups. The findings suggest that spectral integration modules in AI differ in what specific stimulus aspects are processed, but they are similar in the manner in which stimulus information is processed.
How do external stimuli and our internal state coalesce to create the distinctive aesthetic pleasures that give vibrance to human experience? Neuroaesthetics has so far focused on the neural correlates of observing beautiful stimuli compared to neutral or ugly stimuli, or on neural correlates of judging for beauty as opposed to other judgments. Our group questioned whether this approach is sufficient. In our view, a brain region that assesses beauty should show beauty-level-dependent activation during the beauty judgment task, but not during other, unrelated tasks. We therefore performed an fMRI experiment in which subjects judged visual textures for beauty, naturalness and roughness. Our focus was on finding brain activation related to the rated beauty level of the stimuli, which would take place exclusively during the beauty judgment. An initial whole-brain analysis did not reveal such interactions, yet a number of the regions showing main effects of the judgment task or the beauty level of stimuli were selectively sensitive to beauty level during the beauty task. Of the regions that were more active during beauty judgments than roughness judgments, the frontomedian cortex and the amygdala demonstrated the hypothesized interaction effect, while the posterior cingulate cortex did not. The latter region, which only showed a task effect, may play a supporting role in beauty assessments, such as attending to one's internal state rather than the external world. Most of the regions showing interaction effects of judgment and beauty level correspond to regions that have previously been implicated in aesthetics using different stimulus classes, but based on either task or beauty effects alone. The fact that we have now shown that task-stimulus interactions are also present during the aesthetic judgment of visual textures implies that these areas form a network that is specifically devoted to aesthetic assessment, irrespective of the stimulus type.


Experiments utilizing the Looptail mutant mouse, which harbors a missense mutation in the vangl2 gene, have been essential for studies of planar polarity and linking the function of the core planar cell polarity proteins to other developmental signals. Originally described as having dominant phenotypic traits, the molecular interactions underlying the Looptail mutant phenotype are unclear because Vangl2 protein levels are significantly reduced or absent from mutant tissues. Here we introduce a vangl2 knockout mouse and directly compare the severity of the knockout and Looptail mutant phenotypes by intercrossing the two lines and assaying the planar polarity of inner ear hair cells. Overall the vangl2 knockout phenotype is milder than the phenotype of compound mutants carrying both the Looptail and vangl2 knockout alleles. In compound mutants a greater number of hair cells are affected and changes in the orientation of individual hair cells are greater when quantified. We further demonstrate in a heterologous cell system that the protein encoded by the Looptail mutation (Vangl2(S464N)) disrupts delivery of Vangl1 and Vangl2 proteins to the cell surface as a result of oligomer formation between Vangl1 and Vangl2(S464N), or Vangl2 and Vangl2(S464N), coupled to the intracellular retention of Vangl2(S464N). As a result, Vangl1 protein is missing from the apical cell surface of vestibular hair cells in Looptail mutants, but is retained at the apical cell surface of hair cells in vangl2 knockouts. Similarly the distribution of Prickle-like2, a putative Vangl2 interacting protein, is differentially affected in the two mutant lines. In summary, we provide evidence for a direct physical interaction between Vangl1 and Vangl2 through a combination of in vitro and in vivo approaches and propose that this interaction underlies the dominant phenotypic traits associated with the Looptail mutation.
The Interferon induced transmembrane proteins (IFITM) are a family of transmembrane proteins that is known to inhibit cell invasion of viruses such as HIV-1 and influenza. We show that the IFITM genes are a subfamily in a larger family of transmembrane (TM) proteins that we call Dispanins, which refers to a common 2TM structure. We mined the Dispanins in 36 eukaryotic species, covering all major eukaryotic groups, and investigated their evolutionary history using Bayesian and maximum likelihood approaches to infer a phylogenetic tree. We identified ten human genes that together with the known IFITM genes form the Dispanin family. We show that the Dispanins first emerged in eukaryotes in a common ancestor of choanoflagellates and metazoa, and that the family later expanded in vertebrates where it forms four subfamilies (A-D). Interestingly, we also find that the family is found in several different phyla of bacteria and propose that it was horizontally transferred to eukaryotes from bacteria in the common ancestor of choanoflagellates and metazoa. The bacterial and eukaryotic sequences have a considerably conserved protein structure. In conclusion, we introduce a novel family, the Dispanins, together with a nomenclature based on the evolutionary origin.
Endometriosis is an enigmatic painful disorder whose pain symptoms remain difficult to alleviate in large part because the disorder is defined by extrauteral endometrial growths whose contribution to pain is poorly understood. A rat model (ENDO) involves autotransplanting on abdominal arteries uterine segments that grow into vascularized cysts that become innervated with sensory and sympathetic fibers. ENDO rats exhibit vaginal hyperalgesia. We used behavioral, physiological, and immunohistochemical methods to test the hypothesis that cyst innervation contributes to the development of this hyperalgesia after transplant. Rudimentary sensory and sympathetic innervation appeared in the cysts at two weeks, sprouted further and more densely into the cyst wall by four weeks, and matured by six weeks post-transplant. Sensory fibers became abnormally functionally active between two and three weeks post-transplant, remaining active thereafter. Vaginal hyperalgesia became significant between four and five weeks post-transplant, and stabilized after six to eight weeks. Removing cysts before they acquired functional innervation prevented vaginal hyperalgesia from developing, whereas sham cyst removal did not. Thus, abnormally-active innervation of ectopic growths occurs before hyperalgesia develops, supporting the hypothesis. These findings suggest that painful endometriosis can be classified as a mixed inflammatory/neuropathic pain condition, which opens new avenues for pain relief. The findings also have implications beyond endometriosis by suggesting that functionality of any transplanted tissue can be influenced by the innervation it acquires.
Certain invertebrate neurons can be identified by their behavioral functions. However, evolutionary divergence can cause some species to not display particular behaviors, thereby making it impossible to use physiological characteristics related to those behaviors for identifying homologous neurons across species. Therefore, to understand the neural basis of species-specific behavior, it is necessary to identify homologues using characteristics that are independent of physiology. In the Nudipleura mollusc Tritonia diomedea, Cerebral Neuron 2 (C2) was first described as being a member of the swim central pattern generator (CPG). Here we demonstrate that neurochemical markers, in conjunction with previously known neuroanatomical characteristics, allow C2 to be uniquely identified without the aid of electrophysiological measures. Specifically, C2 had three characteristics that, taken together, identified the neuron: 1) a white cell on the dorsal surface of the cerebral ganglion, 2) an axon that projected to the contralateral pedal ganglion and through the pedal commissure, and 3) immunoreactivity for the peptides FMRFamide and Small Cardioactive Peptide B. These same anatomical and neurochemical characteristics also uniquely identified the C2 homologue in Pleurobranchaea californica (called A1), which was previously identified by its analogous role in the Pleurobranchaea swim CPG. Furthermore, these characteristics were used to identify C2 homologues in Melibe leonina, Hermissenda crassicornis, and Flabellina iodinea, species that are phylogenetically closer to Tritonia than Pleurobranchaea, but do not display the same swimming behavior as Tritonia or Pleurobranchaea. These identifications will allow future studies comparing and contrasting the physiological properties of C2 across species that can and cannot produce the type of swimming behavior exhibited by Tritonia.
Neurogenesis in the adult brain is largely restricted to the subependymal zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle, olfactory bulb (OB) and the dentate subgranular zone, and survival of adult-born cells in the OB is influenced by factors including sensory experience. We examined, in mice, whether survival of adult-born cells is also regulated by the rate of precursor proliferation in the SVZ. Precursor proliferation was decreased by depleting the SVZ of dopamine after lesioning dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra compacta with 6-hydroxydopamine. Subsequently, we examined the effect of reduced SVZ proliferation on the generation, migration and survival of neuroblasts and mature adult-born cells in the SVZ, rostral migratory stream (RMS) and OB. Proliferating cells in the SVZ, measured by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) injected 2 hours prior to death or by immunoreactivity against Ki67, were reduced by 47% or 36%, respectively, 7 days after dopamine depletion, and by 29% or 31% 42 days after dopamine depletion, compared to sham-treated animals. Neuroblast generation in the SVZ and their migration along the RMS were not affected, neither 7 nor 42 days after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection, since the number of doublecortin-immunoreactive neuroblasts in the SVZ and RMS, as well as the number of neuronal nuclei-immunoreactive cells in the OB, were stable compared to control. However, survival analysis 15 days after 6-hydroxydopamine and 6 days after BrdU injections showed that the number of BrdU+ cells in the SVZ was 70% higher. Also, 42 days after 6-hydroxydopamine and 30 days after BrdU injections, we found an 82% increase in co-labeled BrdU+/-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive cell bodies in the granular cell layer, while double-labeled BrdU+/tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell bodies in the glomerular layer increased by 148%. We conclude that the number of OB interneurons following reduced SVZ proliferation is maintained through an increased survival of adult-born precursor cells, neuroblasts and interneurons.
We report on a novel mouse in vitro brain slice preparation that contains intact callosal axons connecting anterior cingulate cortices (ACC). Callosal connections are demonstrated by the ability to regularly record epileptiform events between hemispheres (bilateral events). That the correlation of these events depends on the callosum is demonstrated by the bisection of the callosum in vitro. Epileptiform events are evoked with four different methods: (1) bath application of bicuculline (a GABA-A antagonist); (2) bicuculline+MK801 (an NMDA receptor antagonist), (3) a zero magnesium extracellular solution (0Mg); (4) focal application of bicuculline to a single cortical hemisphere. Significant increases in the number of epileptiform events, as well as increases in the ratio of bilateral events to unilateral events, are observed during bath applications of bicuculline, but not during applications of bicuculline+MK-801. Long ictal-like events (defined as events &gt;20 seconds) are only observed in 0Mg. Whole cell patch clamp recordings of single neurons reveal strong feedforward inhibition during focal epileptiform events in the contralateral hemisphere. Within the ACC, we find differences between the rostral areas of ACC vs. caudal ACC in terms of connectivity between hemispheres, with the caudal regions demonstrating shorter interhemispheric latencies. The morphologies of many patch clamped neurons show callosally-spanning axons, again demonstrating intact callosal circuits in this in vitro preparation.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important gene regulators that are abundantly expressed in both the developing and adult mammalian brain. These non-coding gene transcripts are involved in post-transcriptional regulatory processes by binding to specific target mRNAs. Approximately one third of known miRNA genes are located within intronic regions of protein coding and non-coding regions, and previous studies have suggested a role for intronic miRNAs as negative feedback regulators of their host genes. In the present study, we monitored the dynamic gene expression changes of the intronic miR-338-3p and miR-338-5p and their host gene Apoptosis-associated Tyrosine Kinase (AATK) during the maturation of rat hippocampal neurons. This revealed an uncorrelated expression pattern of mature miR-338 strands with their host gene. Sequence analysis of the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of rat AATK mRNA revealed the presence of two putative binding sites for miR-338-3p. Thus, miR-338-3p may have the capacity to modulate AATK mRNA levels in neurons. Transfection of miR-338-3p mimics into rat B35 neuroblastoma cells resulted in a significant decrease of AATK mRNA levels, while the transfection of synthetic miR-338-5p mimics did not alter AATK levels. Our results point to a possible molecular mechanism by which miR-338-3p participates in the regulation of its host gene by modulating the levels of AATK mRNA, a kinase which plays a role during differentiation, apoptosis and possibly in neuronal degeneration.
Many studies have linked the processing of different object categories to specific event-related potentials (ERPs) such as the face-specific N170. Despite reports showing that object-related ERPs are influenced by visual stimulus features, there is consensus that these components primarily reflect categorical aspects of the stimuli. Here, we re-investigated this idea by systematically measuring the effects of visual feature manipulations on ERP responses elicited by both structure-from-motion (SFM)-defined and luminance-defined object stimuli. SFM objects elicited a novel component at 200-250 ms (N250) over parietal and posterior temporal sites. We found, however, that the N250 amplitude was unaffected by restructuring SFM stimuli into meaningless objects based on identical visual cues. This suggests that this N250 peak was not uniquely linked to categorical aspects of the objects, but is strongly determined by visual stimulus features. We provide strong support for this hypothesis by parametrically manipulating the depth range of both SFM- and luminance-defined object stimuli and showing that the N250 evoked by SFM stimuli as well as the well-known N170 to static faces were sensitive to this manipulation. Importantly, this effect could not be attributed to compromised object categorization in low depth stimuli, confirming a strong impact of visual stimulus features on object-related ERP signals. As ERP components linked with visual categorical object perception are likely determined by multiple stimulus features, this creates an interesting inverse problem when deriving specific perceptual processes from variations in ERP components.
The control of temperature during the acute phase of stroke may be a new therapeutic target that can be applied in all stroke patients, however therapeutic window or timecourse of the temperature effect is not well established. Our aim is to study the association between changes in body temperature in the first 72 hours and outcome in patients with ischemic (IS) and hemorrhagic (ICH) stroke. We prospectively studied 2931 consecutive patients (2468 with IS and 463 with ICH). Temperature was obtained at admission, and at 24, 48 and 72 hours after admission. Temperature was categorized as low (&lt;36C), normal (36-37C) and high (&gt;37C). As the main variable, we studied functional outcome at 3 months determined by modified Rankin Scale.Temperature in stroke patients is higher than in controls, and increases gradually in the first 72 hours after stroke. A positive correlation between temperature and stroke severity determined by NIHSS was found at 24 and 48 hours, but not at admission or 72 hours. In a logistic regression model, high temperature was associated with poor outcome at 24 hours (OR 2.05, 95% CI 1.59-2.64, p&lt;0.0001) and 48 hours (OR 1.93, 95% CI 1.08-2.34, p=0.007), but not at admission or 72 hours.Temperature increases in patients with stroke in the first 72 hours, with the harmful effect of high temperature occurring in the first 48 hours. The neuroprotective effect of low temperature occurs within the first 24 hours from stroke onset.
We have examined the effect of temperature on the electrophysiological properties of three neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (NACHR) subtypes: the rapidly desensitizing homomeric 7 nAChR, the more slowly desensitizing heteromeric 42 nAChR and on 7 nAChRs containing a transmembrane mutation (L247T) that results in dramatically reduced desensitization. In all cases, the functional properties of receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes at room temperature (RT; 21C) were compared to those recorded at either physiological temperature (37C) or at lower temperature (4C). Alterations in temperature had dramatically differing effects on the amplitude of whole-cell responses detected with these three nAChR subtypes. Compared to responses at RT, the amplitude of agonist-evoked responses with 42 nAChRs was increased at high temperature (1259%, n=6, P&lt;0.01) and reduced at low temperature (475%, n=6, P&lt;0.01), whereas the amplitude of 7 responses was reduced at high temperature (277%, n=11, P&lt;0.001) and increased at low temperatures (22416%, n=10, P&lt;0.001). In contrast to the effects of temperature on 42 and wild type 7 nAChRs, the amplitude of 7 nAChRs containing the L247T mutation was unaffected by changes in temperature. In addition, changes in temperature had little or no effect on current amplitude when 7 nAChRs were activated by the largely non-desensitizing allosteric agonist 4BP-TQS. Despite these differing effects of temperature on the amplitude of agonist-evoked responses in different nAChRs, changes in temperature had a consistent effect on the rate of receptor desensitization on all subtypes examined. In all cases, higher temperature resulted in increased rates of desensitization. Thus, it appears that the differing effects of temperature on the amplitudes of whole-cell responses cannot be explained by temperature-induced changes in receptor desensitization rates.
We wanted to determine whether methamphetamine use affects a subset of plasma proteins in HIV-infected persons. Plasma samples from two visits were identified for subjects from four groups: HIV+, ongoing, persistent METH use; HIV+, short-term METH abstinent; HIV+, long term METH abstinence; HIV negative, no history of METH use. Among 390 proteins identified, 28 showed significant changes in expression in the HIV+/persistent METH+ group over the two visits, which were not attributable to HIV itself. These proteins were involved in complement, coagulation pathways and oxidative stress. Continuous METH use is an unstable condition, altering levels of a number of plasma proteins.
The acquisition of new motor skills is essential throughout daily life and involves the processes of learning new motor sequence and encoding elementary aspects of new movement. Although previous animal studies have suggested a functional importance for striatal dopamine release in the learning of new motor sequence, its role in encoding elementary aspects of new movement has not yet been investigated. To elucidate this, we investigated changes in striatal dopamine levels during initial skill-training (Day 1) compared with acquired conditions (Day 2) using (11)C-raclopride positron-emission tomography. Ten volunteers learned to perform brisk contractions using their non-dominant left thumbs with the aid of visual feedback. On Day 1, the mean acceleration of each session was improved through repeated training sessions until performance neared asymptotic levels, while improved motor performance was retained from the beginning on Day 2. The (11)C-raclopride binding potential (BP) in the right putamen was reduced during initial skill-training compared with under acquired conditions. Moreover, voxel-wise analysis revealed that (11)C-raclopride BP was particularly reduced in the right antero-dorsal to the lateral part of the putamen. Based on findings from previous fMRI studies that show a gradual shift of activation within the striatum during the initial processing of motor learning, striatal dopamine may play a role in the dynamic cortico-striatal activation during encoding of new motor memory in skill acquisition.
Hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule binding protein Tau is a feature of a number of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Tau is hyperphosphorylated in the hippocampus of dab1-null mice in a strain-dependent manner; however, it has not been clear if the Tau phosphorylation phenotype is a secondary effect of the morbidity of these mutants. The dab1 gene encodes a docking protein that is required for normal brain lamination and dendritogenesis as part of the Reelin signaling pathway. We show that dab1 gene inactivation after brain development leads to Tau hyperphosphorylation in anatomically normal mice. Genomic regions that regulate the phospho Tau phenotype in dab1 mutants have previously been identified. Using a microarray gene expression comparison between dab1-mutants from the high-phospho Tau expressing and low-phospho Tau expressing strains, we identified Stk25 as a differentially expressed modifier of dab1-mutant phenotypes. Stk25 knockdown reduces Tau phosphorylation in embryonic neurons. Furthermore, Stk25 regulates neuronal polarization and Golgi morphology in an antagonistic manner to Dab1. This work provides insights into the complex regulation of neuronal behavior during brain development and provides insights into the molecular cascades that regulate Tau phosphorylation.
Independent component analysis (ICA) and blind source separation (BSS) methods are increasingly used to separate individual brain and non-brain source signals mixed by volume conduction in electroencephalographic (EEG) and other electrophysiological recordings. We compared results of decomposing thirteen 71-channel human scalp EEG datasets by 22 ICA and BSS algorithms, assessing the pairwise mutual information (PMI) in scalp channel pairs, the remaining PMI in component pairs, the overall mutual information reduction (MIR) effected by each decomposition, and decomposition 'dipolarity' defined as the number of component scalp maps matching the projection of a single equivalent dipole with less than a given residual variance. The least well-performing algorithm was principal component analysis (PCA); best performing were AMICA and other likelihood/mutual information based ICA methods. Though these and other commonly-used decomposition methods returned many similar components, across 18 ICA/BSS algorithms mean dipolarity varied linearly with both MIR and with PMI remaining between the resulting component time courses, a result compatible with an interpretation of many maximally independent EEG components as being volume-conducted projections of partially-synchronous local cortical field activity within single compact cortical domains. To encourage further method comparisons, the data and software used to prepare the results have been made available (http://sccn.ucsd.edu/wiki/BSSComparison).
This study optically determines whether the amount of light scatter due to laser-induced damage to the intraocular lens (IOL) is significant in relation to normal straylight values in the human eye. Two IOLs with laser-induced damage were extracted from two donor eyes. Each IOL had 15 pits and/or cracks. The surface area of each pit was measured using a microscope. For 6 pits per intraocular lens the point spread function (PSF) in terms of straylight was measured and the total straylight for all 15 pits was estimated. The damage in the IOLs was scored as mild/moderate. The total damaged surface areas, for a 3.5 mm pupil, in the two IOLs were 0.13% (0.0127 mm(2)) and 0.66% (0.064 mm(2)), respectively. The angular dependence of the straylight caused by the damage was similar to that of the normal PSF. The total average contribution to straylight was log(s) = -0.82 and -0.42, much less than the straylight value of the normal eye.The straylight due to normal levels of laser induced damage of the IOL is much lower than normal straylight values found clinically for the normal eye and may therefore be considered not significant.
Mechanisms underlying age-dependent changes of dendritic spines on striatal medium spiny neurons are poorly understood. Spinophilin is an F-actin- and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1)-binding protein that targets PP1 to multiple downstream effectors to modulate dendritic spine morphology and function. We found that calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) directly and indirectly associates with N- and C-terminal domains of spinophilin, but F-actin can displace CaMKII from the N-terminal domain. Spinophilin co-localizes PP1 with CaMKII on the F-actin cytoskeleton in heterologous cells, and spinophilin co-localizes with synaptic CaMKII in neuronal cultures. Thr286 autophosphorylation enhances the binding of CaMKII to spinophilin in vitro and in vivo. Although there is no change in total levels of Thr286 autophosphorylation, maturation from postnatal day 21 into adulthood robustly enhances the levels of CaMKII that co-immunoprecipitate with spinophilin from mouse striatal extracts. Moreover, N- and C-terminal domain fragments of spinophilin bind more CaMKII from adult vs. postnatal day 21 striatal lysates. Total levels of other proteins that interact with C-terminal domains of spinophilin decrease during maturation, perhaps reducing competition for CaMKII binding to the C-terminal domain. In contrast, total levels of -internexin and binding of -internexin to the spinophilin N-terminal domain increases with maturation, perhaps bridging an indirect interaction with CaMKII. Moreover, there is an increase in the levels of myosin Va, -internexin, spinophilin, and PP1 in striatal CaMKII immune complexes isolated from adult and aged mice compared to those from postnatal day 21. These changes in spinophilin/CaMKII interactomes may contribute to changes in striatal dendritic spine density, morphology, and function during normal postnatal maturation and aging.
We have previously shown that transplantation of immature DCX+/NeuN+/Prox1+ neurons (found in the neonatal DG), but not undifferentiated neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) from ventral subventricular zone (SVZ), results in neuronal maturation in vivo within the dentate niche. Here we investigated whether we could enhance the integration of SVZ NPCs by forced expression of the proneural gene Neurogenin 2 (NEUROG2). NPCs cultured from neonatal GFP-transgenic rat SVZ for 7 days in a non-differentiating medium were transduced with a retrovirus encoding NEUROG2 and DsRed or the DsRed reporter gene alone (control). By 3 days post-transduction, the NEUROG2-transduced cells maintained in culture contained mostly immature neurons (91% DCX+; 76% NeuN+), whereas the control virus-transduced cells remained largely undifferentiated (30% DCX+; &lt;1% NeuN+). At 6 weeks following transplantation into the DG of adult male rats, there were no neurons among the transplanted cells treated with the control virus but the majority of the NEUROG2-transduced DsRed+ SVZ cells became mature neurons (92% NeuN+; DCX-negative). Although the NEUROG2-transduced SVZ cells did not express the dentate granule neuron marker Prox1, most of the NEUROG2-transduced SVZ cells (78%) expressed the glutamatergic marker Tbr1, suggesting the acquisition of a glutamatergic phenotype. Moreover, some neurons extended dendrites into the molecular layer, grew axons containing Ankyrin G+ axonal initial segments, and projected into the CA3 region, thus resembling mature DG granule neurons. A proportion of NEUROG2 transduced cells also expressed c-Fos and P-CREB, two markers of neuronal activation. We conclude that NEUROG2-transduction is sufficient to promote neuronal maturation and integration of transplanted NPCs from SVZ into the DG.

Neurexin-1 alpha (NRXN1) belongs to the family of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), which are involved in the formation of neuronal networks and synapses. NRXN1 gene mutations have been identified in neuropsychiatric diseases including Schizophrenia (SCZ) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). In order to get a better understanding of the pleiotropic behavioral manifestations caused by NRXN1 gene mutations, we performed a behavioral study of Nrxn1 heterozygous knock-out (+/-) mice and observed increased responsiveness to novelty and accelerated habituation to novel environments compared to wild type (+/+) litter-mates. However, this effect was mainly observed in male mice, strongly suggesting that gender-specific mechanisms play an important role in Nrxn1-induced phenotypes.
Animals in the natural world continuously encounter learning experiences of varying degrees of novelty. New neurons in the hippocampus are especially responsive to learning associations between novel events and more cells survive if a novel and challenging task is learned. One might wonder whether new neurons would be rescued from death upon each new learning experience or whether there is an internal control system that limits the number of cells that are retained as a function of learning. In this experiment, it was hypothesized that learning a task that was similar in content to one already learned previously would not increase cell survival. We further hypothesized that in situations in which the cells are rescued hippocampal theta oscillations (3-12 Hz) would be involved and perhaps necessary for increasing cell survival. Both hypotheses were disproved. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on two similar hippocampus-dependent tasks, trace and very-long delay eyeblink conditioning, while recording hippocampal local-field potentials. Cells that were generated after training on the first task were labeled with bromodeoxyuridine and quantified after training on both tasks had ceased. Spontaneous theta activity predicted performance on the first task and the conditioned stimulus induced a theta-band response early in learning the first task. As expected, performance on the first task correlated with performance on the second task. However, theta activity did not increase during training on the second task, even though more cells were present in animals that had learned. Therefore, as long as learning occurs, relatively small changes in the environment are sufficient to increase the number of surviving neurons in the adult hippocampus and they can do so in the absence of an increase in theta activity. In conclusion, these data argue against an upper limit on the number of neurons that can be rescued from death by learning.
Fetal hypoxia is a common complication of pregnancy. It has been shown to programme cardiac and endothelial dysfunction in the offspring in adult life. However, the mechanisms via which this occurs remain elusive, precluding the identification of potential therapy. Using an integrative approach at the isolated organ, cellular and molecular levels, we tested the hypothesis that oxidative stress in the fetal heart and vasculature underlies the molecular basis via which prenatal hypoxia programmes cardiovascular dysfunction in later life. In a longitudinal study, the effects of maternal treatment of hypoxic (13% O(2)) pregnancy with an antioxidant on the cardiovascular system of the offspring at the end of gestation and at adulthood were studied. On day 6 of pregnancy, rats (n = 20 per group) were exposed to normoxia or hypoxia  vitamin C. At gestational day 20, tissues were collected from 1 male fetus per litter per group (n = 10). The remaining 10 litters per group were allowed to deliver. At 4 months, tissues from 1 male adult offspring per litter per group were either perfusion fixed, frozen, or dissected for isolated organ preparations. In the fetus, hypoxic pregnancy promoted aortic thickening with enhanced nitrotyrosine staining and an increase in cardiac HSP70 expression. By adulthood, offspring of hypoxic pregnancy had markedly impaired NO-dependent relaxation in femoral resistance arteries, and increased myocardial contractility with sympathetic dominance. Maternal vitamin C prevented these effects in fetal and adult offspring of hypoxic pregnancy. The data offer insight to mechanism and thereby possible targets for intervention against developmental origins of cardiac and peripheral vascular dysfunction in offspring of risky pregnancy.
Place based frequency discrimination (tonotopy) is a fundamental property of the coiled mammalian cochlea. Sound vibrations mechanically conducted to the hearing organ manifest themselves into slow moving waves that travel along the length of the organ, also referred to as traveling waves. These traveling waves form the basis of the tonotopic frequency representation in the inner ear of mammals. However, so far, due to the secure housing of the inner ear, these waves only could be measured partially over small accessible regions of the inner ear in a living animal. Here, we demonstrate the existence of tonotopically ordered traveling waves covering most of the length of a miniature hearing organ in the leg of bushcrickets in vivo using laser Doppler vibrometery. The organ is only 1 mm long and its geometry allowed us to investigate almost the entire length with a wide range of stimuli (6 to 60 kHz). The tonotopic location of the traveling wave peak was exponentially related to stimulus frequency. The traveling wave propagated along the hearing organ from the distal (high frequency) to the proximal (low frequency) part of the leg, which is opposite to the propagation direction of incoming sound waves. In addition, we observed a non-linear compression of the velocity response to varying sound pressure levels. The waves are based on the delicate micromechanics of cellular structures different to those of mammals. Hence place based frequency discrimination by traveling waves is a physical phenomenon that presumably evolved in mammals and bushcrickets independently.
Previous research suggests that visual attention can be allocated to locations in space (space-based attention) and to objects (object-based attention). The cueing effects associated with space-based attention tend to be large and are found consistently across experiments. Object-based attention effects, however, are small and found less consistently across experiments. In three experiments we address the possibility that variability in object-based attention effects across studies reflects low incidence of such effects at the level of individual subjects. Experiment 1 measured space-based and object-based cueing effects for horizontal and vertical rectangles in 60 subjects comparing commonly used target detection and discrimination tasks. In Experiment 2 we ran another 120 subjects in a target discrimination task in which rectangle orientation varied between subjects. Using parametric statistical methods, we found object-based effects only for horizontal rectangles. Bootstrapping methods were used to measure effects in individual subjects. Significant space-based cueing effects were found in nearly all subjects in both experiments, across tasks and rectangle orientations. However, only a small number of subjects exhibited significant object-based cueing effects. Experiment 3 measured only object-based attention effects using another common paradigm and again, using bootstrapping, we found only a small number of subjects that exhibited significant object-based cueing effects. Our results show that object-based effects are more prevalent for horizontal rectangles, which is in accordance with the theory that attention may be allocated more easily along the horizontal meridian. The fact that so few individuals exhibit a significant object-based cueing effect presumably is why previous studies of this effect might have yielded inconsistent results. The results from the current study highlight the importance of considering individual subject data in addition to commonly used statistical methods.

The factors promoting the evolution of parental care strategies have been extensively studied in experiment and theory. However, most attempts to examine parental care in an evolutionary context have evaluated broad taxonomic categories. The explosive and recent diversifications of East African cichlid fishes offer exceptional opportunities to study the evolution of various life history traits based on species-level phylogenies. The Xenotilapia lineage within the endemic Lake Tanganyika cichlid tribe Ectodini comprises species that display either biparental or maternal only brood care and hence offers a unique opportunity to study the evolution of distinct parental care strategies in a phylogenetic framework. In order to reconstruct the evolutionary relationships among 16 species of this lineage we scored 2,478 Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs) across the genome. We find that the Ectodini genus Enantiopus is embedded within the genus Xenotilapia and that during 2.5 to 3 million years of evolution within the Xenotilapia clade there have been 3-5 transitions from maternal only to biparental care. While most previous models suggest that uniparental care (maternal or paternal) arose from biparental care, we conclude from our species-level analysis that the evolution of parental care strategies is not only remarkably fast, but much more labile than previously expected.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors can be used to introduce neurotrophic genes into injured CNS neurons, promoting survival and axonal regeneration. Gene therapy holds much promise for the treatment of neurotrauma and neurodegenerative diseases; however, neurotrophic factors are known to alter dendritic architecture, and thus we set out to determine whether such transgenes also change the morphology of transduced neurons. We compared changes in dendritic morphology of regenerating adult rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) after long-term transduction with rAAV2 encoding: (i) green fluorescent protein (GFP), or (ii) bi-cistronic vectors encoding GFP and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or growth-associated protein-43 (GAP43). To enhance regeneration, rats received an autologous peripheral nerve graft onto the cut optic nerve of each rAAV2 injected eye. After 5-8 months, RGCs with regenerated axons were retrogradely labeled with fluorogold (FG). Live retinal wholemounts were prepared and GFP positive (transduced) or GFP negative (non-transduced) RGCs injected iontophoretically with 2% lucifer yellow. Dendritic morphology was analyzed using Neurolucida software. Significant changes in dendritic architecture were found, in both transduced and non-transduced populations. Multivariate analysis revealed that transgenic BDNF increased dendritic field area whereas GAP43 increased dendritic complexity. CNTF decreased complexity but only in a subset of RGCs. Sholl analysis showed changes in dendritic branching in rAAV2-BDNF-GFP and rAAV2-CNTF-GFP groups and the proportion of FG positive RGCs with aberrant morphology tripled in these groups compared to controls. RGCs in all transgene groups displayed abnormal stratification. Thus in addition to promoting cell survival and axonal regeneration, vector-mediated expression of neurotrophic factors has measurable, gene-specific effects on the morphology of injured adult neurons. Such changes will likely alter the functional properties of neurons and may need to be considered when designing vector-based protocols for the treatment of neurotrauma and neurodegeneration.
Defining the structural and functional connectivity of the human brain (the human &quot;connectome&quot;) is a basic challenge in neuroscience. Recently, techniques for noninvasively characterizing structural connectivity networks in the adult brain have been developed using diffusion and high-resolution anatomic MRI. The purpose of this study was to establish a framework for assessing structural connectivity in the newborn brain at any stage of development and to show how network properties can be derived in a clinical cohort of six-month old infants sustaining perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE). Two different anatomically unconstrained parcellation schemes were proposed and the resulting network metrics were correlated with neurological outcome at 6 months. Elimination and correction of unreliable data, automated parcellation of the cortical surface, and assembling the large-scale baby connectome allowed an unbiased study of the network properties of the newborn brain using graph theoretic analysis. In the application to infants with HIE, a trend to declining brain network integration and segregation was observed with increasing neuromotor deficit scores.
BACE1 is a key enzyme for amyloid- (A) production, and an attractive therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we report that BACE1 inhibitors have distinct effects on neuronal A metabolism, inducing a unique pattern of secreted A peptides, analyzed in cell media from amyloid precursor protein (APP) transfected cells and in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from dogs by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, using several different BACE1 inhibitors. Besides the expected reductions in A1-40 and A1-42, treatment also changed the relative levels of several other A isoforms. In particular A1-34 decreased, while A5-40 increased, and these changes were more sensitive to BACE1 inhibition than the changes in A1-40 and A1-42. The effects on A5-40 indicate the presence of a BACE1 independent pathway of APP degradation. The described CSF A pattern may be used as a pharmacodynamic fingerprint to detect biochemical effects of BACE1-therapies in clinical trials, which might accelerate development of novel therapies.
The Protein Kinase G, EGL-4, is required within the C. elegans AWC sensory neurons to promote olfactory adaptation. After prolonged stimulation of these neurons, EGL-4 translocates from the cytosol to the nuclei of the AWC. This nuclear translocation event is both necessary and sufficient for adaptation of the AWC neuron to odor. A cGMP binding motif within EGL-4 and the G protein ODR-3 are both required for this translocation event, while loss of the guanylyl cyclase ODR-1 was shown to result in constitutively nuclear localization of EGL-4. However, the molecular changes that are integrated over time to produce a stably adapted response in the AWC are unknown. Here we show that odor-induced fluctuations in cGMP levels in the adult cilia may be responsible in part for sending EGL-4 into the AWC nucleus to produce long-term adaptation. We found that reductions in cGMP that result from mutations in the genes encoding the cilia-localized guanylyl cyclases ODR-1 and DAF-11 result in constitutively nuclear EGL-4 even in naive animals. Conversely, increases in cGMP levels that result from mutations in cGMP phosphodiesterases block EGL-4 nuclear entry even after prolonged odor exposure. Expression of a single phosphodiesterase in adult, naive animals was sufficient to modestly increase the number of animals with nuclear EGL-4. Further, coincident acute treatment of animals with odor and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) decreased the number of animals with nuclear EGL-4. These data suggest that reducing cGMP levels in AWC is necessary and even partially sufficient for nuclear translocation of EGL-4 and adaptation as a result of prolonged odor exposure. Our genetic analysis and chemical treatment of C. elegans further indicate that cilia morphology, as defined by fluorescent microscopic observation of the sensory endings, may allow for odor-induced fluctuations in cGMP levels and this fluctuation may be responsible for sending EGL-4 into the AWC nucleus.
CCL2 is a chemokine involved in brain inflammation, but the way in which it contributes to the entrance of lymphocytes in the parenchyma is unclear. Imaging of the cell type responsible for this task and details on how the process takes place in vivo remain elusive. Herein, we analyze the cell type that overexpresses CCL2 in multiple scenarios of T-cell infiltration in the brain and in three different species. We observe that CCL2+ astrocytes play a part in the infiltration of T-cells in the brain and our analysis shows that the contact of T-cells with perivascular astrocytes occurs, suggesting that may be an important event for lymphocyte extravasation.

GABAergic signaling is essential for proper respiratory function. Potentiation of this signaling with allosteric modulators such as anesthetics, barbiturates, and neurosteroids can lead to respiratory arrest. Paradoxically, pregnant animals continue to breathe normally despite nearly 100-fold increases in circulating neurosteroids.  subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs are insensitive to positive allosteric modulation, thus we hypothesized that pregnant rats increase  subunit-containing GABA(A)R expression on brainstem neurons of the ventral respiratory column (VRC). In vivo, pregnancy rendered respiratory motor output insensitive to otherwise lethal doses of pentobarbital, a barbiturate previously used to categorize the  subunit. Using electrode array recordings in vitro, we demonstrated that putative respiratory neurons of the preBtzinger Complex (preBtC) were also rendered insensitive to the effects of pentobarbital during pregnancy, but unit activity in the VRC was rapidly inhibited by the GABA(A)R agonist, muscimol. VRC unit activity from virgin and post-partum females was potently inhibited by both pentobarbital and muscimol. Brainstem  subunit mRNA and protein levels were increased in pregnant rats, and GABA(A)R  subunit expression co-localized with a marker of rhythm generating neurons (neurokinin 1 receptors) in the preBtC. These data support the hypothesis that pregnancy renders respiratory motor output and respiratory neuron activity insensitive to barbiturates, most likely via increased  subunit-containing GABA(A)R expression on respiratory rhythm-generating neurons. Increased  subunit expression may be critical to preserve respiratory function (and life) despite increased neurosteroid levels during pregnancy.
The dentate gyrus is the primary afferent into the hippocampal formation, with important functions in learning and memory. Granule cells, the principle neuronal type in the dentate gyrus, are mostly formed postnatally, in a process that continues into adulthood. External stimuli, including environmental enrichment, voluntary exercise and learning, have been shown to significantly accelerate the generation and maturation of dentate granule cells in adult rodents. Whether, and to what extent, such environmental stimuli regulate the development and maturation of dentate granule cells during early postnatal development is largely unknown. Furthermore, whether natural stimuli affect the synaptic properties of granule cells had been investigated neither in newborn neurons of the adult nor during early development. To examine the effect of natural sensory stimulation on the dentate gyrus, we reared newborn mice in an enriched environment (EE). Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that dentate granule cells from EE-reared mice exhibited earlier morphological maturation, manifested as faster peaking of doublecortin expression and elevated expression of mature neuronal markers (including NeuN, calbindin and MAP2) at the end of the second postnatal week. Also at the end of the second postnatal week, we found increased density of dendritic spines across the entire dentate gyrus, together with elevated levels of postsynaptic scaffold (post-synaptic density 95) and receptor proteins (GluR2 and GABA(A)R2) of excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Furthermore, dentate granule cells of P14 EE-reared mice had lower input resistances and increased glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic inputs. Together, our results demonstrate that EE-rearing promotes morphological and electrophysiological maturation of dentate granule cells, underscoring the importance of natural environmental stimulation on development of the dentate gyrus.

In the current study, we investigated the time course of the implicit processing of affective pictures with an orthogonal design of valence (negative vs. positive) by arousal (low vs. high). Previous studies with explicit tasks suggested that valence mainly modulates early event-related potential (ERP) components, whereas arousal mainly modulates late components. However, in this study with an implicit task, we observed significant interactions between valence and arousal at both early and late stages over both parietal and frontal sites, which were reflected by three different ERP components: P2a (100-200 ms), N2 (200-300 ms), and P3 (300-400 ms). Furthermore, there was also a significant main effect of arousal on P2b (200-300 ms) over parieto-occipital sites. Our results suggest that valence and arousal effects on implicit affective processing are more complicated than previous ERP studies with explicit tasks have revealed.
Originally developed to regulate neuronal excitability, optogenetics is increasingly also used to control other cellular processes with unprecedented spatiotemporal resolution. Optogenetic modulation of all major G-protein signalling pathways (Gq, Gi and Gs) has been achieved using variants of mammalian rod opsin. We show here that the light response driven by such rod opsin-based tools dissipates under repeated exposure, consistent with the known bleaching characteristics of this photopigment. We continue to show that replacing rod opsin with a bleach resistant opsin from Carybdea rastonii, the box jellyfish, (JellyOp) overcomes this limitation. Visible light induced high amplitude, reversible, and reproducible increases in cAMP in mammalian cells expressing JellyOp. While single flashes produced a brief cAMP spike, repeated stimulation could sustain elevated levels for 10s of minutes. JellyOp was more photosensitive than currently available optogenetic tools, responding to white light at irradiances 1 W/cm(2). We conclude that JellyOp is a promising new tool for mimicking the activity of Gs-coupled G protein coupled receptors with fine spatiotemporal resolution.
This study investigated the effects of voluntarily empathizing with a musical performer (i.e., cognitive empathy) on music-induced emotions and their underlying physiological activity. N=56 participants watched video-clips of two operatic compositions performed in concerts, with low or high empathy instructions. Heart rate and heart rate variability, skin conductance level (SCL), and respiration rate (RR) were measured during music listening, and music-induced emotions were quantified using the Geneva Emotional Music Scale immediately after music listening. Listening to the aria with sad content in a high empathy condition facilitated the emotion of nostalgia and decreased SCL, in comparison to the low empathy condition. Listening to the song with happy content in a high empathy condition also facilitated the emotion of power and increased RR, in comparison to the low empathy condition. To our knowledge, this study offers the first experimental evidence that cognitive empathy influences emotion psychophysiology during music listening.

From personality to neuropsychiatric disorders, individual differences in brain function are known to have a strong heritable component. Here we report that between close relatives, a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders covary strongly with intellectual interests. We surveyed an entire class of high-functioning young adults at an elite university for prospective major, familial incidence of neuropsychiatric disorders, and demographic and attitudinal questions. Students aspiring to technical majors (science/mathematics/engineering) were more likely than other students to report a sibling with an autism spectrum disorder (p=0.037). Conversely, students interested in the humanities were more likely to report a family member with major depressive disorder (p=8.810(-4)), bipolar disorder (p=0.027), or substance abuse problems (p=1.910(-6)). A combined PREdisposition for Subject MattEr (PRESUME) score based on these disorders was strongly predictive of subject matter interests (p=9.610(-8)). Our results suggest that shared genetic (and perhaps environmental) factors may both predispose for heritable neuropsychiatric disorders and influence the development of intellectual interests.
The GDI1 gene encodes GDI, which retrieves inactive GDP-bound RAB from membranes to form a cytosolic pool awaiting vesicular release. Mutations in GDI1 are responsible for X-linked Intellectual Disability. Characterization of the Gdi1-null mice has revealed alterations in the total number and distribution of hippocampal and cortical synaptic vesicles, hippocampal short-term synaptic plasticity and specific short-term memory deficits in adult mice, which are possibly caused by alterations of different synaptic vesicle recycling pathways controlled by several RAB GTPases. However, interpretation of these studies is complicated by the complete ablation of Gdi1 in all cells in the brain throughout development. In this study, we generated conditionally gene-targeted mice in which the knockout of Gdi1 is restricted to the forebrain, hippocampus, cortex and amygdala and occurs only during postnatal development. Adult mutant mice reproduce the short-term memory deficit previously reported in Gdi1-null mice. Surprisingly, the delayed ablation of Gdi1 worsens the pre-synaptic phenotype at cortico-amygdala synaptic connections compared to Gdi1-null mice. These results suggest a pivotal role of GDI via specific RAB GTPases acting specifically in forebrain regions at the pre-synaptic sites involved in memory formation.
The Pycnogonida or sea spiders are cryptic, eight-legged arthropods with four median ocelli in a 'periscope' or eye tubercle. In older attempts at reconstructing phylogeny they were Arthropoda incertae sedis, but recent molecular trees placed them as the sister group either to all other euchelicerates or even to all euarthropods. Thus, pycnogonids are among the oldest extant arthropods and hold a key position for the understanding of arthropod evolution. This has stimulated studies of new sets of characters conductive to cladistic analyses, e.g. of the chelifores and of the hox gene expression pattern. In contrast knowledge of the architecture of the visual system is cursory. A few studies have analysed the ocelli and the uncommon &quot;pseudoinverted&quot; retinula cells. Moreover, analyses of visual neuropils are still at the stage of Hanstrm's early comprehensive works. We have therefore used various techniques to analyse the visual fibre pathways and the structure of their interrelated neuropils in several species. We found that pycnogonid ocelli are innervated to first and second visual neuropils in close vicinity to an unpaired midline neuropil, i.e. possibly the arcuate body, in a way very similar to ancestral euarthropods like Euperipatoides rowelli (Onychophora) and Limulus polyphemus (Xiphosura). This supports the ancestrality of pycnogonids and sheds light on what eyes in the pycnogonid ground plan might have 'looked' like. Recently it was suggested that arthropod eyes originated from simple ocelli similar to larval eyes. Hence, pycnogonid eyes would be one of the early offshoots among the wealth of more sophisticated arthropod eyes.
Whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) is commonly used for treatment of primary and metastatic brain tumors; however, cognitive impairment occurs in 40-50% of brain tumor survivors. The etiology of the cognitive impairment following WBRT remains elusive. We recently reported that radiation-induced cerebrovascular rarefaction within hippocampal subregions could be completely reversed by systemic hypoxia. However, the effects of this intervention on learning and memory have not been reported. In this study, we assessed the time-course for WBRT-induced impairments in contextual and spatial learning and the capacity of systemic hypoxia to reverse WBRT-induced deficits in spatial memory. A clinical fractionated series of 4.5Gy WBRT was administered to mice twice weekly for 4 weeks, and after various periods of recovery, behavioral analyses were performed. To study the effects of systemic hypoxia, mice were subjected to 11% (hypoxia) or 21% oxygen (normoxia) for 28 days, initiated 1 month after the completion of WBRT. Our results indicate that WBRT induces a transient deficit in contextual learning, disruption of working memory, and progressive impairment of spatial learning. Additionally, systemic hypoxia completely reversed WBRT-induced impairments in learning and these behavioral effects as well as increased vessel density persisted for at least 2 months following hypoxia treatment. Our results provide critical support for the hypothesis that cerebrovascular rarefaction is a key component of cognitive impairment post-WBRT and indicate that processes of learning and memory, once thought to be permanently impaired after WBRT, can be restored.
Gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH) was originally identified in quail as a hypothalamic neuropeptide inhibitor of pituitary gonadotropin synthesis and release. However, GnIH neuronal fibers do not only terminate in the median eminence to control anterior pituitary function but also extend widely in the brain, suggesting it has multiple roles in the regulation of behavior. To identify the role of GnIH neurons in the regulation of behavior, we investigated the effect of RNA interference (RNAi) of the GnIH gene on the behavior of white-crowned sparrows, a highly social songbird species. Administration of small interfering RNA against GnIH precursor mRNA into the third ventricle of male and female birds reduced resting time, spontaneous production of complex vocalizations, and stimulated brief agonistic vocalizations. GnIH RNAi further enhanced song production of short duration in male birds when they were challenged by playbacks of novel male songs. These behaviors resembled those of breeding birds during territorial defense. The overall results suggest that GnIH gene silencing induces arousal. In addition, the activities of male and female birds were negatively correlated with GnIH mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus. Density of GnIH neuronal fibers in the ventral tegmental area was decreased by GnIH RNAi treatment in female birds, and the number of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons that received close appositions of GnIH neuronal fiber terminals was negatively correlated with the activity of male birds. In summary, GnIH may decrease arousal level resulting in the inhibition of specific motivated behavior such as in reproductive contexts.
This work presents an immersive Virtual Reality (VR) system to evaluate, and potentially treat, the alterations in rhythmic hand movements seen in Parkinson's disease (PD) and the elderly (EC), by comparison with healthy young controls (YC). The system integrates the subjects into a VR environment by means of a Head Mounted Display, such that subjects perceive themselves in a virtual world consisting of a table within a room. In this experiment, subjects are presented in 1(st) person perspective, so that the avatar reproduces finger tapping movements performed by the subjects. The task, known as the finger tapping test (FT), was performed by all three subject groups, PD, EC and YC. FT was carried out by each subject on two different days (sessions), one week apart. In each FT session all subjects performed FT in the real world (FT(REAL)) and in the VR (FT(VR)); each mode was repeated three times in randomized order. During FT both the tapping frequency and the coefficient of variation of inter-tap interval were registered. FT(VR) was a valid test to detect differences in rhythm formation between the three groups. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) and mean difference between days for FT(VR) (for each group) showed reliable results. Finally, the analysis of ICC and mean difference between FT(VR) vs FT(REAL), for each variable and group, also showed high reliability. This shows that FT evaluation in VR environments is valid as real world alternative, as VR evaluation did not distort movement execution and detects alteration in rhythm formation. These results support the use of VR as a promising tool to study alterations and the control of movement in different subject groups in unusual environments, such as during fMRI or other imaging studies.
There is an urgent need for biomarkers in plasma to identify Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has previously been shown that a signature of 18 plasma proteins can identify AD during pre-dementia and dementia stages (Ray et al, Nature Medicine, 2007). We quantified the same 18 proteins in plasma from 174 controls, 142 patients with AD, and 88 patients with other dementias. Only three of these proteins (EGF, PDGF-BB and MIP-1) differed significantly in plasma between controls and AD. The 18 proteins could classify patients with AD from controls with low diagnostic precision (area under the ROC curve was 63%). Moreover, they could not distinguish AD from other dementias. In conclusion, independent validation of results is important in explorative biomarker studies.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are associated with many forms of synaptic plasticity. Their expression level and subunit composition undergo developmental changes in several brain regions. In the mouse cerebellum, beside a developmental switch between NR2B and NR2A/C subunits in granule cells, functional postsynaptic NMDA receptors are seen in Purkinje cells of neonate and adult but not juvenile rat and mice. A presynaptic effect of NMDA on GABA release by cerebellar interneurons was identified recently. Nevertheless whereas NMDA receptor subunits are detected on parallel fiber terminals, a presynaptic effect of NMDA on spontaneous release of glutamate has not been demonstrated. Using mouse cerebellar cultures and patch-clamp recordings we show that NMDA facilitates glutamate release onto Purkinje cells in young cultures via a presynaptic mechanism, whereas NMDA activates extrasynaptic receptors in Purkinje cells recorded in old cultures. The presynaptic effect of NMDA on glutamate release is also observed in Purkinje cells recorded in acute slices prepared from juvenile but not from adult mice and requires a specific protocol of NMDA application.
Mutations in rhodopsin cause retinitis pigmentosa in humans and retinal degeneration in a multitude of other animals. We utilized high-resolution live imaging of the large rod photoreceptors from transgenic frogs (Xenopus) to compare the properties of fluorescently tagged rhodopsin, Rho-EGFP, and Rho(P23H)-EGFP. The mutant was abnormally distributed both in the inner and outer segments (OS), accumulating in the OS to a concentration of 0.1% compared to endogenous opsin. Rho(P23H)-EGFP formed dense fluorescent foci, with concentrations of mutant protein up to ten times higher than other regions. Wild-type transgenic Rho-EGFP did not concentrate in OS foci when co-expressed in the same rod with Rho(P23H)-EGFP. Outer segment regions containing fluorescent foci were refractory to fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, while foci in the inner segment exhibited recovery kinetics similar to OS regions without foci and Rho-EGFP. The Rho(P23H)-EGFP foci were often in older, more distal OS disks. Electron micrographs of OS revealed abnormal disk membranes, with the regular disk bilayers broken into vesiculotubular structures. Furthermore, we observed similar OS disturbances in transgenic mice expressing Rho(P23H), suggesting such structures are a general consequence of mutant expression. Together these results show that mutant opsin disrupts OS disks, destabilizing the outer segment possibly via the formation of aggregates. This may render rods susceptible to mechanical injury or compromise OS function, contributing to photoreceptor loss.
The GENESIS simulation platform was one of the first broad-scale modeling systems in computational biology to encourage modelers to develop and share model features and components. Supported by a large developer community, it participated in innovative simulator technologies such as benchmarking, parallelization, and declarative model specification and was the first neural simulator to define bindings for the Python scripting language. An important feature of the latest version of GENESIS is that it decomposes into self-contained software components complying with the Computational Biology Initiative federated software architecture. This architecture allows separate scripting bindings to be defined for different necessary components of the simulator, e.g., the mathematical solvers and graphical user interface. Python is a scripting language that provides rich sets of freely available open source libraries. With clean dynamic object-oriented designs, they produce highly readable code and are widely employed in specialized areas of software component integration. We employ a simplified wrapper and interface generator to examine an application programming interface and make it available to a given scripting language. This allows independent software components to be 'glued' together and connected to external libraries and applications from user-defined Python or Perl scripts. We illustrate our approach with three examples of Python scripting. (1) Generate and run a simple single-compartment model neuron connected to a stand-alone mathematical solver. (2) Interface a mathematical solver with GENESIS 3.0 to explore a neuron morphology from either an interactive command-line or graphical user interface. (3) Apply scripting bindings to connect the GENESIS 3.0 simulator to external graphical libraries and an open source three dimensional content creation suite that supports visualization of models based on electron microscopy and their conversion to computational models. Employed in this way, the stand-alone software components of the GENESIS 3.0 simulator provide a framework for progressive federated software development in computational neuroscience.

Secondary damage following primary spinal cord injury extends pathology beyond the site of initial trauma, and effective management is imperative for maximizing anatomical and functional recovery. Bisperoxovanadium compounds have proven neuroprotective effects in several central nervous system injury/disease models, however, no mechanism has been linked to such neuroprotection from bisperoxovanadium treatment following spinal trauma. The goal of this study was to assess acute bisperoxovanadium treatment effects on neuroprotection and functional recovery following cervical unilateral contusive spinal cord injury, and investigate a potential mechanism of the compound's action. Two experimental groups of rats were established to 1) assess twice-daily 7 day treatment of the compound, potassium bisperoxo (picolinato) vanadium, on long-term recovery of skilled forelimb activity using a novel food manipulation test, and neuroprotection 6 weeks following injury and 2) elucidate an acute mechanistic link for the action of the drug post-injury. Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were performed to assess cellular signaling 1 day following SCI, and histochemistry and forelimb functional analysis were utilized to assess neuroprotection and recovery 6 weeks after injury. Bisperoxovanadium promoted significant neuroprotection through reduced motorneuron death, increased tissue sparing, and minimized cavity formation in rats. Enhanced forelimb functional ability during a treat-eating assessment was also observed. Additionally, bisperoxovanadium significantly enhanced downstream Akt and mammalian target of rapamycin signaling and reduced autophagic activity, suggesting inhibition of the phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome ten as a potential mechanism of bisperoxovanadium action following traumatic spinal cord injury. Overall, this study demonstrates the efficacy of a clinically applicable pharmacological therapy for rapid initiation of neuroprotection post-spinal cord injury, and sheds light on the signaling involved in its action.

Dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) contain the cell bodies of sensory neurons which relay nociceptive, thermoceptive, mechanoceptive and proprioceptive information from peripheral tissues toward the central nervous system. These neurons establish constant communication with their targets which insures correct maturation and functioning of the somato-sensory nervous system. Interfering with this two-way communication leads to cellular, electrophysiological and molecular modifications that can eventually cause neuropathic conditions. In this study we reveal that FXYD2, which encodes the gamma-subunit of the Na,K-ATPase reported so far to be mainly expressed in the kidney, is induced in the mouse DRGs at postnatal stages where it is restricted specifically to the TrkB-expressing mechanoceptive and Ret-positive/IB4-binding non-peptidergic nociceptive neurons. In non-peptidergic nociceptors, we show that the transcription factor Runx1 controls FXYD2 expression during the maturation of the somato-sensory system, partly through regulation of the tyrosine kinase receptor Ret. Moreover, Ret signaling maintains FXYD2 expression in adults as demonstrated by the axotomy-induced down-regulation of the gene that can be reverted by in vivo delivery of GDNF family ligands. Altogether, these results establish FXYD2 as a specific marker of defined sensory neuron subtypes and a new target of the Ret signaling pathway during normal maturation of the non-peptidergic nociceptive neurons and after sciatic nerve injury.
Measures of dopamine-regulating proteins in somatodendritic regions are often used only as static indicators of neuron viability, overlooking the possible impact of somatodendritic dopamine (DA) signaling on behavior and the potential autonomy of DA regulation between somatodendritic and terminal field compartments. DA reuptake capacity is less in somatodendritic regions, possibly placing a greater burden on de novo DA biosynthesis within this compartment to maintain DA signaling. Therefore, regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity may be particularly critical for somatodendritic DA signaling. Phosphorylation of TH at ser31 or ser40 can increase activity, but their impact on L-DOPA biosynthesis in vivo is unknown. Thus, determining their relationship with L-DOPA tissue content could reveal a mechanism by which DA signaling is normally maintained. In Brown-Norway Fischer 344 F hybrid rats, we quantified TH phosphorylation versus L-DOPA accumulation. After inhibition of aromatic acid decarboxylase, L-DOPA tissue content per recovered TH protein was greatest in NAc, matched by differences in ser31, but not ser40, phosphorylation. The L-DOPA per catecholamine and DA turnover ratios were significantly greater in SN and VTA, suggesting greater reliance on de novo DA biosynthesis therein. These compartmental differences reflected an overall autonomy of DA regulation, as seen by decreased DA content in SN and VTA, but not in striatum or NAc, following short-term DA biosynthesis inhibition from local infusion of the TH inhibitor -methyl-p-tyrosine, as well as in the long-term process of aging. Such data suggest ser31 phosphorylation plays a significant role in regulating TH activity in vivo, particularly in somatodendritic regions, which may have a greater reliance on de novo DA biosynthesis. Thus, to the extent that somatodendritic DA release affects behavior, TH regulation in the midbrain may be critical for DA bioavailability to influence behavior.
Listening to music has been found to reduce acute and chronic pain. The underlying mechanisms are poorly understood; however, emotion and cognitive mechanisms have been suggested to influence the analgesic effect of music. In this study we investigated the influence of familiarity, emotional and cognitive features, and cognitive style on music-induced analgesia. Forty-eight healthy participants were divided into three groups (empathizers, systemizers and balanced) and received acute pain induced by heat while listening to different sounds. Participants listened to unfamiliar Mozart music rated with high valence and low arousal, unfamiliar environmental sounds with similar valence and arousal as the music, an active distraction task (mental arithmetic) and a control, and rated the pain. Data showed that the active distraction led to significantly less pain than did the music or sounds. Both unfamiliar music and sounds reduced pain significantly when compared to the control condition; however, music was no more effective than sound to reduce pain. Furthermore, we found correlations between pain and emotion ratings. Finally, systemizers reported less pain during the mental arithmetic compared with the other two groups. These findings suggest that familiarity may be key in the influence of the cognitive and emotional mechanisms of music-induced analgesia, and that cognitive styles may influence pain perception.
Simulator interoperability and extensibility has become a growing requirement in computational biology. To address this, we have developed a federated software architecture. It is federated by its union of independent disparate systems under a single cohesive view, provides interoperability through its capability to communicate, execute programs, or transfer data among different independent applications, and supports extensibility by enabling simulator expansion or enhancement without the need for major changes to system infrastructure. Historically, simulator interoperability has relied on development of declarative markup languages such as the neuron modeling language NeuroML, while simulator extension typically occurred through modification of existing functionality. The software architecture we describe here allows for both these approaches. However, it is designed to support alternative paradigms of interoperability and extensibility through the provision of logical relationships and defined application programming interfaces. They allow any appropriately configured component or software application to be incorporated into a simulator. The architecture defines independent functional modules that run stand-alone. They are arranged in logical layers that naturally correspond to the occurrence of high-level data (biological concepts) versus low-level data (numerical values) and distinguish data from control functions. The modular nature of the architecture and its independence from a given technology facilitates communication about similar concepts and functions for both users and developers. It provides several advantages for multiple independent contributions to software development. Importantly, these include: (1) Reduction in complexity of individual simulator components when compared to the complexity of a complete simulator, (2) Documentation of individual components in terms of their inputs and outputs, (3) Easy removal or replacement of unnecessary or obsoleted components, (4) Stand-alone testing of components, and (5) Clear delineation of the development scope of new components.
Memory loss is one of the hallmark symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been proposed that soluble amyloid-beta (Abeta) oligomers acutely impair neuronal function and thereby memory. We here report that natural Abeta oligomers acutely impair contextual fear memory in mice. A natural Abeta oligomer solution containing Abeta monomers, dimers, trimers, and tetramers was derived from the conditioned medium of 7PA2 cells, a cell line that expresses human amyloid precursor protein containing the Val717Phe familial AD mutation. As a control we used 7PA2 conditioned medium from which Abeta oligomers were removed through immunodepletion. Separate groups of mice were injected with Abeta and control solutions through a cannula into the lateral brain ventricle, and subjected to fear conditioning using two tone-shock pairings. One day after fear conditioning, mice were tested for contextual fear memory and tone fear memory in separate retrieval trials. Three experiments were performed. For experiment 1, mice were injected three times: 1 hour before and 3 hours after fear conditioning, and 1 hour before context retrieval. For experiments 2 and 3, mice were injected a single time at 1 hour and 2 hours before fear conditioning respectively. In all three experiments there was no effect on tone fear memory. Injection of Abeta 1 hour before fear conditioning, but not 2 hours before fear conditioning, impaired the formation of a contextual fear memory. In future studies, the acute effect of natural Abeta oligomers on contextual fear memory can be used to identify potential mechanisms and treatments of AD associated memory loss.
Neuroscience research increasingly relies on optical methods for evoking neuronal activity as well as for measuring it, making bright and stable light sources critical building blocks of modern experimental setups. This paper presents a method to control the brightness of a high-power light emitting diode (LED) light source to an unprecedented level of stability. By continuously monitoring the actual light output of the LED with a photodiode and feeding the result back to the LED's driver by way of a proportional-integral controller, drift was reduced to as little as 0.007% per hour over a 12-h period, and short-term fluctuations to 0.005% root-mean-square over 10 seconds. The LED can be switched on and off completely within 100 s, a feature that is crucial when visual stimuli and light for optical recording need to be interleaved to obtain artifact-free recordings. The utility of the system is demonstrated by recording visual responses in the central nervous system of the medicinal leech Hirudo verbana using voltage-sensitive dyes.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in humans are classified into the five main families named Glutamate, Rhodopsin, Adhesion, Frizzled and Secretin according to the GRAFS classification. Previous results show that these mammalian GRAFS families are well represented in the Metazoan lineages, but they have not been shown to be present in Fungi. Here, we systematically mined 79 fungal genomes and provide the first evidence that four of the five main mammalian families of GPCRs, namely Rhodopsin, Adhesion, Glutamate and Frizzled, are present in Fungi and found 142 novel sequences between them. Significantly, we provide strong evidence that the Rhodopsin family emerged from the cAMP receptor family in an event close to the split of Opisthokonts and not in Placozoa, as earlier assumed. The Rhodopsin family then expanded greatly in Metazoans while the cAMP receptor family is found in 3 invertebrate species and lost in the vertebrates. We estimate that the Adhesion and Frizzled families evolved before the split of Unikonts from a common ancestor of all major eukaryotic lineages. Also, the study highlights that the fungal Adhesion receptors do not have N-terminal domains whereas the fungal Glutamate receptors have a broad repertoire of mammalian-like N-terminal domains. Further, mining of the close unicellular relatives of the Metazoan lineage, Salpingoeca rosetta and Capsaspora owczarzaki, obtained a rich group of both the Adhesion and Glutamate families, which in particular provided insight to the early emergence of the N-terminal domains of the Adhesion family. We identified 619 Fungi specific GPCRs across 79 genomes and revealed that Blastocladiomycota and Chytridiomycota phylum have Metazoan-like GPCRs rather than the GPCRs specific for Fungi. Overall, this study provides the first evidence of the presence of four of the five main GRAFS families in Fungi and clarifies the early evolutionary history of the GPCR superfamily.
Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) is a key method for measurement of relative gene expression. Analysis of RT-qPCR data requires many iterative computations for data normalization and analytical optimization. Currently no computer program for RT-qPCR data analysis is suitable for analytical optimization and user-controllable customization based on data quality, experimental design as well as specific research aims. Here I introduce an all-in-one computer program, SASqPCR, for robust and rapid analysis of RT-qPCR data in SAS. This program has multiple macros for assessment of PCR efficiencies, validation of reference genes, optimization of data normalizers, normalization of confounding variations across samples, and statistical comparison of target gene expression in parallel samples. Users can simply change the macro variables to test various analytical strategies, optimize results and customize the analytical processes. In addition, it is highly automatic and functionally extendable. Thus users are the actual decision-makers controlling RT-qPCR data analyses. SASqPCR and its tutorial are freely available at http://code.google.com/p/sasqpcr/downloads/list.
Our understanding of how value-related information is encoded in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is based mainly on the responses of individual putative dopamine neurons. In contrast to cortical areas, the nature of coordinated interactions between groups of VTA neurons during motivated behavior is largely unknown. These interactions can strongly affect information processing, highlighting the importance of investigating network level activity. We recorded the activity of multiple single units and local field potentials (LFP) in the VTA during a task in which rats learned to associate novel stimuli with different outcomes. We found that coordinated activity of VTA units with either putative dopamine or GABA waveforms was influenced differently by rewarding versus aversive outcomes. Specifically, after learning, stimuli paired with a rewarding outcome increased the correlation in activity levels between unit pairs whereas stimuli paired with an aversive outcome decreased the correlation. Paired single unit responses also became more redundant after learning. These response patterns flexibly tracked the reversal of contingencies, suggesting that learning is associated with changing correlations and enhanced functional connectivity between VTA neurons. Analysis of LFP recorded simultaneously with unit activity showed an increase in the power of theta oscillations when stimuli predicted reward but not an aversive outcome. With learning, a higher proportion of putative GABA units were phase locked to the theta oscillations than putative dopamine units. These patterns also adapted when task contingencies were changed. Taken together, these data demonstrate that VTA neurons organize flexibly as functional networks to support appetitive and aversive learning.

Social interactions in mice are frequently analysed in genetically modified strains in order to get insight of disorders affecting social interactions such as autism spectrum disorders. Different types of social interactions have been described, mostly between females and pups, and between adult males and females. However, we recently showed that social interactions between adult males could also encompass cognitive and motivational features. During social interactions, rodents emit ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), but it remains unknown if call types are differently used depending of the context and if they are correlated with motivational state. Here, we recorded the calls of adult C57BL/6J male mice in various behavioral conditions, such as social interaction, novelty exploration and restraint stress. We introduced a modulator for the motivational state by comparing males maintained in isolation and males maintained in groups before the experiments. Male mice uttered USVs in all social and non-social situations, and even in a stressful restraint context. They nevertheless emitted the most important number of calls with the largest diversity of call types in social interactions, particularly when showing a high motivation for social contact. For mice maintained in social isolation, the number of calls recorded was positively correlated with the duration of social contacts, and most calls were uttered during contacts between the two mice. This correlation was not observed in mice maintained in groups. These results open the way for a deeper understanding and characterization of acoustic signals associated with social interactions. They can also help evaluating the role of motivational states in the emission of acoustic signals.
The prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) is an important model organism for the study of social behavior, yet our ability to correlate genes and behavior in this species has been limited due to a lack of genetic and genomic resources. Here we report the BAC-based targeted sequencing of behaviorally-relevant genes and flanking regions in the prairie vole. A total of 6.4 Mb of non-redundant or haplotype-specific sequence assemblies were generated that span the partial or complete sequence of 21 behaviorally-relevant genes as well as an additional 55 flanking genes. Estimates of nucleotide diversity from 13 loci based on alignments of 1.7 Mb of haplotype-specific assemblies revealed an average pair-wise heterozygosity (8.410(-3)). Comparative analyses of the prairie vole proteins encoded by the behaviorally-relevant genes identified &gt;100 substitutions specific to the prairie vole lineage. Finally, our sequencing data indicate that a duplication of the prairie vole AVPR1A locus likely originated from a recent segmental duplication spanning a minimum of 105 kb. In summary, the results of our study provide the genomic resources necessary for the molecular and genetic characterization of a high-priority set of candidate genes for regulating social behavior in the prairie vole.


Identifying external factors that can be used to control neural stem cells division and their differentiation to neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes is of high scientific and clinical interest. Here we show that the Nogo-66 receptor interacting protein LINGO-1 is a potent regulator of neural stem cell maturation to neurons. LINGO-1 is expressed by cortical neural stem cells from E14 mouse embryos and inhibition of LINGO-1 during the first days of neural stem cell differentiation results in decreased neuronal maturation. Compared to neurons in control cultures, which after 6 days of differentiation have long extending neurites, neurons in cultures treated with anti-LINGO-1 antibodies retain an immature, round phenotype with only very short processes. Furthermore, neutralization of LINGO-1 results in a threefold increase in III tubulin-positive cells compared to untreated control cultures. By using BrdU incorporation assays we show that the immature neurons in LINGO-1 neutralized cultures are dividing neuroblasts. In contrast to control cultures, in which no cells were double positive for III tubulin and BrdU, 36% of the neurons in cultures treated with anti-LINGO-1 antibodies were proliferating after three days of differentiation. TUNEL assays revealed that the amount of cells going through apoptosis during the early phase of differentiation was significantly decreased in cultures treated with anti-LINGO-1 antibodies compared to untreated control cultures. Taken together, our results demonstrate a novel role for LINGO-1 in neural stem cell differentiation to neurons and suggest a possibility to use LINGO-1 inhibitors to compensate for neuronal cell loss in the injured brain.
Previously we have demonstrated that a Rhodiola crenulata extract (RCE), containing a potent antioxidant salidroside, promotes neurogenesis in the hippocampus of depressive rats. The current study was designed to further investigate the protective effect of the RCE on neurogenesis in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) induced by an intracerebroventricular injection of streptozotocin (STZ), and to determine whether this neuroprotective effect is induced by the antioxidative activity of salidroside. Our results showed that pretreatment with the RCE significantly improved the impaired neurogenesis and simultaneously reduced the oxidative stress in the hippocampus of AD rats. In vitro studies revealed that (1) exposure of neural stem cells (NSCs) from the hippocampus to STZ strikingly increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, induced cell death and perturbed cell proliferation and differentiation, (2) hydrogen peroxide induced similar cellular activities as STZ, (3) pre-incubation of STZ-treated NSCs with catalase, an antioxidant, suppressed all these cellular activities induced by STZ, and (4) likewise, pre-incubation of STZ-treated NSCs with salidroside, also an antioxidant, suppressed all these activities as catalase: reduction of ROS levels and NSC death with simultaneous increases in proliferation and differentiation. Our findings indicated that the RCE improved the impaired hippocampal neurogenesis in the rat model of AD through protecting NSCs by its main ingredient salidroside which scavenged intracellular ROS.
Almost all cortical areas are connected to the subcortical basal ganglia (BG) through parallel recurrent inhibitory and excitatory loops, exerting volitional control over automatic behavior. As this model is largely based on non-human primate research, we used high resolution functional MRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to investigate the functional and structural organization of the human (pre)frontal cortico-basal network controlling eye movements. Participants performed saccades in darkness, pro- and antisaccades and observed stimuli during fixation. We observed several bilateral functional subdivisions along the precentral sulcus around the human frontal eye fields (FEF): a medial and lateral zone activating for saccades in darkness, a more fronto-medial zone preferentially active for ipsilateral antisaccades, and a large anterior strip along the precentral sulcus activating for visual stimulus presentation during fixation. The supplementary eye fields (SEF) were identified along the medial wall containing all aforementioned functions. In the striatum, the BG area receiving almost all cortical input, all saccade related activation was observed in the putamen, previously considered a skeletomotor striatal subdivision. Activation elicited by the cue instructing pro or antisaccade trials was clearest in the medial FEF and right putamen. DTI fiber tracking revealed that the subdivisions of the human FEF complex are mainly connected to the putamen, in agreement with the fMRI findings. The present findings demonstrate that the human FEF has functional subdivisions somewhat comparable to non-human primates. However, the connections to and activation in the human striatum preferentially involve the putamen, not the caudate nucleus as is reported for monkeys. This could imply that fronto-striatal projections for the oculomotor system are fundamentally different between humans and monkeys. Alternatively, there could be a bias in published reports of monkey studies favoring the caudate nucleus over the putamen in the search for oculomotor functions.
The multifunctional neuropeptide Cocaine and Amphetamine Regulated Transcript (CART) is secreted from hypothalamus, pituitary, adrenal gland and pancreas. It also can be found in circulatory system. This feature suggests a general role for CART in different cells. In the present study, we demonstrate that CART protects mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), cellular proteins and lipids against the oxidative action of hydrogen peroxide, a widely used oxidant. Using cis-parinaric acid as a sensitive reporting probe for peroxidation in membranes, and a lipid-soluble azo initiator of peroxyl radicals, 2,2'-azobis(2,4-dimethylvaleronitrile) we found that CART is an antioxidant. Furthermore, we found that CART localized to mitochondria in cultured cells and mouse brain neuronal cells. More importantly, pretreatment with CART by systemic injection protects against a mouse oxidative stress model, which mimics the main features of Parkinson's disease. Given the unique molecular structure and biological features of CART, we conclude that CART is an antioxidant peptide (or antioxidant hormone). We further propose that it may have strong therapeutic properties for human diseases in which oxidative stress is strongly involved such as Parkinson's disease.
The lateral paragigantocellular nucleus (LPGi) is located in the ventrolateral medulla and is known as a sympathoexcitatory area involved in the control of blood pressure. In recent experiments, we showed that the LPGi contains a large number of neurons activated during PS hypersomnia following a selective deprivation. Among these neurons, more than two-thirds are GABAergic and more than one fourth send efferent fibers to the wake-active locus coeruleus nucleus. To get more insight into the role of the LPGi in PS regulation, we combined an electrophysiological and anatomical approach in the rat, using extracellular recordings in the head-restrained model and injections of tracers followed by the immunohistochemical detection of Fos in control, PS-deprived and PS-recovery animals. With the head-restrained preparation, we showed that the LPGi contains neurons specifically active during PS (PS-On neurons), neurons inactive during PS (PS-Off neurons) and neurons indifferent to the sleep-waking cycle. After injection of CTb in the facial nucleus, the neurons of which are hyperpolarized during PS, the largest population of Fos/CTb neurons visualized in the medulla in the PS-recovery condition was observed in the LPGi. After injection of CTb in the LPGi itself and PS-recovery, the nucleus containing the highest number of Fos/CTb neurons, moreover bilaterally, was the sublaterodorsal nucleus (SLD). The SLD is known as the pontine executive PS area and triggers PS through glutamatergic neurons. We propose that, during PS, the LPGi is strongly excited by the SLD and hyperpolarizes the motoneurons of the facial nucleus in addition to local and locus coeruleus PS-Off neurons, and by this means contributes to PS genesis.
Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is a fatal infection of the central nervous system (CNS) predominantly caused by Herpes simplex virus type 1. Factors regulating the susceptibility to HSE are still largely unknown. To identify host gene(s) regulating HSE susceptibility we performed a genome-wide linkage scan in an intercross between the susceptible DA and the resistant PVG rat. We found one major quantitative trait locus (QTL), Hse1, on rat chromosome 4 (confidence interval 24.3-31 Mb; LOD score 29.5) governing disease susceptibility. Fine mapping of Hse1 using recombinants, haplotype mapping and sequencing, as well as expression analysis of all genes in the interval identified the calcitonin receptor gene (Calcr) as the main candidate, which also is supported by functional studies. Thus, using unbiased genetic approach variability in Calcr was identified as potentially critical for infection and viral spread to the CNS and subsequent HSE development.
Severe malaria infection caused by Plasmodium falciparum is a global life-threatening disease and a leading cause of death worldwide. Intensive investigations have demonstrated that macrophages play crucial roles in control of inflammatory and immune responses and clearance of Plasmodium-falciparum-parasitized erythrocytes (PE). This paper focuses on how macrophage CD36 recognizes and internalizes PE and participates the inflammatory signaling in response to Plasmodium falciparum. In addition, recent advances in our current understanding of the biological actions of PPAR on CD36 and malaria clearance from the hosts are highlighted.
We report female patient, age 51, with clinically definitive multiple sclerosis (CDMS) since 1998, who underwent two PTA procedures with stent implantation for CCSVI in 2010. Expanded disability status scale (EDSS) worsened since the procedure from 4.5 to 6. Total number of three stents was implanted (two of them in the right internal jugular vein). In six month time, in 2011, patient was referred for independent examination by computer tomography (CT) phlebography for right-sided neck pain. Dislocation of stents on the right side and thrombosis of left sided stent was found. Conservative approach was used so far. Our short report is showing possible complications of PTA and stenting in jugular veins in so called CCSVI and bringing information about neurological state (EDSS) worsening in a subject. Continuation of stent migration in the future is probable, possibly resulting in pulmonary embolism with fatal risk for the patient. We strongly ask for restriction of PTA procedure in so called CCSVI, which concept was not proven to be relevant to MS.



Objective: Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is characterized by involuntary, repetitive, purposeless movements that can affect different parts of the body. Tardive dyskinesia is a well-known side effect of conventional antipsychotics and commonly occurs after several years of treatment. The effective treatment of TD is unclear. Recently, the sigma-1 receptor agonist fluvoxamine was reported to be beneficial for hyperkinetic movement disorders. Method: We report 5 cases with postpsychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia and TD. All patients were given fluvoxamine 100 mg/d, and after the second week the dosage of fluvoxamine was increased to 200 mg/d. At the fourth week, patients were assessed in terms of TD and postpsychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia. Results: Fluvoxamine was found to be beneficial for TD and postpsychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia in all patients by the fourth week. Conclusions: Recently, the sigma-1 receptor agonist fluvoxamine has been considered beneficial for various neuropsychiatric disorders. However, data about the effects of fluvoxamine on hyperkinetic movement disorders are limited. In this report, we attempted to demonstrate the beneficial effects of fluvoxamine on TD, and we suggest that the mechanism of action might be due to sigma-1 agonism. Further detailed, double-blind studies should clarify the potential use of fluvoxamine in the treatment of hyperkinetic movement disorders.
Glycosphingolipids (GSLs) are present on cell surface membranes and are particularly abundant in the brain. Since over 300-400 GSLs are synthesized from glucosylceramide (GlcCer), GlcCer is believed to only serve as the source of most GSLs, including sialic acid-containing GSLs or gangliosides, in the brain. Recent studies, however, suggest that GlcCer itself plays a role in the heat stress response, as it functions as a glucose donor for the synthesis of cholesterylglucoside, a lipid mediator in heat stress responses in animals. GlcCer in adipose tissues is also thought to be involved in mechanisms that regulate energy (sugar and lipid) metabolism. Our extensive structural study revealed an additional novel glucosylated membrane lipid, called phosphatidylglucoside, in developing rodent brains and human neutrophils. These lipids, all modified with glucose, are enriched in lipid rafts and play important roles in basic cellular processes. Here, I summarize the recent progress regarding these glucosylated lipids and their biosynthesis and regulation in the central nervous system (CNS).
The functional synaptic integration of grafted stem cell-derived neurons is one of the key aspects of neural cell replacement therapies for neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease. However, little is currently known about the synaptic connectivity between graft and host cells after transplantation, not only in the settings of clinical trials but also in experimental studies. This knowledge gap is primarily due to the lack of experimental electrophysiological approaches allowing interrogation of synaptic connectivity between prospectively identified host and graft neurons and hampers our understanding of the mechanisms underlying functional integration of stem cell-derived neurons in the host brain, as well as the optimization of protocols for deriving stem cells for neural cell replacement therapy. Recent optogenetic tools allow for direct investigation of connectivity between host and graft neural populations and have already been applied to show bidirectional integration of dopaminergic neurons in a host tissue. These new tools have potential to advance our understanding of functional integration in the near future. Here, we provide an overview of the current literature addressing functional integration of stem cell-derived neurons in the settings of Parkinson's disease models and discuss some experimental paradigms to approach this issue.
The reconstruction of midbrain dopamine (DA) circuitry through intracerebral transplantation of new DA neurons contained in embryonic ventral mesencephalon (VM) is a promising therapeutic approach for Parkinson's disease (PD). Although some of the early open-label trials have provided proof-of-principal that VM grafts can provide sustained improvement of motor function in some patients, subsequent trials showed that the functional response can be highly variable. This chapter reviews an extensive body of basic and clinical research on the survival, differentiation, and connectivity of DA neurons in VM grafts, and also looks at how these parameters are affected by certain host- and donor-specific variables. We also review how technical advances in the tools available to study the integration of grafted DA neurons, such as transgenic reporter mice, have made significant contributions to our understanding of the capacity of different DA neuronal subtypes for target-directed growth and innervation of appropriate host brain structures. Our established and on-going understanding of the capacity of grafted DA neurons to structurally and functionally integrate following transplantation forms an important basis for the refinement and optimization of VM grafting procedures, and also the development of new procedures based on the use of stem cells.

Reproduction is a fundamental biological function ensuring individual descendant survival and species perpetuity. It is an energy-consuming process, and therefore, all underlying mechanisms have to work in synchrony to ensure reproductive success. Synchronization of reproductive activity with the best time of the day or the year is part of such adaptive processes. Recently, a neuropeptide named kisspeptin, synthesized in two discrete hypothalamic nuclei, the anteroventral periventricular nucleus and the arcuate nucleus, has been demonstrated to be a potent stimulator operating upstream of the gonadotropic axis. In this review, we show how kisspeptinergic neurons integrate daily and seasonal time cues to synchronize reproductive activity with the cycling environment.
Time as an ecological niche variable or &quot;temporal niche&quot; can be defined in the context of the most prominent environmental cycles, including the tidal cycle, the lunar day and month, the solar day, and the earth year. For the current review, we focus on the 24-h domain generated through the earth's rotation around its axis (solar day). The daily environmental cycles of light and temperature are a dominant ecological factor generating a variety of adaptations among animals. In this review, we describe these adaptations with a special focus on the visual system and on the adaptive plasticity of activity patterns. Our goals are: (1) Underscore the importance of the 24-h time axis as critical variable in the ecological niche. (2) Highlight cases of temporal niche switches at the evolutionary timescale (phylogenetic level). (3) Review temporal niche switching within an individual's lifespan. (4) Evaluate possible underlying mechanisms for temporal niche switching. (5) Describe a new hypothesis of circadian thermoenergetics which may explain several cases of temporal niche switching in mammals. With this, we hope to inspire experiments under natural conditions or more complex laboratory environments, aimed to reveal environmental factors and mechanisms underlying specific temporal programs.
Melanopsin expressing retinal ganglion cells represent a third class of ocular photoreceptors and are involved in irradiance detection and non-image-forming responses to light including pupil constriction, circadian entrainment, and regulation of sleep. Over recent years, there has been a rapid increase in our understanding of the anatomical variety of pRGC subtypes, the regions of the brain which they innervate, and the behavioral responses of melanopsin-based light detection. However, by contrast, our understanding of the intracellular signaling cascade initiated following activation of melanopsin has, until recently, remained poorly characterized. This chapter focus on the melanopsin signaling pathway, detailing the cellular mechanisms of phototransduction that occur within pRGCs, highlighting recent advances, but also the gaps in our understanding of this important light detecting system.
Orexin (hypocretin) receptor antagonists stand as a model for the development of targeted CNS small-molecule therapeutics. The identification of mutations in the gene for the orexin 2 receptor responsible for canine narcolepsy, the demonstration of a hypersomnolence phenotype in hypocretin knockout mice and the disruption in orexin signaling in narcoleptic patients provides clear genetic proof of concept for targeting orexin-induced arousal for the treatment of insomnia. The full characterization of the genes encoding orexin and its two cognate receptors enabled the rapid development of in vitro and ex vivo assays with which to identify lead compound structures and to optimize potency and pharmacokinetic properties. Polysomnographic measures with cross-species translatability capable of measuring the sleep-promoting effects of orexin receptor antagonists from mice to man, and the existence of knockout models not only allow efficacy assessment but also the demonstration of mechanism of action. Focused efforts by a number of groups have identified potent compounds of diverse chemical structure with differential orexin receptor selectivity for either the orexin 1 receptor (OXR) or the orexin 2 receptor (OXR), or both. This work has yielded tool compounds that, along with genetic models, have been used to specifically define the role these receptors in mediating orexin-induced arousal and vigilance state control. Optimized dual receptor antagonists with favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles have now demonstrated efficacy in clinical development and represent a distinct mechanism of action for the treatment of insomnia relative to current standard of care.
Orexins/hypocretins are hypothalamic peptides involved in arousal and wakefulness, but also play a critical role in drug addiction and reward-related behaviors. Here, we review the roles played by orexins in a variety of animal models of drug addiction, emphasizing both commonalities and differences for orexin's involvement in seeking of the major classes of abused drugs, as well as food. One common theme that emerges is an involvement of orexins in drug seeking triggered by external stimuli (e.g., cues, contexts or stressors). We also discuss the functional neuronal circuits in which orexins are embedded, and how these circuits mediate addiction-related behaviors, with particular focus on the role of orexin and glutamate interactions within the ventral tegmental area. Finally, we attempt to contextualize the role of orexins in reward by discussing ways in which these peptides, expressed in only a few thousand neurons in the brain, can have such wide-ranging effects on behavior.
In this chapter, we give an overview of the current status of the role of orexins in feeding and energy homeostasis. Orexins, also known as hypocretins, initially were discovered in 1998 as hypothalamic regulators of food intake. A little later, their far more important function as regulators of sleep and arousal came to light. Despite their restricted distribution, orexin neurons have projections throughout the entire brain, with dense projections especially to the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus, the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, and the locus coeruleus and tuberomammillary nucleus. Its two receptors are orexin receptor 1 and orexin receptor 2. These receptors show a specific and localized distribution in a number of brain regions, and a variety of different actions has been demonstrated upon their binding. Our group showed that through the autonomic nervous system, the orexin system plays a key role in the control of glucose metabolism, but it has also been shown to stimulate sympathetic outflow, to increase body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, and renal sympathetic nerve activity. The well-known effects of orexin on the control of food intake, arousal, and wakefulness appear to be more extensive than originally thought, with additional effects on the autonomic nervous system, that is, to increase body temperature and energy metabolism.
A series of recent studies has established the orexin/hypocretin system as a critical regulator of sleep/wake states. Its deficiency results in the sleep disorder narcolepsy in humans, dogs, and rodents. These findings have brought about the possibility of novel therapies for sleep disorders including narcolepsy and insomnia. Moreover, accumulating evidence indicates that the orexin/hypocretin system regulates sleep and wakefulness through interactions with neuronal systems that regulate emotion, reward, and energy homeostasis. Here, we briefly summarize the progress of orexin/hypocretin studies and future perspectives.
This review describes recent discoveries in neurobiology of Down syndrome (DS) achieved with use of mouse genetic models and provides an overview of experimental approaches aimed at development of pharmacological restoration of cognitive function in people with this developmental disorder. Changes in structure and function of synaptic connections within the hippocampal formation of DS model mice, as well as alterations in innervations of the hippocampus by noradrenergic and cholinergic neuromodulatory systems, provided important clues for potential pharmacological treatments of cognitive disabilities in DS. Possible molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying this genetic disorder have been addressed. We discuss novel mechanisms engaging misprocessing of amyloid precursor protein (App) and other proteins, through their affect on axonal transport and endosomal dysfunction, to &quot;Alzheimer-type&quot; neurodegenerative processes that affect cognition later in life. In conclusion, a number of therapeutic strategies have been defined that may restore cognitive function in mouse models of DS. In the juvenile and young animals, these strategists focus on restoration of synaptic plasticity, rate of adult neurogenesis, and functions of the neuromodulatory subcortical systems. Later in life, the major focus is on recuperation of misprocessed App and related proteins. It is hoped that the identification of an increasing number of potential targets for pharmacotherapy of cognitive deficits in DS will add to the momentum for creating and completing clinical trials.
Intellectual disability (ID) affects 1-3% of the general population and is defined by an intelligence quotient score under 70 and the presence of two or more adaptive behaviors. Learning and memory involves the change in the transmission efficacy at the synapse (synaptic plasticity). Synaptic plasticity is the ability of the connection, or synapse, between two functional neurons to change in strength. Many molecular mechanisms are involved in the change in synaptic strength, which can result in changes in spine morphology. Spines are specialized dendritic protrusions and their change in morphology is implicated in learning and memory. In several cases of ID, the link between spine abnormalities (abnormal in number, size, and shape) and ID is well described, including nonsyndromic ID and Down, Fragile X, and Rett syndromes. This chapter discusses the underlying molecular mechanisms of this altered spine phenotype.
Clinical trials with drugs aimed at treatment of Alzheimer disease to decelerate cognitive decline and translated mimetically to demented and young nondemented Down syndrome patients have been unable to demonstrate improvements in cognitive performance and functioning. Unfortunately, results from clinical trials do not support the use of NMDA antagonists like memantine and we should await at the development of safer GABA(A) antagonists to conclude about the efficacy of approaching Down syndrome therapeutics by modulating neurotransmission systems altered in this pathology. The use of folinic acid or antioxidants in DS patients is not supported by scientific evidence and do not provide improvement in cognitive performance to patients. Alternatively to the modulation of neurotransmission systems, future therapeutic approaches should focus at normalizing the expression levels or function of candidate molecules. Epigallocatechin gallate, a green tea polyphenol, that modulates DYRK1A functioning has already shown preliminarily that this approach may prove useful in therapeutics.
A major challenge in neuroscience is to understand how universal behaviors, such as sensation, movement, cognition, and emotion, arise from the interactions of specific cells that are present within intricate neural networks in the brain. Dissection of such complex networks has typically relied on disturbing the activity of individual gene products, perturbing neuronal activities pharmacologically, or lesioning specific brain regions, to investigate the network's response in a behavioral output. Though informative for many kinds of studies, these approaches are not sufficiently fine-tuned for examining the functionality of specific cells or cell classes in a spatially or temporally restricted context. Recent advances in the field of optogenetics now enable researchers to monitor and manipulate the activity of genetically defined cell populations with the speed and precision uniquely afforded by light. Transgenic mice engineered to express optogenetic tools in a cell type-specific manner offer a powerful approach for examining the role of particular cells in discrete circuits in a defined and reproducible way. Not surprisingly then, recent years have seen substantial efforts directed toward generating transgenic mouse lines that express functionally relevant levels of optogenetic tools. In this chapter, we review the state of these efforts and consider aspects of the current technology that would benefit from additional improvement.
The use of optogenetics, the technology that combines genetic and optical methods to monitor and control the activity of specific cell populations, is now widely adopted in neuroscience. The development of optogenetic tools, such as natural photosensitive ion channels and pumps or calcium- and voltage-sensitive proteins, has been growing tremendously during the past 10 years, thanks to the improvement of their performances in terms of facilitating light stimulation. To this aim, efficient illumination methods are also needed. The most common way to photostimulate optogenetic tools has been, so far, widefield illumination with visible light. However, the necessity of addressing the complexity of brain architecture has recently imposed switching to the use of two-photon excitation, which provides a better spatial specificity and deeper penetration in scattering tissue. Two-photon excitation is still challenging, due to intrinsic characteristics of optogenetic tools (e.g., the low conductivity of light-sensitive channels), and efficient illumination methods are therefore essential for advancing in this domain. Here, we present a review on the existing two-photon optical approaches for photoactivation of optogenetic tools, and future perspectives for the widespread implementation of these techniques.
Genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs), together with modern microscopy, allow repeated activity measurement, in real time and with cellular resolution, of defined cellular populations. Recent efforts in protein engineering have yielded several high-quality GECIs that facilitate new applications in neuroscience. Here, we summarize recent progress in GECI design, optimization, and characterization, and provide guidelines for selecting the appropriate GECI for a given biological application. We focus on the unique challenges associated with imaging in behaving animals.
Fundamental questions that neuroscientists have previously approached with classical biochemical and electrophysiological techniques can now be addressed using optogenetics. The term optogenetics reflects the key program of this emerging field, namely, combining optical and genetic techniques. With the already impressively successful application of light-driven actuator proteins such as microbial opsins to interact with intact neural circuits, optogenetics rose to a key technology over the past few years. While spearheaded by tools to control membrane voltage, the more general concept of optogenetics includes the use of a variety of genetically encoded probes for physiological parameters ranging from membrane voltage and calcium concentration to metabolism. Here, we provide a comprehensive overview of the state of the art in this rapidly growing discipline and attempt to sketch some of its future prospects and challenges.
The evolution of the brain in mammals has been accompanied by a reorganization of the brain as a result of differential growth of certain brain regions. Consequently, the geometry of the brain, and especially the size and shape of the cerebral cortex, has changed notably during evolution. Comparative studies of the cerebral cortex suggest that there are general architectural principles governing its growth and evolutionary development and that the primate neocortex is uniformly organized and composed of neural processing units. We are beginning to understand the geometric, biophysical, and energy constraints that have governed the evolution of these neuronal networks. In this review, some of the design principles and operational modes will be explored that underlie the information processing capacity of the cerebral cortex in primates, and it will be argued that with the evolution of the human brain we have nearly reached the limits of biological intelligence.
The cerebellum has too often been seen as the &quot;little brain,&quot; subservient to the &quot;big brain,&quot; the cerebrum. That is changing, as neuroimaging uncovers the cerebellum as the &quot;missing link&quot; in the neurological underpinnings of many cognitive domains. Connections between the neocortex and the cerebellum are now more precisely defined, with functionally localized areas of cerebellar cortex understood for cognitive tasks in humans. Comparative volumetric studies of the primate cerebellum have isolated some elements of circuitry, and our field is moving toward a better integration with the neurosciences in a systematic comparative framework. The next decade may show great advances, as relatively noninvasive techniques of neuroimaging have the potential to build a comparative model of the evolution of primate neurocircuitry.
The human insular cortex forms a distinct, but entirely hidden lobe, situated in the depth of the Sylvian fissure. Here, we first review the recent literature on the connectivity and the functions of this structure. It appears that this small lobe, taking up less than 2% of the total cortical surface area, receives afferents from some sensory thalamic nuclei, is (mostly reciprocally) connected with the amygdala and with many limbic and association cortical areas, and is implicated in an astonishingly large number of widely different functions, ranging from pain perception and speech production to the processing of social emotions. Next, we embark on a long, adventurous journey through the voluminous literature on the structural organization of the insular cortex. This journey yielded the following take-home messages: (1) The meticulous, but mostly neglected publications of Rose (1928) and Brockhaus (1940) are still invaluable for our understanding of the architecture of the mammalian insular cortex. (2) The relation of the insular cortex to the adjacent claustrum is neither ontogenetical nor functional, but purely topographical. (3) The insular cortex has passed through a spectacular progressive differentiation during hominoid evolution, but the assumption of Craig (2009) that the human anterior insula has no homologue in the rhesus monkey is untenable. (4) The concept of Mesulam and Mufson (1985), that the primate insula is essentially composed of three concentrically arranged zones, agranular, dysgranular, and granular, is presumably correct, but there is at present much confusion concerning the more detailed architecture of the anterior insular cortex. (5) The large spindle-shaped cells in the fifth layer of the insular cortex, currently known as von Economo neurons (VENs), are not only confined to large-brained mammals, such as whales, elephants, apes, and humans, but also occur in monkeys and prosimians, as well as in the pygmy hippopotamus, the Atlantic walrus, and Florida manatee. Finally, we point out that the human insula presents a unique opportunity for performing an in-depth comparative analysis of the relations between structure and function in a typical sensory and a typical cognitive cortical domain.
Brain size, body size, developmental length, life span, costs of raising offspring, behavioral complexity, and social structures are correlated in mammals due to intrinsic life-history requirements. Dissecting variation and direction of causation in this web of relationships often draw attention away from the factors that correlate with basic life parameters. We consider the &quot;social brain hypothesis,&quot; which postulates that overall brain and the isocortex are selectively enlarged to confer social abilities in primates, as an example of this enterprise and pitfalls. We consider patterns of brain scaling, modularity, flexibility of brain organization, the &quot;leverage,&quot; and direction of selection on proposed dimensions. We conclude that the evidence supporting selective changes in isocortex or brain size for the isolated ability to manage social relationships is poor. Strong covariation in size and developmental duration coupled with flexible brains allow organisms to adapt in variable social and ecological environments across the life span and in evolution.

The neurodegenerative diseases described in this volume, as well as many nonneurodegenerative diseases, are characterized by deposits known as amyloid. Amyloid has long been associated with these various diseases as a pathological marker and has been implicated directly in the molecular pathogenesis of disease. However, increasing evidence suggests that these proteinaceous Congo red staining deposits may not be toxic or destructive of tissue. Recent studies strongly implicate smaller aggregates of amyloid proteins as the toxic species underlying these neurodegenerative diseases. Despite the outward obvious differences among these clinical syndromes, there are some striking similarities in their molecular pathologies. These include dysregulation of intracellular calcium levels, impairment of mitochondrial function, and the ability of virtually all amyloid peptides to form ion-permeable pores in lipid membranes. Pore formation is enhanced by environmental factors that promote protein aggregation and is inhibited by agents, such as Congo red, which prevent aggregation. Remarkably, the pores formed by a variety of amyloid peptides from neurodegenerative and other diseases share a common set of physiologic properties. These include irreversible insertion of the pores in lipid membranes, formation of heterodisperse pore sizes, inhibition by Congo red of pore formation, blockade of pores by zinc, and a relative lack of ion selectivity and voltage dependence. Although there exists some information about the physical structure of these pores, molecular modeling suggests that 4-6-mer amyloid subunits may assemble into 24-mer pore-forming aggregates. The molecular structure of these pores may resemble the -barrel structure of the toxics pore formed by bacterial toxins, such as staphylococcal -hemolysin, anthrax toxin, and Clostridium perfringolysin.
The p21-activated kinases (PAKs) are one of the first direct kinase targets of Ras-related small GTPases to be discovered and have emerged as central players in growth factor signaling networks that regulate morphogenetic processes. In some situations, PAKs control cell proliferation, but their wider role involves establishing cell polarity and promoting cellular plasticity via changes in the actin cytoskeleton. PAKs have been shown to impact on three important areas of human health, namely, cancer, brain function, and virus infection. We review the mechanisms and targets of PAKs in these contexts and provide an overview of the ways in which inhibitors might act to arrest tumor growth, combat virus infection, and promote cell apoptosis. Although PAKs are most abundant in the brain, there are few details of how they might be operating in this context. The advent of new and more selective PAK inhibitors promises new avenues of treatment and allows us to probe in greater detail the importance of PAK biology.
The unfolded protein response, also known as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, has been implicated in numerous human diseases, including atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, and neurodegenerative disorders. Protein misfolding activates one or more of the three ER transmembrane sensors to initiate a complex network of signaling that transiently suppresses protein translation while also enhancing protein folding and proteasomal degradation of misfolded proteins to ensure full recovery from ER stress. Gene disruption studies in mice have provided critical insights into the role of specific signaling components and pathways in the differing responses of animal tissues to ER stress. These studies have emphasized an important contribution of translational repression to sustained insulin synthesis and -cell viability in experimental models of type-2 diabetes. This has focused attention on the recently discovered small-molecule inhibitors of eIF2 phosphatases that prolong eIF2 phosphorylation to reduce cell death in several animal models of human disease. These compounds show significant cytoprotection in cellular and animal models of neurodegenerative disorders, highlighting a potential strategy for future development of drugs to treat human protein misfolding disorders.
Dyskinesias represent a major complication of dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) and have prompted a search for alternative treatments. The most radical advances in this field have been provided by surgical manipulations of the deep basal ganglia nuclei, and particularly by deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Although being very effective, high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the STN is a poorly understood treatment. Besides its anti-akinetic activity, it can be pro-dyskinetic above a certain stimulation intensity. Accumulating evidence indicates that dyskinesias induced by STN-HFS and dopamine replacement therapy are linked to dysregulation of glutamate transmission in the basal ganglia. In rat models of PD, both types of dyskinesia are associated with increased concentrations of extracellular glutamate and altered expression of glutamate transporters in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the striatum. Furthermore, a vast and ever growing literature has revealed changes in the expression, phosphorylation state, and/or subcellular distribution of specific subtypes of glutamate receptors in these dyskinetic conditions. Both types of dyskinesias are linked to an increased phosphorylation of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in critical basal ganglia circuits. We conclude that disruption of glutamate homeostasis and activation of perisynaptic and extra-synaptic glutamate receptors are an important pathophysiological component of these treatment-induced dyskinesias in PD. These findings lay the ground for therapeutic development initiatives targeting dysfunctional components of glutamate transmission in the basal ganglia.
Histopathological investigations revealed acute-, subacute-, and chronic-type tissue responses, accompanied by inflammatory cell reaction in radiosurgery treated cerebral metastases originating from different primary cancers. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the preponderance of CD68-positive macrophages and CD3-positive T lymphocytes in the inflammatory infiltration developed in better controlled metastases ( &gt; 5 months). In contrast, it was sparse or absent in poorly controlled neoplasms ( &lt; 5 months) after radiosurgery. This inflammatory reaction may be stimulated by the ionizing energy, probably influenced by the general condition of the patients' immune system as well, and seems to play a role in local tumor control after focused radiation.

Although omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids negatively regulate triglyceride biosynthesis, the mechanisms mediating this effect are poorly understood, and emerging evidence suggests that stearoyl-CoA desaturase (Scd1) is required for de novo triglyceride biosynthesis. To investigate this mechanism, we determined the effects of perinatal n-3 deficiency and postnatal repletion on rat liver Scd1 mRNA expression and activity indices (liver 16:1/16:0 and 18:1/18:0 ratios), and determined relationships with postprandial (non-fasting) plasma triglyceride levels. Rats were fed conventional diets with or without the n-3 fatty acid precursor -linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3n-3) during perinatal development (E0-P100), and a subset of rats fed the ALA- diet were switched to the ALA+ diet post-weaning (P21-P100, repletion). Compared with controls, rats fed the ALA- diet exhibited significantly lower liver long-chain n-3 fatty acid compositions and elevations in monounsaturated fatty acid composition, both of which were normalized in repleted rats. Liver Scd1 mRNA expression and activity indices (16:1/16:0 and 18:1/18:0 ratios) were significantly greater in n-3 deficient rats compared with controls and repleted rats. Among all rats, liver Scd1 mRNA expression was positively correlated with liver 18:1/18:0 and 16:1/16:0 ratios. Plasma triglyceride levels, but not glucose or insulin levels, were significantly greater in n-3 deficient rats compared with controls and repleted rats. Liver Scd1 mRNA expression and activity indices were positively correlated with plasma triglyceride levels. These preclinical findings demonstrate that n-3 fatty acid status is an important determinant of liver Scd1 mRNA expression and activity, and suggest that down-regulation of Scd1 is a mechanism by which n-3 fatty acids repress constitutive triglyceride biosynthesis.
Insomnia is prevalent, causing severe distress and impairment. This review focuses on illuminating the puzzling finding that many insomnia patients misperceive their sleep. They overestimate their sleep onset latency (SOL) and underestimate their total sleep time (TST), relative to objective measures. This tendency is ubiquitous (although not universal). Resolving this puzzle has clinical, theoretical, and public health importance. There are implications for assessment, definition, and treatment. Moreover, solving the puzzle creates an opportunity for real-world applications of theories from clinical, perceptual, and social psychology as well as neuroscience. Herein we evaluate 13 possible resolutions to the puzzle. Specifically, we consider the possible contribution, to misperception, of (1) features inherent to the context of sleep (e.g., darkness); (2) the definition of sleep onset, which may lack sensitivity for insomnia patients; (3) insomnia being an exaggerated sleep complaint; (4) psychological distress causing magnification; (5) a deficit in time estimation ability; (6) sleep being misperceived as wake; (7) worry and selective attention toward sleep-related threats; (8) a memory bias influenced by current symptoms and emotions, a confirmation bias/belief bias, or a recall bias linked to the intensity/recency of symptoms; (9) heightened physiological arousal; (10) elevated cortical arousal; (11) the presence of brief awakenings; (12) a fault in neuronal circuitry; and (13) there being 2 insomnia subtypes (one with and one without misperception). The best supported resolutions were misperception of sleep as wake, worry, and brief awakenings. A deficit in time estimation ability was not supported. We conclude by proposing several integrative solutions.
Various authors (e.g. Kahnemann, D., &amp; Tversky, A. (1982). The simulation heuristic. In D. Kahnemann, P. Slovic, &amp; A. Tversky (Eds.), Judgment under uncertainty: Heuristics and biases (pp. 201-208). New York, NY: Cambridge University Press) have suggested that imagining an event and its consequences influences the perceived likelihood that it might happen in reality (simulation heuristic). A scenario--a description of how a certain activity can lead to a certain outcome--may stimulate one to imagine the outcomes and may influence one's likelihood judgement. The present research studied the effect of risk scenarios on perceptions of susceptibility to sexually transmitted infections and the role of imaginability therein. In a randomised experimental study, we examined the effects of a prefabricated risk scenario and a self-constructed risk scenario against a non-message condition on perceived susceptibility to get infected with Chlamydia. Participants considered themselves more susceptible to Chlamydia after writing their own risk scenario but not after reading the prefabricated risk scenario. The imaginability of the event seemed to mediate the effect of self-constructed scenario information on perceived susceptibility. Recommendations for health education practices are discussed.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the correlation between different measures of quality of life (QoL), functional status and mood status in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A sample of 40 patients with ALS was recruited and scales for the evaluation of health-related QoL (SF36), patient-centered QoL (SEIQoL), functional status (ALSFRS) and depression (ZDS) have been administered to them. All the correlations (Pearson's r) between the scores have been considered and the t-test was performed in order to compare male with female patients. No correlation emerged between the different measures of QoL and functional status, apart from the scores of the Physical Functioning subscale of the SF36 which resulted positively correlated (p&lt;0.01) with those of the ALSFRS. Mood status resulted negatively correlated with many aspects of health-related QoL but not with patient-centred QoL. Data suggest that the relationship between functional status and different domains of QoL in this population of patients with a severely compromising disease is not linear and that the satisfaction with life of the patients themselves is not strongly related to the level of physical impairment.

Recent work has given rise to the view that reward-based decision making is governed by two key controllers: a habit system, which stores stimulus-response associations shaped by past reward, and a goal-oriented system that selects actions based on their anticipated outcomes. The current literature provides a rich body of computational theory addressing habit formation, centering on temporal-difference learning mechanisms. Less progress has been made toward formalizing the processes involved in goal-directed decision making. We draw on recent work in cognitive neuroscience, animal conditioning, cognitive and developmental psychology, and machine learning to outline a new theory of goal-directed decision making. Our basic proposal is that the brain, within an identifiable network of cortical and subcortical structures, implements a probabilistic generative model of reward, and that goal-directed decision making is effected through Bayesian inversion of this model. We present a set of simulations implementing the account, which address benchmark behavioral and neuroscientific findings, and give rise to a set of testable predictions. We also discuss the relationship between the proposed framework and other models of decision making, including recent models of perceptual choice, to which our theory bears a direct connection.
The evolutionarily highly conserved neuropeptide oxytocin seems to be involved in the regulation of complex forms of social behavior. It enhances the processing of positive social stimuli, reduces behavioral and neuroendocrine stress responses and modulates amygdala activity in humans. Moreover, it has been proposed that oxytocin dampens sympathetic nervous system activity. This hypothesis was tested in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study with 38 men either receiving 24 IU oxytocin intranasally or a placebo spray. While accomplishing an emotion classification task, electrodermal responses were measured as an index of sympathetic activity. Moreover, heart rate changes were recorded that are additionally mediated by the parasympathetic nervous system. Oxytocin enhanced differential heart rate responses to facial expressions as a function of the emotional valence, but had no effect on electrodermal activity or tonic measures of physiological arousal. These results indicate that oxytocin specifically modulates phasic activity of the parasympathetic nervous system which potentially reflects an increased motivational value of facial expressions following oxytocin treatment. Findings suggest that anxiolytic effects of oxytocin are not reflected in short-term sympathetic responses and may even be a consequence of rather than a prerequisite for improved social information processing.
Considerable evidence indicates that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a progressive neurodegenerative disease of the motor system, has an enormous impact on the patient's emotional and physical well-being. As previous findings indicated that particularly the rise in cortisol levels immediately after awakening, i.e., the cortisol awakening response (CAR), is associated with indices of physical and emotional well-being, we compared the CAR of 29 admitted ALS patients with that of 12 age-matched caregiver controls. Saliva samples for cortisol measurement were collected immediately, 15, 30 and 45 min after awakening. The severity of ALS progression was quantified using the ALS functional rating scale (ALSFRS) and manual muscle test (MMT). Depressive mood status in ALS patients was determined with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). Salivary cortisol levels of ALS patients did not differ from those of caregiver controls at awakening, 15 min or 45 min after awakening, but were significantly lower at 30 min after awakening. Area under the curve analysis confirmed that the CAR was significantly smaller in ALS patients than in caregiver controls. A smaller CAR in ALS patients was significantly correlated to poorer clinical status, as assessed with both the ALSFRS and MMT rating instruments. Further, a smaller CAR significantly correlated with a more severe depressive mood status. No correlations were observed between total cortisol output during the first 45 min post-awakening and clinical or depressive status. In conclusion, our findings indicate that ALS patients show a blunted CAR, correlated with disease and depression severity.



Thought processing and mood regulation are closely linked, but existing classifications of mood disorders fail to recognize the complex interplay between these two clinical dimensions. Furthermore, existing classifications fail to account for the possibility that depression might be associated with an increased frequency of self-referential thoughts that could in some circumstances be related to creativity processes. Based on recent evidence from clinical phenomenology, experimental psychology and affective neuroscience, we propose a novel comprehensive theoretical framework that incorporates thought processing and emotional valence. This new taxonomy provides insights into the clinical understanding of the spectrum of mood disorders and accounts for the possibility of increased creativity in altered mood states.
Henri Ey suggested that all hallucinations occur against the background of depersonalization, which is an alteration in experience that people find hard to describe, where the subject feels a strangeness pervading the world and her/his own body, emotions and thoughts. Embracing Ey's proposal, this paper draws a comparison between depersonalization in hallucinations and depersonalization in some delusional states (especially the Capgras and the Cotard syndromes), which by the most recent models used in cognitive neuroscience is considered to be a disruption in so-called 'affective familiarity'. Sensory information regarding the world is divided into the 'overt pathway' of perceptual inputs and the 'covert pathway' of 'atmospheric cues'. In hallucinating subjects, we suggest that a breakdown of the grasping of atmospheric qualities in the environment triggers a compensatory process consisting of the production of hypotheses that make sense of the world perceived. Finally, we report on a case that illustrates our proposal.
















We performed electroencephalogram (EEG) recording in a precuing task to investigate the planning processes of reach-to-grasp movements in human. In this reaction time (RT) task, subjects had to reach, grasp, and pull an object as fast as possible after a visual GO signal. We manipulated two parameters: the hand shape for grasping (precision grip or side grip) and the force required to pull the object (high or low). Three seconds before the GO onset, a cue provided advance information about force, grip, both parameters, or no information at all. EEG data show that reach-to-grasp movements generate differences in the topographic distribution of the late Contingent Negative Variation (ICNV) amplitude between the 4 precuing conditions. Along with RT data, it confirms that two distinct functional networks are involved with different time courses in the planning of grip and force. Finally, we outline the composite nature of the lCNV that might reflect both high- and low-level planning processes.
The most common causes of morbidity and mortality in the western world can be accounted for by unhealthy patterns of behavior (e.g. smoking, sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy diet, and alcohol consumption). Interventions to improve health behavior are sorely needed. To fully realize the potential of health behavior change interventions, be they individual level, community level, social structural, or policy-based, a greater understanding of the extent to which genomics can inform efforts at health behavior change is warranted. In this commentary, we explore three relatively novel possible routes to the integration of genomics and health behavior: (1) genomics may influence health behavior indirectly through intermediate phenotypes, requiring well-defined theory-based and mechanistic models of health behavior, (2) genomics may moderate response to interventions to change health behavior, and (3) genomics, specifically epigenetic variation, may be influenced by health behavior. The integration of genomics into research on interventions to change health behavior is not without challenges and will certainly require transdisciplinary collaborative science to succeed. We provide specific action points for moving the science forward to explore the extent to which genomic information can be harnessed to ultimately decrease morbidity and mortality associated with unhealthy behavior.
In the 70 years since autism was described and named there have been huge changes in the conceptualization of this enigmatic condition. This review takes a personal perspective on the history of autism research. The origins of the first cognitive theories of autism, theory of mind and weak central coherence, are discussed and updated to inform future developments. Selected experimental findings are interpreted in the historical context of changes that have been brought about by advances in methodology. A three-level framework graphically illustrates a causal chain between brain, mind, and behaviour to facilitate the identification of phenotypes in neurodevelopmental disorders. Cognition is placed at the centre of the diagram to reveal that it can link together brain and behaviour, when there are complex multiple mappings between the different levels.
Humans and chimpanzees demonstrate numerous cognitive specializations for processing faces, but comparative studies with monkeys suggest that these may be the result of recent evolutionary adaptations. The present study utilized the novel approach of face space, a powerful theoretical framework used to understand the representation of face identity in humans, to further explore species differences in face processing. According to the theory, faces are represented by vectors in a multidimensional space, the centre of which is defined by an average face. Each dimension codes features important for describing a face's identity, and vector length codes the feature's distinctiveness. Chimpanzees and rhesus monkeys discriminated male and female conspecifics' faces, rated by humans for their distinctiveness, using a computerized task. Multidimensional scaling analyses showed that the organization of face space was similar between humans and chimpanzees. Distinctive faces had the longest vectors and were the easiest for chimpanzees to discriminate. In contrast, distinctiveness did not correlate with the performance of rhesus monkeys. The feature dimensions for each species' face space were visualized and described using morphing techniques. These results confirm species differences in the perceptual representation of conspecific faces, which are discussed within an evolutionary framework.
Research on &quot;theory of mind&quot; has traditionally focused on a narrow participant group (preschool children) using a narrow range of experimental tasks (most notably, false-belief tasks). Recent work has greatly expanded the age range of human participants tested to include human infants, older children, and adults, has devised new tasks, and has adopted methods from cognitive psychology and neuroscience. However, theoretical work has not kept pace with these changes, with the result that studies using one kind of method or participant group often inherit assumptions about the nature of theory of mind from other research, with little regard for whether these assumptions are appropriate. I argue that three distinct approaches to thinking about theory of mind are already implicit in research practice, and that future work, whether with infants, children, or adults, will benefit from articulating these approaches more clearly and following their different implications for what theory of mind is and how it should be studied.
Within single-mechanism connectionist models of inflectional morphology, generating the past-tense form of a verb depends upon the interaction of semantic and phonological representations, with semantic information being particularly important for irregular or exception verbs. We assessed this hypothesis in two experiments requiring normal speakers to produce the past tense from a verb stem that takes a regular or exceptional past tense. Experiment 1 revealed significant latency advantages for high- over low-imageability words for both regular verbs (e.g., &quot;lunged&quot; faster than &quot;loved&quot;) and exception items (e.g., &quot;drank&quot; faster than &quot;dealt&quot;); but critically, this effect was significantly larger for exceptions than for regulars. Experiment 2 employed a semantic priming paradigm where participants inflected verb stems (e.g., sit) preceded by related (e.g., chair) or unrelated primes (e.g., jug) and revealed a priming effect in accuracy that was confined to the exception items. Our results are consistent with predictions from single-mechanism connectionist models of inflectional morphology and converge with findings from neurological patients and studies of reading aloud.
When witnessing another's action, people recruit the same motor resources that enable them to efficiently perform that action, thus gazing at its target well before the agent's hand. But just to what extent does this recruitment help people in grabbing another's action target? If the latter seems to be out of the agent's reach, will this impact on people's gaze behaviour? We recorded proactive eye movements while participants witnessed someone else trying to reach for and grasp objects located either within or outside his reach. Proactivity of gaze was impaired when the targets were just out of the agent's reach. This effect is likely to be due to an interpersonal bodily space representation that allows one to map another's reaching space, thus prompting proactive eye movements towards the target just in case the agent is in the position to act upon it.
The present study highlights the utility of context-specific learning for different probe types in accounting for the commonly observed dependence of negative priming on probe selection. Using a Stroop priming procedure, Experiments 1a and 1b offered a demonstration that Stroop priming effects can differ qualitatively for selection and no-selection probes when probe selection is manipulated between subjects, but not when it is manipulated randomly from trial to trial within subject (see also Moore, 1994). In Experiments 2 and 3, selection and no-selection probes served as two contexts that varied randomly from trial to trial, but for which proportion repeated was manipulated separately. A context-specific proportion repeated effect was observed in Experiment 2, characterized by modest quantitative shifts in the repetition effects as a function of the context-specific proportion repeated manipulation. However, with a longer intertrial interval in Experiment 3, a context-specific proportion repeated manipulation that focused on the no-selection probes changed the repetition effect qualitatively, from negative priming when the proportion repeated was .25 to positive priming when the proportion repeated was .75. The results are discussed with reference to the role of rapid, context-specific learning processes in the integration of prior experiences with current perception and action.
We demonstrate large differences in judging positive and null contingencies between younger and older adults with a task commonly used to explore cue competition in both contingency and causality judgements. The one-phase blocking task uses two cues, with separate contingencies with the same outcome. The age differences persisted even when participants knew in advance which of the two contingencies to judge. The age differences disappeared, however, when the stimulus display contained markers aiding perceptual segregation. We suggest that the age differences elicited in the one-phase blocking task are linked to decrements in perceptual segregation.
The current paper examines the applicability of the context-specific control principle to the probe selection dependence of negative-priming effects using the single-prime procedure. In a series of experiments, we highlight the applicability of the context-specific control principle, first by illustrating a key result that implicates the role of context-specific control and challenges the contextual similarity principle. Following this, we show the importance of distinct probe contexts in the single-prime negative-priming procedure and report a novel finding that illustrates a learning effect that can occur within an experimental session. Finally, we test the relation of our novel learning effect to a related learning proposal offered by Frings and Wentura (2006), and we demonstrate that the learning involved in context-specific control is not dependent on contingency learning. Overall, the patterns of results highlight the role of context-sensitive memory in controlling how current perception and action are integrated with prior experience.
Many reaction time (RT) experiments have tested for response-level probability effects. Their results have been mixed, which is surprising because psychophysiological studies provide clear evidence of motor-level changes associated with an anticipated response. A survey of the designs used in the RT studies reveals many potential problems that could conceal the effects of response probability. We report five new RT experiments testing for response-level probability effects with the most promising of the previous designs-that of Blackman ( 1972 )-and with new designs. Some of these experiments yield evidence of response-level probability effects, but others do not. It appears that response-level probability effects are present primarily in simple tasks with a strong emphasis on response preparation, possibly because participants only expend effort on response preparation in these tasks.
There are three main hypotheses about mental representations of arithmetic facts: the independent representation hypothesis, the operand-order-free single-representation hypothesis, and the operand-order-specific single-representation hypothesis. The current study used electrical recordings of eye movements to examine the organization of arithmetic facts in long-term memory. Subjects were presented single-digit addition and multiplication problems and were asked to report the solutions. Analyses of the horizontal electrooculograph (HEOG) showed an operand order effect for multiplication in the time windows 150-300ms (larger negative potentials for smaller operand first problems than for larger operand first ones). The operand order effect was reversed in the time windows from 400 to 1,000ms (i.e., larger operand first problems had larger negative potentials than smaller operand first problems). For addition, larger operand first problems had larger negative potentials than smaller operand first in the series of time windows from 300 to 1,000ms, but the effect was smaller than that for multiplication. These results confirmed the dissociated representation of addition and multiplication facts and were consistent with the prediction of the preferred operand-order-specific representation hypothesis.
The reminiscence bump is the tendency to recall more autobiographical memories from adolescence and early adulthood than from adjacent lifetime periods. In this online study, the robustness of the reminiscence bump was examined by looking at participants' judgements about the quality of football players. Dutch participants (N = 619) were asked who they thought the five best players of all time were. The participants could select the names from a list or enter the names when their favourite players were not on the list. Johan Cruijff, Pel, and Diego Maradona were the three most often mentioned players. Participants frequently named football players who reached the midpoint of their career when the participants were adolescents (mode = 17). The results indicate that the reminiscence bump can also be identified outside the autobiographical memory domain.
Viewing objects can result in automatic, partial activation of motor plans associated with them-&quot;object affordance&quot;. Here, we recorded grip force simultaneously from both hands in an object affordance task to investigate the effects of conflict between coactivated responses. Participants classified pictures of objects by squeezing force transducers with their left or right hand. Responses were faster on trials where the object afforded an action with the same hand that was required to make the response (congruent trials) compared to the opposite hand (incongruent trials). In addition, conflict between coactivated responses was reduced if it was experienced on the preceding trial, just like Gratton adaptation effects reported in &quot;conflict&quot; tasks (e.g., Eriksen flanker). This finding suggests that object affordance demonstrates conflict effects similar to those shown in other stimulus-response mapping tasks and thus could be integrated into the wider conceptual framework on overlearnt stimulus-response associations. Corrected erroneous responses occurred more frequently when there was conflict between the afforded response and the response required by the task, providing direct evidence that viewing an object activates motor plans appropriate for interacting with that object. Recording continuous grip force, as here, provides a sensitive way to measure coactivated responses in affordance tasks.
Impaired cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR), a predictive factor of imminent stroke, has been shown to be associated with carotid steno-occlusive disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, such as blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) and arterial spin labeling (ASL), have emerged as promising noninvasive tools to evaluate altered CVR with whole-brain coverage, when combined with a vasoactive stimulus, such as respiratory task or injection of acetazolamide. Under normal cerebrovascular conditions, CVR has been shown to be globally and homogenously distributed between hemispheres, but with differences among cerebral regions. Such differences can be explained by anatomical specificities and different biochemical mechanisms responsible for vascular regulation. In patients with carotid steno-occlusive disease, studies have shown that MRI techniques can detect impaired CVR in brain tissue supplied by the affected artery. Moreover, resulting CVR estimations have been well correlated to those obtained with more established techniques, indicating that BOLD and ASL are robust and reliable methods to assess CVR in patients with cerebrovascular diseases. Therefore, the present paper aims to review recent studies which use BOLD and ASL to evaluate CVR, in healthy individuals and in patients with carotid steno-occlusive disease, providing a source of information regarding the obtained results and the methodological difficulties.
Differentiating hemorrhagic infarct from parenchymal intracerebral hemorrhage can be difficult. The immediate and long-term management of the two conditions are different and hence the importance of accurate diagnosis. Using a series of intracerebral hemorrhage cases presented to our stroke unit, we aim to highlight the clues that may be helpful in distinguishing the two entities. The main clue to the presence of hemorrhagic infarct on computed tomography scan is the topographic distribution of the stroke. Additional imaging modalities such as computed tomography angiogram, perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging may provide additional information in differentiating hemorrhagic infarct from primary hemorrhages.
The aim of this study was to characterize in vivo measurements of diffusion along the length of the entire healthy spinal cord and to compare DTI indices, including fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD), between cord regions. The objective is to determine whether or not there are significant differences in DTI indices along the cord that must be considered for future applications of characterizing the effects of injury or disease. A cardiac gated, single-shot EPI sequence was used to acquire diffusion-weighted images of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar regions of the spinal cord in nine neurologically intact subjects (19 to 22 years). For each cord section, FA versus MD values were plotted, and a k-means clustering method was applied to partition the data according to tissue properties. FA and MD values from both white matter (average FA = 0.69, average MD = 0.93  10(-3)mm(2)/s) and grey matter (average FA = 0.44, average MD = 1.8  10(-3)mm(2)/s) were relatively consistent along the length of the cord.
The nervous system is consistently viewed as a target of high interest for stem cell-based therapeutics. In the USA, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) are the two largest funders of neuroscience-related research within the NIH. Research spanning the spectrum of basic, translational and clinical science is conducted both on the NIH campus and through funding of extramural research organizations across the USA, and, to a lesser extent, worldwide. In this brief survey, we will present an overview of stem cell-related activities at the two neuroscience-focused NIH institutes.
Background. There is a need for tools to assess dependency among persons with severe impairments. Objectives. The aim was to compare the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) and the Northwick Park Dependency Score (NPDS), in a sample from in-patient rehabilitation. Material and Methods. Data from 115 persons (20 to 65 years of age) with neurological impairments was gathered. Analyses were made of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. Agreement of the scales was assessed with kappa and concordance with Goodman-Kruskal's gamma. Scale structures were explored using the Rank-Transformable Pattern of Agreement (RTPA). Content validation was performed. Results. The sensitivity of the NPDS as compared to FIM varied between 0.53 (feeding) and 1.0 (mobility) and specificity between 0.64 (mobility) and 1.0 (bladder). The positive predictive value varied from 0.62 (mobility) to 1.0 (bladder), and the negative predictive value varied from 0.48 (bowel) to 1.0 (mobility). Agreement between the scales was moderate to good (four items) and excellent (three items). Concordance was good, with a gamma of -.856, an asymptotic error (ase) of .025, and P &lt; .000. The parallel reliability between the FIM and the NPDS showed a tendency for NPDS to be more sensitive (having more categories) when dependency is high. Conclusion. FIM and NPDS complement each other. NPDS can be used as a measure for severely injured patients who are sensitive when there is a high need of nursing time.
Although low levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a physiological role in maintaining sperm function, an increase in ROS generation above these levels may result in the induction of sperm membrane and DNA damage. The main objective of this study was to determine whether bovine oviducal explants (TU) and their conditioned media (CM) have a modulatory effect on the production of ROS, and consequently, on sperm DNA integrity. Thawed sperm were exposed to bovine TU and to CM obtained from the ampullar and isthmal regions after 4 and 12h, and DNA damage and intracellular ROS production was assessed by TUNEL and DHE and SYTOX Green, respectively. Co-incubation of spermatozoa with oviducal explants from the ampullar region (TUa) for 4h resulted in a statistically significant increase in the percentage of spermatozoa with DNA damage compared with controls (P=0.0106), and this increase was positively correlated with ROS levels. Conversely, although the incubation of spermatozoa with explants and conditioned media from the isthmal region (TUi and CMi, respectively) for 12h resulted in an increase of spermatozoa with DNA damage compared with controls (P&lt;0.0001), this increase was not correlated with ROS levels. In conclusion, significant oxidative stress may take place in the oviduct, particularly during short-term incubation, and this may be related to changes in the antioxidant factors present in the oviducal cells and secretions. A redox imbalance in pro-oxidants and antioxidants in the oviduct may lead to oxidative stress and sperm DNA damage.
Androgen-dependent urinary constituents from males hasten reproductive maturation (the Vandenbergh effect) and disrupt peri-implantation pregnancy (the Bruce effect) in nearby females. Each of these effects can be mimicked in socially isolated females by direct administration of exogenous oestrogens. The current experiments were designed to determine the role of males' urinary 17-oestradiol (E(2)) in their capacities to induce these effects. A preliminary experiment showed that both males on a phyto-oestrogen-rich soy-based diet and those on a phyto-oestrogen-free diet could induce both effects. For subsequent experiments, males were castrated and treated with either oil vehicle or E(2). Enzyme immunoassay was conducted on non-invasively collected urine samples from these males. Concentrations of urinary testosterone were subnormal in both conditions, but urinary E(2) was restored to the normal range for intact males in castrates given E(2). Urinary creatinine was also quantified as a measure of hydration and was significantly reduced in males treated with E(2). Castration diminished the capacity of males to promote growth of the immature uterus and also their capacity to disrupt blastocyst implantation in inseminated females. Injections of E(2) to castrated males restored both capacities. These data converge with other studies indicating that E(2) is the main constituent of male urine responsible for induction of both the Vandenbergh and the Bruce effects.











TLR2 agonists are well known for inducing NF-kB activation and inflammation, while estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-) is a regulator of estrogen-mediated anti-inflammatory responses. In the present work, we determined the role of ER- and phosphorylated ER- in TLR2 agonist-induced MCP1 production in mesangial cells. We found that TLR2 agonists induced nuclear localization of phospho-ER- (serine 118), and estrogen and TLR2 agonists both induced phosphorylation of ER- at the serine 118 and 104/106 positions. Incubation of MRL/lpr mesangial cells with estrogen was found to attenuate TLR2 agonist-mediated MCP1 production. To determine the mode of action of ER-/pER- (serine-118), we used the ER- inhibitor MPP and transfected mesangial cells with ER- siRNA. ER- inhibition was found to decrease MCP1 production in mesangial cells. Thus, ER-/pER- is an intermediate regulator for both TLR2-mediated MCP1 production during inflammation and estrogen-mediated anti-inflammatory signals in mesangial cells.
Organisms that use a chromosomal basis of sex determination have a problem of gene inequality. In the mouse, this dimorphism is evident by the presence of two X-chromosomes in females, while males have a single X- and a single Y-chromosome. To balance this disparity, one of the two female X-chromosomes is transcriptionally silenced to neutralize the gene dose with the XY male. Dosage compensation in mammals is known as X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) and is a crucial early developmental process. XCI is an example of epigenetics: a phenotype resulting in changes on a chromosome without a change in nucleic acid sequence. Studies in mouse embryology and genetics have answered many questions about the process of balancing the dose. In this chapter, I highlight how the mouse dosage compensates the gene disparity between XX females and XY males in a crucial epigenetic process called X-chromosome inactivation (XCI).
The fatal CNS demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), is rare and appears to occur almost always as a consequence of immune dysfunction. Thus, it is associated with HIV/AIDS and also as a side effect of certain immunomodulatory monoclonal antibody therapies. In contrast to the rarity of PML, the etiological agent of the disease, the polyomavirus JC (JCV), is widespread in populations worldwide. In the 40 years since JCV was first isolated, much has been learned about the virus and the disease from laboratory and clinical observations. However, there are many aspects of the viral life cycle and of the pathogenesis of the disease that remain unclear, and our understanding is constantly evolving. In this review, we will discuss our current understanding of the clinical features of PML and molecular characteristics of JCV and of how they relate to each other. Clinical observations can inform molecular studies of the virus, and likewise, molecular findings concerning the life cycle of the virus can guide the development of novel therapeutic strategies.

We present a short historical review on the major institutions and figures that contributed to make Paris a renowned centre of physiology and neurology during the xixth and the first half of the xxth centuries. We purposely chose to focus on the period 1800-1950, as 1800 corresponds to the development of brain science and 1950 marks the true beginning of neuroscience. Our presentation is divided into four chapters, matching the main disciplines which have progressed and contributed the most to the knowledge we have of the brain sciences: anatomy, physiology, neurology, and psychiatry-psychology. The present article is the first of four parts of this review, which includes an introduction followed by the chapter on neuroanatomy and on anatomo-pathology, which includes biographical sketches of Flix Vicq d'Azyr, Franois-Xavier Bichat, Franz Joseph Gall, Jean Cruveilhier, Jules Bernard Luys, Paul Broca, Louis Ranvier, Andr-Victor Cornil, Albert Gombault, Jean Nageotte and Ren Couteaux.
For the past 40 years Parkinson's disease (PD) has been intrinsically associated with dopamine (DA) deficiency of the nigrostriatal DA system. One of the fundamental strengths of this theoretical approach is based on a presumed relationship between the degree of DA deficiency and the severity of motor impairment in the disease and its models. However, detailed examination of a substantial number of exemplary preclinical and clinical studies reveals that any such interpretation is overoptimistic and suggests that DA deficiency may be merely an epiphenomenon of a larger process underlying this disorder. Such a conclusion is based on numerous examples of miscarriage of basic principles of good scientific practice including (i) failure to thoroughly examine the adverse effects of DA replacement, (ii) drawing of statistical inference without recognising excessive spread of measure thereby lessening the importance of outliers, (iii) confounding independent and dependent variables within the scientific paradigm, (iv) overlooking fundamental principles of modern pharmacology, (v) confusing correlation with causation in linking cause and effect and (vi) disinclination to incorporate conflicting findings thereby infringing the quintessential scientific principle of tertium quid. This review demonstrates the inherent risks and dangers in the incontrovertible defence of DA deficiency theory and serves to address the ethical problems that emerge from the clinical application of scientific findings. There is increasing interest in new directions for PD research by dimming down the current emphasis on the importance of DA deficiency and its replacement. This would provide genuine hope and a new direction for the sufferers of a most debilitating disease.
In lower animals and humans, stress/anxiety can enhance dorsal striatal-dependent habit memory,at the expense of hippocampal-dependent cognitive memory. The present review considers the potential for this 'stress/anxiety-induced habit bias' to explain some aspects of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In rats,anxiety induced by peripheral or intra-amygdala infusions of anxiogenic drugs can enhance habit memory and impair cognitive memory. In tasks in which both habit and cognitive memory processes may provide a learned solution, stress and drug-induced anxiety favors the use of habit memory. The effect of stress and anxiety on the use of multiple memory systems in rats depends on the functional integrity of the basolateral amygdala. Thus,under robust emotional arousal, amygdala activation can modulate the relative use of memory systems in a manner that favors habit memory. We propose a similar mechanism may underlie the development and persistence of some PTSD symptoms. The traumatic memories of PTSD patients can be deficient in hippocampus-dependent contextual or autobiographical aspects, and enhanced in responding to trauma-related cues, which we suggest may reflect increased involvement of the dorsal striatum.We briefly consider the potential role of a stress/anxiety induced habit bias with regard to other psychopathologies,including obsessive-compulsive disorder and drug addiction.
Psychopathy is a personality disorder characterized by remorseless and impulsive antisocial behavior. Given the significant societal costs of the recidivistic criminal acti\xadvity associated with the disorder, there is a pressing need for more effective treatment strategies and, hence, a better understanding of the psychobiological mechanisms underlying the disorder. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is likely to play an important role in psychopathy. In particular, the ventromedial and anterior cingulate sectors of PFC are theorized to mediate a number of social and affective decision-making functions that appear to be disrupted in psychopathy. This article provides a critical summary of human neuroimaging data implicating prefrontal dysfunction in psychopathy. A growing body of evidence associates psychopathy with structural and functional abnormalities in ventromedial PFC and anterior cingulate cortex. Although this burgeoning field still faces a number of methodological challenges and outstanding questions that will need to be resolved by future studies, the research to date has established a link between psychopathy and PFC.
The activity-dependent neuronal modification is important for many aspects of adaptive behavior and brain development. Very often, neurological disorders are associated with the alteration of neural signaling pathways that are required for activity-triggered cellular events. Mounting evidence has implicated the role of cyclic AMP (cAMP)-cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA)-ERK1/2-cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) cascade in numerous brain functions such as learning and memory. Ca2+-stimulated type 1 and type 8 adenylyl cyclases (AC1 and AC8) are unique enzymes that couple activity-dependent calcium influx to the activation of cAMP signaling. Here, we summarize some direct evidence to support that Ca2+-stimulated cAMP signaling regulates molecular and cellular substrates of neuronal adaptation. Specifically, the function of AC1 and AC8 in synaptic functions, such as long-term potentiation, long-term depression, and depotentiation, has been examined by using genetic deletion and overexpression approaches. Consistent with the current hypothesis, the Ca2+-stimulated cAMP production through AC1 and AC8 is required for the activity-dependent activation of the ERK1/2-CREB cascade. We further describe the phenotypes of AC1/AC8 mutant mice in memory formation and other adaptive brain functions. The findings may suggest Ca2+-stimulated AC as therapeutic target for the treatment of mental retardation, pain, addiction, anxiety, depression, and neurodegeneration.
Recently, neuroscience approach has revealed new findings in the mental disorder of schizophrenia, now clearly established as a brain disease, and affecting 1% of the world population. Its onset from 18-25 years cripples people in the most productive period of their lives with positive symptoms (thought disorder, delusions, hallucinations) and negative symptoms (poor social relationships and self care) . In this article, the author has overviewed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings in patients with schizophrenia. Recent MRI studies show it is characterized in MRI by loss of brain gray matter (neuropil, not cells), some of which occurs before full symptom onset and some of which progresses in the 1-2 years after onset. This is most prominent in some neocortical regions and is associated with worsening of symptoms. To understand the pathophysiologic basis, neuroscience efforts and collaborations between neurologists and psychiatrists will be important.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is caused by the failure of neuromuscular transmission mediated by pathogenic autoantibodies (Abs) against acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK). The seropositivity rates for routine AChR binding Ab and MuSK Ab in MG are 80-85% and 5-10% for MG patients in Japan, respectively. The autoimmune target in the remaining patients is unknown. In 2011, autoantibodies against low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (Lrp4) were identified in Japanese MG patients and thereafter have been reported in Germany and the USA. We developed a simple technique termed Gaussia luciferase immunoprecipitation for detecting antibodies to Lrp4. As a result, nine generalized MG patients from 300 lacking AChR Ab are positive for Lrp4 antibodies. Thymoma was not observed in any of these patients. These antibodies inhibit binding of Lrp4 to its ligand and are predominantly of the IgG1 subclass. In other reports of Lrp4 ab, Lrp4 ab positive sera inhibited agrin-induced aggregation of AChRs in cultured myotubes, suggesting a pathogenic role regarding the dysfunction of the neuromuscular endplate. These results indicate that Lrp4 is a third autoantigen in patients with MG, and anti-Lrp4 autoantibodies may be pathogenic. Further studies including neuromuscular junction biopsy are needed to clarify the pathomechanism of Lrp4 ab positive MG.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective loss of motor neurons. Approximately 20% of familial ALS cases are linked to mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. Previously, we developed a transgenic rat model of ALS overexpressing mutant SOD1 protein. The rat model facilitates preclinical ALS research employing various therapeutic approaches such as intrathecal administration, cell transplantation, and viral vector-mediated gene transduction to the affected central nervous system. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a pleiotropic growth factor and also a potent survival-promoting factor for motor neurons. To examine its therapeutic effect on ALS, we administered human recombinant HGF (hrHGF) to the transgenic ALS rats. In contrast with vehicle-treated rats, continuous intrathecal infusion of hrHGF attenuated spinal motor neuron degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease, even with administration from the onset of symptoms. To translate the strategy to human treatment, we performed dose-finding and safety studies using non-human primate model of contusive cervical spinal cord injury. Introducing exogenous HGF protein also revealed a distinct therapeutic effect with functional recovery. Given the therapeutic potential of hrHGF on ALS, we started a novel phase I clinical trial for ALS patients in Tohoku University Hospital.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles or hereditary inclusion body myopathy, for which new nomenclature &quot;GNE myopathy&quot; is now proposed, is an autosomal recessive disease that preferentially affects tibialis anterior and hamstrings muscles in young adults. The disease is caused by mutations, mostly missense, in GNE gene that encodes a protein with two enzymatic activities in sialic acid biosynthetic pathway: UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase and ManNAc kinase. Accordingly, sialic acid production is reduced in patients' cells and cells are hyposialylated. This hyposialylation status can be recovered by simply giving sialic acid. Furthermore, myopathic manifestations were virtually completely suppressed by oral administration of sialic acid in our model mice. Similar efficacy was seen also by ManNAc, precursor of sialic acid, or sialyllactose, a conjugate form of sialic acid. Based upon these in vitro and in vivo results, phase I clinical trial for sialic acid supplementation therapy for human patients was performed in October 2010-June 2011 in Japan and in September 2011-April 2012 in the US, the latter using slow release tablets of sialic acid. Natural history of the patients needs to be established for precise evaluation of the efficacy in the near future phase II clinical trial.
Remarkable effectiveness of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease (PD) has occupied the interest of many scientists and their efforts for elucidating its mechanism have given us a lot of clues for understanding of pathophysiology of PD. The early idea that DBS inhibits neuronal activity of the stimulated nucleus was based on the observation that it shows similar effects as lesions, standing behind the so-called firing rate model of PD pathophysiology. However, it has been also revealed that DBS induces changes indicative of activation of outputs from the stimulated structure, which is inconsistent with the firing rate model. On the other hand, recent studies have demonstrated abnormal discharge pattern in the subthalamic nucleus and the globus pallidus of parkinsonian state, such as burst and oscillation, and its suppression by DBS. These support an idea that the pathological discharge interrupts normal information flow in the basal ganglia. Taken together, changes of firing pattern in the basal ganglia may be crucial for the PD pathophysiology, not a simple increase or decrease in firing rates. Besides, since DBS seems to affect the entire system of the basal ganglia and more, it is necessary to approach its mechanism with a systems-wide view.
Neurofeedback is defined as a method to read out information from the brain and feed the information back to the brain. This technology has developed in the past ten years and attracted considerable attention as potential treatments for rehabilitation and psychiatric disease. We recently invented the decoded neurofeedback (DecNef) method, a new neurofeedback technique using functional magnetic resonance imaging. With DecNef, subjects were trained to regulate their brain activation pattern in a specific area and lead the pattern to a target state. We found that the DecNef training for several days leads to perceptual improvement that corresponds to the induced target state. DecNef enables us to test cause-and-effect relationships between neural activation in a target brain area and changes in perception, cognition, and behavior. In this sense, this method can be a powerful tool in cognitive and systems neuroscience. In addition, the concept of DecNef, leading a neural activation pattern to a specific state, can be applied for a variety of fields including engineering and medical treatment.
Genetic and biological studies provide strong evidence that the deposition of amyloid- peptide (A) contributes to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, drugs that regulate the brain A levels could provide effective disease-modifying therapy for AD. A is generated from amyloid- precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretases. Several -secretase inhibitors have been developed as AD therapeutics. However, simple inhibition of -secretase would have adverse consequences, as -secretase is involved in several signaling pathways including Notch signaling. In 2010, the development of semagacestat, a -secretase inhibitor, was halted. Preliminary results from Phase III studies showed that semagacestat failed to slow disease progression, and it was associated with worsening of clinical measures of cognition and the ability to perform activities of daily living. Furthermore, semagacestat treatment was associated with an increased risk of skin cancer. Thus, alternative compounds that indirectly modulate -secretase activity without affecting Notch are attracting attention. However, molecular mechanism of these compounds still remains unclear. To develop therapeutics with superior specificity and high potency for AD, we have been analyzing the mode of actions of known compounds, structure-and-function relationship of the -secretase complex and possible rational design of -secretase inhibitors and modulators using chemical biology.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a common autosomal dominant muscular dystrophy caused by truncation of D4Z4 repeat array on chromosome 4q35. Facial and shoulder-girdle muscles are preferentially affected but clinical symptoms are quite variable even within the same family. Asymmetrical muscle involvement is also characteristic in this disease. There are no disease specific changes on muscle pathology, and genetic diagnosis is performed by the southern blotting analysis. Recent advances provide us several ideas on possible pathomechanisms of this complicated disease. There are several genes on chromosome 4q35 region including DUX4 within D4Z4 repeats. Transcription of these genes is usually repressed by epigenetic modifications of this chromosomal region and also accumulation of transcriptional repressors to the repeat array. Shortening of the D4Z4 repeats observed in FSHD can cause structural changes of this chromosomal region, reduced recruitment of repressors, and expression of noncoding RNA which can enhance transcription of the genes on chromosome 4q35 region. Actually, increased mRNA expression levels of 4q35 genes was reported in FSHD cells, together with their undesirable roles on muscles by overexpression models. Further analysis is required to elucidate the precise pathomechanisms of FSHD.
In the beginning of this century, a dramatic increase of age-related serious neurological disorders including stroke and vascular dementia is expected in concomitant with continuous increase of older-age population. In order to harmonize several strategies to combat these neurological disorders in a reasonable way, it is critically important to promote lifetime education of stroke medicine for neurologist who has main responsibility to treat stroke patients. In the present presentation, to meet the changing medical needs of our population, I attempted to summarize recent progress of stroke neurology concerning acute stroke management, neurorehabilitation and prevention of stroke recurrence and focused on the importance of understanding evidence-based-medicine for stroke management. The crucial role of several guidelines to renew and standerdize essential knowledge of stroke management was addressed to promote stroke team approach including neurologist, neurosurgeon, stroke nurse and rehabilitation staffs.
Neurologists play a central role in management of stroke patients. However, in Japan, the number of neurologists who are interested in stroke management is not sufficient. In this paper, to raise stroke-conscious neurologists, i.e., neurologists who willingly take care of stroke patients, the roles of undergraduate medical education and postgraduate neurological training are discussed. The key points in neurological education are that stroke provides the best source of brain diseases, symtomatology, and neuroimaging, the best material for understanding of evidence-based medicine, and the model of comprehensive continuous practice from neurological emergency to neurorehabilitation.
It is obvious that deep brain stimulation (DBS) is one of the useful treatment choices for progressive Parkinson disease (PD). The main targets for DBS for PD are the thalamic Vim nucleus, globus pallidus interna (GPi), and subthalamic nucleus (STN). Vim-DBS is useful for tremor but not very effective for other Parkinson symptoms. Therefore, presently, STN and GPi are the common targets for DBS for PD. Diminishing the dose of anti-PD drugs is possible usually only after STN-DBS. However, no evident differences in the effect between STN-DBS and GPi-DBS are noted in the majority of studies. Appropriate indication should be decided on the basis of individual target's feature. Dopa responsiveness is a very important factor when considering the operative indications for both STN-DBS and GPi-DBS. CAPSIT protocol is usually used to evaluate the dopa responsiveness. DBS is considered to be characterized by the bottom-up and substitution effects. The disappearance of wearing-off is expected owing to the bottom-up effect and the disappearance of the side effects of anti-PD drugs is expected owing to the substitution effect. Age at surgery, duration of PD, and degree of dopa responsiveness are important factors for outcome prediction. On the other hand, the rate of complications such as cognitive decline, psychosis, and intracranial hemorrhage is relatively high in elderly patients.
It is the cortices and the cortico-cortical connections that are involved in manifestation of normal cortical functions as well as production of seizure symptoms. In this sense, presurgical evaluation of patients with intractable partial epilepsy helps us delineate cortical functions and networks at the individual level. In return, the advancement of clinical system neuroscience brought us better understanding and evaluation of clinical epileptology as follows. Electrical cortical stimulation in epilepsy surgery can delineate the cortex responsible for a particular task by making transient focal functional impairment, which is in sharp contrast to chronic stroke lesions that are relatively large and usually associated with cortical plastic compensation. For example, this gold-standard mapping method recently demonstrated the presence of anterior ventral language pathway by revealing active engagement of the anterior part of the superior temporal gyrus in speech perception. Cortico-cortical evoked potential (CCEP) is a new in vivo electrical tract tracing method for presurgical evaluation. It promises to refine our understanding of surgical candidacy, first through a more precise and tailored evaluation of the seizure network in each individual patient, and second through greater understanding of the functional systems of the brain involved, such as language, praxis and cognitive motor control.
Although there are some newly-developed options to treat dystonia, its medical treatment is not always satisfactory. Zolpidem, an imidazopyridine agonist with a high affinity to benzodiazepine receptor subtype 1, has been reported to improve clinical symptoms of dystonia in some cases. We conducted an open-label study to assess the efficacy of zolpidem in 34 patients with primary dystonia patients, The Burke Fahn Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS) scores in the patients were decreased from 7.2  7.9 to 5.5  5.0 after zolpidem therapy (P=0.042). Next we evaluated 55 patients with primary and secondary dystonia, 16 of 55 patients (29%) responded to zolpidem, and secondary dystonia, particularly post-traumatic dystonia, was more responsive than primary dystonia (5 of 11 [46%] vs 11 of 44 [25%]). The efficacy of zolpidem was comparable to that of other oral medications in our previous study; 33 of 89 dystonia patients (37%) responded to trihexyphenidil, 13 of 53 (25%) responded to clonazepam, and 4 of 21 (19%) responded to baclofen. In conclusion, our large scale study suggested that zolpidem may be a therapeutic option for dystonia, particularly post-traumatic dystonia.
The molecular mechanism for ataxias has been elucidated in past 20 years. However, still it has not been developed a effective drug which prevents the disease progression or improves their symptom. One of the reasons for that is that the scales for ataxias, which we are using, are not suitable for clinical trial. The number of participant and the duration for a clinical trial is determined by the sensitivity and stability of scale to evaluate the efficacy the therapeutic methods. The available scale for ataxias needs more than 100 participants to evaluation the efficacy in more than 80% power. In addition, most of the scales for ataxias are a categorized scale, which is less sensitive and stable than a continuous scale. For success for clinical trial, we have to develop a new continuous scale for ataxias. In this symposium, we will learn the recent advance of physiological role of cerebellum and imagine a new continuous scale for evaluation for ataxias.
With the striking increase in the number of elderly people in Japan, dementia has not only become a medical but also a social issue. Recently we have reported a crude prevalence of dementia in Ama-cho, a rural island town to be 16.4% in elderly people aged 65 years or older. Observational studies have identified a wide range of potentially modifiable risk factors for dementia, including cardiovascular risk factors, depression and low level of physical or mental activity. Several studies have demonstrated an association between mild parkinsonian signs (MPS) and incident dementia. We have reported a crude prevalence of subjects with MPS to be 22.1% in elderly people aged 60 years or older in Ama-cho. The actigraphic activity counts measured by Actiwatch were significantly reduced in the subjects with severe MPS-severe and a close relationship between MPS and depression was shown in this cohort. Each of depression, motor dysfunction and cognitive dysfunction might affect each other in development of dementia, and was associated with organic changes of brain accompany with modifiable risk factors for dementia. Randomized control trials of multimodal risk factor reduction strategies to prevent dementia are needed.
Superficial siderosis (SS) of the central nervous system is a rare condition in which hemosiderin is deposited in the subpial layer of the brain and/or spinal cord. It is supposed that hemosiderin deposition is a result of recurrent or persistent hemorrhage in the subarachnoid space. The causes of hemorrhage are tumor, vascular abnormality, injury, dural defect, and others. The source of hemorrhage is not apparent despite of extensive examinations in about a half of the patients with SS. Patients with SS usually reveal slowly progressive and irreversible cerebellar ataxia and/or sensorineural hearing loss. MRI of T(2)WI or T(2)(*)WI demonstrates characteristic linear low intensity along surface of the brain and the spinal cord. There are two types of SS. One is a classical type, in which low intensity of MRI is diffuse and symmetrical. The other is a localized type. We attempted to make a clinical criteria of SS according to the world literature. Then, the criteria was applied to cases (53 cases of classical type and 7 cases of localized type) which are collected from Japanese nationwide questionnaires. The causes and symptoms of Japanese SS are similar with those of Western countries.
The fate of injured motor neurons could be determined by the balance of the protection and death signals, which expressed in the injured motor neuron. However recent studies implied the significances of surrounding non-neuronal cells for the protection of motor neurons in degenerative diseases and nerve injury. In periphery Schwann cell, macrophage and endoneurial fibroblast play crucial roles for the proper nerve regeneration. Schwann cell promotes infiltration of macrophage to remove debris of degenerated myelin and provides a scaffold and several growth factors for axon to elongate. The macrophage phagocytoses myelin debris and stocks lipids, which is re-used for re-myelination by Schwann cell. The fibroblast controls the localization of axon and Schwann cells during nerve regeneration. For those cellular functions several mediators among those cells are expressed. In CNS microglia and astrocytes would be the major players for the protection of motor neurons after injury. After nerve injury the activated microglia adhered to the injured motor neurons for a while and then the astrocyte took over, whereas in the dying motor neurons the initial behavior of the microglia was not observed. Glial behavior in CNS may be associated with the fate of injured motor neurons.
All neurologists have to make a differential diagnosis of consciousness loss by EEG. The judgment of epilepsy is especially important. Experts of neurology were also required to determine the level and etiology of the acute or chronic weakness or numbness by EMG with nerve conduction study. Hands on seminar and e-learning would be useful to acquire these tools.

Molecular genetic analyses revealed that most neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and the polyglutamine diseases share a common molecular pathogenesis, namely protein misfolding and aggregation in the brain. Recently, prion-like transmission of these protein aggregates between cells has been suggested to contribute to the spread of neuropathology. To cope with protein aggregation, organisms have protein quality control systems, consisting of molecular chaperones and protein degradation, and therefore, an imbalance between protein aggregation and these systems would lead to neurodegeneration. Mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases exhibit neurological phenotypes before neuronal death, and these phenotypes are unexpectedly reversible, suggesting that neuronal dysfunction rather than death leads to neurological phenotypes. In addition to dysfunctions inside neurons, dysfunctions of the neuronal and neuro-glial networks also contribute to the pathogenesis in a non-cell autonomous fashion. On the other hand, another class of diseases including several spinocerebellar ataxias has been discovered to be caused by a repeat expansion mutation in untranslated RNA resulting in its accumulation, which is called the RNA repeat diseases. Recent discoveries of RNA-binding protein mutations and a repeat expansion mutation in ALS have highlighted the involvement of abnormal RNA metabolism in its pathogenesis. Recently, various researches on molecular-targeted therapies are in progress, which include high throughput chemical screening, RNAi, and gene therapy, etc. Towards development of a therapy for neurodegenerative diseases, sensitive biomarkers suitable for evaluation of therapeutic efficacy in clinical trials are eagerly anticipated.
We report a 38-year-old man with vaccine associated paralytic poliomyelitis (VAPP) which showed unusual biphasic worsening. The patient developed mild paresis of left upper and right lower extremities, five weeks after the oral poliovirus vaccination of patient's son and two weeks after the intramuscular injection of mumps/varicella vaccine in the left triceps muscle for himself. Needle electromyography (EMG) of his left arm and right leg was not remarkable, and the weakness recovered almost completely in three weeks. However, four weeks after the needle EMG, severe weakness and muscle atrophy of the four extremities, accentuated at the left arm and right leg, developed again. Cervical MRI showed gadolinium-enhanced, T(2) high-signal intensity area in the left C4-C6 anterior horn, most prominent at the height of C5 spine. Significant elevation of serum anti-poliomyelitis type 2 neutralizing antibody confirmed the diagnosis of VAPP. Immunomodulatory treatment, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), did not improve weakness. We consider that the second clinical worsening of this patient was provoked by the needle EMG performed just after the first exacerbation, which injured the skeletal muscles and might have enhanced the retrograde transport of poliovirus via neural pathway.
We report two patients who presented with altered mental status and involuntary movement under administration of cefepime (CFPM). Both cases had impaired renal function. Electroencephalogram (EEG) revealed generalized periodic discharges (GPD) or generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA): 3Hz in the case 1 and 1 to 2Hz in the case 2. In spite of the severe abnormality in the EEG, both patients could respond to simple commands, which suggested possible dissociation between clinical findings and EEG. The patients recovered several days after discontinuation of CFPM, and had no clear residuals. We sometimes have difficulty in determining the cause of non-specific altered mental status; drug-induced, toxic, or metabolic encephalopathies are possible differential diagnoses. Arguably, the EEG findings shown here can be a clue to correct diagnosis of CFPM induced encephalopathy.
It was found that neuronal activity of the rabbit somatosensory cortex could be operantly conditioned according to the given algorithm of biofeedback control of nociceptive stimulation leading to rising or lowering of firing rate of multiunit activity, or to changes of range of units interspike intervals, or neuronal firing patterns for conditional stimulus, which become operants. Neuronal interactions of its population with feedback and systems of cardiovascular and pain regulation lead to appearance of wave patterns, combining elements to integrative activity by conditioning. Low-frequency oscillations of neuronal assemblies within range of 0.02-0.8 Hz act as operant processing in mechanisms of system plasticity and conditioning.
This review includes results of own studies and literature data on the topical problem of neurobiology and medicine: discovery of the mechanisms of increased brain resistance to extreme exposures. The emphasis is made on the molecular-cellular and hormonal mechanisms of hypoxic preconditioning-induced brain tolerance to injurious hypoxia, psychoemotional and traumatic stress. A role of basic hormonal and intracellular cascade pro-adaptive processes mediating the neuroprotective action of hypoxic preconditioning is reviewed. A dynamics of the mechanisms of development of induced susceptible brain areas (hippocampus, neocortex) tolerance which includes phases of induction, transformation and expression, is presented. New data on preconditioning-induced cross-tolerance providing increased brain resistance not only to hypoxia but also to other stresses are reported. For the first time neuroprotective effects of hypoxic postconditioning are described.


The objective was to conduct a retrospective and comparative study of the requests for consultation-liaison (RCLs), during a period of six years, sent to the Occupational Therapy (OT) team that acts as the Consultation-liaison Service in Mental Health. During the studied period 709 RCLs were made and 633 patients received OT consultations. The comparison group was extended to 1 129 consecutive referrals to the psychiatric CL service, within the same period and that were also retrospectively reviewed. Regarding to RCLs to the OT team, most of the subjects were women with incomplete elementary schooling, with a mean age of 39.2 years, and were self-employed or retired. Internal Medicine was responsible for most of the RCLs. The mean length of hospitalization was 51 days and the mean rate of referral was 0.5%, with the most frequent reason for the request being related to the emotional aspects and the most frequent psychiatric diagnosis was mood disorder. It is concluded that there is a clear demand for the development of consultation-liaison in OT, particularly with regard to the promotion of mental health in general hospitals.


In this article, we describe results of the 5th Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia meeting which identified candidate imaging biomarkers for used in measuring neural activity associated with specific component processes of cognition that are targeted for treatment development in schizophrenia and other disorders. This manuscript describes the process by which measures related to executive control were selected, along with the specific measures recommended for further development. Two paradigms were recommended for measurement of the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying 2 core component processes of executive control, rule generation and selection, and dynamic adjustments of Control. The 2 paradigms are the AX continuous performance task task (letter and dot forms), implemented as an functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm to engage neural systems supporting rule generation and selection, and the switching Stroop task, implemented as either fMRI or electroencephalography that may be used as a measure of both rule generation and selection as well as dynamic adjustment in control. A detailed description of each paradigm, together with a review of the relevant literature related to their cognitive and neural validity and measurement properties is provided. These 2 paradigms are recommended for further development, including further validation at the cognitive and neural level and optimization with respect to subject tolerability, psychometric, and neurometric features.
Functional imaging paradigms hold great promise as biomarkers for schizophrenia research as they can detect altered neural activity associated with the cognitive and emotional processing deficits that are so disabling to this patient population. In an attempt to identify the most promising functional imaging biomarkers for research on long-term memory (LTM), the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative selected &quot;item encoding and retrieval,&quot; &quot;relational encoding and retrieval,&quot; and &quot;reinforcement learning&quot; as key LTM constructs to guide the nomination process. This manuscript reports on the outcome of the third CNTRICS biomarkers meeting in which nominated paradigms in each of these domains were discussed by a review panel to arrive at a consensus on which of the nominated paradigms could be recommended for immediate translational development. After briefly describing this decision process, information is presented from the nominating authors describing the 4 functional imaging paradigms that were selected for immediate development. In addition to describing the tasks, information is provided on cognitive and neural construct validity, sensitivity to behavioral or pharmacological manipulations, availability of animal models, psychometric characteristics, effects of schizophrenia, and avenues for future development.
The goal of the Cognitive Neuroscience Test Reliability and Clinical Applications for Schizophrenia (CNTRACS) Consortium was to develop measures of discrete cognitive processes, allowing for the interpretation of specific deficits that could be linked to specific neural systems. Here we report on the intertask, clinical, and functional correlates of the 4 tasks that were investigated in large groups of patients with schizophrenia (&gt;100) and healthy controls (&gt;73) at 5 sites across the United States. In both healthy and patient groups, the key dependent measures from the CNTRACS tasks were minimally intercorrelated, suggesting that they are measuring discrete abilities. Correlations were examined between CNTRACS tasks and measures of functional capacity, premorbid IQ, symptom severity, and level of community functioning. Performance on tasks measuring relational memory encoding, goal maintenance, and visual gain control were correlated with premorbid IQ and the former 2 tasks with the functional capacity. Goal maintenance task performance was negatively correlated with negative symptom severity and informant reports of community function. These correlations reflect the relationship of specific abilities with functional outcome. They are somewhat lower than functional outcome correlations observed with conventional neuropsychological tests that confound multiple cognitive and motivational deficits. The measures of visual integration and gain control were not significantly correlated with clinical symptoms or function. These results suggest that the CNTRACS tasks measure discrete cognitive abilities, some of which relate to aspects of functional capacity/outcome in schizophrenia.
The sixth meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) consortium was focused on selecting promising imaging biomarker measures for each of the cognitive constructs selected in the first CNTRICS meeting. In the domain of working memory (WM), the 2 constructs of interest were &quot;goal maintenance&quot; and &quot;interference control.&quot; CNTRICS received 7 task nominations for goal maintenance and 3 task nominations for interference control. For goal maintenance, the breakout group for WM recommended the AX Continuous Performance Test/Dot Pattern Expectancy (DPX) and the Switching Stroop task for translation and further development for use in clinical trial contexts in schizophrenia research. Notably, these same 2 paradigms were recommended for &quot;rule generation and selection&quot; in executive control, a highly related construct. For interference control, the breakout group recommended the Suppress Task and the Sternberg Item Recognition Paradigm for translation for use in clinical trials. This manuscript describes the ways in which each of these tasks met the criteria used by the breakout group to recommend tasks for further development. In addition, the group revisited the construct of WM capacity. Since the initial CNTRICS meeting, a growing body of work has emerged on the neurobiological substrates of WM capacity, making measure of this construct ready for translation. The group suggested a promising imaging biomarker measure for capacity, a version of the change detection task that measures delay activity over posterior parietal and occipital cortex.
The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative highlighted a contour integration test as a promising index of visual integration impairment because of its well-established psychometric properties; its prior validation in healthy adults, patients, and nonhuman primates; and its potential sensitivity to treatment effects. In this multisite study, our goals were to validate the task on the largest subject sample to date, clarify the task conditions and number of trials that best discriminate patients from controls, and determine whether this discrimination can occur in standard clinical trial settings. For our task, subjects briefly observed a field of disconnected, oriented elements and attempted to decide whether a subset of those elements formed a leftward- or rightward-pointing shape. Difficulty depended on the amount of orientational jitter that was added to the shape's elements. Two versions of this Jittered Orientation Visual Integration task (JOVI) were examined. Study 1 did not reveal between-group differences in threshold (ie, the jitter magnitude needed to reach a performance level of 80%), but this likely owed to the wide sampling distribution of jitter levels and resulting floor/ceiling effects in many conditions. Study 2 incorporated a narrower range of difficulty levels and revealed lower thresholds (worse performance) among patients (p &lt; .001). This group difference remained even when only the first half of the trials was analyzed (p = .001). Thus, the JOVI-2 provides a brief, sensitive measure of visual integration deficits in schizophrenia. Neural implications and potential future applications of the JOVI are discussed.
The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative has formed with the expressed intent of identifying constructs and paradigms that would identify biomarkers of psychosis. The manipulation of these biomarkers would serve as targets for treatment interventions. The second phase of CNTRICS consisted of critical discussions evaluating brain mapping (functional neuroimaging and brain electrical activity) paradigms as biomarkers to measure specific constructs. Among the constructs identified in, CNTRICS I was socio-emotional processing, specifically focused on affect recognition. Here, we provide a critical appraisal of the ability of candidate socio-emotional tasks to identify putative biomarkers and recommendations for future directions in this rapidly moving research domain.
The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative, funded by an R13 conference grant from the National Institute of Mental Health, has sought to facilitate the translation of measures from the basic science of cognition into practical brain-based tools to measure treatment effects on cognition in schizophrenia. In this overview article, we summarize the process and products of the sixth meeting in this series, which focused on the identification of promising imaging paradigms, based on the measurement of cognitive evoked potentials (event-related potential) of cognition-related time-frequency analyses of the electroencephalography as well as functional magnetic resonance imaging. A total of 23 well-specified paradigms from cognitive neuroscience that measure cognitive functions previously identified as targets for treatment development were identified at the meeting as being recommended for the further developmental work needed in order to validate and optimize them as biomarker measures. Individual paradigms are discussed in detail in 6 domain-based articles in this volume. Ongoing issues related to the development of these and other measures as valid, sensitive and reliable measurement, and assessment tools, as well as the steps necessary for the development of specific measures for use as biomarkers for treatment development and personalized medicine, are discussed.
The sixth meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) focused on selecting promising imaging paradigms for each of the cognitive constructs selected in the first CNTRICS meeting. In the domain of perception, the 2 constructs of interest were &quot;gain control&quot; and &quot;visual integration.&quot; CNTRICS received 6 task nominations for imaging paradigms for gain control and 3 task nominations for integration. The breakout group for perception evaluated the degree to which each of these tasks met prespecified criteria. For gain control, the breakout group believed that one task (mismatch negativity) was already mature and was being incorporated into multisite clinical trials. The breakout group recommended that 1 visual task (steady-state visual evoked potentials to magnocellular- vs parvocellular-biased stimuli) and 2 auditory measures (an event-related potential (ERP) measure of corollary discharge and a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) version of prepulse inhibition of startle) be adapted for use in clinical trials in schizophrenia research. For visual integration, the breakout group recommended that fMRI and ERP versions of a contour integration test and an fMRI version of a coherent motion test be adapted for use in clinical trials. This manuscript describes the ways in which each of these tasks met the criteria used in the breakout group to evaluate and recommend tasks for further development.
Attention is widely believed to be dysfunctional in schizophrenia. The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) group previously concluded that the processes involved in the top-down control of attention are particularly impaired in schizophrenia and should be the focus of future research. These processes determine which sources of input should be attended, linking goal representations in prefrontal cortex with more posterior regions that implement the actual selection of attended information. A more recent meeting of the CNTRICS group assessed several paradigms that might be useful for identifying biomarkers of attentional control and that could be used for treatment development and assessment. Two types of paradigms were identified as being particularly promising. In one approach, neural activity is measured (using electroencephalography or functional magnetic resonance imaging) during the period between an attention-directing cue and a target. In a second approach, neural activity is measured under low- and high-distraction conditions. These approaches make it possible to identify the goal representations that guide attention and the interactions between these goal representations and the implementation of selection. Although more basic science research with healthy volunteers and preclinical research with schizophrenia patients is needed before these paradigms will be ready to provide clinically useful biomarkers, they hold substantial promise for aiding in the development and assessment of new treatments.


Evidence is reviewed for the existence of a core system for moment-to-moment social communication that is based on the perception of dynamic gestures and other social perceptual processes in the temporal-parietal occipital junction (TPJ), including the posterior superior temporal sulcus (PSTS) and surrounding regions. Overactivation of these regions may produce the schizophrenic syndrome. The TPJ plays a key role in the perception and production of dynamic social, emotional, and attentional gestures for the self and others. These include dynamic gestures of the body, face, and eyes as well as audiovisual speech and prosody. Many negative symptoms are characterized by deficits in responding within these domains. Several properties of this system have been discovered through single neuron recording, brain stimulation, neuroimaging, and the study of neurological impairment. These properties map onto the schizophrenic syndrome. The representation of dynamic gestures is multimodal (auditory, visual, and tactile), matching the predominant hallucinatory categories in schizophrenia. Inherent in the perceptual signal of gesture representation is a computation of intention, agency, and anticipation or expectancy (for the self and others). The neurons are also tuned or biased to rapidly detect threat-related emotions. I review preliminary evidence that overactivation of this system can result in schizophrenia.
Thirty-two videorecorded interviews were conducted by two interviewers with eight patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. Each patient was interviewed four times: three weekly interviews by the first interviewer and one additional interview by the second interviewer. 64 selected sequences where the patients were speaking about psychotic experiences were scored for facial affective behaviour with Emotion Facial Action Coding System (EMFACS). In accordance with previous research, the results show that patients diagnosed with schizophrenia express negative facial affectivity. Facial affective behaviour seems not to be dependent on temporality, since within-subjects ANOVA revealed no substantial changes in the amount of affects displayed across the weekly interview occasions. Whereas previous findings found contempt to be the most frequent affect in patients, in the present material disgust was as common, but depended on the interviewer. The results suggest that facial affectivity in these patients is primarily dominated by the negative emotions of disgust and, to a lesser extent, contempt and implies that this seems to be a fairly stable feature.
Improving functional outcome, in addition to alleviating psychotic symptoms, is now a major treatment objective in schizophrenia research. Given the large body of evidence suggesting pharmacological treatments generally have minimal effects on indices of functioning, research has turned to psychosocial rehabilitation programs. Among these, neurocognitive and social cognitive interventions are at the forefront of this field and are argued to target core deficits inherent to the schizophrenia illness. However, to date, research trials have primarily focused on chronic schizophrenia populations, neglecting the early psychosis groups who are often as severely impaired in social and occupational functioning. This theoretical paper will outline the rationale for investigating adjunctive cognitive-based interventions in the early phases of psychotic illness, critically examine the current approach strategies used in these interventions, and assess the evidence supporting certain training programs for improving functional outcome in early psychosis. Potential pathways for future research will be discussed.
Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated and cation-nonselective ion channels (I ( h ) channels, or HCN channels) are known to play important roles in mammals. Their physiological functions in invertebrate remain largely unclear. Here, we report our studies with I ( h ) channel in Drosophila melanogaster. Drosophila Ih channel mutants are found with several defects by behavioral analyses. Their lifespan is reduced, and their chemical sensitivity is shifted. In addition, their length of sleep at light-dark condition is mildly reduced. We generated transgenic flies of I ( h ) promoter-driven Gal4 and examined its expression pattern in both larvae and adult flies. Our results suggest that I ( h ) channel may play diverse roles in Drosophila and provide a basis to further expand our understanding of Drosophila Ih channel function in vivo.
We investigated circuits for object recognition in macaque anterior (TE) and posterior inferotemporal cortex (TEO), using a two-step method with in vivo anatomical imaging. In step 1, red fluorescent tracer was injected into TE to reveal and Pre-target patches of feedforward neurons in TEO. In step 2, these were visualized on the cortical surface in vivo, and injected with green fluorescent tracer. Histological processing revealed that patches &gt;500 m from the injection site in TEO consisted of intermingled green TEO intrinsically projecting neurons and red TEO-to-TE neurons, with only few double-labeled neurons. In contrast, patches near the injection site in TEO contained many double-labeled neurons. Two parallel, spatially intermingled circuits are suggested: (1) TEO neurons having very local intrinsic collaterals and projection to TE (2) TEO neurons projecting more widely in the intrinsic network, but not to TE. These parallel systems might be specialized for, respectively, fast vs. highly processed signals.
The role of microglial motility in the context of adult neurodegeneration is poorly understood. In the present work, we investigated the microanatomical details of microglia-neuron interactions in an experimental mouse model of Parkinson's disease following the intraperitoneal injection of MPTP. The specific intoxication of dopaminergic neurons induces the cellular polarization of microglia, leading to the formation of body-to-body neuron-glia contacts, called gliapses, which precede neuron elimination. Inhibiting ROCK/Cdc42-mediated microglial motility in vivo blocks the activating features of microglia, such as increased cell size and number of filopodia and diminishes their phagocyting/secreting domains, as the reduction of the Golgi apparatus and the number of microglia-neuron contacts has shown. High-resolution confocal images and three-dimensional rendering demonstrate that microglia engulf entire neurons at one-to-one ratio, and the microglial cell body participates in the formation of the phagocytic cup, engulfing and eliminating neurons in areas of dopaminergic degeneration in adult mammals.
The ROCO proteins are a family of large, multidomain proteins characterised by the presence of a Ras of complex proteins (ROC) domain followed by a COR, or C-terminal of ROC, domain. It has previously been shown that the ROC domain of the human ROCO protein Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) controls its kinase activity. Here, the ability of the ROC domain of another human ROCO protein, Death Associated Protein Kinase 1 (DAPK1), to bind GTP and control its kinase activity has been evaluated. In contrast to LRRK2, loss of GTP binding by DAPK1 does not result in loss of kinase activity, instead acting to modulate this activity. These data highlight the ROC domain of DAPK1 as a target for modifiers of this proteins function, and casts light on the role of ROC domains as intramolecular regulators in complex proteins with implications for a broad range of human diseases.
Recent genetic association studies have identified the A-allele of rs1006737 within CACNA1C as a risk factor for schizophrenia as well as mood disorders. Some evidence suggests that this polymorphism plays a role in cognitive function both in schizophrenia patients and healthy individuals; however, the precise nature of this association remains unclear. Here we investigated the possible association of this polymorphism with a wide range of neurocognitive functions in schizophrenia patients and in healthy subjects. Schizophrenia patients exhibited significantly poorer performance on all the cognitive domains as compared to healthy controls. In patients, A-allele carriers demonstrated significantly worse logical memory performance than the G-allele homozygotes. In controls, no significant association was observed between the genotype and any of the cognitive domains examined. These results add to the literature suggesting that rs1006737 may be associated with schizophrenia through its detrimental effect on endophenotypic traits.
Tau hyperphosphorylation is one hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Pharmaceutical companies have thus developed kinase inhibitors aiming to reduce tau hyperphosphorylation. One obstacle in screening for tau kinase inhibitors is the low phosphorylation levels of AD-related phospho-epitopes in normal adult mice and cultured cells. We have shown that hypothermia induces tau hyperphosphorylation in vitro and in vivo. Here, we hypothesized that hypothermia could be used to assess tau kinase inhibitors efficacy. Hypothermia applied to models of biological gradual complexity such as neuronal-like cells, ex vivo brain slices and adult non-transgenic mice leads to tau hyperphosphorylation at multiple AD-related phospho-epitopes. We show that Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 inhibitors LiCl and AR-A014418, as well as roscovitine, a cyclin-dependent kinase 5 inhibitor, decrease hypothermia-induced tau hyperphosphorylation, leading to different tau phosphorylation profiles. Therefore, we propose hypothermia-induced hyperphosphorylation as a reliable, fast, convenient and inexpensive tool to screen for tau kinase inhibitors.
Transmission of HIV strains with drug-resistance mutations (DRMs) causes public health problems in resource-rich countries. We use a stochastic model, with data from viral competition experiments, to analyze the effect of fitness costs (FCs) and genetic bottlenecks on limiting transmission of 10 clinically significant DRMs. Transmission of DRMs with low FCs (0.2%) is similar to wild-type; transmission chains last 8 generations causing clusters of 60 infected individuals. Genetic bottlenecks substantially limit transmission of DRMs with moderately high FCs (0.6%); chains last 1-3 generations with transmission clusters of 2-7. Transmission of DRMs with extremely high FCs (&gt;6%) only occurs from 5% of index cases. DRMs can revert to wild-type and remain as minority strains, within treatment-nave individuals, undetectable by current resistance assays. We calculate, based on assay sensitivity, the length of time each DRM is detectable within individuals. Taken together, our results imply a hidden epidemic of transmitted resistance may exist.
Kainate-type glutamate receptors (KARs) regulate synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability via multiple mechanisms, depending on their subunit composition. Presynaptic KARs tonically depress glutamatergic transmission during restricted period of synapse development; however, the molecular basis behind this effect is unknown. Here, we show that the developmental and cell-type specific expression pattern of a KAR subunit splice variant, GluK1c, corresponds to the immature-type KAR activity in the hippocampus. GluK1c localizes to dendritic contact sites at distal axons, the distal targeting being promoted by heteromerization with the subunit GluK4. Presynaptic expression of GluK1c strongly suppresses glutamatergic transmission in cell-pairs in vitro and mimics the immature-type KAR activity at CA3-CA1 synapses in vivo, at a developmental stage when the endogenous expression is already downregulated. These data support a central role for GluK1c in mediating tonic inhibition of glutamate release and the consequent effects on excitability and activity-dependent fine-tuning of the developing hippocampal circuitry.
G protein-coupled Receptor Kinase 6 (GRK6) belongs to a family of kinases that phosphorylate GPCRs. GRK6 levels were found to be altered in Parkinson's Disease (PD) and D(2) dopamine receptors are supersensitive in mice lacking GRK6 (GRK6-KO mice). To understand how GRK6 modulates the behavioral manifestations of dopamine deficiency and responses to L-DOPA, we used three approaches to model PD in GRK6-KO mice: 1) the cataleptic response to haloperidol; 2) introducing GRK6 mutation to an acute model of absolute dopamine deficiency, DDD mice; 3) hemiparkinsonian 6-OHDA model. Furthermore, dopamine-related striatal signaling was analyzed by assessing the phosphorylation of AKT/GSK3 and ERK1/2. GRK6 deficiency reduced cataleptic behavior, potentiated the acute effect of L-DOPA in DDD mice, reduced rotational behavior in hemi-parkinsonian mice, and reduced abnormal involuntary movements induced by chronic L-DOPA. These data indicate that approaches to regulate GRK6 activity could be useful in modulating both therapeutic and side-effects of L-DOPA.
Presbyopia, from the Greek for aging eye, is, like death and taxes, inevitable. Presbyopia causes near vision to degrade with age, affecting virtually everyone over the age of 50. Presbyopia has multiple negative effects on the quality of vision and the quality of life, due to limitations on daily activities - in particular, reading. In addition presbyopia results in reduced near visual acuity, reduced contrast sensitivity, and slower processing speed. Currently available solutions, such as optical corrections, are not ideal for all daily activities. Here we show that perceptual learning (repeated practice on a demanding visual task) results in improved visual performance in presbyopes, enabling them to overcome and/or delay some of the disabilities imposed by the aging eye. This improvement was achieved without changing the optical characteristics of the eye. The results suggest that the aging brain retains enough plasticity to overcome the natural biological deterioration with age.
Mutations in -synuclein (SN) and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) have been linked to familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Physical and functional interactions between these two proteins have been described. Whether they act additively in vivo to influence disease has remained controversial. SN is a presynaptic protein and the major constituent of Lewy inclusions, histopathological hallmarks of PD. UCH-L1 regulates ubiquitin stability in the nervous system and its loss results in neurodegeneration in peripheral and central neurons. Here, we used genetics to show that UCH-L1-deficiency together with excess SN worsen disease. Double mutant mice show earlier-onset motor deficits, a shorter lifespan and forebrain astrogliosis but the additive disease-worsening effects of UCH-L1-deficiency and excess SN are not accompanied by microgliosis, ubiquitin pathology or changes in pathological SN protein levels and species.

Conditioned fear plays a key role in anxiety disorders as well as depression and other neuropsychiatric conditions. Understanding how neuromodulators drive the associated learning and memory processes, including memory consolidation, retrieval/expression, and extinction (recall), is essential in the understanding of (individual differences in vulnerability to) these disorders and their treatment. The human and rodent studies I review here together reveal, amongst others, that acute selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment facilitates fear conditioning, reduces contextual fear, and increases cued fear, chronic SSRI treatment reduces both contextual and cued fear, 5-HT1A receptors inhibit the acquisition and expression of contextual fear, 5-HT2A receptors facilitates the consolidation of cued and contextual fear, inactivation of 5-HT2C receptors facilitate the retrieval of cued fear memory, the 5-HT3 receptor mediates contextual fear, genetically induced increases in serotonin levels are associated with increased fear conditioning, impaired cued fear extinction, or impaired extinction recall, and that genetically induced 5-HT depletion increases fear conditioning and contextual fear. Several explanations are presented to reconcile seemingly paradoxical relationships between serotonin levels and conditioned fear.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease that represents a growing global health crisis. Two major forms of the disease exist: early onset (familial) and late onset (sporadic). Early onset Alzheimer's is rare, accounting for less than 5% of disease burden. It is inherited in Mendelian dominant fashion and is caused by mutations in three genes (APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2). Late onset Alzheimer's is common among individuals over 65 years of age. Heritability of this form of the disease is high (79%), but the etiology is driven by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. A large number of genes have been implicated in the development of late onset Alzheimer's. Examples that have been confirmed by multiple studies include ABCA7, APOE, BIN1, CD2AP, CD33, CLU, CR1, EPHA1, MS4A4A/MS4A4E/MS4A6E, PICALM, and SORL1. Despite tremendous progress over the past three decades, roughly half of the heritability for the late onset of the disease remains unidentified. Finding the remaining genetic factors that contribute to the development of late onset Alzheimer's disease holds the potential to provide novel targets for treatment and prevention, leading to the development of effective strategies to combat this devastating disease.

Dopaminergic dysfunction is implicated in the pathophysiology of treatment-resistant depression. Although the efficacy of adjunctive pramipexole treatment has been demonstrated in treatment-resistant bipolar depression, such data are scarce for major depressive disorder (MDD). We recruited 17 patients with DSM-IV major depressive episode who have failed to respond to previous treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Five patients were diagnosed as having bipolar II disorder and 12 as having unipolar MDD. Patients were monitored at an ambulatory care facility every two weeks until 12 weeks. Pramipexole was added to existing medication. Depression severity was assessed with the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 21-item version (HDRS-21). The mean maximum dosage of pramipexole was 1.6 mg (SD 0.9). The HDRS-21 total score decreased from 19.4 (SD 3.8) at baseline to 7.2 (SD 5.4) at endpoint (P &lt; 0.000001). Twelve patients (71%) were responders based on the definition of 50% or more reduction in the HDRS-21 score. Ten patients (59%) remitted (HDRS-21 total score at endpoint &lt;8). These results were almost unchanged when the sample was confined to patients with MDD. No serious adverse events were observed. Our findings indicate that pramipexole augmentation therapy may be effective and well tolerated in refractory depressed patients.
In the present study, we investigated whether motion streaks, produced by fast moving dots Geisler 1999, distort the positional map of stationary flashed objects producing the well-known motion-induced position shift illusion (MIPS). The illusion relies on motion-processing mechanisms that induce local distortions in the positional map of the stimulus which is derived by shape-processing mechanisms. To measure the MIPS, two horizontally offset Gaussian blobs, placed above and below a central fixation point, were flashed over two fields of dots moving in opposite directions. Subjects judged the position of the top Gaussian blob relative to the bottom one. The results showed that neither fast (motion streaks) nor slow moving dots influenced the perceived spatial position of the stationary flashed objects, suggesting that background motion does not interact with the shape-processing mechanisms involved in MIPS.
Detachment from external reality, distancing from others, closure into a sort of virtual hermitage, and prevalence of inner fantasies, are the descriptive aspects of autism. However, from an anthropological-phenomenological point of view, in schizophrenia, the autistic mode of life can arise from a person's being confronted with a pathological crisis in the obviousness of the intersubjective world, essentially a crisis in the intersubjective foundation of human presence. The &quot;condition of possibility&quot; of the autistic way of being is the deficiency of the operation that phenomenology call empathetic-intuitive constitution of the Other, an Other which is the naturalness of evidence of being a subject like me. The theme of the Other, of intersubjectivity, has become so central in the psychopathological analysis of schizophrenic disorders because the modifications of interhuman encounter cannot be seen as the secondary consequences of symptoms but constitute the fundamental disorder of schizophrenic alienation. Revision of the concept of autism from the original definition, centered on the prevalence of inner fantasies, leads to the profound change with the vision of autism as &quot;loss&quot; and &quot;void.&quot; I call attention to possibility of phenomenological research to understand autistic world starting from this &quot;void.&quot;
According to the evidence of direct relationships among space, numbers, and finger representations, a random movement generation (RMG) task was employed in order to investigate whether numerical exposure can influence the finger selection of healthy humans. To this purpose a group of participants were asked to generate random finger movements during the exposure to several numerical cues. Although participants were explicitly asked to move finger as random as possible, results showed that left-hand fingers were moved more frequently than right-hand fingers when low numerical cues (from 1 to 3) were presented, and, vice versa, right-hand fingers were moved more frequently than left-hand fingers when high numerical cues (ranged from 7 to 9) were presented. The current result suggests that spontaneous actions can be affected by abstract information, providing an evidence that numerical concepts can influence low-level, non-goal-directed behaviours.

Amblyopia is a condition involving reduced acuity caused by abnormal visual input during a critical period beginning shortly after birth. Amblyopia is typically considered to be irreversible during adulthood. Here we provide the first demonstration that video game training can improve at least some aspects of the vision of adults with bilateral deprivation amblyopia caused by a history of bilateral congenital cataracts. Specifically, after 40 h of training over one month with an action video game, most patients showed improvement in one or both eyes on a wide variety of tasks including acuity, spatial contrast sensitivity, and sensitivity to global motion. As well, there was evidence of improvement in at least some patients for temporal contrast sensitivity, single letter acuity, crowding, and feature spacing in faces, but not for useful field of view. The results indicate that, long after the end of the critical period for damage, there is enough residual plasticity in the adult visual system to effect improvements, even in cases of deep amblyopia caused by early bilateral deprivation.
Peterson and Salvagio (2008) demonstrated convexity context effects in figure-ground perception. Subjects shown displays consisting of unfamiliar alternating convex and concave regions identified the convex regions as foreground objects progressively more frequently as the number of regions increased; this occurred only when the concave regions were homogeneously colored. The origins of these effects have been unclear. Here, we present a two-free-parameter Bayesian observer that replicates convexity context effects. The Bayesian observer incorporates two plausible expectations regarding three-dimensional scenes: (1) objects tend to be convex rather than concave, and (2) backgrounds tend (more than foreground objects) to be homogeneously colored. The Bayesian observer estimates the probability that a depicted scene is three-dimensional, and that the convex regions are figures. It responds stochastically by sampling from its posterior distributions. Like human observers, the Bayesian observer shows convexity context effects only for images with homogeneously colored concave regions. With optimal parameter settings, it performs similarly to the average human subject on the four display types tested. We propose that object convexity and background color homogeneity are environmental regularities exploited by human visual perception; vision achieves figure-ground perception by interpreting ambiguous images in light of these and other expected regularities in natural scenes.
Several definitions, measurements, and implicit meanings of 'fixation stability' have been used in clinical vision research, leading to some confusion. One definition concerns eye movements observed within fixations (i.e., within periods separated by saccades) when observing a point target: drift, microsaccades and physiological tremor all lead to some degree of within-fixation instability. A second definition relates to eye position during multiple fixations (and saccades) when patients fixate a point target. Increased between-fixation variability, combined with within-fixation instability, is known to be associated with poorer visual function in people with retinal disease such as age-related macular degeneration. In this review article, methods of eye stability measurement and quantification are summarised. Two common measures are described in detail: the bivariate contour ellipse area (BCEA) and the within-isolines area. The first measure assumes normality of the underlying positions distribution whereas the second does not. Each of these measures can be applied to two fundamentally different kinds of eye position data collected during a period of target observation. In the first case, mean positions of eye fixations are used to obtain an estimate of between-fixation variability. In the second case, often used in clinical vision research, eye position samples recorded by the eyetracker are used to obtain an estimate that confounds within- and between-fixation variability. We show that these two methods can produce significantly different values of eye stability, especially when reported as BCEA values. Statistical techniques for describing eye stability when the distribution of eye positions is multimodal and not normally distributed are also reviewed.
The purpose of this study was to document colour and texture associations to odours using a variety of odours including both pleasant and unpleasant odours, some of which were likely to be unfamiliar. We asked non-synaesthetic adults (n = 78) to make colour and shape/texture associations to 22 odours. A subset of the participants (n = 41) smelled the odours a second time in order to identify them. Each odour stimulus was associated consistently to one or more specific colours and/or textures (all p's &lt; 0.01 by binomial probability statistics). Associations to the four odours that were identified accurately (cinnamon, lemon, peppermint and licorice) seemed to be based on learning/memory (e.g. lemon = yellow). The associations to the 18 odours that were not identified accurately are less likely to be based on learning/memory (e.g. ginger = black, rough, sharp; lavender = green, white, liquid, sticky). We speculate that sensory associations to odours, like those to pitch and letters (e.g. Mondloch and Maurer, 2004; Spector and Maurer, 2008), may result from the joint influence of learning and natural biases linking dimensions across sensory systems. Such links may reflect inherent neural organization that is modifiable with learning and that can manifest as cross-modal associations or synaesthetic percepts.
The ability of the eye to distinguish between intermittently presented flash stimuli is a measure of the temporal resolution of vision. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between the features of the human rod bipolar cell response (as measured from the scotopic ERG b-wave) and the psychophysically measured critical fusion frequency (CFF). Stimuli consisted of dim (-0.04 Td x s), blue flashes presented either singly, or as flash pairs (at a range of time separations, between 5 and 300 ms). Single flashes of double intensity (-0.08 Td x s) were also presented as a reference. Visual responses to flash pairs were measured via (1) recording of the ERG b-wave, and (2) threshold determinations of the CFF using a two-alternative forced-choice method (flicker vs. fused illumination). The results of this experiment suggest that b-wave responses to flash pairs separated by &lt; 100 ms are electrophysiologically similar to those obtained with single flashes of double intensity. Psychophysically, the percepts of flash pairs &lt; 100 ms apart appeared fused. In conclusion, the visual system's ability to discriminate between scotopic stimuli may be determined by the response characteristics of the rod bipolar cell, or perhaps by the rod photoreceptor itself.
We studied how stimulus attributes (angle polarity and perspective) and data-driven signals (motion parallax and binocular disparity) affect recovery of 3-D shape. We used physical stimuli, which consisted of two congruent trapezoids forming a dihedral angle. To study the effects of the stimulus attributes, we used 2  2 combinations of convex/concave angles and proper/reverse perspective cues. To study the effects of binocular disparity and motion parallax, we used 2  2 combinations of monocular/binocular viewing with moving/stationary observers. The task was to report the depth of the right vertical edge relative to a fixation point positioned at a different depth. In Experiment 1 observers also had the option of reporting that the right vertical edge and fixation point were at the same depth. However, in Experiment 2, observers were only given two response options: is the right vertical edge in front of/behind the fixation point? We found that across all stimulus configurations, perspective is a stronger cue than angle polarity in recovering 3-D shape; we also confirm the bias to perceive convex compared to concave angles. In terms of data-driven signals, binocular disparity recovered 3-D shape better than motion parallax. Interestingly, motion parallax improved performance for monocular viewing but not for binocular viewing.


In order to identify the possible biomarkers of mood disorders, we measured the mRNA levels for a variety of genes in peripheral leukocytes of mood disorder patients in a depressive, as well as in a remissive state, comparing with healthy controls. We selected and measured the levels of genes of interest, which are listed as follows: glucocorticoid receptor, neurotrophic factors, cell adhesion molecules, SR protein splicing factors, transcription factors, epigenetic factors (histone deacetylase, sirtuin, DNA methyltransferase), since these molecules are suggested to be associated with the neural function, synaptic plasticity, and behaviors in animal models, as well as with the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of mood disorders. We found the three different types of biological markers: 1) state markers those revealed alterations of gene expression only in a depressive state of major depressive patients and/or bipolar depressive patients, 2) trait markers those showed altered gene expression both in a depressive and a remissive state of major depressive patients and/or bipolar depressive patients, and 3) markers of the treatment resistance those revealed different alterations of gene expression between treatment resistant and treatment responsive patients in a depressive state. The use of state and trait markers in combination would allow us to put a differential diagnosis between major depressive and bipolar depressive states, as well as between mood disorders and neurotic depressive states. Furthermore, candidate biomarkers of treatment resistance could be used to consider forward of applying the electric convulsive therapy even in an early stage of a depressive state.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a functional neuroimaging technique that has been increasingly employed in psychology and psychiatry. Because NIRS can detect only cerebral cortex reactivities with low spatial resolution and may suffer from contaminating signals from skin and skull, its data should be interpreted as a global index of cerebral cortex reactivities. Within these limitations, the advantages of NIRS over fMRI such as complete non-invasiveness, small measurement apparatus, high time resolution, and natural examination setting makes it the preferred method in studies of brain substrates of subjective feeling of sleepiness and fatigue, personality, conversation, and psychiatric disorders. Two-thirds of the original articles on NIRS application in psychiatry have been published by Japanese researchers. NIRS examination of psychiatric disorders using a verbal fluency task of only three minutes demonstrated their characteristics of frontal lobe function: depression was characterized by smaller activation, bipolar depression by comparable but delayed activation, and schizophrenia by reduced activation followed by re-activation during the post-task period. These characteristics can also be identified in individual NIRS data using two automatically calculated parameters. Based on these results, NIRS application in psychiatry has been approved as one of the Advanced Medical Technologies in 2009 as an aid for differential diagnosis of depressive symptoms. A lack of clinical laboratory tests for diagnosis and treatment has been one of the major difficulties for reliable diagnosis, quantitative treatment assessment, and prevention of psychiatric disorders; NIRS may be the first step toward such clinical laboratory tests in psychiatry.
Nature is the most frequently cited interdisciplinary science journal globally; however, it has recently begun publishing impressive reviews and special topics in the fields of mental health and psychiatric disorders. An editorial entitled, &quot;A decade for psychiatric disorders&quot; was published on the first page of the first 2010 issue of Nature. This editorial was a significantly symbolic publication; not only did it have an impressive title, but also consisted of precise and appropriate content in accordance with the present conditions and future perspectives of psychiatric disorders. This was of further significance as it was published on the first page of the first 2010 issue. In this report, we review an interview with the author of the editorial and the editor-in-chief of Nature, Dr. Philip Campbell. He explained to us the reason for Nature increasingly publishing articles in the fields of mental health and psychiatric disorders, and the reason for this editorial being published in this impressive space. He opined that, although the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders has been gradually revealed through scientific progress in most research fields, a big gap remains between cancer and psychiatric disorders with regard to health policy and research conditions. The entire editorial team of Nature believed that they could contribute in some way to bridge this gap. He was of the opinion that the media should be apprised with appropriate information on psychiatric disorders by mental health researchers in order to dispel the stigma associated with these disorders and create awareness of the importance of mental health among the public. He drew our attention to the recent brilliant progress in neuroscience research and the future perspectives of mental health research; this trend was notably observed in recent articles in Nature. The concluding sentence in &quot;A decade for psychiatric disorders&quot; is, &quot;Yet the exposure of many psychiatrists to contemporary biology is shallow at best. That, too, will need to change over the next decade.&quot; Therefore, psychiatrists have to pay close attention not only to the problem of stigma, but also to the scientific progress in psychiatric disorders, and, thus, need to change their thoughts and attitudes.
In our daily life, we constantly make such choices between actions leading to rewards of various sizes after different delays. &quot;Delay discounting&quot; is a theoretical concept in which the &quot;value&quot; of reward R after delay. A steep rate of discounting results in impulsive choice, defined by an abnormally frequent choice of the more immediate reward. Our behavioral and neuroimaging results suggest that serotonin may adjust the rate of delayed reward discounting via the modulation of striatum in cortico-basal ganglia circuits in human. Our proposed role of serotonin may explain certain aspects of impulsivity in psychiatric disorders such as major depression, panic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder, that are known to effectively relieve symptoms by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Future experiments using delayed reward paradigms could be designed to study impulsivity in these patients.
Several studies report that vascular lesions contribute to depression in late life, but whether vascular lesions contribute to depression or indeed result from depression is debatable. To address this question, we segregated mood disorder patients into late- and early-onset mood disorder groups (LOM and EOM, respectively) and compared the areas of high intensity on the subcortical MRI scans of the 2 groups. We found that the LOM group exhibited higher ratings than the EOM group; significant between-group differences were detected in the bilateral frontal areas and in the left parieto-occipital area. Our results suggest that vascular lesions in these areas are crucial for the development of late-onset mood disorders. Furthermore, treatment is often difficult in depressed patients with cerebrovascular lesions. Therefore, a new therapeutic approach that takes into account cerebrovascular factors is necessary. We concomitantly administered cilostazol with conventional antidepressants to patients with intractable geriatric major depressive disorder; of these patients, 2 showed improvements of their depressive symptoms. These findings suggest a potential efficacy of cilostazol as a novel drug for use in augmentation therapy for depressed patients with silent cerebrovascular disorder. Evidence that vascular disease is the underlying link between depression and dementia is strong. Therefore, further studies that include follow-up of such cases are necessary.
Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) and benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BCECTS), or benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE), are the most common forms of childhood epilepsy. CAE and BCECTS are well-known and clearly defined syndromes; although they are strongly dissimilar in terms of their pathophysiology, these functional epileptic disturbances share many features such as similar age at onset, overall good prognosis, and inheritance factors. Few reports are available on the concomitance of CAE and BCECTS in the same patients or the later occurrence of generalized epilepsy in patients with a history of partial epilepsy. In most cases described in the literature, absence seizures always started after the onset of benign focal epilepsy but the contrary has never occurred yet. We describe two patients affected by idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome with typical absences, who experienced BCECTS after remission of seizures and normalization of EEG recordings. While the coexistence of different seizure types within an epileptic syndrome is not uncommon, the occurrence of childhood absence and BCECTS in the same child appears to be extremely rare, and this extraordinary event supports the hypothesis that CAE and BCECTS are two distinct epileptic conditions. However, recent interesting observations in animal models suggest that BCECTS and CAE could be pathophysiologically related and that genetic links could play a large role.
Electrophysiological techniques are used in insect neuroscience to measure the response of olfactory neurons to volatile odour stimuli. Widely used systems to deliver an olfactory stimulus to a test insect include airstream guided flow through glass cartridges loaded with a given volatile compound on a sorbent support. Precise measurement of the quantity of compound reaching the sensory organ of the test organism is an urgent task in insect electrophysiology. In this study we evaluated the performances of the recent realised proton transfer reaction-time of flight mass-spectrometry (PTR-ToF-MS) as a fast and selective gas sensor. In particular, we characterised the gas emission from cartridges loaded with a set of volatile compounds belonging to different chemical classes and commonly used in electrophysiological experiments. PTR-ToF-MS allowed a fast monitoring of all investigated compounds with sufficient sensitivity and time resolution. The detection and the quantification of air contaminants and solvent or synthetic standards impurities allowed a precise quantification of the stimulus exiting the cartridge. The outcome of this study was twofold: on one hand we showed that PTR-ToF-MS allows monitoring fast processes with high sensitivity by real time detection of a broad number of compounds; on the other hand we provided a tool to solve an important issue in insect electrophysiology.




In this article, we review three areas of research within adolescent social cognitive and affective neuroscience: (i) emotion reactivity and regulation, (ii) mentalizing and (iii) peer relations, including social rejection or acceptance as well as peer influence. The review provides a context for current contributions to the special issue of Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience on Adolescence, and highlights three important themes that emerge from the special issue, which are relevant to future research. First, the age of participants studied (and labels for these age groups) is a critical design consideration. We suggest that it might be logical to reduce the reliance on convenience samples of undergraduates to represent adults in psychology and cognitive neuroscience studies, since there is substantial evidence that the brain is still developing within this age range. Second, developmental researchers are broadening their scope of inquiry by testing for non-linear effects, via increased use of longitudinal strategies or much wider age ranges and larger samples. Third, there is increasing appreciation for the interrelatedness of the three areas of focus in this special issue (emotion reactivity and regulation, mentalizing, and peer relations), as well as with other areas of interest in adolescent development.
Social cognitive neuroscience is a recent interdisciplinary field that studies the neural basis of the social mind. Event-related potentials (ERPs) provide precise information about the time dynamics of the brain. In this study, we assess the role of ERPs in cognitive neuroscience, particularly in the emerging area of social neuroscience. First, we briefly introduce the technique of ERPs. Subsequently, we describe several ERP components (P1, N1, N170, vertex positive potential, early posterior negativity, N2, P2, P3, N400, N400-like, late positive complex, late positive potential, P600, error-related negativity, feedback error-related negativity, contingent negative variation, readiness potential, lateralized readiness potential, motor potential, re-afferent potential) that assess perceptual, cognitive, and motor processing. Then, we introduce ERP studies in social neuroscience on contextual effects on speech, emotional processing, empathy, and decision making. We provide an outline of ERPs' relevance and applications in the field of social cognitive neuroscience. We also introduce important methodological issues that extend classical ERP research, such as intracranial recordings (iERP) and source location in dense arrays and simultaneous functional magnetic resonance imaging recordings. Further, this review discusses possible caveats of the ERP question assessment on neuroanatomical areas, biophysical origin, and methodological problems, and their relevance to explanatory pluralism and multilevel, contextual, and situated approaches to social neuroscience.
When perceiving imminent harm to others, quickly detecting potential hazards to oneself should be vital. In this case, mirroring the outcome of observed actions appears paradoxical. This study measured electroencephalographic/event-related potentials and mu suppression that were induced by dynamic animations; each animation was composed of three consecutive pictures depicting an individual being accidentally injured. The results indicated that the first picture evoked frontal N260 and central N360, the possible brain source of which is estimated in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the third picture elicited late positive potentials, the possible sources of which might be generated from the insular and mid-cingulate cortex. Differential mu suppression, in relation to the sensorimotor resonance of empathy for pain, is associated with the third picture containing the crucial affective valence, but not with the first picture. The masking procedure on the third picture attenuated this mu suppression. Mediation analysis further confirmed that sensorimotor resonance is not a significant mediator in predicting subjective unpleasantness for observed actions. The findings suggest that sensorimotor resonance is not a platform, but rather an outcome when anticipating harm to others.
Cross-cultural studies have shown that personality traits are less central and social identities are more important to the selfhood of collectivistic people. However, most cultural neuroscience studies using the self-reference effect (SRE) paradigm have only used personality traits to explore cultural differences in the neural circuits of self-referential processes. In the present study, we used both personality traits and social identities as stimuli in the SRE paradigm and investigated whether and how one's cultural orientation (i.e., individualism vs. collectivism) affects the SRE in the brain. The results showed that the medial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, bilateral temporoparietal regions, and precuneus were involved in self-representation for both personality traits and social identities. Importantly, cultural orientation predicted differential activation patterns in these regions. Collectivists showed stronger activation in the left temporoparietal regions than individualists, who mainly recruited the medial prefrontal regions. Our findings suggest that the personal and social self share common neural substrates, the activation of which can be modulated by one's cultural orientation.
Social animals adjust their behavior according to social relationships and momentary circumstances. Dominant-submissive relationships modulate, but do not completely determine, their competitive behaviors. For example, a submissive monkey's decision to retrieve food depends not only on the presence of dominant partners but also on their observed behavior. Thus, behavioral expression requires a dynamic evaluation of reward outcome and momentary social states. The neural mechanisms underlying this evaluation remain elusive. The caudate nucleus (CN) plays a pivotal role in representing reward expectation and translating it into action selection. To investigate whether their activities encode social state information, we recorded from CN neurons in monkeys while they performed a competitive food-grab task against a dominant competitor. We found two groups of CN neurons: one primarily responded to reward outcome, while the other primarily tracked the monkey's social state. These social state-dependent neurons showed greater activity when the monkeys freely retrieved food without active challenges from the competitor and reduced activity when the monkeys were in a submissive state due to the competitor's active behavior. These results indicate that different neuronal activities in the CN encode social state information and reward-related information, which may contribute to adjusting competitive behavior in dynamic social contexts.
Philosophy is rife with intractable moral dilemmas. We propose that these debates often exist because competing psychological systems yield different answers to the same problem. Consequently, philosophical debate points to the natural fault lines between dissociable psychological mechanisms, and as such provides a useful guide for cognitive neuroscience. We present two case studies from recent research into moral judgment: dilemmas concerning whether to harm a person in order to save several others, and whether to punish individuals for harms caused accidentally. Finally, we analyze two features of mental conflict that apparently contribute to philosophical discord: the insistence that one answer to a problem must be correct (&quot;non-negotiability&quot;) and the absence of an independent means of determining the correct answer (&quot;non-adjudicability&quot;). Fiery Cushman thanks the Mind/Brain/Behavior Initiative for its generous support during the preparation of this work.
Some older adults without neurological disease exhibit impaired decision-making in risky, nontransparent situations, like the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). The prefrontal cortices are particularly vulnerable to age-related decline, and numerous studies implicate the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) in successful IGT performance. However, the relationship between IGT performance and VMPFC function in older adults has not yet been tested by fMRI. In the present study, older adults with seemingly no cognitive impairments performed the IGT and a non-gambling control task during fMRI. Group analyses indicate that in these older adults, regardless of IGT performance level, a right VMPFC subregion is activated during the IGT, while successful IGT performance is correlated with left VMPFC activation, suggesting that bilateral VMPFC during risky, nontransparent situations may contribute to successful decision-making in older adults. Individual subject analyses reveal substantial variation regarding the extent and location of VMPFC activation during the IGT, a finding not captured in the group analysis: There is no correlation between IGT performance and extent of activation in the right VMPFC, although there is such a correlation between left VMPFC activation and IGT performance.
Although shyness is presumed to be related to an increased sensitivity to detect motivationally salient social stimuli, we know little of how shyness affects the early perception of facial emotions. We demonstrate here that individual differences in normative shyness were related to brain responses to some emotional faces as early as the P1 electrocortical component, 80-130 ms after stimulus onset. High-shy individuals showed reduced P1 amplitude for fearful faces compared to neutral faces. Low-shy individuals processed happy faces faster than other emotions and showed increased P1 amplitudes for happy faces over neutral faces. Regardless of shyness level, participants showed increased amplitudes in the N170 component (130-200 ms) for all emotions over neutral conditions, particularly for the emotion of fear. This study presents the first evidence that shyness is related to early electrocortical responses to the processing of fearful faces, consistent with a fast-path amygdala sensitivity model.
Complex social behaviors allow various social organisms to create emergent organizations that extend beyond the individual. Social neuroscience is a burgeoning field that strives to understand the genetic, hormonal, and neural mechanisms responsible for these social structures and behaviors. Consequently, social neuroscience is highly interdisciplinary in nature and embraces the application of methods ranging from the molecular to the molar to investigate the reciprocal interactions between biological, cognitive, and social levels of analysis. The broad scope of such an endeavor introduces particular challenges associated with the integration of multiple levels of analysis. In the present mini-review, we highlight some recent findings in the field of social neuroscience and demonstrate the potential benefits of applying multilevel integrative analysis to the study of social behavior and its influence on physiology and health.
The neuroscience of morality has focused on how morality works and where it is in the brain. In tackling these questions, researchers have taken both domain-specific and domain-general approaches-searching for neural substrates and systems dedicated to moral cognition versus characterizing the contributions of domain-general processes. Where in the brain is morality? On one hand, morality is made up of complex cognitive processes, deployed across many domains and housed all over the brain. On the other hand, no neural substrate or system that uniquely supports moral cognition has been found. In this review, we will discuss early assumptions of domain-specificity in moral neuroscience as well as subsequent investigations of domain-general contributions, taking emotion and social cognition (i.e., theory of mind) as case studies. Finally, we will consider possible cognitive accounts of a domain-specific morality: Does uniquely moral cognition exist?



Identifying the role of opioids in the mediation of learned sexual behaviors has been complicated by the use of differing methodologies in the investigations. In this review addressing multiple species, techniques, and pharmaceutical manipulations, several features of opioid mediation become apparent. Opioids are differentially involved in conditioned and unconditioned sexual behaviors. The timing of the delivery of a sexual reinforcer during conditioning trials, especially those using male subjects, acutely influences the role that opioids have in learning. Opioids may be particularly important in the maintenance of conditioned sexual behaviors during periods of non-reinforcement. This appears to be true both for probe trials and procedures designed explicitly to extinguish a sexual conditioned response. These features of opioid mediation of learning do not appear to be restricted to sexual conditioning paradigms. This suggests that, as for other aspects of sexual learning that despite distinctive features conform to underlying behavioral principles, the mediation of conditioned sexual behavior by opioids relies on processes common across reinforcement systems.


Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a form of neurodegeneration that results from repetitive brain trauma. Not surprisingly, CTE has been linked to participation in contact sports such as boxing, hockey and American football. In American football getting &quot;dinged&quot; equates to moments of dizziness, confusion, or grogginess that can follow a blow to the head. There are approximately 100,000 to 300,000 concussive episodes occurring in the game of American football alone each year. It is believed that repetitive brain trauma, with or possibly without symptomatic concussion, sets off a cascade of events that result in neurodegenerative changes highlighted by accumulations of hyperphosphorylated tau and neuronal TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43). Symptoms of CTE may begin years or decades later and include a progressive decline of memory, as well as depression, poor impulse control, suicidal behavior, and, eventually, dementia similar to Alzheimer's disease. In some individuals, CTE is also associated with motor neuron disease similar to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Given the millions of athletes participating in contact sports that involve repetitive brain trauma, CTE represents an important public health issue. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding the etiology of CTE. It is now known that those instances of mild concussion or &quot;dings&quot; that we may have previously not noticed could very well be causing progressive neurodegenerative damage to a player's brain. In the future, focused and intensive study of the risk factors could potentially uncover methods to prevent and treat this disease.
Limitations to the in vivo study of human nervous system development make it necessary to design an in vitro model to evaluate the in vivo effects of surrounding tissues on neurogenesis and regional identity of the human neural plate. Rostral neural progenitors (NPs) were initially generated from adherent human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) in a defined condition and characterized. Then, to find the role of somites (S) and notochords (N) in rostro-caudal (RC) and dorso-ventral (DV) patterning of neuronal cells, NPs were co-cultured with microencapsulated chicken S or N in alginate beads. In this study, N induced more neurogenesis as evaluated by expression of TUJ1 and MAP2-positive cells. Additionally, N induced spinal cord ventral brachiothoracic identity as well as NPs proliferation. We observed a synergic effect on motoneuron induction when S and N were used together. Moreover, S induced hindbrain identity in differentiated neuronal cells from NPs. These results indicate that highly enriched NPs can be generated in an adherent and defined system from hESCs. Moreover, S and N tissues highly influenced neuronal differentiation in point of proliferation, neurogenesis, and RC and DV regional identity. These results indicate a very simple and efficient protocol to mimic in vivo events of human neural development in vitro which is important in the context of developmental neuroscience and cellular replacement therapies.
Technologies allowing for the derivation of patient-specific neurons from somatic cells are emerging as powerful in vitro tools to investigate the intrinsic cellular pathological behaviours of the diseases that affect these patients. While the use of patient-derived neurons to model Parkinson's disease (PD) has only just begun, these approaches have allowed us to begin investigating disease pathogenesis in a unique way. In this paper, we discuss the advances made in the field of cellular reprogramming to model PD and discuss the pros and cons associated with the use of such cells.
The potential use of predifferentiated neural precursor cells for treatment of a neurological disorder like Parkinson's disease combines stem cell research with previous experimental and clinical transplantation of developing dopaminergic neurons. One current obstacle is, however, the lack of ability to generate dopaminergic neurons after long-term in vitro propagation of the cells. The domestic pig is considered a useful nonprimate large animal model in neuroscience, because of a better resemblance of the larger gyrencephalic pig brain to the human brain than the commonly used brains of smaller rodents. In the present study, porcine embryonic (28-30 days), ventral mesencephalic precursor cells were isolated and propagated as free-floating neural tissue spheres in medium containing epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor 2. For passaging, the tissue spheres were cut into quarters, avoiding mechanical or enzymatic dissociation in order to minimize cellular trauma and preserve intercellular contacts. Spheres were propagated for up to 237 days with analysis of cellular content and differentiation at various time points. Our study provides the first demonstration that porcine ventral mesencephalic precursor cells can be long-term propagated as neural tissue spheres, thereby providing an experimental 3D in vitro model for studies of neural precursor cells, their niche, and differentiation capacity.

The finding that neural stem cells (NSCs) are able to divide, migrate, and differentiate into several cellular types in the adult brain raised a new hope for restorative neurology. Nitric oxide (NO), a pleiotropic signaling molecule in the central nervous system (CNS), has been described to be able to modulate neurogenesis, acting as a pro- or antineurogenic agent. Some authors suggest that NO is a physiological inhibitor of neurogenesis, while others described NO to favor neurogenesis, particularly under inflammatory conditions. Thus, targeting the NO system may be a powerful strategy to control the formation of new neurons. However, the exact mechanisms by which NO regulates neural proliferation and differentiation are not yet completely clarified. In this paper we will discuss the potential interest of the modulation of the NO system for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases or other pathological conditions that may affect the CNS.
The advent and growth of technological advances have led to new routes of knowledge. Thereby, we currently face new challenges. We have just started to get a glimpse of the structural and functional role of neural stem cells in differentiation and migration processes, the origin of synaptic networks, and subsequent readjustments in specific circuits. A whole range of treatment possibilities originates from this knowledge that potentially can be used for different neurological diseases in humans. Although this is an encouraging scenario, it implies that the human brain is the object of such study, as well as its potential manipulation and transplantation. It is, therefore, pertinent that ethical principles should be followed in such research to have proper balance between what can be done and what should be done, according to every specific context. Hence, it is wise to consider ethical implications in every research project, along with potential clinical applications, under the principle of causing no harm, following risk and benefit rules in decision making and with respect of the human condition as a priority.
Embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs) derived from mammalian species are valuable tools for modeling human disease, including retinal degenerative eye diseases that result in visual loss. Restoration of vision has focused on transplantation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) to the retina. Here we used transgenic common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human pluripotent stem cells carrying the enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter as a model system for retinal differentiation. Using suspension and subsequent adherent differentiation cultures, we observed spontaneous in vitro differentiation that included NPCs and cells with pigment granules characteristic of differentiated RPE. Retinal cells derived from human and common marmoset pluripotent stem cells provide potentially unlimited cell sources for testing safety and immune compatibility following autologous or allogeneic transplantation using nonhuman primates in early translational applications.






The Stroke Therapy Academic Industry Roundtable (STAIR) provided initial (in 1999) and updated (in 2009) recommendations with the goal of improving preclinical stroke therapy assessment and to increase the translational potential of experimental stroke treatments. It is important for preclinical stroke researchers to frequently consider and revisit these concepts, especially since promising experimental stroke treatments continue to fail in human clinical trials. Therefore, this paper will focus on considerations for several key aspects of preclinical stroke studies including the selection and execution of the animal stroke model, drug/experimental treatment administration, and outcome measures to improve experimental validity and translation potential. Specific points of interest discussed include the incorporation of human comorbid conditions and drugs, the benefits of defining a proposed mechanism of action, replication of results using multiple methods, using clinically relevant routes of administration and treatment time windows, and performing and reporting good experimental methods to reduce bias such as, as suggested by the updated STAIR recommendations, sample size calculations, randomization, allocation concealment, blinding, and appropriate inclusion/exclusion criteria. It is our hope that reviewing and revisiting these considerations will benefit researchers in their investigations of stroke therapies and increase the likelihood of translational success in the battle against stroke.
Background. There are no evidence-based strategies that have been shown to be superior in maintaining motor function for months to years after the stroke. The LAST study therefore intends to assess the effect of a long-term follow-up program for stroke patients compared to standard care on function, disability and health. Design. This is a prospective, multi-site randomised controlled trial, with blinded assessment 18 months after inclusion. A total of 390 patients will be recruited and randomised to a control group, receiving usual care, or to an intervention group 10 to 16 weeks after onset of stroke. Patients will be stratified according to stroke severity, age above 80, and recruitment site. The intervention group will receive monthly coaching on physical activity by a physiotherapist for 18 consecutive months after inclusion. Outcomes. The primary outcome is motor function (Motor Assessment Scale) 18 months after inclusion. Secondary outcomes are: dependency, balance, endurance, health-related quality of life, fatigue, anxiety and depression, cognitive function, burden on caregivers, and health costs. Adverse events and compliance to the intervention will be registered consecutively during follow-up.
Prevention plays a crucial role in counteracting morbidity and mortality related to ischemic stroke. It has been estimated that 50% of stroke are preventable through control of modifiable risk factors and lifestyle changes. Antihypertensive treatment is recommended for both prevention of recurrent stroke and other vascular events. The use of antiplatelets and statins has been shown to reduce the risk of recurrent stroke and other vascular events. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are indicated in stroke prevention because they also promote vascular health. Effective secondary-prevention strategies for selected patients include carotid revascularization for high-grade carotid stenosis and vitamin K antagonist treatment for atrial fibrillation. The results of recent clinical trials investigating new anticoagulants (factor Xa inhibitors and direct thrombin inhibitors) clearly indicate alternative strategies in stroke prevention for patients with atrial fibrillation. This paper describes the current landscape and developments in stroke prevention with special reference to medical treatment in secondary prevention of ischemic stroke.
Objective. Survivors of perinatal stroke may be at risk for behavioral problems. Perinatal risk factors that might increase the likelihood of later behavior problems have not been identified. The goal of this study was to explore whether perinatal factors might contribute to behavior problems after perinatal stroke. Methods. 79 children with unilateral perinatal stroke were studied. Perinatal factors included gender, gestational age, neonatal seizures, instrumented delivery, fetal distress, acute birth problems, birth weight, and time of diagnosis. Subjects with evidence of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy were excluded. Parents completed the Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) (Achenbach 1985). The CBCL yields T-scores in several symptom scales. We focused on Social, Thought, and Attention Problems scates. Results. Gestational age and the presence of uteroplacental insufficiency were associated with significant differences on the Thought Problems scale; Attention Problems scores approached significance for these variables. Fetal distress, neonatal seizures, or neonatal diagnosis was associated with 25-30% incidence of clinically significant T-scores on Social, Thought, and Attention Problems scales. Conclusions. Several perinatal factors were associated with a high incidence of social, thought, and behavior problems in children with perinatal stroke. These findings may be useful in anticipatory guidance to parents and physicians caring for these children.
Background. Stroke occurs due to an interruption in cerebral blood supply affecting neuronal function. Body temperature on hospital admission is an important predictor of clinical outcome. Therapeutic hypothermia is promising in clinical settings for stroke neuroprotection. Methods. MEDLINE/PubMed, CENTRAL, Stroke Center, and ClinicalTrials.gov were systematically searched for hypothermia intervention induced by external or endovascular cooling for acute stroke. NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) were the main stroke scales used, and mortality was also reported. A meta-analysis was carried out on stroke severity and mortality. Results. Seven parallel-controlled clinical trials were included in the meta-analysis. Sample sizes ranged from 18 to 62 patients, yielding a total of 288. Target temperature (33C) was reached within 3-4 hours. Stroke severity (Cohen's d = -0.17, 95% CI: -0.42 to 0.08, P = 0.32; I(2)=73%; Chi(2) = 21.89, P = 0.0001) and mortality (RR = 1.60, 95% CI: 0.93 to 2.78, P = 0.11; I(2) = 0%; Chi(2) = 2.88, P = 0.72) were not significantly affected by hypothermia. Discussion. Hypothermia does not significantly improve stroke severity; however, this finding should be taken with caution due to the high heterogeneity and limited number of included studies. No impact on mortality was observed.
Physical inactivity contributes to accelerated bone loss after stroke, leading to heightened fracture risk, increased mortality, and reduced independence. This paper sought to summarise the evidence for the use of physical activity to protect bone in healthy adults and adults with stroke, and to identify international recommendations regarding any means of bone protection after stroke, in order to guide rehabilitation practice and future research. A search was undertaken, which identified 12 systematic reviews of controlled trials which investigated the effect of physical activity on bone outcomes in adults. Nine reviews included healthy adults and three included adults with stroke. Twenty-five current international stroke management guidelines were identified. High-impact loading exercise appears to have a site-specific effect on the microarchitecture of healthy postmenopausal women, and physical activity has a small effect on enhancing or maintaining bone mineral density in chronic stroke patients. It is not known whether this translates to reduce fracture risk. Most guidelines included recommendations for early mobilisation after stroke and falls prevention. Two recommendations were identified which advocated exercise for the prevention bone loss after stroke, but supporting evidence was limited. Research is required to determine whether targeted physical activity can protect bone from early after stroke, and whether this can reduce fracture risk.
Objective. To assess walking capacity and physical activity using clinical measures and to explore their relationships with motor impairment late after stroke. Subjects. A nonrandomised sample of 22 men and 9 women with a mean age of 60 years, 7-10 years after stroke. Methods. Fugl-Meyer Assessment, maximum walking speed, 6min walk test, perceived exertion, and heart rate were measured, and the Physiological Cost Index was calculated. Physical activity was reported using The Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly. Results. Mean (SD) 6min walking distance was 352 (136)m, and Physiological Cost Index was 0.60 (0.41). Self-reported physical activity was 70% of the reference. Motor impairment correlated with walking capacity but not with the physical activity level. Conclusion. It may be essential to enhance physical activity even late after stroke since in fairly young subjects both walking capacity and the physical activity level were lower than the reference.
This study is aimed at evaluating Internet use in a psychiatric population. We used the UADI questionnaire to investigate the degree of addictive Internet use in our sample of patients affected by various psychiatric disorders. Several psychological and psychopathological variables related to internet use, have been assessed through the five dimensions of the UADI: dissociation (DIS), Impact on real life (IMP), Experimentation (EXP), Dependence (DEP), Escape (ESC).
Executive functions are often impaired in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We used a Virtual Reality version of the Multiple Errand Test (VMET) - developed dusing the free NeuroVR software (http://www.neurovr.org) - to evaluate the executive functions in daily life in 10 OCD patients and 10 controls. It is performed in a shopping setting where there are items to be bought and information to be obtained. The execution time for the whole task was higher in patients with OCD compared to controls, suggesting that patients with OCD need more time in planning than controls. The same difference was found in the partial errors during the task. Furthermore, the mean rank for and for interpretation failures is higher for controls, while the values of divided attention and the of self correction seems to be lower in controls. We think that obsessive patients tend to work with greater diligence and observance of rules than controls. In conclusion, these results provide initial support for the feasibility of VMET as assessment tool of executive functions. Specifically, the significant correlation found between the VMET and the neuropsychological battery support the ecological validity of VMET as an instrument for the evaluation of executive functions in patients with OCD.
Human computer confluence (HCC) is an ambitious research program studying how the emerging symbiotic relation between humans and computing devices can enable radically new forms of sensing, perception, interaction, and understanding. It is an interdisciplinary field, bringing together researches from horizons as various as pervasive computing, bio-signals processing, neuroscience, electronics, robotics, virtual &amp;amp; augmented reality, and provides an amazing potential for applications in medicine and rehabilitation.
Computational neuroscience is a new field of research in which neurodegenerative diseases are studied with the aid of new imaging techniques and computation facilities. Researchers with different expertise collaborate in these studies. A study requires scalable computational and storage capacity and information management facilities to succeed. Many virtual laboratories are proposed and developed to facilitate these studies, however most of them cover only the parts related to the computational data processing. In this paper we describe and analyse the phases of the computational neuroscience studies including the actors, the tasks they perform, and the characteristics of each phase. Based on these we identify the required properties and functionalities of a virtual laboratory that supports the actors and their tasks throughout the complete study.
The cerebral vasculature is a complex vessel network with high variations among human subjects. Although the coarse structure and spatial relationships of the main cerebrovascular branches are well known, not much knowledge about inter-individual vessel variability of humans at a finer level is available. The aim of this work is to present a probabilistic atlas of cerebral arterial vascular structures derived from 700 Time-of-Flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) datasets of healthy subjects. Therefore, the cerebrovascular system was automatically segmented in each TOF datasets. In a following step, each TOF dataset and corresponding segmentation was registered to the MNI brain atlas. The registered datasets were then used for generation of a probabilistic cerebrovascular atlas. The generated atlas was evaluated with respect to three possible applications. The results suggest that the atlas is especially helpful to obtain knowledge about the cerebrovascular anatomy and its variations in terms of vessel occurrence probability. Furthermore, it appears useful for initialization of automatic cerebrovascular segmentation methods while an application for detection of vessel pathologies seems only feasible for large malformations.
As one of the more difficult components of any curricula, neuroanatomy poses many challenges to students - not only because of the numerous discrete structures, but also due to the complicated spatial relations between them, which must be learned. Traditional anatomical education uses 2D images with a focus on dissection. This approach tends to underestimate the cognitive leaps required between textbook, lecture, and dissection cases. With reduced anatomical teaching time available, and varying student spatial abilities, new techniques are needed for training. The goal of this study is to assess the improvement of trainee understanding of 3D brain anatomy, orientation, visualization, and navigation through the use of digital training regimes in comparison with current methods. Two subsets of health science and medical students were tested individually after being given a group lecture and either a pre- or post-dissection digital lab. Results suggest that exposure to a 3D digital lab may improve knowledge acquisition and understanding by the students, particularly for first time learners.
Awake surgery can be highly stressful for patients. In fact, being awake, patients could perceive that the environmental demands are taxing or exceed their adaptive abilities. We proposed the use of Virtual Reality as a functional and effective tool for a new class of clinical applications aimed at helping patients to cope with these specific stressful situations. Using coping skills that have been learnt during the virtual experience, patients can reduce their psychological stress and improve their collaboration and - in general - the outcome of the intervention.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common age-related motoric neurodegenerative disease initially described in the 1800's by James Parkinson as the 'Shaking Palsy'. Loss of the neurotransmitter dopamine was recognized as underlying the pathophysiology of the motor dysfunction; subsequently discovery of dopamine replacement therapies brought substantial symptomatic benefit to PD patients. However, these therapies do not fully treat the clinical syndrome nor do they alter the natural history of this disorder motivating clinicians and researchers to further investigate the clinical phenotype, pathophysiology/pathobiology and etiology of this devastating disease. Although the exact cause of sporadic PD remains enigmatic studies of familial and rare toxicant forms of this disorder have laid the foundation for genome wide explorations and environmental studies. The combination of methodical clinical evaluation, systematic pathological studies and detailed genetic analyses have revealed that PD is a multifaceted disorder with a wide-range of clinical symptoms and pathology that include regions outside the dopamine system. One common thread in PD is the presence of intracytoplasmic inclusions that contain the protein, -synuclein. The presence of toxic aggregated forms of -synuclein (e.g., amyloid structures) are purported to be a harbinger of subsequent pathology. In fact, PD is both a cerebral amyloid disease and the most common synucleinopathy, that is, diseases that display accumulations of -synuclein. Here we present our current understanding of PD etiology, pathology, clinical symptoms and therapeutic approaches with an emphasis on misfolded -synuclein.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease with well-defined pathophysiological mechanisms, mostly affecting medial temporal lobe and associative neocortical structures. Neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles represent the pathological hallmarks of AD, and are respectively related to the accumulation of the amyloid-beta peptide (A) in brain tissues, and to cytoskeletal changes that arise from the hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated Tau protein in neurons. According to the amyloid hypothesis of AD, the overproduction of A is a consequence of the disruption of homeostatic processes that regulate the proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Genetic, age-related and environmental factors contribute to a metabolic shift favoring the amyloidogenic processing of APP in detriment of the physiological, secretory pathway. A peptides are generated by the successive cleavage of APP by beta-secretase (BACE-1) and gamma-secretase, which has been recently characterized as part of the presenilin complex. Among several beta-amyloid isoforms that bear subtle differences depending on the number of C-terminal amino acids, A (1-42) plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of AD. The neurotoxic potential of the A peptide results from its biochemical properties that favor aggregation into insoluble oligomers and protofibrils. These further originate fibrillary A species that accumulate into senile and neuritic plaques. These processes, along with a reduction of A clearance from the brain, leads to the extracellular accumulation of A, and the subsequent activation of neurotoxic cascades that ultimately lead to cytoskeletal changes, neuronal dysfunction and cellular death. Intracerebral amyloidosis develops in AD patients in an age-dependent manner, but recent evidence indicate that it may be observed in some subjects as early as in the third or fourth decades of life, with increasing magnitude in late middle age, and highest estimates in old age. According to recent propositions, three clinical phases of Alzheimer's disease may be defined: (i) pre-symptomatic (or pre-clinical) AD, which may last for several years or decades until the overproduction and accumulation of A in the brain reaches a critical level that triggers the amyloid cascade; (ii) pre-dementia phase of AD (compatible with the definition of progressive, amnestic mild cognitive impairment), in which early-stage pathology is present, ranging from mild neuronal dystrophy to early-stage Braak pathology, and may last for several years according to individual resilience and brain reserve; (iii) clinically defined dementia phase of AD, in which cognitive and functional impairment is severe enough to surmount the dementia threshold; at this stage there is significant accumulation of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in affected brain areas, bearing relationship with the magnitude of global impairment. New technologies based on structural and functional neuroimaging, and on the biochemical analysis of cerebrospinal fluid may depict correlates of intracerebral amyloidosis in individuals with mild, pre-dementia symptoms. These methods are commonly referred to as AD-related biomarkers, and the combination of clinical and biological information yields good diagnostic accuracy to identify individuals at high risk of AD. In other words, the characterization of pathogenic A by means of biochemical analysis of biological fluids or by molecular neuroimaging are presented as diagnostic tools to help identify AD cases at the earliest stages of the disease process. The relevance of this early diagnosis of AD relies on the hypothesis that pharmacological interventions with disease-modifying compounds are more likely to produce clinically relevant benefits if started early enough in the continuum towards dementia. Therapies targeting the modification of amyloid-related cascades may be viewed as promising strategies to attenuate or even to prevent dementia. Therefore, the cumulative knowledge on the pathogenesis of AD derived from basic science models will hopefully be translated into clinical practice in the forthcoming years.
Naltrexone implants and depot injections (NI) are a novel form of treatment for opiate dependence (OD). Major questions relate to their absolute and relative efficacy and safety. Opportunely, six recent clinical trial data from several continents have uniformly provided dramatic evidence of the potent, dose-related and highly significant efficacy of NI, with minimal or manageable accompanying toxicity and safety concerns. The opiate-free lifestyle is attained significantly more often with NI adjusted O.R. = 6.00 (95% C.I. 3.86-9.50), P &lt; 10(-10). Other drug use and drug craving are also rapidly reduced. The optimum manner in which to commence NI remains to be established. Of particular relevance is the relative safety of NI compared to the chronic opiate agonists (COA) usually employed, as the long-term toxicity of COA is only just being elucidated. Large population-based studies have found elevated rates of cardiovascular disease, six cancers, liver and respiratory disease, and all-cause mortality in COA. Whilst opiates have been shown to trigger numerous molecular pathways, the most interesting is the demonstration that the opiate morphinan's nucleus binds to the endotoxin groove of the TLR4-MD2 heterodimer. This has the effect of triggering a low grade endotoxaemic-like state, which over time may account for these protean clinical findings, an effect which is reversed by opiate antagonists. This emerging evidence suggests an exciting new treatment paradigm for OD and a corresponding increase in the role of NI in treatment.
This study examines the process and effects of using facebook (FB) to locate and re-contact study participants targeted for follow up in a longitudinal study of adult methamphetamine users (N = 649). A follow-up interview was conducted in 2009-11 approximately 8 years after previous study participation. Our paper describes re-contact efforts involving FB, including IRB regulatory issues and the effectiveness of using FB compared to mailings and phone calls. A total of 48 of the 551 surviving non-incarcerated participants who agreed to be contacted for follow up studies were contacted via FB, of whom 11 completed the follow-up interview. Those contacted through FB were more likely to be younger, female, relocated out-of-state, and reported somewhat higher rates of anxiety and cognitive problems compared to those not located on FB. Although participants contacted through FB are likely to differ demographically from those contacted by phone or mail, FB provides a potentially effective means to expand conventional methods of correspondence for contacting hard to reach participants.









The primary goal in removing a metastatic brain tumor is to maximize surgical resection while minimizing the risk of neurological injury. Intraoperative image guidance is frequently used in the resection of both primary and metastatic brain tumors. Stereotactic volumetric techniques allow for smaller craniotomies, facilitate lesion localization, and help neurosurgeons avoid eloquent structures. In turn, this leads to decreased patient morbidity and shorter hospitalizations. Image guidance is not without shortcomings, however, perhaps the most significant of which is inaccuracy of tumor resection associated with intraoperative brain shifts. The goal of this review is to expound on the uses of image guidance and discuss avoidance of technical pitfalls in the resection of cerebral metastatic lesions.
Precision is the ultimate aim of stereotactic technique. Demands on stereotactic precision reach a pinnacle in stereotactic functional neurosurgery. Pitfalls are best avoided by possessing in-depth knowledge of the techniques employed and the equipment used. The engineering principles of arc-centered stereotactic frames maximize surgical precision at the target, irrespective of the surgical trajectory, and provide the greatest degree of surgical precision in current clinical practice. Stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a method of visualizing intracranial structures and fiducial markers on the same image without introducing significant errors during an image fusion process. Although image distortion may potentially limit the utility of stereotactic MRI, near-complete distortion correction can be reliably achieved with modern machines. Precision is dependent on minimizing errors at every step of the stereotactic procedure. These steps are considered in turn and include frame application, image acquisition, image manipulation, surgical planning of target and trajectory, patient positioning and the surgical procedure itself. Audit is essential to monitor and improve performance in clinical practice. The level of stereotactic precision is best analyzed by routine postoperative stereotactic MRI. This allows the stereotactic and anatomical location of the intervention to be compared with the anatomy and coordinates of the intended target, avoiding significant image fusion errors.


Our understanding of the pathophysiological and biochemical basis of a number of neurological disorders has increased enormously over the last three decades. Parallel with this growth of knowledge has been a clearer understanding of the mechanism by which a number of naturally occurring plant extracts, as well as whole plants, can affect these mechanisms so as to offer protection against injury and promote healing of neurological tissues. Curcumin, quercetin, green tea catechins, balcalein, and luteolin have been extensively studied, and they demonstrate important effects on cell signaling that go far beyond their antioxidant effects. Of particular interest is the effect of these compounds on immunoexcitotoxicity, which, the authors suggest, is a common mechanism in a number of neurological disorders. By suppressing or affecting microglial activation states as well as the excitotoxic cascade and inflammatory mediators, these compounds dramatically affect the pathophysiology of central nervous system disorders and promote the release and generation of neurotrophic factors essential for central nervous system healing. We discuss the various aspects of these processes and suggest future directions for study.

We observed a rare case of the middle suprarenal artery branching out from the superior mesenteric artery in a 78-year-old male. This atypical artery enters the right suprarenal gland that was also supplied by the superior and the inferior suprarenal arteries as usual. In embryonic stages, vasculature of the vitelline system and the gonadal system is differentially organized. The superior mesenteric artery has been generally thought to be pure vitelline, since there has been no evidence that the superior mesenteric artery supplies other organs than digestive. We then speculate that the present middle suprarenal artery is a remnant of the embryonic gonadal artery from the superior mesenteric artery, whereas a stem artery to the testis disappeared. Surgeons should take notice of the middle suprarenal artery when operations are conducted around the superior mesenteric artery.
Distinct forms of MEF2 transcription factor act as positive or negative regulators of dendritic spine formation, with MEF2C playing a key regulator role in synapse plasticity. We report here that acute cocaine treatment of rats induced the expression of MEF2C in the striatum through a recently discovered transduction pathway. Repeated injections were found to induce MEF2C to a lesser extent. The mechanism by which MEF2C was induced involves the subsequent activation of the salt-inducible kinase SIK1 and the phosphorylation of HDAC5, a member of the class IIa of HDACs. Cocaine activated SIK1 by phosphorylation on Thr-182 residue, which was accompanied by the nuclear import of the kinase. In the nuclear compartment, SIK1 then phosphorylated HDAC5 causing the shuttling of its phospho-form from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of striatal cells. Activation of SIK1 by cocaine was further validated by the phosphorylation of TORC1/3, which was followed by the shuttling of TORC proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Activation of MEF2C was assessed by measuring the expression of the MEF2C gene itself, since the gene is known to be under the control of its own product. Since MEF2C plays a key role in memory/learning processes, activation of this pathway by cocaine is probably involved in plasticity mechanisms whereby the drug establishes its long-term effects such as drug dependence.
We previously demonstrated that Sig-1Rs are critical regulators in neuronal morphogenesis and development via the regulation of oxidative stress and mitochondrial functions. In the present study, we sought to identify pathways and genes that are affected by Sig-1R. Gene expression profiles were examined in rat hippocampal neurons that had been cultured for 18 days in vitro (DIV). The cells were transduced with AAV siRNA targeting Sig-1R on DIV 10 for 7 days, followed by gene expression analysis using a rat genome cDNA array. The gene array results indicated that Sig-1R knockdown hampered cellular functions including steroid biogenesis, protein ubiquitination, actin cytoskeleton network, and Nrf-2 mediated oxidative stress. Many of the cellular components important for actin polymerization and synapse plasticity, including F-actin capping protein and neurofilaments, were significantly changed in AAV-siSig-1R neurons. Further, cytochrome c was reduced in AAV-Sig-1R neurons whereas free-radical generating enzymes including cytochrome p450 and cytochrome b-245 were increased. The microarray results also suggest that Sig-1Rs may regulate genes that are involved in the pathogenesis of many CNS diseases including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These data further confirmed that Sig-1Rs play critical roles in the CNS and thus these findings may aid in future development of therapeutic treatments targeting neurodegenerative disorders.
Cigarette smoking is a risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), the pathological hallmark of which is amyloid- (A) brain deposits. We found the adjusted risk of AD was significantly increased among medium level smokers (RR = 2.56; 95% CI = 1.65-5.52), with an even higher risk in the heavy smoking group (RR = 3.03; 95% CI = 1.25-4.02). This systematic review and original data further support this association. We searched Pubmed, Google scholar, and PsyINFO for original population study articles, meta-analyses, and reviews published between 1987 and 2011. Some studies were excluded due to design flaws including survivor bias. We performed analyses of: 1) amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing in N2a cells overexpressing Swedish mutant APP (SweAPP N2a) exposed to cigarette smoke condensate (CSC), 2) microglial inflammatory response to CSC, and 3) CSC exposed microglial phagocytosis of A(1-42). CSC significantly promotes neuronal A generation, increases microglial IL-1 and TNF- production, and decreases microglial A(1-42) phagocytosis. The mechanism underlying the epidemiological association of cigarette smoking with AD might involve the effect of cigarette smoke on APP processing, a reduction of A clearance by microglia, and/or an increased microglial proinflammatory response. In vivo studies are required to fully elucidate how cigarette smoke promotes AD.
Human brain constructs knowledge, elaborates thought and promotes goal-directed behavior, organizing memories of past experience and information from the environment, perceived by senses. Cognition entails all these mental processes. Neuroscience has attempted to explore the architecture of cognition, whose neurobiological substrates are provided by widely distributed neural networks, interacting through complex connections, including sensory-fugal (inward or forward) and sensory-petal (outward or backward) projections, running in opposite direction. The iterative dialogue between inward circuits (conveying information that reflect the physical nature of perceptive stimuli) and outward ones (inferring the nature of percepts based on empirical accounts of past experiences) allows the unimodal (modality-selective) and multimodal/supramodal elaboration of sensory information. Moreover, top-down projections from high-order associative cortices confer the ability to transcend experience-based representations, promoting individually-sculpted interpretations, as well as mental imagery, thought, and abstraction.
Revealing the behavior of single molecules in living cells is very useful for understanding cellular events. Quantum dot probes are particularly promising tools for revealing how biological events occur at the single molecule level both in vitro and in vivo. In this review, we will introduce how single quantum dot applications are used for single molecule tracking. We will discuss how single quantum dot tracking has been used in several examples of complex biological processes, including membrane dynamics, neuronal function, selective transport mechanisms of the nuclear pore complex, and in vivo real-time observation. We also briefly discuss the prospects for single molecule tracking using advanced probes.
Gastrointestinal (GI) functional and motility disorders are highly prevalent and responsible for long-term morbidity and sometimes mortality in the affected patients. It is estimated that one in three persons has a GI functional or motility disorder. However, diagnosis and treatment of these widespread conditions remains challenging. This partly stems from the multisystem pathophysiology, including processing abnormalities in the central and peripheral (enteric) nervous systems and motor dysfunction in the GI wall. Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) are central to the generation and propagation of the cyclical electrical activity and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) are responsible for electromechanical coupling. In these and other excitable cells voltage-sensitive ion channels (VSICs) are the main molecular units that generate and regulate electrical activity. Thus, VSICs are potential targets for intervention in GI motility disorders. Research in this area has flourished with advances in the experimental methods in molecular and structural biology and electrophysiology. However, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for the complex and variable electrical behavior of ICCs and SMCs remains incomplete. In this review, we focus on the slow waves and action potentials in ICCs and SMCs. We describe the constituent VSICs, which include voltage-gated sodium (Na(V)), calcium (Ca(V)), potassium (K(V), K(Ca)), chloride (Cl(-)) and nonselective ion channels (transient receptor potentials [TRPs]). VSICs have significant structural homology and common functional mechanisms. We outline the approaches and limitations and provide examples of targeting VSICs at the pores, voltage sensors and alternatively spliced sites. Rational drug design can come from an integrated view of the structure and mechanisms of gating and activation by voltage or mechanical stress.

The dynamical systems approach in cognitive science offers a potentially useful perspective on both brain and behavior. Indeed, the importation of formal tools from dynamical systems research has already paid off for our field in many ways. However, like some other theoretical perspectives in cognitive science, the dynamical systems approach comes in both moderate or pragmatic and &quot;fundamentalist&quot; varieties (Jones &amp; Love, 2011). In the latter form, dynamical systems theory can rise to some stirring rhetorical heights. However, as argued here, it also triggers a number of serious and specific reservations.
International Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) Data Sets include core, basic, and extended data sets. To date, 13 data sets have been published on the Web site of the International Spinal Cord Injury Society (ISCoS; www.iscos.org.uk), and several more are forthcoming. The data sets are constituted of data elements, which may be appropriate to use in trials conducted to test novel therapeutic candidates including neuroprotective drugs, various cell types, and rehabilitative strategies and devices. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), embarked on a Common Data Element (CDE) Project 5 years ago. The mission of the NINDS CDE Project is to develop data standards for clinical research. The NINDS CDE team has since developed variable names and database structures for the International SCI Data Sets (ie, the SCI CDEs; http://www.commondataelements.ninds.nih.gov/SCI.aspx). Dataset variable names and database structure are exemplified with the International SCI Core Data Set and the International SCI Cardiovascular Function Basic Data Set. The consistency of the data sets and the CDE format may improve the ability to transfer critical medical information electronically from one center to another. The goals of the SCI CDE initiative are to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of clinical research studies and clinical treatment, increase data quality, facilitate data sharing, and help educate new clinical investigators. Pilot testing the SCI CDEs is an important step to ensure the SCI CDE effort achieves its goals.
The wild-type (WT) Cpr(lox/lox) (cytochrome P(450) oxidoreductase, Cpr) mouse is an ideal model to assess the contribution of P(450) enzymes to the metabolic activation and disposition of environmental xenobiotics. In the present study, we examined the effect of in utero exposure to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] aerosol on Sp4 and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent systems as well as a resulting behavioral phenotype (object discrimination) in Cpr offspring. Results from in utero exposure of WT Cpr(lox/lox) mice were compared with in utero exposed brain-Cpr-null offspring mice. Null mice were used as they do not express brain cytochrome P(450)1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase (CYP1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase), thus reducing their capacity to produce neural B(a)P metabolites. Subsequent to in utero (E14-E17) exposure to B(a)P (100 g/m(3)), Cpr(lox/lox) offspring exhibited: (1) elevated B(a)P metabolite and F(2)-isoprostane neocortical tissue burdens, (2) elevated concentrations of cortical glutamate, (3) premature developmental expression of Sp4, (4) decreased subunit ratios of NR2B:NR2A, and (5) deficits in a novelty discrimination phenotype monitored to in utero exposed brain-Cpr-null offspring. Collectively, these findings suggest that in situ generation of metabolites by CYP1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase promotes negative effects on NMDA-mediated signaling processes during the period when synapses are first forming as well as effects on a subsequent behavioral phenotype.




Essential tremor (ET) is the most common movement disorder in humans. It is characterized by a postural and kinetic tremor most commonly affecting the forearms and hands. Isolated head tremor has been found in 1-10% of patients, suggesting that ET may be a composite of several phenotypes. The exact pathophysiology of ET is still unknown. ET has been repeatedly shown as a disorder of mild cerebellar degeneration, particularly in postmortem studies. Clinical observations, electrophysiological, volumetric and functional imaging studies all reinforce the fact that the cerebellum is involved in the generation of ET. However, crucial debate exists as to whether ET is a neurodegenerative disease. Data suggesting that it is neurodegenerative include postmortem findings of pathological abnormalities in the brainstem and cerebellum, white matter changes on diffusion tensor imaging, and clinical studies demonstrating an association with cognitive and gait changes. There is also conflicting evidence against ET as a neurodegenerative disease: the improvement of gait abnormalities with ethanol administration, lack of gray matter volume loss on voxel-based morphometry, failure to confirm the prominent presence of Lewy bodies in the locus ceruleus, and other pathological findings. To clarify this issue, future research is needed to describe the mechanism of cellular changes in the ET brain and to understand the order in which they occur. The cerebellum has been shown to be involved in the timing of movement and sensation, acting as an internal timing system that provides the temporal representation of salient events spanning hundreds of milliseconds. It has been reported that cerebellar timing function is altered in patients with ET, showing an increased variability of rhythmic hand movements as well as diminished performance during predictive motor timing task. Based on current knowledge and observations, we argue that ET is essentially linked with cerebellar degeneration, or at least cerebellar dysfunction, together with disturbance of motor timing. We explain the context of our current understanding on this topic, highlighting possible clinical consequences for patients suffering from ET and future research directions.
Essential tremor (ET), one of the most common adult-onset movement disorders, has been associated with cerebellar Purkinje cell degeneration and formation of brainstem Lewy bodies. Recent findings suggest that genetic variants of the leucine-rich repeat and Ig domain containing 1 (LINGO-1) gene could be risk factors for ET. The LINGO-1 protein contains both leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains in its extracellular region, as well as a transmembrane domain and a short cytoplasmic tail. LINGO-1 can form a ternary complex with Nogo-66 receptor (NgR1) and p75. Binding of LINGO-1 with NgR1 can activate the NgR1 signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination in the central nervous system. LINGO-1 has also been found to bind with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and induce downregulation of the activity of EGFR-PI3K-Akt signaling, which might decrease Purkinje cell survival. Therefore, it is possible that genetic variants of LINGO-1, either alone or in combination with other genetic or environmental factors, act to increase LINGO-1 expression levels in Purkinje cells and confer a risk to Purkinje cell survival in the cerebellum.Here, we provide a concise summary of the link between LINGO-1 and neurodegeneration and discuss various hypotheses as to how this could be potentially relevant to ET pathogenesis.

Although mood disorders constitute leading causes of disability, until recently little was known about their pathogenesis. The delineation of anatomical networks that support emotional behavior (mainly derived from animal studies) and the development of neuroimaging technologies that allow in vivo characterization of anatomy, physiology, and neurochemistry in human subjects with mood disorders have enabled significant advances towards elucidating the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD). In this review, we integrate insights from human and animal studies, which collectively suggest that MDD and BD involve dysfunction within an extended network including the medial prefrontal cortex and anatomically-related limbic, striatal, thalamic and basal forebrain structures.
Schizophrenia is one of the most debilitating of all common brain disorders, exacting a heavy toll on the afflicted and having a tremendous public health impact. Clinical outcome is more strongly predicted by cognitive deficits than psychotic symptoms, with no established treatment for these deficits. In this review, we discuss the status of treatment development for impaired cognition in schizophrenia. These treatments include a range of pharmacological targets within diverse neurotransmitter systems. New technologies, including transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation, and psychological therapies, such as computer-based cognitive training, may also benefit cognition in schizophrenia. Each of these approaches shows promise and their integration may optimize benefits for patients in the future.
Computational ideas pervade many areas of science and have an integrative explanatory role in neuroscience and cognitive science. However, computational depictions of cognitive function have had surprisingly little impact on the way we assess mental illness because diseases of the mind have not been systematically conceptualized in computational terms. Here, we outline goals and nascent efforts in the new field of computational psychiatry, which seeks to characterize mental dysfunction in terms of aberrant computations over multiple scales. We highlight early efforts in this area that employ reinforcement learning and game theoretic frameworks to elucidate decision-making in health and disease. Looking forwards, we emphasize a need for theory development and large-scale computational phenotyping in human subjects.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has long been thought to reflect dysfunction of prefrontal-striatal circuitry, with involvement of other circuits largely ignored. Recent advances in systems neuroscience-based approaches to brain dysfunction have facilitated the development of models of ADHD pathophysiology that encompass a number of different large-scale resting-state networks. Here we review progress in delineating large-scale neural systems and illustrate their relevance to ADHD. We relate frontoparietal, dorsal attentional, motor, visual and default networks to the ADHD functional and structural literature. Insights emerging from mapping intrinsic brain connectivity networks provide a potentially mechanistic framework for an understanding of aspects of ADHD such as neuropsychological and behavioral inconsistency, and the possible role of primary visual cortex in attentional dysfunction in the disorder.
A key criticism of the main diagnostic tool in psychiatry, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders (DSM-IV), is that it lacks a biological footing. In this article, we argue for a biological approach to psychiatry based on 'neurocognitive endophenotypes', whereby changes in behavioural or cognitive processes are associated with discrete deficits in defined neural systems. We focus on the constructs of impulsivity and compulsivity as key examples of the approach and discuss their possible cross-diagnostic significance, applying them to co-morbidities and commonalities across a range of disorders (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, substance dependence, obsessive-compulsive disorder and eating disorders). We argue that this approach has important implications for the future classification of psychiatric disorders, genetics and therapeutics.
Advances in neuroscience, technology and research sophistication have greatly increased understanding of mental illnesses and improved the treatment of these disorders. However, there are also important psychosocial aspects of mental illness that play a significant role in recovery from these conditions. One set of these factors involves the prejudice and discrimination, often referred to as 'stigma', faced by people when others learn that they have been diagnosed with, and/or treated for, a mental disorder.
Accumulating evidence indicates substantial etiological and pathophysiological heterogeneity as well as overlap within and across psychiatric disorders. Moreover, it is uncertain at what level, besides gross behavior, mental illnesses can be differentiated. To advance our understanding of psychiatric disease, we advocate a more systematic approach in characterizing a small number of animal models by utilizing unequivocal rare disease mutations and targeted cognitive assessment to identify convergent disease circuits and mechanisms. Based on available data, we discuss the possibility that the temporal dynamics of synaptic plasticity play a central role in disease pathophysiology and that the extent and manner in which they are altered in specific neural circuits determine the exact clinical phenotype of diverse disorders.
Anhedonia, or markedly diminished interest or pleasure, is a hallmark symptom of major depression, schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Over the past three decades, the clinical definition of anhedonia has remained relatively unchanged, although cognitive psychology and behavioral neuroscience have expanded our understanding of other reward-related processes. Here, we review the neural bases of the construct of anhedonia that reflects deficits in hedonic capacity and also closely linked to the constructs of reward valuation, decision-making, anticipation and motivation. The neural circuits subserving these reward-related processes include the ventral striatum, prefrontal cortical regions, and afferent and efferent projections. An understanding of anhedonia and other reward-related constructs will facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of disorders that include reward deficits as key symptoms.
Deficits in cognitive control, a core disturbance of schizophrenia, appear to emerge from impaired prefrontal gamma oscillations. Cortical gamma oscillations require strong inhibitory inputs to pyramidal neurons from the parvalbumin basket cell (PVBC) class of GABAergic neurons. Recent findings indicate that schizophrenia is associated with multiple pre- and postsynaptic abnormalities in PVBCs, each of which weakens their inhibitory control of pyramidal cells. These findings suggest a new model of cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia in which PVBC inhibition is decreased to compensate for an upstream deficit in pyramidal cell excitation. This compensation is thought to rebalance cortical excitation and inhibition, but at a level insufficient to generate the gamma oscillation power required for high levels of cognitive control.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after a traumatic experience such as domestic violence, natural disasters or combat-related trauma. The cost of such disorders on society and the individual can be tremendous. In this article, we review how the neural circuitry implicated in PTSD in humans is related to the neural circuitry of fear. We then discuss how fear conditioning is a suitable model for studying the molecular mechanisms of the fear components that underlie PTSD, and the biology of fear conditioning with a particular focus on the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-tyrosine kinase B (TrkB), GABAergic and glutamatergic ligand-receptor systems. We then summarize how such approaches might help to inform our understanding of PTSD and other stress-related disorders and provide insight to new pharmacological avenues of treatment of PTSD.
Drug discovery in neuro- and psychopharmacology is lagging, and the most commonly mentioned cause is the scarcity of drug targets. Using NextGen 'sequencing based single-cell transcriptomics' (SBSCT), several hundred different receptors and channels can be identified in individual neurons, and the functional gene product can subsequently be validated. The use of single-cell transcriptome data to reveal the entire receptor repertoire is crucial, as the copy numbers of mRNAs encoding receptors are low, and when cells are pooled dilution of rare mRNAs leads to loss of signal. These overlooked receptors on key neurons often mediate robust effects that may be therapeutically useful. SBSCT also enables the identification of orphan receptors and can provide strong evidence for receptor heterodimers. Here, we compare SBSCT to other single-cell profiling methods. We argue that the unbiased nature of SBSCT makes it a powerful tool for the identification of new drug targets.


Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) due to intracranial aneurysm rupture is a complex clinical disease with high mortality and morbidity. Recent studies suggest that early brain injury (EBI) rather than vasospasm might be responsible for morbidity and mortality within 24-72 hours after SAH. The rise in intracranial pressure following SAH causes a significant drop in cerebral perfusion pressure that leads to global cerebral ischemia and initiates the acute injury cascade. Various molecular mechanisms have been shown to involve in the pathophysiology of EBI including cellular apoptosis. In this review, we summarize apoptotic molecular mechanisms involved in the etiology of EBI and its potential as a target for future therapeutic intervention.
This review describes functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the intravital noninvasive dynamic study of the active zones of cerebral structures at the time of their activity, fMR is based on the difference in magnetic properties of oxyhemoglobin--the oxygen carrier, and deoxyhemoglobin--a product produced in the areas of oxygen consumption, the brain parenchyma. This ratio is reflected as the physical phenomenon BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) that is a marker of neuronal activity. fMRI has good spatial resolution and the possibility of multiple repetitions of the research. This allows the 3D reconstruction of the sequence of formation and intracerebral &quot;geometry&quot; (stereometry) of newly formed neural ensembles (NE) and/or realization of potentially pre-existing NE. fMRI is an optimal tool for neuronal activity mapping, or more accurate, for functional state of the NE in the reconstruction of neural networks; it should be regarded as the technology for studying the brain of humans and animals, both in terms of natural life activity, and in pathological conditions.



The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of optical defocus on changes of electrical response as a function of retinal region. Twenty-three subjects (aged 19-25 year) with normal ocular health were recruited for global flash multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) recordings under control (fully corrected) condition, and short-term positive defocus (+2D and +4D) and negative defocus (-2D and -4D) conditions. The amplitudes and implicit times of direct (DC) and induced (IC) components of mfERG responses were pooled into six concentric rings for analyses. The mfERG responses demonstrated more significant changes in amplitude in paracentral retinal regions than in the central regions under defocused conditions. The paracentral DC amplitude showed a significant reduction under negative defocus conditions. In contrast, the paracentral IC amplitude showed a significant increment under positive defocus conditions. Interestingly, the central IC response showed significant reduction in amplitude only to negative defocus, while increasing its amplitude to positive defocus. However, the DC and IC implicit times were virtually unaffected under defocused conditions. Our findings suggest that human retina is able to differentiate defocused signals and to identify positive and negative defocus. It shows that paracentral retina reacts more vigorously to optical defocus than does central retina.
This study compares HIV-affected families and their non-HIV-affected neighbors' behavioral health outcomes and family conflict. To compare two groups from the same neighborhoods at four points over 18 months, mothers with HIV (MLH) (N=167) and their school-age children (age 6 to 20) were recruited from clinical care settings in Los Angeles, CA and neighborhood control mothers (NCM) without HIV (N=204) were recruited from modal neighborhoods. In addition, children living at home who were 12 years and older were recruited. We assessed parenting behaviors, family conflict, mental health, sexual behavior, substance use, and HIV-related health behaviors over time. MLH perceived greater economic insecurity at baseline, less employment, and involvement in romantic relationships. MLH reported more emotional distress and substance use than NCM. MLH, however, reported lowered HIV transmission risk. The random regressions indicated that MLH exhibited higher levels and became significantly less depressed and less anxious over time than their non-HIV-affected neighbors. MLH also reported less initial family violence and conflict reasoning than NCM; violence decreased and conflict increased over time for MLH relative to NCM. Children of MLH decreased their marijuana use but hard drug users of MLH increased their risk, over time, compared to children of NCM. Moreover, children of MLH reported more internalizing behaviors than children of NCM. Even when compared to other families living in the same economically disadvantaged communities, MLH and their children continue to face challenges surrounding family conflict, and key behavioral health outcomes, especially with respect to substance use and mental health outcomes. These families, however, show much resilience and MLH report lowered levels of HIV transmission risk, their children report no greater levels of HIV transmission risk and levels of family violence were lower than reported by families in the same neighborhoods.

Nearly forty years ago, social psychologists began applying the information processing framework of cognitive psychology to the question of how humans understand and represent knowledge about themselves and others. This approach gave rise to the immensely successful field of social cognition and fundamentally changed the way in which social psychological phenomena are studied. More recently, social scientists of many stripes have turned to the methods of cognitive neuroscience to understand the neural basis of social cognition. A pervasive finding from this research is that social knowledge, be it about one's self or of others, is represented in the medial prefrontal cortex. This review focuses on the social cognitive neuroscience of self and person knowledge in the medial prefrontal cortex. We begin with a brief historical overview of social cognition, followed by a review of recent and influential research on the brain basis of self and person knowledge. In the latter half of this review we discuss the role of familiarity and similarity in person perception and of spontaneous processes in self and other referential cognition. Throughout, we discuss the myriad ways in which the social cognitive neuroscience approach has provided new insights into the nature and structure of self and person knowledge.
The goal of this paper is to consider anger from a cognitive neuroscience perspective. Five main claims are made: First, reactive aggression is the ultimate behavioral expression of anger and thus we can begin to understand anger by understanding reactive aggression. Second, neural systems implicated in reactive aggression (amygdala, hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray; the basic threat system) are critically implicated in anger. Factors such as exposure to extreme threat that increase the responsiveness of these systems, should be (and are in the context of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder), associated with increased anger. Third, regions of frontal cortex implicated in regulating the basic threat system, when dysfunctional (e.g., in the context of lesions) should be associated with increased anger. Fourth, frustration occurs when an individual continues to do an action in the expectation of a reward but does not actually receive that reward, and is associated with anger. Individuals who show impairment in the ability to alter behavioral responding when actions no longer receive their expected rewards should be (and are in the context of psychopathy) associated with increased anger. Fifth, someone not doing what another person wants them to do (particularly if this thwarts the person's goal) is frustrating and consequently anger inducing. The response to such a frustrating social event relies on the neural architecture implicated in changing behavioral responses in non-social frustrating situations.
Cerebral ischemia is a leading cause of death and long-term disabilities worldwide. Excessive intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation in neurons has been considered essential for neuronal injury associated with cerebral ischemia. Although the involvement of glutamate receptors in neuronal Ca(2+) accumulation and toxicity has been the subject of intensive investigation, inhibitors for these receptors showed little effect in clinical trials. Thus, additional Ca(2+) toxicity pathway(s) must be involved. Acidosis is a common feature in cerebral ischemia and was known to cause brain injury. The mechanisms were, however, unclear. The finding that ASIC1a channels are highly enriched in brain neurons, their activation by ischemic acidosis, and their demonstrated Ca(2+) permeability suggested a role for these channels in Ca(2+) accumulation and neuronal injury associated with cerebral ischemia. Indeed, a number of studies have now provided solid evidence supporting the involvement of ASIC1a channel activation in ischemic brain injury.






Epilepsy is characterized by recurrent seizures, which are caused by excessive discharges from cerebral neurons. Currently, antiepileptic drugs that possess sodium channel blocking activities and also mediate GABA-ergic systems are primarily used to prevent epileptic seizure. However, approximately 40% of patients with epilepsy suffer from interictal psychiatric comorbidities in clinical practice. Furthermore, it is unclear whether epilepsy is associated with psychic function. The aim of the present study was to clarify the effects of kindling-induced epileptic seizures on psychic functioning using behavioral pharmacological tests. Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-kindled mice demonstrated no significant differences in locomotor activity and muscle relaxation compared with nave mice. PTZ-kindled mice also demonstrated cognitive impairment in the objective location test, but no significant effects of PTZ-kindling were observed in the Y-maze test. These findings suggested that PTZ-kindling impairs reference memory, but not working memory. These results suggest that, with respect to their psychic functioning, PTZ-kindled mice have specific characteristics.
Fast voltage-sensitive dyes (VSD) are widely used in modern neuroscience for optical recording of electrical potentials at many levels, from single cell compartment to brain areas, containing populations of many neural cells. The more lipophilic a VSD, the better signal-to-noise ratio of the optical signal, but there are no effective ways to deliver a water-insoluble dye into the membrane of live cell. Here we report a new protocol based on rapid biolistic delivery of VSDs, which is optimal for further recordings of optical signals from live neurons of rat brain slices. This protocol allows us to stain locally (150 mkm) neural somata of brain structures with a Golgi-like pattern, and a VSD propagates even to distant neurites of stained cells very quickly. This technique also can be used for rapid local delivery of any lipophilic and water-insoluble substances into live cells, further optical recording of neural activity, and analysis of potential propagation in a nerve cell.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by intra- and/or extracellular protein aggregation and oxidative stress. Intense attention has been paid to whether protein aggregation itself contributes to abnormal production of free radicals and ensuing cellular oxidative damage. Although this question has been investigated in the context of extracellular protein aggregation, it remains unclear whether protein aggregation inside cells alters the redox homeostasis. To address this, we have used in vitro and in vivo (cellular) models of Huntington disease, one of nine polyglutamine (poly(Q)) disorders, and examined the causal relationship among intracellular protein aggregation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and toxicity. Live imaging of cells expressing a fragment of huntingtin (httExon1) with a poly(Q) expansion shows increased ROS production preceding cell death. ROS production is poly(Q) length-dependent and not due to the httExon 1 flanking sequence. Aggregation inhibition by the MW7 intrabody and Pgl-135 treatment abolishes ROS production, showing that increased ROS is caused by poly(Q) aggregation itself. To examine this hypothesis further, we determined whether aggregation of poly(Q) peptides in vitro generated free radicals. Monitoring poly(Q) protein aggregation using atomic force microscopy and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production over time in parallel we show that oligomerization of httEx1Q53 results in early generation of H(2)O(2). Inhibition of poly(Q) oligomerization by the single chain antibody MW7 abrogates H(2)O(2) formation. These results demonstrate that intracellular protein aggregation directly causes free radical production, and targeting potentially toxic poly(Q) oligomers may constitute a therapeutic target to counteract oxidative stress in poly(Q) diseases.
We describe a 43-year-old man with a long-standing history of headache and ophthalmoplegia. Brain MRI showed a nodular enhancing lesion at the root exit zone of the left oculomotor nerve. Contrast enhancement on follow-up MRI and clinical symptoms showed a partial resolution on starting prophylactic anti-migraine medications. This was confirmed to be a case of ophthalmoplegic migraine. Here we describe a rare case of OM in an adult patient with its characteristic imaging pattern and the differential diagnosis considered.
Hydrogen sulfide (HS) can be consumed by both invertebrates and vertebrates as an inorganic substrate. The pathway metabolizing HS probably involves three mitochondrial enzymes, one of which is sulfide-quinone oxidoreductase (SQR), known as sulfide-quinone reductase-like protein (SQRDL) in vertebrates. Evidence from fission yeast suggests that SQR might have a role in regulating sulfide levels in the cell. Regulation might be essential for HS to act as a gaseous transmitter (gasotransmitter). The brain is an organ with high activity of gasotransmitters, like nitric oxide (NO) and HS, which are known to affect synaptic transmission. In this study, we provide evidence that SQRDL is expressed in the mammalian brain. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) showed an increase in the number of Sqrdl transcripts in the brain with increasing age. Cellular fractionation and subsequent analysis by Western blotting indicated that the protein is located in mitochondria, which is the site of sulfide consumption in the cell. With an immunohistochemical approach, we demonstrated that the SQRDL protein is expressed in neurons, oligodendrocytes, and endothelial cells. Taken together, our data suggest that brain tissue harbors the machinery required for local regulation of sulfide levels.
Environmental enrichment paradigms in adult laboratory animals, consisting of physical, perceptual, and social stimulation, have been shown to affect synapse and cell morphology in sensory cortex and enhance learning ability, whereas enrichment, which is in harmony with the animal's natural habitat may have even greater implications for plasticity. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that whisker stimulation induced the formation of synapses and spines in the corresponding barrel. In the present study adult C57/Bl6J female laboratory mice at 6 weeks of age were placed during 2 months in a protected enrichment enclosure in a forest clearing at the Chisti Les Biological Station, Tvier, Russia. We analyzed neuropil ultrastructure in the C2 barrel using serial-section electron microscopy on a total of eight mice (n=4 enriched, n=4 standard cagemate controls). Quantitative analyses of volumes of neuropil showed a significant increase in excitatory and inhibitory synapses on spines and excitatory synapses on dendritic shafts in the C2 barrel in the enriched group compared with standard cagemate controls. These results demonstrate that naturalistic experience alters the synaptic circuitry in layer IV of the somatosensory cortex, the first cortical relay of sensory information, leaving a lasting trace that may guide subsequent behavior.
In the present study, orexinergic cell bodies within the brains of rhythmic and arrhythmic circadian chronotypes from three species of African mole rat (Highveld mole rat-Cryptomys hottentotus pretoriae, Ansell's mole rat--Fukomys anselli and the Damaraland mole rat--Fukomys damarensis) were identified using immunohistochemistry for orexin-A. Immunopositive orexinergic (Orx+) cell bodies were stereologically assessed and absolute numbers of orexinergic cell bodies were determined for the distinct circadian chronotypes of each species of mole rat examined. The aim of the study was to investigate whether the absolute numbers of identified orexinergic neurons differs between distinct circadian chronotypes with the hypothesis of elevated hypothalamic orexinergic neurons in the arrhythmic chronotypes compared with the rhythmic chronotypes. We found statistically significant differences between the circadian chronotypes ofF. anselli, where the arrhythmic group had higher mean numbers of hypothalamic orexin neurons compared with the rhythmic group. These differences were observed when the raw data was compared and when the raw data was corrected for body mass (M(b)) and brain mass (M(br)). For the two other species investigated, no significant differences were noted between the chronotypes, although a statistically significant difference was noted between all rhythmic and arrhythmic individuals of the current study when the counts of orexin neurons were corrected for M(b)--the arrhythmic individuals had larger numbers of orexin cells.
Recent studies demonstrated that the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 7 &quot;mGluR7&quot; activation may reduce motivational aspects of ethanol dependence. We investigated the role of mGlu7 receptor in ethanol-related behaviors using the allosteric agonist AMN082 in mice. Results have shown that mGluR7 activation increased the sedative effect of ethanol as measured by the duration of loss of righting reflex (LORR) and reduced the severity of ethanol-induced withdrawal. Importantly, the protective effect of the drug on alcohol-induced withdrawal was found when the AMN082 was injected before, but not after, injection of ethanol suggesting that mGluR7 activation prevented development of dependence rather than producing an anti-convulsant effect. In addition, ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation was blocked by following mGluR7 activation. Furthermore, mice injected with AMN082 consumed less ethanol in a two-bottle free-choice paradigm and in a drinking in the dark (DID) model. Impairment in reward mechanisms in AMN082-injected mice was confirmed by the lack of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). Follow-up control experiments have shown that plasma alcohol concentrations of AMN082 and vehicle-treated mice were similar. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for the crucial role of mGluR7 in ethanol-related behaviors, especially in voluntary alcohol drinking and alcohol reward. Thus, pharmacological targeting mGluR7 with AMN082-like compounds might be a potential means to tackle ethanol abuse and alcoholism in the future.
Recent studies have shown that autophagy upregulation may be a tractable therapeutic intervention for clearing the disease-causing proteins, including -synuclein, ubiquitin, and other misfolded or aggregated proteins in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we explored a novel pharmacotherapeutic approach to treating PD by utilizing potential autophagy enhancers valproic acid (VPA) and carbamazepine (CBZ). Pretreatment with VPA (3 mM) and CBZ (50 M) along with positive control rapamycin (Rap, 0.2 M) or lithium (LiCl, 10 mM) significantly enhanced cell viability, decreased rotenone-induced nuclear fragmentation and apoptosis, ameliorated the decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced reactive oxygen species generation in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Specifically, the numbers of lysosomes and autophagic vacuolar organelles were increased and the microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-II (LC3-II) expression was up-regulated by VPA, CBZ, Rap, and LiCl (53%, 31%, 72%, and 63%), suggesting that these agents activated autophagic pathways. Moreover, pretreatment with the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine (Chl, 10 M) remarkably strengthened rotenone toxicity in these cells. Our results suggest that VPA and CBZ, the most commonly used anti-epilepsy and mood-stabilizing medications with low-risk and easy administration might be potential therapeutics for PD.
Protein aggregation is the major pathological hallmark seen in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Alpha-synuclein (S) is the main component of protein aggregates that form Lewy bodies (LBs) in PD and dementia with LBs. There have been several attempts to intervene in the process of expression, modification, clearance, and aggregation of S as a therapeutic strategy toward neuroprotection. In this study, we have employed a novel, predictive, system level approach in silico to study four different strategies of anti-aggregation therapies: (a) reduction in S modifications such as phosphorylation, nitration, or truncation in an approach called &quot;seed clearance;&quot; (b) &quot;anti-oligomerization&quot; approach through blocking the early oligomers formation; (c) &quot;oligomers clearance&quot; process by increasing its lysosomal degradation; and (d) &quot;anti-aggregation&quot; that involves prevention of aggregate formation at a later stage. These strategies were tested in a virtual dopaminergic neuronal system triggered by overexpression (OE) of mutant S-A53T with or without rotenone (Rot)-induced oxidative stress. The results were compared by analyzing markers related to various end points such as oxidative stress, dopamine (DA) metabolism, proteasome function, survival and apoptosis. The experimental system and anti-oligomerization strategies were recapitulated in vitro in M17 dopaminergic cells overexpressing mutant S-A53T triggered with Cu(II)-mediated oxidative stress, and the experimental data prospectively corroborated with the predictive results. Through this analysis, we found that intervention in the early part of the aggregation pathway by prevention of oligomer formation and increased clearance is indeed a good neuroprotective strategy, whereas anti-aggregation efforts to break up the aggregate at later stages has negative effects on the system.
Migraine headaches are more prevalent in women and often occur during the early phases of the menstrual cycle, implying a link between migraine and ovarian steroids. Serotonin (5-HT) and its receptors have been proposed to play a key role in the pathophysiology of migraine. The trigeminal ganglion (TG) has been proposed as a site for 5-HT synthesis based on the expression of the rate limiting enzyme in peripheral 5-HT synthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), in female rodent trigeminal ganglia. Tryptophan hydroxylase levels vary over the estrus cycle, however, the expression and potential regulation of other enzymes involved in 5-HT synthesis has not been reported in this tissue. C57/BL6 mice of both sexes expressed TPH1 and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), the key enzymes involved in 5-HT synthesis. Levels of both enzymes were significantly higher in juvenile males compared with females. In naturally cycling females TPH1 and AADC expression was highest during proestrus when compared with the other phases of the cycle, and this regulation was mirrored at the mRNA level. In situ hybridization experiments detected TPH1 and AADC mRNA in presumptive neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. Both key enzymes involved in the synthesis of 5-HT are expressed in mouse trigeminal ganglion and are localized to neurons. The levels of these enzymes are dependent on gender and estrus cycle stage, suggesting that ovarian steroids might play a role in the regulation of sensory neuron 5-HT synthesis.
Accurate profiling of microRNAs (miRNAs) is an essential step for understanding the functional significance of these small RNAs in both physiological and pathological processes. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) has gained acceptance as a robust and reliable transcriptomic method to profile subtle changes in miRNA levels and requires reference genes for accurate normalization of gene expression. 5S and snoU6 RNAs are commonly used as reference genes in microRNA quantification. It is currently unknown if these small RNAs are stably expressed during neuronal differentiation. Panels of miRNAs have been suggested as alternative reference genes to 5S and snoU6 in various physiological contexts. To test the hypothesis that miRNAs may serve as stable references during neuronal differentiation, the expressions of eight miRNAs, 5S and snoU6 RNAs in five differentiating neuronal cell types were analyzed using qPCR. The stabilities of the expressions were evaluated using two complementary statistical approaches (geNorm and Normfinder). Expressions of 5S and snoU6 RNAs were stable under some but not all conditions of neuronal differentiation and thus are not suitable reference genes. In contrast, a combination of three miRNAs (miR-103, miR-106b and miR-26b) allowed accurate expression normalization across different models of neuronal differentiation.
The impact of conductive hearing loss (CHL), the second most common form of hearing loss, on neuronal plasticity in the central auditory pathway is unknown. After short-term (1 day) monaural earplugging, the GluA3 subunits of the AMPA receptor (AMPAR) are upregulated at auditory nerve synapses on the projection neurons of the cochlear nucleus; glycine receptor 1 (GlyR1) subunits are downregulated at inhibitory synapses in the same neuronal population. These data suggest that CHL affects receptor trafficking at synapses. We examined the impact of 7 days of CHL on the general expression of excitatory and inhibitory receptors by quantitative biochemistry and immunohistochemistry, using specific antibodies to detect AMPAR subunits (GluA1, GluA2, GluA2/3, and GluA4), GlyR1, and the GABA(A) receptor subunits 2/3. Following monaural earplugging and an elevation of the hearing threshold by approximately 35 dB, the immunolabeling of the antibody for the GluA2/3 subunits but not the GluA2 subunit increased on bushy cells (BCs) and fusiform cells (FCs) of the ipsilateral ventral and dorsal cochlear nuclei. These same cell types showed a downregulation of the GlyR1 subunit. Similar results were observed in the contralateral nuclei. The expression levels of GABA(A) 2/3 were unchanged. These findings suggest that, following longer periods of monaural conductive hearing loss, the synthesis and subsequent composition of specific glutamate and glycine receptors in projection neurons and their synapses are altered; these changes may contribute to abnormal auditory processing.
Intrinsically-photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) express the photopigment melanopsin and function as irradiance detectors, responsible for crucial non-image forming visual functions. In addition to their intrinsic photosensitivity, ipRGCs are also activated by synaptic inputs originating at the classical photoreceptors, rods and cones. Little is known about inhibition through these retinal pathways, despite ipRGCs receiving massive synaptic inputs from inhibitory amacrine interneurons. We performed a wide anatomical screening for neurotransmitter receptors possibly involved in the inhibitory modulation of ipRGCs in the macaque retina. We investigated both subtypes of primate ipRGCs described so far and report that outer-stratifying (M1) cells possess mainly GlyR 2 and GABA(A)R 3 subunits, while inner-stratifying (M2) cells are overall subject to less inhibitory modulation. Our results suggest that M1 and M2 ipRGC subtypes are modulated via distinct inhibitory intraretinal circuits.
Neuropathic pain management is challenging for physicians and a vexing problem for basic researchers. Recent studies reveal that activated spinal astrocytes may play a vital role in nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain, although the mechanisms are not fully understood. We have found increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, a hallmark of reactive gliosis, and elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the dorsal horn in a rat model of allodynia induced by spinal nerve ligation (SNL). The high GFAP expression and mechanical allodynia that SNL induces were prevented by the intrathecal injection of the BDNF-sequestering fusion protein TrkB/Fc. Additionally, mechanical allodynia and GFAP overexpression was induced by the spinal administration of exogenous BDNF to naive rats, and exogenous BDNF given together with fluorocitrate, an astrocytic metabolism inhibitor, inhibited allodynia and GFAP upregulation. Exogenous BDNF also activated the astrocytes directly when tested in vitro. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of BDNF-stimulated astrocytes also induced mechanical allodynia in naive rats. All of these results indicate that astrocytes activated by BDNF might contribute to mechanical allodynia development in neuropathic pain in rats.
We have shown that isoflurane application at the onset of reperfusion (postconditioning) reduces brain ischemic injury in rats. This study was designed to determine whether this protection involved activation of prosurvival protein kinases and maintenance of normal mitochondrial membrane permeability. Two-month-old male rats were subjected to a 90-min middle cerebral arterial occlusion. They then were exposed or were not exposed to 2% isoflurane for 1 h. Ischemic penumbral cerebral cortex was harvested immediately and separated into the mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions. We showed that the mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide content in the ischemic penumbral cortex was significantly reduced, suggesting an increased mitochondrial membrane permeability. This increase was partly attenuated by isoflurane postconditioning. The mitochondrial adenosine diphosphate content in the penumbral cortex was reduced no matter whether the animals were postconditioned with isoflurane. The mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate concentration was not different among various experimental conditions. The phospho-Akt in the cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions of the ischemic penumbral cortex was higher than that in the control cortex. This increase trended to be higher in animals with isoflurane postconditioning. A similar change pattern was observed in the mitochondrial phospho-glycogen synthase kinase 3, an Akt substrate that can regulate the mitochondrial membrane permeability. Isoflurane postconditioning reduced oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced injury of rat cortical neuronal cultures and increased phospho-Akt in these cells. The isoflurane postconditioning-induced protection in the neuronal cultures was decreased by the Akt inhibitor LY294002. These results suggest that isoflurane postconditioning effects may be mediated by Akt and involve reduced mitochondrial membrane permeability.
The dose-limiting side effect of the anti-neoplastic agent, paclitaxel, is a chronic distal symmetrical peripheral neuropathy that produces sensory dysfunction (hypoesthesia and neuropathic pain) but little or no distal motor dysfunction. Similar peripheral neuropathies are seen with chemotherapeutics in the vinca alkaloid, platinum-complex, and proteasome inhibitor classes. Studies in rats suggest that the cause is a mitotoxic effect on axonal mitochondria. If so, then the absence of motor dysfunction may be due to mitotoxicity that affects sensory axons but spares motor axons. To investigate this, paclitaxel exposure levels in the dorsal root, ventral root, dorsal root ganglion, peripheral nerve, and spinal cord were measured, and the ultrastructure and the respiratory function of mitochondria in dorsal roots and ventral roots were compared. Sensory and motor axons in the roots and nerve had comparably low exposure to paclitaxel and exposure in the spinal cord was negligible. However, sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion had a very high and remarkably persistent (up to 10 days or more after the last injection) exposure to paclitaxel. Paclitaxel evoked a significant increase in the incidence of swollen and vacuolated mitochondria in the myelinated and unmyelinated sensory axons of the dorsal root (as seen previously in the peripheral nerve) but not in the motor axons of the ventral root. Stimulated mitochondrial respiration in the dorsal root was significantly depressed in paclitaxel-treated animals examined 2-4 weeks after the last injection, whereas respiration in the ventral root was normal. We conclude that the absence of motor dysfunction in paclitaxel-evoked peripheral neuropathy may be due to the absence of a mitotoxic effect in motor neuron axons, whereas the sensory dysfunction may be due to a mitotoxic effect resulting from the primary afferent neuron's cell body being exposed to high and persistent levels of paclitaxel.
L-PGlu-(2-propyl)-L-His-L-ProNH (NP-647) is a CNS active thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog with potential application in various CNS disorders including seizures. In the present study, mechanism of action for protective effect of NP-647 was explored by studying role of NP-647 on epileptiform activity and sodium channels by using patch-clamp methods. Epileptiform activity was induced in subicular pyramidal neurons of hippocampal slice of rat by perfusing 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) containing Mg-free normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid (nACSF). Increase in mean firing frequency was observed after perfusion of 4-AP and zero Mg (2.100.47 Hz) as compared with nACSF (0.120.08 Hz). A significant decrease in mean firing frequency (0.610.22 Hz), mean frequency of epileptiform events (0.030.02 Hz vs. 0.220.05 Hz of 4-AP+0 Mg), and average number of action potentials in paroxysmal depolarization shift-burst (2.541.21 Hz vs. 8.160.88 Hz of 4-AP+0 Mg) was observed. A significant reduction in peak dV/dt (24619 mV ms vs. 29718 mV ms of 4-AP+0 Mg) and increase (1.3320.018 ms vs. 1.2920.019 ms of 4-AP+0 Mg) in time required to reach maximum depolarization were observed indicating role of sodium channels. Concentration-dependent depression of sodium current was observed after exposure to dorsal root ganglion neurons to NP-647. NP-647 at different concentrations (1, 3, and 10 M) depressed sodium current (150.5%, 502.6%, and 750.7%, respectively). However, NP-647 did not show change in the peak sodium current in CNa18 cells. Results of present study demonstrated potential of NP-647 in the inhibition of epileptiform activity by inhibiting sodium channels indirectly.
Substance abuse typically begins in adolescence; therefore, the impact of alcohol during this critical time in brain development is of particular importance. Epidemiological data indicate that excessive alcohol consumption is prevalent among adolescents and may have lasting neurobehavioral consequences. Loss of cholinergic input to the forebrain has been demonstrated following fetal alcohol exposure and in adults with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. In the present study, immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was determined to assess forebrain cholinergic neurons (Ch1-4), and behavioral changes following periadolescent alcohol exposure. Wistar rats were exposed to intermittent ethanol vapor (14 h on/10 h off/day) for 35 days from postnatal day (PD) 22 to PD 57 (average blood alcohol concentration (BAC): 163 mg%). Rats were withdrawn from vapor and assessed for locomotor activity, startle response, conflict behavior in the open field, and immobility in the forced swim test, as adults. Rats were then sacrificed at day 71/72 and perfused for histochemical analyses. Ethanol vapor-exposed rats displayed: increased locomotor activity 8 h after the termination of vapor delivery for that 24 h period at day 10 and day 20 of alcohol vapor exposure, significant reductions in the amplitude of their responses to prepulse stimuli during the startle paradigm at 24 h withdrawal, and at 2 weeks following withdrawal, less anxiety-like and/or more &quot;disinhibitory&quot; behavior in the open field conflict, and more immobility in the forced swim test. Quantitative analyses of ChAT immunoreactivity revealed a significant reduction in cell counts in the Ch1-2 and Ch3-4 regions of the basal forebrain in ethanol vapor-exposed rats. This reduction in cell counts was significantly correlated with less anxiety-like and/or more &quot;disinhibitory&quot; behavior in the open field conflict test. These studies demonstrate that behavioral measures of arousal, affective state, disinhibitory behavior, and ChAT+IR, are all significantly impacted by periadolescent ethanol exposure and withdrawal in Wistar rats.
Serine proteases of the S8A family and those belonging to the subtilase group generate a long-lasting inhibition of hippocampal evoked potentials, which shows little recovery and resembles long-term depression. The present work investigates the effects of subtilisin A on epileptiform activity induced in hippocampal slices. Interictal bursts were generated by perfusion with 4-aminopyridine in magnesium-free medium, whereas ictal bursts were produced by the addition of baclofen. Subtilisin A superfused for 10 min at concentrations of 50 nM and above reduced the duration of ictal bursts, whereas higher concentrations reduced the frequency of interictal activity with little or no recovery, indicating similarity with the long-term depression reported previously. The anti-epileptiform activity was not prevented by inhibitors of phosphatases or several kinases, but the inhibition of ictal activity was selectively reduced by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein. The rho-activated coiled-coil kinase (ROCK) inhibitor Y-27632 had no effect on the suppression of ictal or interictal bursts. Subtilisin applied at nanomolar concentrations to the surface of the cerebral cortex in vivo also suppressed epileptiform spikes induced by bicuculline. It is concluded that serine proteases of the subtilase group are highly potent inhibitors of epileptiform activity, especially ictal bursts, and that tyrosine kinases may be involved in that inhibition. The mechanism of inhibition is different from the long-lasting depression of evoked potentials, which is partly mediated via ROCK.
Alpha-synuclein (-Syn) is a major component of Lewy bodies, abnormal protein aggregates that are present in neurons of patients with Parkinson's disease and other neurological disorders. Despite intensive investigation, the in vivo role of -Syn in physiological and pathological processes is not fully understood. This study addresses a current debate on the nuclear localization of -Syn protein in the brain. To assess the specificity of various -Syn antibodies, we compared their staining patterns in wild-type mouse brains with that of the -Syn knock-out mice. Among five different -Syn antibodies tested here, two generated intensive nuclear staining throughout the normal mouse brain. However, nuclear staining by these two antibodies was also present in neurons of the -Syn knock-out mice. This provides evidence that the nuclear signal is not specifically related to the presence of -Syn, but it rather results from the cross-reactivity of the two antibodies to some unknown antigens in neuronal nuclei. In mouse brain neurons, endogenous -Syn proteins are primarily localized to neuronal processes and nerve terminals but present only at low levels in the cell bodies. This is different from a generally uniform distribution of exogenously expressed -Syn in both cytoplasm and nuclei of heterologous cells and suggests that the neuritic enrichment of -Syn in neurons may be mediated by their specific interactions with certain structural or molecular components in the neuropil.
Schizophrenia (Sz), along with other neuropsychiatric disorders, is associated clinically with abnormalities in neocortical gamma frequency (30-80 Hz) oscillations. In Sz patients, these abnormalities include both increased and decreased gamma activity, and show a strong association with Sz symptoms. For several decades, administration of sub-anesthetic levels of ketamine has provided the most comprehensive experimental model of Sz-symptoms. While acute application of ketamine precipitates a psychotic-like state in a number of animal models, as well as humans, the underlying mechanisms behind this effect, including alteration of neuronal network properties, are incompletely understood, making an in vitro level analysis particularly important. Previous in vitro studies have had difficulty inducing gamma oscillations in neocortical slices maintained in submerged-type recording chambers necessary for visually guided whole-cell recordings from identified neurons. Consequently, here, we validated a modified method to evoke gamma oscillations using brief, focal application of the glutamate receptor agonist kainate (KA), in slices prepared from mice expressing green fluorescent protein in GABAergic interneurons (GAD67-GFP knock-in mice). Using this method, gamma oscillations dependent on activation of AMPA and GABA(A) receptors were reliably elicited in slices containing mouse prelimbic cortex, the rodent analogue of the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Examining the effects of ketamine on this model, we found that bath application of ketamine significantly potentiated KA-elicited gamma power, an effect mimicked by selective NMDAR antagonists including a selective antagonist of NMDARs containing the NR2B subunit. Importantly, ketamine, unlike more specific NMDAR antagonists, also reduced the peak frequency of KA-elicited oscillatory activity. Our findings indicate that this effect is mediated not through NMDAR, but through slowing the decay kinetics of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents in identified GABAergic interneurons. These in vitro findings may help explain the complexities of gamma findings in clinical studies of Sz and prove useful in developing new therapeutic strategies.
Intermittent nociceptive stimulation following a complete transection or contused spinal cord injury (SCI) has been shown to exert several short- and long-lasting negative consequences. These include maladaptive spinal plasticity, enhanced mechanical allodynia, and impaired functional recovery of locomotor and bladder functions. The neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to play an important role in adaptive plasticity and also to restore functions following SCI. This suggests that the negative behavioral effects of shock are most likely related to corresponding changes in BDNF spinal levels. In this study, we investigated the cellular effects of nociceptive stimulation in contused adult rats focusing on BDNF, its receptor, tropomyosin-receptor kinase (TrkB), and the subsequent downstream signaling system. The goal was to determine whether the behavioral effect of stimulation is associated with concomitant cellular changes induced during the initial post-injury period. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting were used to assess changes in the mRNA and/or protein levels of BDNF, TrkB, and the downstream signaling proteins calcium-calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) and extracellular related kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) at 1 h, 24 h, and 7 days following administration of intermittent noxious shock to the tail of contused subjects. In addition, recovery of locomotor function (Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan [BBB] score) was assessed daily for the first week after injury. The results showed that, although nociceptive stimulation failed to induce any changes in gene expression at 1 h, it significantly reduced the expression of BDNF, TrkB, ERK2, and CaMKII at 24 h. In general, changes in gene expression were spatially localized to the dorsal spinal cord. In addition, locomotor recovery was impaired by shock. Evidence is also provided suggesting that shock engages a neuronal circuitry without having any negative effects on neuronal survival at 24 h. These results suggest that nociceptive activity following SCI decreases BDNF and TrkB levels, which may significantly contribute to diminished functional recovery.
This study examined whether individual differences in aerobic fitness are associated with differences in activation of cognitive control brain networks in preadolescent children. As expected, children performed worse on a measure of cognitive control compared with a group of young adults. However, individual differences in aerobic fitness were associated with cognitive control performance among children. Lower-fit children had disproportionate performance cost in accuracy with increasing task difficulty, relative to higher-fit children. Brain activation was compared between performance-matched groups of lower- and higher-fit children. Fitness groups differed in brain activity for regions associated with response execution and inhibition, task set maintenance, and top-down regulation. Overall, differing activation patterns coupled with different patterns of brain-behavior correlations suggest an important role of aerobic fitness in modulating task strategy and the efficiency of neural networks that implement cognitive control in preadolescent children.
This study aimed at examining and comparing the influence of two different stress stimuli on the density (number of cells/mm) of nerve growth factor (NGF) containing neurons in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cell layers and the dentate gyrus (DG) granule cell layer in juvenile rats (P28; P-postnatal day). The high-light open-field (HL-OF) test and forced swim (FS) test were employed to investigate the effects of a single, 15-min acute exposure and repeated (15 min daily for 21 days) long-term exposure to stress. In order to detect NGF-ir neurons, immunohistochemical (-ir) techniques were used. In comparison with nonstressed animals, acute and long-term HL-OF or FS stimulation resulted in a marked increase (P&lt;0.001) in the density of NGF-ir containing cells in all the hippocampal structures. The frequency of stress application (acute vs. long-term), however, did not have a substantial impact on the studied parameter, with the exception of the CA3 sector, where a decreased density (P&lt;0.001) of NGF-ir neurons was observed after long-term exposure to FS. It may be concluded that a rise in the density of NGF-ir neurons in the juvenile rat hippocampus after exposure to HL-OF or FS stressors could have affected the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) stress axis. Prolonged HL-OF or FS stress was probably aggravating enough not to trigger the habituation process. The type of stressor applied (HL-OF vs. FS) was not essentially a factor determining the density of NGF-ir cells in the hippocampus.
Novel approaches are required in the clinical management of peripheral nerve injuries because current surgical techniques result in deficient sensory recovery. Microsurgery alone fails to address extensive cell death in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), in addition to poor axonal regeneration. Incorporation of cultured cells into nerve conduits may offer a novel approach in which to combine nerve repair and enhance axonal regeneration with neuroprotective therapies. We examined apoptotic mediator expression in rat DRG neurons following repair of a 10-mm sciatic nerve gap using a novel synthetic conduit made of poly -caprolactone (PCL) and primed with adipose-derived stem cells (ADSC) differentiated towards a Schwann cell phenotype or with primary adult Schwann cells. Differentiated ADSC expressed a range of neurotrophic factors including nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), and neurotrophin-4 (NT4). Incorporation of either differentiated ADSC or Schwann cells significantly increased anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 mRNA expression (P&lt;0.001) in the DRG, while significantly decreasing pro-apoptotic Bax (P&lt;0.001) and caspase-3 mRNA (P&lt;0.01) expression. Cleaved caspase-3 protein was observed in the DRG following nerve injury which was attenuated when nerve repair was performed using conduits seeded with cells. Cell incorporation into conduit repair of peripheral nerves demonstrates experimental promise as a novel intervention to prevent DRG neuronal loss.
Calbindin-D28k (CaBP) has a neuroprotective effect on dopaminergic (DA) neurons in several models of Parkinson's disease. We used the DA cell line MN9D to explore the mechanisms underlying CaBP-mediated protection against the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) of DA neurons. In MN9D cells that were transfected with the expression vector pcDNA3-CB containing CaBP cDNA, the expression level of CaBP was significantly increased. After treating with 6-OHDA, a significant decrease in the apoptosis rate of the transfected MN9D cells was noted, as well as an obvious increase in the expression of phosphorylation of Akt (p-Akt); however, no significant change in the expression of total Akt or phospho-p100 (p-p100) occurred after this treatment. After treatment with wortmannin, an inhibitor of the PI3-kinase-Akt (PI-3K/Akt) signal pathway, an increase in the expression level of CaBP was observed, but there were no other obvious changes of the experimental index mentioned previously in the groups transfected with pcDNA3-CB. These studies suggest that CaBP has a significant role in protecting DA cells against the apoptosis induced by 6-OHDA--through PI-3K/Akt signaling pathway--where the non-canonical nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-B) signaling pathway might have no relevance.
Previous research suggests the infralimbic cortex is important in situations when there is competition between goal-directed and habitual responding. Here we used a response conflict procedure to further explore the involvement of the infralimbic cortex in this relationship. Rats received training on two instrumental biconditional discriminations, one auditory and one visual, in two distinct contexts. One discrimination was &quot;over-trained&quot; relative to the other, &quot;under-trained,&quot; discrimination in the ratio 3:1. At test, animals were presented with incongruent audiovisual stimulus compounds of the training stimuli in the under-trained context. The stimulus elements of these test compounds have previously dictated different lever press responses during training. Rats receiving control infusions into the infralimbic cortex showed a significant interference effect, producing more responses to the over-trained (habitual), but context-inappropriate, stimulus element of the incongruent compound. This interference effect was abolished by inactivation of the infralimbic cortex; animals showed a reduced tendency to produce the habitual but inappropriate response compared with animals receiving control infusions. This finding provides evidence that the infralimbic cortex is involved in attenuating the influence of goal-directed behavior, for example context-appropriate responding.
Central chemoreflex stimulation produces an increase in phrenic nerve activity (PNA) and sympathetic nerve activity (SNA). The A5 noradrenergic region projects to several brainstem areas involved in autonomic regulation and contributes to the increase in SNA elicited by peripheral chemoreflex activation. The aim of the present study was to further test the hypothesis that the A5 noradrenergic region could contribute to central chemoreflex activation. In urethane-anesthetized, sino-aortic denervated, and vagotomized male Wistar rats (n=6-8/group), hypercapnia (end-expiratory CO from 5% to 10%) increased mean arterial pressure (MAP; =+334 mmHg, P&lt;0.05), splanchnic SNA (sSNA; =+9713%, P&lt;0.05), and PNA frequency and amplitude. Bilateral injection of muscimol (GABA-A agonist; 2 mM) into the A5 noradrenergic region reduced the rise in MAP (=+193 mmHg, P&lt;0.05), sSNA (=+635%, P&lt;0.05), and PNA frequency and amplitude produced by hypercapnia. Injections of the immunotoxin anti-dopamine -hydroxylase-saporin (anti-DH-SAP) into the A5 region destroyed TH neurons but spared facial motoneurons and the chemosensitive neurons in the retrotrapezoid nucleus that express the transcription factor Phox2b and that are non-catecholaminergic (THPhox2b). Two weeks after selective destruction of the A5 region with the anti-DH-SAP toxin, the increase in MAP (=+225 mmHg, P&lt;0.05), sSNA (=+689%, P&lt;0.05), and PNA amplitude was reduced after central chemoreflex activation. These results suggest that A5 noradrenergic neurons contribute to the increase in MAP, sSNA, and PNA activation during central chemoreflex stimulation.
Negative emotionality affects sleep-wake behavior in humans and rodents, and the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat strain is known for its stress-sensitive phenotype. Analyzing rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) microarchitecture by separating REMS into single (siREMS; inter-REM episode interval&gt;3 min) and sequential (seqREMS; interval3 min) episodes, we previously reported that cued fear conditioning (CFC) increased REMS fragmentation in WKY compared to Wistar rats by increasing the number of seqREMS episodes. Since social support affects fear responsiveness in humans, we hypothesized that social interaction with a naive partner would affect the sleep-wake response to CFC in WKY rats. Thus, male WKY rats were assigned to either the social support or the social isolation group. Animals were fear-conditioned to 10 tones (800 Hz, 90 dB, 5 s), each co-terminating with a mild foot shock (1.0 mA, 0.5 s), at 30-s intervals. All subjects underwent a tone-only test both 24 h (Day 1) and again two weeks (Day 14) later. Social partnering was achieved by providing the fear-conditioned rat with 30 min of interaction with its naive partner immediately after CFC and during the tone presentations on Day 1 and Day 14. The results indicate that while CFC increased freezing behavior in socially isolated WKY rats, it increased grooming behavior in socially partnered rats. Socially partnered rats had increased sleep efficiency during the light phase and spent less time in NREMS during the dark phase. The number of siREMS episodes increased during both the light and dark phases in partnered rats, and the number of seqREMS episodes increased in socially isolated rats. Our findings suggest that social partnering may protect WKY rats from the REMS fragmentation that is observed following CFC in isolation.
The timeline of dopamine (DA) system maturation and the signaling properties of DA receptors (DRs) during rat brain development are not fully characterized. We used in situ hybridization and quantitative PCR to map DR mRNA transcripts in the medial frontal cortex (mFC) and striatum (STR) of the rat from embryonic day (E) 15 to E21. The developmental trajectory of DR mRNAs revealed distinct patterns of DA receptors 1 and 2 (DRD1, DRD2) in these brain regions. Whereas the mFC had a steeper increase in DRD1 mRNA, the STR had a steeper increase in DRD2 mRNA. Both DR mRNAs were expressed at a higher level in the STR compared with the mFC. To identify the functional properties of DRs during embryonic development, the phosphorylation states of cyclic AMP response element binding protein, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta were examined after DR stimulation in primary neuronal cultures obtained from E15 and E18 embryos and cultured for 3 days to ensure a stable baseline level. DR-mediated signaling cascades were functional in E15 cultures in both brain regions. Because DA fibers do not reach the mFC by E15, and DA was not present in cultures, these data indicate that DRs can become functional in the absence of DA innervation. Because activation of DR signal transduction pathways can affect network organization of the developing brain, maternal exposure to drugs that affect DR activity may be liable to interfere with fetal brain development.
Mutations in parkin were first identified in a group of Japanese patients who developed autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism with clinical symptoms similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Parkin is an E3 ligase that targets a number of substrates for ubiquitination. Recent studies show that parkin together with PINK1, another familial-linked PD gene product, is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial dynamics in the cell. In this study, we have identified a mitochondrial protein p32 as a novel interactor of parkin in the brain. We found that p32 can regulate mitochondrial morphology and dynamics by promoting parkin degradation through autophagy. These results suggest that parkin might be an important effector in the regulation of morphology and dynamics of mitochondria.
Exposure to glucocorticoids (GCs) in early development can lead to long-term changes in brain function and behavior, although little is known about the underlying neural mechanisms. Perinatal exposure to GCs alters adult anxiety and neuroendocrine responses to stress. Therefore, we investigated the effects of either late gestational or neonatal exposure to the GC receptor agonist dexamethasone (DEX), on apoptosis within the amygdala, a region critical for emotional regulation. DEX was administered to timed-pregnant rat dams from gestational day 18 until parturition, or postnatal day 4-6. Offspring were sacrificed the day following the last DEX treatment, and tissue was processed for immunohistochemical detection of cleaved caspase-3, a marker for apoptotic cells. Prenatal DEX treatment significantly increased the number of cleaved caspase-3-positive cells in the amygdala of both sexes, largely due to increases within the medial and basomedial subregions. Postnatal DEX treatment also increased cleaved caspase-3 immunoreactivity within the amygdala, although effects reached significance only in the central nucleus of females. Overall, DEX induction of cleaved caspase-3 in the amygdala was greater following prenatal compared with postnatal treatment, yet in both instances, elevations in cleaved caspase-3 correlated with an increase in pro-apoptotic Bax mRNA expression. Dual-label immunohistochemistry of cleaved caspase-3 and the neuronal marker NeuN confirmed that virtually all cleaved caspase-3-positive cells in the amygdala were neurons, and a subset of these cells (primarily following postnatal treatment) expressed a GABAergic calcium-binding protein phenotype (calbindin or calretinin). Together these results indicate that early developmental GC exposure induces neuronal apoptosis within the amygdala in an age-, sex-, and region-dependent manner.
Sixteen healthy subjects took part in this event-related potentials (ERPs) study aimed at investigating the neural response of the taste-visual cross-modal pairing. An interference effect was observed at the behavioral level: the mismatched condition was performed more slowly than the matched condition. ERP analyses revealed a more negative component between 400 and 600 ms in the mismatched condition than in the matched condition. Dipole source analysis of the difference wave (mismatched minus matched) indicated that two generators localized in prefrontal cortex (PFC) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) contributed to this cross-modal interference effect. These results provided the electrophysiological evidence of interference during the extraction of taste information from memory and conflict control during the incongruent taste-visual information processing.
Protocadherins comprise the largest family within the cadherin superfamily of cell surface receptors. Here, we characterize the 1-protocadherin subfamily during the development of the zebrafish nervous system. In zebrafish, there are five 1-protocadherins: pcdh1a, pcdh1b, pcdh7a, pcdh7b, andpcdh9. Each protocadherin gene is highly homologous to its human ortholog. While the expression pattern in the developing CNS is similar for each 1-protocadherin, with labeling observed in all major subdivisions, the detailed patterns are distinct. In addition, we provide evidence for alternative splicing of the pcdh7b and pcdh9 genes, resulting in variation in their respective cytoplasmic domains. As protocadherins are widely regarded to act as cell adhesion molecules, we used in vitro assays of 1-pcdh ectodomains to directly test their adhesive properties. We found no evidence for calcium-dependent, homophilic adhesion, contrasting sharply with the behavior of classical cadherins.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is used clinically to treat neuropathic pain states, but the precise mechanism by which it attenuates neuropathic pain remains to be established. The profile of afferent fiber activation during SCS and how it may correlate with the efficacy of SCS-induced analgesia are unclear. After subjecting rats to an L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL), we implanted a miniature quadripolar electrode similar to that used clinically. Our goal was to determine the population and number of afferent fibers retrogradely activated by SCS in SNL rats by recording the antidromic compound action potential (AP) at the sciatic nerve after examining the ability of bipolar epidural SCS to alleviate mechanical hypersensitivity in this model. Notably, we compared the profiles of afferent fiber activation to SCS between SNL rats that exhibited good SCS-induced analgesia (responders) and those that did not (nonresponders). Additionally, we examined how different contact configurations affect the motor threshold (MoT) and compound AP threshold. Results showed that three consecutive days of SCS treatment (50 Hz, 0.2 ms, 30 min, 80-90% of MoT), but not sham stimulation, gradually alleviated mechanical hypersensitivity in SNL rats. The MoT obtained in the animal behavioral study was significantly less than the A/-threshold of the compound AP determined during electrophysiological recording, suggesting that SCS could attenuate mechanical hypersensitivity with a stimulus intensity that recruits only a small fraction of the A-fiber population in SNL rats. Although both the MoT and compound AP threshold were similar between responders and nonresponders, the size of the compound AP waveform at higher stimulation intensities was larger in the responders, indicating a more efficient activation of the dorsal column structure in responders.
Identification of novel molecules that can induce neuronal differentiation of embryonic stem (ES) cells is essential for deciphering the molecular mechanisms of early development and for exploring cell therapy approaches. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) are known to be implicated early during ontogenesis in cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of VIP and PACAP on functional differentiation of ES cells. Quantitative-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed an inversion of the expression pattern of PAC1 and VPAC1 receptors with time. ES cells expressed genes encoding extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 and c-jun amino terminal kinase1. ES cells also expressed T-type 1I and 1G, L-type 1C and 1D, and N-type 1B calcium channel subunit mRNAs. Both peptides modified the shape of undifferentiated ES cells into bipolar cells expressing the neuronal marker neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Immunostaining indicated that PACAP intensified T-type 1I subunit immunoreactivity, whereas VIP increased L-types 1C and 1D, as well as N-type 1B subunit. Electrophysiological recording showed that VIP and PACAP enhanced transient calcium current. Moreover, VIP generated sustained calcium current. These findings demonstrate that PACAP and VIP induce morphological and functional differentiation of ES cells into a neuronal phenotype. Both peptides promote functional maturation of calcium channel subunits, suggesting that they can facilitate the genesis of cellular excitability.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) has been implicated in the action of antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, and antidepressants. Given that only antipsychotics are able to alleviate the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, the regulation of GSK-3 by antipsychotics would be expected to differ from other neuropsychiatric drugs if GSK-3 is involved in the alleviation of psychosis. Consequently, the current study examined the effects of antipsychotics (haloperidol and clozapine), mood stabilizers (lithium and valproic acid), and antidepressants (imipramine and fluoxetine) on GSK-3, as well as Akt and Wnt in the prefrontal cortex and striatum. Western blotting and co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that only antipsychotic treatment increased Dvl-3, GSK-3, and -catenin levels and enhanced the association of GSK-3 at the dopamine D2 receptor (DDR) complex in the rat prefrontal cortex. In the striatum, haloperidol had the same effect on Wnt signaling as observed in the prefrontal cortex, whereas clozapine did not affect Dvl-3, GSK-3 or -catenin levels. All three classes of drugs were able to activate Akt signaling as shown by the increased phosphorylated Akt and phosphorylated GSK-3 protein levels in the prefrontal cortex and/or striatum. In conclusion, regulation of the Wnt pathway is specific to antipsychotics, whereas antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, and antidepressants all affect Akt.
Recently, we have reported electropharmacological properties of a charybdotoxin (ChTx)- and ATP-insensitive-iberiotoxin (IbTx)-sensitive large conductance Ca-activated potassium (BKCa) channel in almost purified brain mitochondrial inner membrane vesicles. In this work, we report the single-channel characterization of a new BK channel from rat brain mitochondrial inner membrane (mitochondrial large conductance Ca-activated potassium channel, mitoBKCa channel) incorporated into a planar lipid bilayer. The channel conductance was 565 pS in 200 mM KCl cis/50 mM KCl trans. The channel open probability appeared voltage-independent at -40 to +40 mV. Adding 10 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) at positive and negative potentials and 2.5 mM ATP at positive voltages inhibited the channel activities. Notably, addition of 70 M glibenclamide to the cis side had no effect on the channel behavior. Hence, it can be concluded that there are, at least, two different types of mitoBKCa channels in brain mitochondrial membrane, and the IbTx-, ChTx-, and ATP-sensitive mitoBKCa channels may be activated during the decline of cell metabolism.
Intracellular signaling mechanisms translate extracellular signals, such as neuronal activity, into effects on dendrite complexity. Deciphering these mechanisms has considerable impact on understanding how the brain develops and what can go wrong in developmental disorders. How neurons regulate intracellular signaling to control their dendrite morphology remains poorly understood and is likely to be determined at the level of individual neuronal types. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV) is a signaling mechanism involved in the regulation of gene expression and dendrite growth. Expression of CaMKIV is developmentally regulated in the cerebral cortex, with highest expression occurring concomitant with the period of extensive dendrite growth and elaboration. Interestingly, cortical neurons heterogeneously expressed CaMKIV in postnatal rat cortices and cortical neurons in vitro. We tested if this differential CaMKIV expression mediated distinct arborization patterns in the dendrites of pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons. In fact, CaMKIV mediated dendrite complexity via regulation of specific morphological features of the dendrite arbor: branching and elongation, but not primary dendrite formation. We found that small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of CaMKIV decreased basal dendrite complexity indicating that endogenously expressed CaMKIV mediated dendrite complexity. CaMKIV was also required for activity-induced dendrite elaboration. Active CaMKIV expression in cortical neurons increased dendrite elaboration indicating that enzymatic activity was involved. These data indicated neuronal CaMKIV expression was required for basal and activity-induced dendrite complexity. Further, the data presented in this study indicate CaMKIV contributes to the diversity of dendrite arbors via restricted expression and regulation of distinct modes of dendrite elaboration.
Cortical reorganizations during acquisition of motor skills and experience-dependent recovery after deafferentation consist of several distinct phases, in which expansion of receptive fields is followed by the shrinkage and use-dependent refinement. In perceptual learning, however, such non-monotonic, stage-dependent plasticity remains elusive in the sensory cortex. In the present study, microelectrode mapping characterized plasticity in the rat auditory cortex, including primary, anterior, and ventral/suprarhinal auditory fields (A1, AAF, and VAF/SRAF), at the early and late stages of appetitive operant conditioning. We first demonstrate that most plasticity at the early stage was tentative, and that long-lasting plasticity after extended training was able to be categorized into either early- or late-stage-dominant plasticity. Second, training-induced plasticity occurred both locally and globally with a specific temporal order. Conditioned-stimulus (CS) frequency used in the task tended to be locally over-represented in AAF at the early stage and in VAF/SRAF at the late stage. The behavioral relevance of neural responses suggests that the local plasticity also occurred in A1 at the early stage. In parallel, the tone-responsive area globally shrank at the late stage independently of CS frequency, and this shrinkage was also correlated with the behavioral improvements. Thus, the stage-dependent plasticity may commonly underlie cortical reorganization in the perceptual learning, yet the interactions of local and global plasticity have led to more complicated reorganization than previously thought. Field-specific plasticity has important implications for how each field subserves in the learning; for example, consistent with recent notions, A1 should construct filters to better identify auditory objects at the early stage, while VAF/SRAF contribute to hierarchical computation and storage at the late stage.
The thalamus is considered an important interface between the ventral striatopallidum and the dorsal striatum, and may therefore contribute to compulsive drug-seeking behaviour. Recent evidence suggests that the paraventricular thalamus (PVT), a dorsal midline thalamic nucleus, and the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) are involved in drug self-administration and respond to drug-associated cues. At present, however, the role of these thalamic regions in mediating cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking is unclear. Similarly, the habenula complex, part of the epithalamus, has been implicated in nicotine self-administration and cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking, but the role of this region in cocaine reinstatement behaviour has received little attention. Rats (n=20) were trained to self-administer cocaine in the presence of discriminative stimuli associated with drug availability (S) or drug non-availability (S). Once a stable level of responding was reached, lever pressing was extinguished. Animals were then tested for reinstatement and sacrificed immediately following the presentation of either the S or S discriminative stimuli, and Fos-protein expression was assessed in thalamic and epithalamic regions. Interestingly, significant variation was observed in reinstatement behaviour, allowing a comparison between high-reinstating (HR), low-reinstating (LR) and control animals. Compared with LR animals, HR animals exhibited increased Fos-protein expression in the PVT, intermediodorsal thalamus and the medial and lateral divisions of the habenula. Our data provide evidence that activation of thalamic and epithalamic nuclei is associated with propensity to reinstate to cocaine-seeking elicited by drug-related cues. We also build upon existing data highlighting the importance of the PVT in reinstatement behaviour.
The volatile anesthetic, isoflurane, can protect the brain if administered before an insult such as an ischemic stroke. However, this protective &quot;preconditioning&quot; response to isoflurane is specific to males, with females showing an increase in brain damage following isoflurane preconditioning and subsequent focal cerebral ischemia. Innate cell sex is emerging as an important player in neuronal cell death, but its role in the sexually dimorphic response to isoflurane preconditioning has not been investigated. We used an in vitro model of isoflurane preconditioning and ischemia (oxygen and glucose deprivation, OGD) to test the hypotheses that innate cell sex dictates the response to isoflurane preconditioning and that 17-estradiol attenuates any protective effect from isoflurane preconditioning in neurons via nuclear estrogen receptors. Sex-segregated neuron cultures derived from postnatal day 0-1 mice were exposed to either 0% or 3% isoflurane preconditioning for 1 h. In separate experiments, 17-estradiol and the non-selective estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 were added 24 h before preconditioning and then removed at the end of the preconditioning period. Twenty-three hours after preconditioning, all cultures underwent 2 h of OGD. Twenty-four hours following OGD, cell viability was quantified using calcein-AM fluorescence. We observed that isoflurane preconditioning increased cell survival following subsequent OGD regardless of innate cell sex, but that the presence of 17-estradiol before and during isoflurane preconditioning attenuated this protection only in female neurons independent of nuclear estrogen receptors. We also found that independent of preconditioning treatment, female neurons were less sensitive to OGD compared with male neurons and that transient treatment with 17-estradiol protected both male and female neurons from subsequent OGD. More studies are needed to determine how cell type, cell sex, and sex steroids like 17-estradiol may impact on anesthetic preconditioning and subsequent ischemic outcomes in the brain.
Four studies were performed to further clarify the contribution of rod/cone and intrinsically photoreceptive retinal ganglion cells to measures of entrainment, dark preference, light-induced locomotor suppression and photosomnolence. Wild type (WT), retinally degenerate (rd/rd), and melanopsin-less (OPN4/) mouse strains were compared. In Experiment 1, mice were exposed to a graded photoperiod in which approximately 0.26 W/cm irradiance diminished to dark over a 6-h interval. This method enabled &quot;phase angle titration,&quot; with individual animals assuming activity onsets according to their sensitivity to light. WT and OPN4/ animals entrained with identical phase angles (effective irradiance=0.078 W/cm), but rd/rd mice required a more intense irradiance (0.161 W/cm) and entrainment occurred about 2.5 h earlier. In Experiment 2, all three strains preferred the dark side of a divided light-dark chamber until the irradiance dropped to 0.5 W/cm at which point, rd/rd mice no longer showed a preference. Experiments 3 and 4 determined that WT and rd/rd mice showed equivalent light-induced locomotor suppression, but the response was greatly impaired in OPN4/ mice. Closer examination of open field locomotion using infrared video-based methods and Any-maze(tm) software revealed two opposing effects of light. Locomotor suppression was equivalent in WT and rd/rd mice. Responses by OPN4/ mice varied from being absent (n=17) to normal (similar to WT and rd/rd mice; n=8). Light onset was associated with a significant, but brief, locomotion increase in WT and OPN4/ mice, but not in rd/rd mice. Any-maze(tm) analysis supports the view that light-induced locomotor quiescence is followed by behavioral sleep (photosomnolence), a fact that was visually validated from the raw video files. The data show that (a) classical photoreceptors, most likely rods, allow mice to prefer and entrain to very dim light such as found in natural twilight; (b) the presence of melanopsin photopigment enables light-induced locomotor suppression and photosomnolence; (c) light-induced locomotor suppression/photosomnolence is rod/cone mediated in 36% of mice lacking melanopsin, but not in 64% of the same OPN4/ strain; and (d) light-induced locomotor suppression encompasses an interval of behavioral sleep.
Pregnant rats were treated daily with 1 g/L of L-glutamate in their drinking water during pregnancy and/or lactation. The effect on adenosine A receptor (AR) and A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) in brains from both mothers and 15-day-old neonates was assayed using radioligand binding and real time PCR assays. Mothers receiving L-glutamate during gestation, lactation, and throughout gestation and lactation showed a significant decrease in total AR number (water+water, 30249 fmol/mg; L-glutamate+water, 10911 fmol/mg, P&lt;0.01; water+L-glutamate, 5213 fmol/mg, P&lt;0.01; L-glutamate+L-glutamate, 12833 fmol/mg, P&lt;0.05). No variations were detected in the Kd parameter. Concerning adenosine A(2A)R, radioligand binding assays revealed that Bmax parameter remains unaltered in maternal brain in response to glutamate exposure. However, Kd parameter was significantly decreased in all L-glutamate-treated groups (water+water, 5.31.3 nM; L-glutamatewater, 0.50.1 nM; water+L-glutamate, 0.90.1 nM; L-glutamateL-glutamate, 0.70.1 nM, P&lt;0.01 in all cases). In both male and female neonates, AR was also decreased after long-term glutamate exposure during gestation, lactation, and gestation plus lactation (male neonates: water+water, 56468 fmol/mg; L-glutamate+water, 618 fmol/mg; water+L-glutamate, 9520 fmol/mg; L-glutamate+L-glutamate, 11115 fmol/mg; P&lt;0.01 in all cases; female neonates: water+water, 21635 fmol/mg; L-glutamate+water, 599 fmol/mg; water+L-glutamate, 13916 fmol/mg; L-glutamate+L-glutamate, 9714 fmol/mg; P&lt;0.01 in all cases). No variations were found in mRNA level coding adenosine A(1)R in maternal or neonatal brain. Concerning adenosine A(2A)R, radioligand binding assays revealed that Bmax parameter was significantly increased in male and female neonates exposed to L-glutamate during lactation (male neonates: water+water, 21423 fmol/mg; water+L-glutamate, 58149 fmol/mg; P&lt;0.01; female neonates: water+water, 5110 fmol/mg; water+L-glutamate, 28252 fmol/mg; P&lt;0.05). No variations were found in mRNA level coding adenosine A(2A)R in maternal or neonatal brain. In summary, long-term L-glutamate treatment during gestation and lactation promotes a significant down-regulation of AR in whole brain from both mother and neonates and a significant up-regulation of A(2A)R in neonates exposed to L-glutamate during lactation.
Chemosensory inputs signaling volatile and nonvolatile molecules play a pivotal role in sexual and social behavior in rodents. We have demonstrated that olfactory preference in male rats, that is, attraction to receptive female odors, is regulated by the medial amygdala (MeA), the cortical amygdala (CoA), and the preoptic area (POA). In this paper, we investigated the involvement of two chemosensory organs, the olfactory epithelium (OE) and the vomeronasal organ (VNO), in olfactory preference and copulatory behavior in male rats. We found that olfactory preferences were impaired by zinc sulfate lesion of the OE but not surgical removal of the VNO. Copulatory behaviors, especially intromission frequency and ejaculation, were also suppressed by zinc sulfate treatment. Neuronal activation in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), the MeA, the CoA, and the POA was analyzed after stimulation by airborne odors or soiled bedding of estrous females using cFos immunohistochemistry. Although the OE and VNO belong to different neural systems, the main and accessory olfactory systems, respectively, both OE lesion and VNO removal almost equally suppressed the number of cFos-immunoreactive cells in those areas that regulate olfactory preference. These results suggest that signals received by the OE and VNO interact and converge in the early stage of olfactory processing, in the AOB and its targets, although they have distinct roles in the regulation of social behaviors.
Following global brain ischemia and reperfusion, it is well-established that neurons undergo a translation arrest that is reversible in surviving neurons, but irreversible in vulnerable neurons. We previously showed a correlation between translation arrest in reperfused neurons and the presence of granular mRNA-containing structures we termed &quot;mRNA granules.&quot; Here we further characterized the mRNA granules in reperfused neurons by performing colocalization studies using fluorescent in situ hybridization for poly(A) mRNAs and immunofluorescence histochemistry for markers of organelles and mRNA-binding proteins. There was no colocalization between the mRNA granules and markers of endoplasmic reticulum, cis- or trans-Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, microtubules, intermediate filaments, 60S ribosomal subunits, or the HuR ligands APRIL and pp32. The mRNA granules colocalized with the neuronal marker NeuN regardless of the relative vulnerability of the neuron type. RNA immunoprecipitation of HuR from the cytoplasmic fraction of 8 h reperfused forebrains selectively isolated hsp70 mRNA suggesting the mRNA granules are soluble structures. Together, these results rule out several organelle systems and a known HuR pathway as being directly involved in mRNA granule function.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunctions have been implicated in the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Cerebral endothelial cells (CECs) and astrocytes are the main cell components of the BBB. Although amyloid- oligomers (A) have been reported to mediate oxidative damage to the CECs and astrocytes and trigger the downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway, the cell surface binding site for A and exact sequence of these events have yet to be elucidated. In this study, the receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE) was postulated to function as a signal transducing cell surface receptor for A to induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation from NADPH oxidase and trigger downstream pathways for the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) and cytosolic phospholipase A (cPLA). We found that A competed with the anti-RAGE antibody (Ab(RAGE)) to bind to RAGE on the surfaces of CECs and primary astrocytes. In addition, Ab(RAGE) abrogate A-induced ROS production and the colocalization between the cytosolic (p47-phox) and membrane (gp91-phox) subunits of NADPH oxidase in both cell types. Ab(RAGE) as well as NADPH oxidase inhibitor and ROS scavenger suppressed A-induced ERK1/2 and cPLA phosphorylation in CECs. At the same time, only Ab(RAGE), but neither NADPH oxidase inhibitor nor ROS scavenger, inhibited the ERK1/2 pathway and cPLA phosphorylation in primary astrocytes. Therefore, this study demonstrates that NADPH oxidase complex assembly and ROS production are not required for A binding to RAGE at astrocytic surface leading to sequential phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and cPLA, and suggests the presence of two different RAGE-dependent downstream pathways in the CECs and astrocytes.
Neuronal morphogenesis plays an important role in neuronal development. TC10/CDC42 GTPase-activating protein (TCGAP) is known to be a brain-enriched multiple domain protein, but its role in neuronal development process remains poorly understood. In the present study, we showed that TCGAP positively regulated dendritic outgrowth and spine formation in developing cortical neurons. Knocking down TCGAP by RNA interference led to a decrease in the overall length of dendrite arbors and the number of dendrite branches both in vitro and in vivo. Overexpressing TCGAP in cultured cortical neurons increased dendritic outgrowth and branching. Moreover, overexpressing TCGAP lead to an increase of spine density while knocking-down TCGAP decreased spine density in vivo. The defect by downregulating TCGAP could be rescued by expressing a knock-down resistant form of TCGAP both in vivo and in vitro. In contrast, neither downregulating nor overexpressing TCGAP had any effect on axonal morphogenesis in primary cortical neuron cultures. Together, our findings suggest that TCGAP regulates neuronal morphogenesis in developing cortical neurons at both early and late stage.
Glutamate and GABA are the main excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the CNS, and both may be involved in the neuronal dysfunction in neurodegenerative conditions. We have recently found that glutamate release was decreased in isolated synaptosomes from the rat cerebral cortex during the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of multiple sclerosis. In contrast to control animals where GABA induced a decrease in the evoked glutamate release, which was abolished by picrotoxin (a GABA(A) antagonist), synaptosomes from EAE rats showed a loss in the inhibition of the glutamate release mediated by GABA with a concomitant diminution of the flunitrazepam-sensitive GABA(A) receptor density. We have presently further evaluated the relevance of the GABAergic system in EAE by treating rats challenged for the disease with the GABA agonist diazepam. Administration of diazepam during 6 days starting at day 6 or 11 after EAE active induction led to a marked decrease of the disease incidence and histological signs associated with the disease. Cellular reactivity and antibody responses against the encephalitogenic myelin basic protein were also diminished. Beyond the effects of diazepam on the autoimmune, inflammatory response, we report also a positive effect on neurotransmission. Treatment with diazepam inhibited the previously described reduction in glutamate release in the frontal cortex synaptosomes from EAE animals. These data suggest that an endogenous inhibitory GABAergic system within the immune system is involved in the diazepam effect on EAE and indicate that increasing GABAergic activity potently ameliorates EAE.
Creatine, an ergogenic compound essential for brain function, is very hydrophilic and needs a transporter to cross lipid-rich cells' plasma membranes. Hereditary creatine transporter deficiency is a severe incurable neurological disease where creatine is missing from the brain. Creatine esters are more lipophylic than creatine and may not need the transporter to cross plasma membranes. Thus, they may represent a useful therapy for hereditary creatine transporter deficiency. Creatine ethyl ester (CEE) is commercially available and widely used as a nutritional supplement. It was reported that it enters the cells of patients lacking the transporter but was not useful when administered in vivo, by oral route, to affected patients. In this paper we investigated the effects of CEE in in vitro brain slices before and after biochemical block of the creatine transporter. We found that CEE is rapidly degraded in the aqueous incubation medium to creatinine, however it remains in solution long enough to cause an increase in tissue content of creatine and, more prominently, phosphocreatine. Both CEE and creatine delayed the anoxia-induced failure of synaptic transmission, and there was no difference between the two compounds. Contrary to what we expected, CEE did not increase tissue creatine content after the creatine transporter was blocked. We confirm that CEE is probably not an effective treatment for hereditary creatine transporter deficiency. Two factors seem to affect the possibility for creatine esters to be exploited in the therapy of creatine transporter deficiency. First, the size of their alcohol moiety should be increased since this would increase the lipophilicity of the compound and improve its ability to diffuse through biological membranes. Second, creatine esters should be further modified to slow their degradation to creatinine and increase their half-life in aqueous solutions. Moreover, we should not forget the possibility that they are degraded in vivo by plasma esterases.
Synaptic transmission mediated by metabotropic GABA receptors, GABA(B) receptors, regulates physiological functions of cerebrocortical local circuits. It is, however, still unknown how GABA(B) receptors regulate excitatory propagation at more macroscopic level. We performed in vivo optical imaging to investigate the spatio-temporal profiles of GABA(B) receptor-mediated regulation of excitatory propagation in anesthetized rat insular cortex (IC). Repetitive electrical stimulation (a sequence of 10 pulses at 50 Hz) of the dysgranular IC (DI), a part of gustatory cortex (GC), elicited excitatory propagation along the rhinal fissure. Tonic activation of GABA(B) receptors by application of baclofen suppressed the optical signal amplitude to the early pulses in the sequence (first to third stimuli), typically in the rostral GC (rGC). In contrast, optical signal amplitude to later pulses was enhanced by baclofen in both the rGC and caudal GC (cGC). Baclofen reduced the area of excitation during the early pulses in the sequence but not during later pulses. Application of CGP 52432, which blocked GABA(B) receptor-mediated tonic and phasic inhibition, slightly suppressed optical responses to early pulses (though not to the first pulse), whereas it enhanced responses to later pulses, especially in the dorsolateral orbital cortex (DLO). Decay amplitude of the response to the first pulse was reversed to a large rise in amplitude by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. The decay amplitude was enhanced by CGP 52432 and reversed to a small rise by baclofen. This suggests that GABA(B) receptor activation reduced postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor activation indirectly via inhibition of presynaptic GABA release. Optical responses induced by DLO stimulation were reduced by pre-stimulation of the cGC 180 ms before DLO stimulation, which was blocked by CGP 52432. These results suggest that tonic and phasic activation of GABA(B) receptors cooperatively enhances the contrast of neural excitation at a level of millimeters.
While promoting regeneration across lesion sites is a main focus of research into spinal injury, changes also occur in the sublesion spinal cord and its sensory inputs. However, how these varied effects relate to recovery remains largely unknown. Here, we have examined changes in sensory inputs and region-specific changes in spinal cord excitability after spinal cord lesions in the lamprey, a model system for studying regeneration and functional recovery, and related the changes to the degree of locomotor recovery.Proprioceptive responses below lesion sites were potentiated and their rate of adaptation reduced 8-10 weeks after lesioning (i.e. when animals usually showed significant locomotor recovery). These effects were associated with changes in cellular properties that were consistent with an increase in proprioceptor excitability. However, the changes in proprioceptive inputs did not correlate with the degree of locomotor recovery. There were region-specific changes in spinal cord excitability below lesion sites. In isolation, these excitability changes also did not correlate with the degree of locomotor recovery, but in this case, there were significant interactions between the magnitude of stimulation-evoked responses across the lesion site (used to assess the extent of regeneration) and sublesion changes in excitability. These interactions differed in animals that recovered well or poorly, suggesting that the nature of this interaction influenced recovery. These results add to the evidence for diverse changes in the spinal cord after injury, and suggest that regenerated inputs and their interactions with sublesion networks influence the degree of functional recovery.
Radiation-induced toxicity limits the delivery of high-dose radiation to head and neck lesions. The aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of epicatechin (EC), a minor component of green tea extract, on radiation-induced ototoxicity in vitro and in vivo. The effect of EC on radiation-induced cytotoxicity was analyzed in the organ of Corti-derived cell lines, HEI-OC1 and UB-OC1. The cell viability, apoptosis, reactive oxygen species generation, and mitochondrial membrane potential as well as changes in the signal pathway related to apoptosis were investigated. Then, the therapeutic effects of hearing protection and drug toxicity of EC were explored in a zebrafish and rat model. Radiation-induced apoptosis and altered mitochondrial membrane potential in HEI-OC1 and UB-OC1 were observed. EC inhibited radiation-induced apoptosis and intracellular reactive oxygen species generation. EC markedly attenuated the radiation-induced embryotoxicity and protected against radiation-induced loss and changes of auditory neuromast in the zebrafish. In addition, intratympanic administration of EC was protective against radiation-induced hearing loss in the rat model, as determined by click-evoked auditory brainstem (P&lt;0.01). EC significantly reduced the expression of p-JNK, p-ERK cleaved caspase-3, and cleaved PARP compared to their significant increase after radiation treatment. The results of this study suggest that EC significantly inhibited radiation-induced apoptosis in auditory hair cells and may be a safe and effective candidate treatment for the prevention of radiation-induced ototoxicity.
Binge administration of the psychostimulant drug, methamphetamine (mAMPH), produces long-lasting structural and functional abnormalities in the striatum. mAMPH binges produce nonexocytotic release of dopamine (DA), and mAMPH-induced activation of excitatory afferent inputs to cortex and striatum is evidenced by elevated extracellular glutamate (GLU) in both regions. The mAMPH-induced increases in DA and GLU neurotransmission are thought to combine to injure striatal DA nerve terminals of mAMPH-exposed brains. Systemic pretreatment with either competitive or noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) antagonists protects against mAMPH-induced striatal DA terminal damage, but the locus of these antagonists' effects has not been determined. Here, we applied either the NMDA receptor antagonist, (dl)-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5), or the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist, dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), directly to the dura mater over frontoparietal cortex to assess their effects on mAMPH-induced cortical and striatal immediate-early gene (c-fos) expression. In a separate experiment we applied AP5 or DNQX epidurally in the same cortical location of rats during a binge regimen of mAMPH and assessed mAMPH-induced striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) depletions 1 week later. Our results indicate that both ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists reduced the mAMPH-induced Fos expression in cerebral cortex regions near the site of epidural application and reduced Fos immunoreactivity in striatal regions innervated by the affected cortical regions. Also, epidural application of the same concentration of either antagonist during a binge mAMPH regimen blunted the mAMPH-induced striatal DAT depletions with a topography similar to its effects on Fos expression. These findings demonstrate that mAMPH-induced dopaminergic injury depends upon cortical NMDA and AMPA receptor activation and suggest the involvement of the corticostriatal projections in mAMPH neurotoxicity.
Increases in cell proliferation in the hippocampus have been robustly demonstrated in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases like Huntington's disease (HD). However, in the subventricular zone, animal models of HD have demonstrated no change in cell proliferation compared to wild types, while in humans there is a distinct increase in cell proliferation in HD cases. Interestingly, there have been no reports on cell proliferation in the human subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus in HD, despite numerous transgenic mouse models of HD showing decreased proliferation in the SGZ. Furthermore, HD can be divided into those with mainly mood and mainly motor symptomatology. We hypothesized that HD cases with mainly mood symptomatology would show a greater change in hippocampal proliferation, which has previously been implicated in mood disorders such as depression. Therefore, in the current study we examined and compared proliferation in the SGZ in normal vs. HD, HD mood, and HD motor affected cases. However, our results revealed no significant differences in SGZ proliferation between normal and HD cases, and no differences when divided into groups based on mood and motor symptomatology. Our results were confirmed using a range of cell-cycle protein markers and, overall, were comparable with previous studies of the human hippocampus, where very little proliferation was detected in the adult SGZ. These results demonstrate that in humans the SGZ is far less proliferative than the SVZ, and suggests that hippocampal plasticity in humans does not primarily involve cell proliferation.
Our recent observations have demonstrated that gonadectomy in female, but not in male diabetic animals, exert protection in the peripheral nervous system and that these effects were associated with an increase in the levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in the female sciatic nerve [Pesaresi M, Giatti S, Cavaletti G, Abbiati F, Calabrese D, Bianchi R, Caruso D, Garcia-Segura LM, Melcangi RC (2011) Exp Neurol 228:215-221]. That is interesting because the neuroprotective effects of this neuroactive steroid have so far only been analyzed in male diabetic animals. Using the experimental model of streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy, we have here compared the effect of DHEA treatment in male and in female animals. Data obtained indicate that DHEA treatment is able to counteract the decrease in nerve conduction velocity (NCV) induced by diabetes in both sexes. However, it was only in females that this neuroactive steroid was able to reestablish NCV to control levels. In addition, it was only in females that DHEA exerted neuroprotective actions on functional (i.e., thermal sensitivity) or molecular parameters, such as gene expression of myelin proteins. Sex-depending neuroprotective effects of DHEA were also confirmed by the finding that it was only in females that this neuroactive steroid fully restored the intra-epidermal nerve fiber density, which was decreased by diabetes. Interestingly, the metabolic fate of DHEA is also different in males and females. Thus, analysis of the neuroactive steroid levels after the treatment with DHEA indicates that in the sciatic nerve of male diabetic animals 17-estradiol levels decrease in association with an increase of its isomer 17-estradiol and with a decrease in the levels of -androstane-3, 17-diol. These changes were not observed in the sciatic nerve of females. Altogether, these results suggest that DHEA could be considered as a candidate for a sex-specific therapy based on neuroactive steroids.
Tinnitus is described as an auditory perception in the absence of any external sound source. Tinnitus loudness has been correlated to sustained high frequency gamma-band activity in auditory cortex. It remains unknown whether unilateral tinnitus is always generated in the left auditory cortex, irrespective of the side on which the tinnitus is perceived, or in the contralateral auditory cortex. In order to solve this enigma source localized electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings of a homogenous group of unilateral left and right-sided tinnitus patients presenting with noise-like tinnitus was analyzed. Based on a region of interest analysis, the most important result of this study is that tinnitus lateralization depended on the gamma-band activity of the contralateral parahippocampal area. As for the auditory cortex no differences were found between left-sided and right-sided tinnitus patients. However, in comparison to a control group both left and right-sided tinnitus patients had an increased gamma-band activity in both the left and right primary and secondary auditory cortex. Thus whereas in tinnitus the primary and secondary auditory cortices of both sides are characterized by increased gamma-band activity, the side on which the tinnitus is perceived relates to gamma-band activity in the contralateral parahippocampal area.
Studies with animal models showed that cellular, structural, and behavioral changes induced by environmental enrichment are related to increased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the brain. These evidence suggest that BDNF could be an interesting biomarker of the effects of lifestyle on cognition and other behavioral parameters in humans, mainly if the BDNF alterations in brain are accompanied by correspondent peripheral modifications, since human studies depend basically on the evaluation of this neurotrophin in serum or plasma. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the effects of environmental enrichment on long-term memory for object recognition and on BDNF levels of hippocampus, frontal cortex, and serum of rats exposed to an experimental protocol that could be more easily translated to human intervention studies. Animals were maintained for 10 weeks in a social (standard laboratory conditions) or enriched (increased opportunity for physical exercise and learning experiences) condition. In the 7th week, they were submitted to behavioral testing (open field and novel object memory task), and at the end of the 10th week, they were killed and BDNF levels were analyzed. Animals maintained in the enriched condition showed enhanced performance on the memory task in the absence of any significant alteration in central or peripheral BDNF levels. The results of this study are important to highlight the need to develop experimental protocols using animal models that more closely resemble the characteristics of studies with humans and motivate more investigations to determine the conditions under which BDNF could be a biomarker of the effects of environment enrichment.

Changes in diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) values co-occur with neurological and functional changes after stroke. However, quantitative DTI metrics have not been examined in response to participation in targeted rehabilitative interventions in chronic stroke. The primary purpose of this pilot study was to examine whether changes in DTI metrics co-occur with paretic arm movement changes among chronic stroke patients participating in a regimen of electrical stimulation targeting the paretic arm. Three subjects exhibiting stable arm hemiparesis were administered 30-minute (n=1) or 120-minute (n=2) therapy sessions emphasizing paretic arm use during valued, functional tasks and incorporating an electrical stimulation device. These sessions occurred every weekday for 8weeks. A fourth subject served as a treatment control, participating in a 30-minute home exercise regimen without electrical stimulation every weekday for 8weeks. DTI and behavioral outcome measures were acquired at baseline and after intervention. DTI data were analyzed using a region of interest (ROI) approach, with ROIs chosen based on tract involvement in sensorimotor function or as control regions. Behavioral outcome measures were the Fugl-Meyer Scale (FM) and the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT). The treatment control subject exhibited gains in pinch and grasp, as shown by a 5-point increase on the ARAT. The subject who participated in 30-minute therapy sessions exhibited no behavioral gains. Subjects participating in 120-minute therapy sessions displayed consistent impairment reductions and distal movement changes. DTI changes were largest in subjects two and three, with mean diffusivity (MD) decreases in the middle cerebellar peduncle and posterior limb of the internal capsule following treatment. No changes in fractional anisotropy (FA) were observed for sensorimotor tracts. Our preliminary results suggest that active rehabilitative therapies augmented by electrical stimulation may induce positive behavioral changes which are underscored by DTI changes indicative of increased white matter tract integrity in regions specific to sensory-motor function.

The current publishing system with its merits and pitfalls is a mending topic for debate among scientists of various disciplines. Editors and reviewers alike, both face difficult decisions about the judgment of new scientific findings. Increasing interdisciplinary themes and rapidly changing dynamics in method development of each field make it difficult to be an &quot;expert&quot; with regard to all issues of a certain paper. Although unintended, it is likely that misunderstandings, human biases, and even outright mistakes can play an unfortunate role in final verdicts. We propose a new community-driven publication process that is based on network statistics to make the review, publication, and scientific evaluation process more transparent.
As a consequence of the non-linear correlation mechanism underlying motion detection, the variability in local pattern structure and contrast inherent within natural scenes profoundly influences local motion responses. To accurately interpret optic flow induced by self-motion, neurons in many dipteran flies smooth this &quot;pattern noise&quot; by wide-field spatial integration. We investigated the role that size and shape of the receptive field plays in smoothing out pattern noise in two unusual hoverfly optic flow neurons: one (HSN) with an exceptionally small receptive field and one (HSNE) with a larger receptive field. We compared the local and global responses to a sequence of panoramic natural images in these two neurons with a parsimonious model for elementary motion detection weighted for their spatial receptive fields. Combined with manipulation of size and contrast of the stimulus images, this allowed us to separate spatial integration properties arising from the receptive field, from other local and global non-linearities, such as motion adaptation and dendritic gain control. We show that receptive field properties alone are poor predictors of the response to natural scenes. If anything, additional non-linearity enhances the pattern dependence of HSN's response, particularly to vertically elongated features, suggesting that it may serve a role in forward fixation during hovering.
During embryonic morphogenesis, adhesion molecules are required for selective cell-cell interactions. The classical cadherins mediate homophilic calcium-dependent cell adhesion and are founding members of the large and diverse cadherin superfamily. The protocadherins are the largest subgroup within this superfamily, yet their participation in calcium-dependent cell adhesion is uncertain. In this paper, we demonstrate a novel mechanism of adhesion, mediated by a complex of Protocadherin-19 (Pcdh19) and N-cadherin (Ncad). Although Pcdh19 alone is only weakly adhesive, the Pcdh19-Ncad complex exhibited robust adhesion in bead aggregation assays, and Pcdh19 appeared to play the dominant role. Adhesion by the Pcdh19-Ncad complex was unaffected by mutations that disrupt Ncad homophilic binding but was inhibited by a mutation in Pcdh19. In addition, the complex exhibited homophilic specificity, as beads coated with Pcdh19-Ncad did not intermix with Ncad- or Pcdh17-Ncad-coated beads. We propose a model in which association of a protocadherin with Ncad acts as a switch, converting between distinct binding specificities.
The synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin I (syt) promotes exocytosis via its ability to penetrate membranes in response to binding Ca(2+) and through direct interactions with SNARE proteins. However, studies using full-length (FL) membrane-embedded syt in reconstituted fusion assays have yielded conflicting results, including a lack of effect, or even inhibition of fusion, by Ca(2+). In this paper, we show that reconstituted FL syt promoted rapid docking of vesicles (&lt;1 min) followed by a priming step (3-9 min) that was required for subsequent Ca(2+)-triggered fusion between v- and t-SNARE liposomes. Moreover, fusion occurred only when phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate was included in the target membrane. This system also recapitulates some of the effects of syt mutations that alter synaptic transmission in neurons. Finally, we demonstrate that the cytoplasmic domain of syt exhibited mixed agonist/antagonist activity during regulated membrane fusion in vitro and in cells. Together, these findings reveal further convergence of reconstituted and cell-based systems.
Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS) is an autosomal-dominant central nervous system white-matter disease with variable clinical presentations, including personality and behavioral changes, dementia, depression, parkinsonism, seizures and other phenotypes. We combined genome-wide linkage analysis with exome sequencing and identified 14 different mutations affecting the tyrosine kinase domain of the colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (encoded by CSF1R) in 14 families with HDLS. In one kindred, we confirmed the de novo occurrence of the mutation. Follow-up sequencing identified an additional CSF1R mutation in an individual diagnosed with corticobasal syndrome. In vitro, CSF-1 stimulation resulted in rapid autophosphorylation of selected tyrosine residues in the kinase domain of wild-type but not mutant CSF1R, suggesting that HDLS may result from partial loss of CSF1R function. As CSF1R is a crucial mediator of microglial proliferation and differentiation in the brain, our findings suggest an important role for microglial dysfunction in HDLS pathogenesis.
Synaptotagmin I (syt1) is required for normal rates of synaptic vesicle endo- and exocytosis. However, whether the kinetic defects observed during endocytosis in Syt1 knockout neurons are secondary to defective exocytosis or whether syt1 directly regulates the rate of vesicle retrieval remains unknown. To address this question, we sought to dissociate these two activities. We uncoupled the function of syt1 in exo- and endocytosis in mouse neurons either by re-targeting the protein or via mutagenesis of its tandem C2 domains. The effect of these manipulations on exo- and endocytosis were analyzed using electrophysiology, in conjunction with optical imaging of the vesicle cycle. Our results indicate that syt1 is directly involved in endocytosis. Notably, either of the C2 domains of syt1, C2A or C2B, was able to function as a Ca(2+) sensor for endocytosis. Thus, syt1 functions as a dual Ca(2+) sensor for both endo- and exocytosis, potentially coupling these two components of the vesicle cycle.
A fundamental assumption in neuroscience is that brain structure determines function. Accordingly, functionally distinct regions of cortex should be structurally distinct in their connections to other areas. We tested this hypothesis in relation to face selectivity in the fusiform gyrus. By using only structural connectivity, as measured through diffusion-weighted imaging, we were able to predict functional activation to faces in the fusiform gyrus. These predictions outperformed two control models and a standard group-average benchmark. The structure-function relationship discovered from the initial participants was highly robust in predicting activation in a second group of participants, despite differences in acquisition parameters and stimuli. This approach can thus reliably estimate activation in participants who cannot perform functional imaging tasks and is an alternative to group-activation maps. Additionally, we identified cortical regions whose connectivity was highly influential in predicting face selectivity within the fusiform, suggesting a possible mechanistic architecture underlying face processing in humans.
Bimolane has been commonly used in China for the treatment of psoriasis and various types of cancer. Patients treated with bimolane have been reported to have an increased risk of developing therapy-related leukemias. Although bimolane has been identified as a human leukemia-inducing agent, little is known about its genotoxic effects, and a systematic study of the types of chromosomal alterations induced by this compound has not been performed. In this study, a combination of immunochemical, molecular and conventional cytogenetic techniques has been used to study the chromosomal alterations induced by bimolane in cultured human lymphocytes. Immunochemical staining with the CREST antibody indicated that bimolane induces micronuclei (MN) originating primarily from chromosome breakage. Interestingly fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with differentially labeled chromosomes 1 and 9 centromeric probes indicated that bimolane also caused non-disjunction and polyploidy. Consistent with this, an expedited analysis of Giemsa-stained metaphase chromosomes in bimolane-treated lymphocytes revealed a high frequency of polyploidy/hyperdiploidy as well as dicentric chromosomes, and premature centromeric division (PCD). In addition, bimolane was also found to produce binucleated cells, possibly through an interference with normal functioning of intermediate filaments. As a follow-up to these studies, three different types of commercially available bimolane formulations obtained from different Chinese manufacturers were also evaluated. The effects seen with the formulated bimolane were similar to those seen with the synthesized compound. Our studies indicate that bimolane effectively induces a variety of cellular and chromosomal changes in cultured lymphocytes and that similar alterations occurring in bone marrow stem cells could contribute to the development of the secondary cancers seen in bimolane-treated patients.
Innocuous touch of the skin is detected by distinct populations of neurons, the low-threshold mechanoreceptors (LTMRs), which are classified as A-, A-, and C-LTMRs. Here, we report genetic labeling of LTMR subtypes and visualization of their relative patterns of axonal endings in hairy skin and the spinal cord. We found that each of the three major hair follicle types of trunk hairy skin (guard, awl/auchene, and zigzag hairs) is innervated by a unique and invariant combination of LTMRs; thus, each hair follicle type is a functionally distinct mechanosensory end organ. Moreover, the central projections of A-, A-, and C-LTMRs that innervate the same or adjacent hair follicles form narrow LTMR columns in the dorsal horn. These findings support a model of mechanosensation in which the activities of A-, A-, and C-LTMRs are integrated within dorsal horn LTMR columns and processed into outputs that underlie the perception of myriad touch sensations.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by cognitive impairment that starts with memory loss to end in dementia. Loss of synapses and synaptic dysfunction are closely associated with cognitive impairment in AD patients. Biochemical and pathological evidence suggests that soluble A oligomers correlate with cognitive impairment. Here, we used the TgCRND8 AD mouse model to investigate the role of JNK in long term memory deficits. TgCRND8 mice were chronically treated with the cell-penetrating c-Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitor peptide (D-JNKI1). D-JNKI1, preventing JNK action, completely rescued memory impairments (behavioral studies) as well as the long term potentiation deficits of TgCRND8 mice. Moreover, D-JNKI1 inhibited APP phosphorylation in Thr-668 and reduced the amyloidogenic cleavage of APP and A oligomers in brain parenchyma of treated mice. In conclusion, by regulating key pathogenic mechanisms of AD, JNK might hold promise as innovative therapeutic target.
The sinusoidal locomotion of Caenorhabditis elegans requires synchronous activities of neighboring body wall muscle cells. However, it is unknown whether the synchrony results from muscle electrical coupling or neural inputs. We analyzed the effects of mutating gap junction proteins and blocking neuromuscular transmission on the synchrony of action potentials (APs) and Ca2+ transients among neighboring body wall muscle cells. In wild-type worms, the percentage of synchronous APs between two neighboring cells varied depending on the anatomical relationship and junctional conductance (Gj) between them, and Ca2+ transients were synchronous among neighboring muscle cells. Compared with the wild type, knock-out of the gap junction gene unc-9 resulted in greatly reduced coupling coefficient and asynchronous APs and Ca2+ transients. Inhibition of unc-9 expression specifically in muscle by RNAi also reduced the synchrony of APs and Ca2+ transients, whereas expression of wild-type UNC-9 specifically in muscle rescued the synchrony defect. Loss of the stomatin-like protein UNC-1, which is a regulator of UNC-9-based gap junctions, similarly impaired muscle synchrony as unc-9 mutant did. The blockade of muscle ionotropic acetylcholine receptors by (+)-tubocurarine decreased the frequencies of APs and Ca2+ transients, whereas blockade of muscle GABAA receptors by gabazine had opposite effects. However, both APs and Ca2+ transients remained synchronous after the application of (+)-tubocurarine and/or gabazine. These observations suggest that gap junctions in C. elegans body wall muscle cells are responsible for synchronizing muscle APs and Ca2+ transients.
Junctophilins (JPs) anchor the endo/sarcoplasmic reticulum to the plasma membrane, thus contributing to the assembly of junctional membrane complexes in striated muscles and neurons. Recent studies have shown that JPs may be also involved in regulating Ca2+ homeostasis. Here, we report that in skeletal muscle, JP1 and JP2 are part of a complex that, in addition to ryanodine receptor 1 (RyR1), includes caveolin 3 and the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR). The interaction between JPs and DHPR was mediated by a region encompassing amino acids 230-369 and amino acids 216-399 in JP1 and JP2, respectively. Immunofluorescence studies revealed that the pattern of DHPR and RyR signals in C2C12 cells knocked down for JP1 and JP2 was rather diffused and characterized by smaller puncta in contrast to that observed in control cells. Functional experiments revealed that down-regulation of JPs in differentiated C2C12 cells resulted in a reduction of intramembrane charge movement and the L-type Ca2+ current accompanied by a reduced number of DHPRs at the plasma membrane, whereas there was no substantial alteration in Ca2+ release from the sterol regulatory element-binding protein. Altogether, these results suggest that JP1 and JP2 can facilitate the assembly of DHPR with other proteins of the excitation-contraction coupling machinery.


Antidepressant drugs and psychotherapy combined are more effective in treating mood disorders than either treatment alone, but the neurobiological basis of this interaction is unknown. To investigate how antidepressants influence the response of mood-related systems to behavioral experience, we used a fear-conditioning and extinction paradigm in mice. Combining extinction training with chronic fluoxetine, but neither treatment alone, induced an enduring loss of conditioned fear memory in adult animals. Fluoxetine treatment increased synaptic plasticity, converted the fear memory circuitry to a more immature state, and acted through local brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Fluoxetine-induced plasticity may allow fear erasure by extinction-guided remodeling of the memory circuitry. Thus, the pharmacological effects of antidepressants need to be combined with psychological rehabilitation to reorganize networks rendered more plastic by the drug treatment.

Different types of cell behavior, including growth, motility, and navigation, require actin proteins to assemble into filaments. Here, we describe a biochemical process that was able to disassemble actin filaments and limit their reassembly. Actin was a specific substrate of the multidomain oxidation-reduction enzyme, Mical, a poorly understood actin disassembly factor that directly responds to Semaphorin/Plexin extracellular repulsive cues. Actin filament subunits were directly modified by Mical on their conserved pointed-end, which is critical for filament assembly. Mical posttranslationally oxidized the methionine 44 residue within the D-loop of actin, simultaneously severing filaments and decreasing polymerization. This mechanism underlying actin cytoskeletal collapse may have broad physiological and pathological ramifications.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in a majority of neurodegenerative disorders and much study of neurodegenerative disease is done on cultured neurons. In traditional tissue culture, the oxygen level that cells experience is dramatically higher (21%) than in vivo conditions (1-11%). These differences can alter experimental results, especially, pertaining to mitochondria and oxidative metabolism. Our results show that primary neurons cultured at physiological oxygen levels found in the brain showed higher polarization, lower rates of ROS production, larger mitochondrial networks, greater cytoplasmic fractions of mitochondria and larger mitochondrial perimeters than those cultured at higher oxygen levels. Although neurons cultured in either physiological oxygen or atmospheric oxygen exhibit significant increases in mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production when treated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) virotoxin trans-activator of transcription, mitochondria of neurons cultured at physiological oxygen underwent depolarization with dramatically increased cell death, whereas those cultured at atmospheric oxygen became hyperpolarized with no increase in cell death. Studies with a second HIV virotoxin, negative regulation factor (Nef), revealed that Nef treatment also increased mitochondrial ROS production for both the oxygen conditions, but resulted in mitochondrial depolarization and increased death only in neurons cultured in physiological oxygen. These results indicate a role for oxidative metabolism in a mechanism of neurotoxicity during HIV infection and demonstrate the importance of choosing the correct, physiological, culture oxygen in mitochondrial studies performed in neurons.
Derivatization of the putative neuroleptic 1-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxin-6-yl)-4-(4-fluorobenzyl)piperazine (3a) led to a series of new dopamine receptor D4 ligands displaying high affinity (Ki=1.1-15 nM) and D2/D4 subtype selectivities of about 800-6700. These ligands were labeled with the short-lived positron emitter fluorine-18 and analyzed for their potential application for imaging studies by positron emission tomography (PET). In vitro autoradiography was used to determine their nonspecific binding behavior as a result of their structural and thus physicochemical properties. The biodistribution, in vivo stability, and brain uptake of the most promising D4 radioligand candidate were determined. This proved to be 1-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[b][1,4]dioxin-6-yl)-4-((6-fluoropyridin-3-yl)methyl)piperazine ([18F]3d), which revealed an excellent binding pattern with a high selectivity and limited nonspecific binding in vitro. This analogue also exhibited a high stability and an extremely high brain uptake in vivo with specific binding in hippocampus, cortex, colliculus, and cerebellum as determined by ex vivo autoradiography. Thus, [18F]3d appears as a suitable D4 radioligand for in vivo imaging, encouraging continued evaluation by PET studies.
During brain development, before sensory systems become functional, neuronal networks spontaneously generate repetitive bursts of neuronal activity, which are typically synchronized across many neurons. Such activity patterns have been described on the level of networks and cells, but the fine-structure of inputs received by an individual neuron during spontaneous network activity has not been studied. Here, we used calcium imaging to record activity at many synapses of hippocampal pyramidal neurons simultaneously to establish the activity patterns in the majority of synapses of an entire cell. Analysis of the spatiotemporal patterns of synaptic activity revealed a fine-scale connectivity rule: neighboring synapses (&lt;16m intersynapse distance) are more likely to be coactive than synapses that are farther away from each other. Blocking spiking activity or NMDA receptor activation revealed that the clustering of synaptic inputs required neuronal activity, demonstrating a role of developmentally expressed spontaneous activity for connecting neurons with subcellular precision.
Synapses in the brain are continuously modified by experience, but the mechanisms are poorly understood. In vitro and theoretical studies suggest threshold-lowering interactions between nearby synapses that favor clustering of synaptic plasticity within a dendritic branch. Here, a fluorescently tagged AMPA receptor-based optical approach was developed permitting detection of single-synapse plasticity in mouse cortex. Sensory experience preferentially produced synaptic potentiation onto nearby dendritic synapses. Such clustering was significantly reduced by expression of a phospho-mutant AMPA receptor that is insensitive to threshold-lowering modulation for plasticity-driven synaptic incorporation. In contrast to experience, sensory deprivation caused homeostatic synaptic enhancement globally on dendrites. Clustered synaptic potentiation produced by experience could bind behaviorally relevant information onto dendritic subcompartments; global synaptic upscaling by deprivation could equally sensitize all dendritic regions for future synaptic input.
In classical tetrameric voltage-gated ion channels four voltage-sensing domains (VSDs), one from each subunit, control one ion permeation pathway formed by four pore domains. The human Hv1 proton channel has a different architecture, containinga VSD, but lacking a pore domain. Since its location is not known, we searched for the Hv permeation pathway. We find that mutation of the S4 segment's third arginine R211 (R3) compromises proton selectivity, enabling conduction of a metal cation and even of the large organic cation guanidinium, reminiscent of Shaker's omega pore. In the open state, R3 appears to interact with an aspartate (D112) that is situated in the middle of S1 and is unique to Hv channels. The double mutation of both residues further compromises cation selectivity. We propose that membrane depolarization reversibly positions R3 next to D112 inthe transmembrane VSD to form the ion selectivity filter in the channel's open conformation.
While the abuse of opiate drugs continues to rise, the neuroadaptations that occur with long-term drug exposure remain poorly understood. We describe here a series of chronic morphine-induced adaptations in ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons, which are mediated via downregulation of AKT-mTORC2 (mammalian target of rapamycin complex-2). Chronic opiates decrease the size of VTA dopamine neurons in rodents, an effect seen in humans as well, and concomitantly increase the excitability of the cells but decrease dopamine output to target regions. Chronic morphine decreases mTORC2 activity, and overexpression of Rictor,a component of mTORC2, prevents morphine-induced changes in cell morphology and activity. Further, local knockout of Rictor in VTA decreases DA soma size and reduces rewarding responses to morphine, consistent with the hypothesis that these adaptations represent a mechanism of reward tolerance. Together, these findings demonstrate a novel role for AKT-mTORC2 signaling in mediating neuroadaptations to opiate drugs of abuse.
Sex differences in the brain are real and clinically important but often grossly distorted in popular discourse. Considering the public's deep fascination with sex difference research and its impact on issues from mental health to education and workplace equity, neuroscientists should pay greater heed to its misappropriation and to studying how gender enculturation shapes neural function.
Two studies in this issue of Neuron apply in vivo functional imaging techniques to map out and record from mouse extrastriate visual cortex. They find that distinct areas show hallmarks of processing for different types of visual input and provide a promising path forward to investigate how complex image analysis is performed in the mouse visual system.
RG1678 is a glycine transporter-1 inhibitor currently in Phase III trials for the treatment of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and is being developed by Roche (in combination with Chugai). Recent Phase II data shows that RG1678 is effective in reducing the negative symptoms when given in combination with second generation antipsychotics.



Defective tissue regeneration is thought to contribute to several human diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders, heart failure and various lung diseases. Boosting the regenerative capacity has been suggested a possible therapeutic approach. Methods to metabolically label newly synthesized proteins in vivo with stable isotopic forms of amino acids holds promise for the study of protein turnover and tissue regeneration that are fundamental to the sustained life of all organisms. Here, we used the &quot;stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture&quot; (SILAC) approach to explore normal protein turnover and tissue regeneration in adult zebrafish. The ratio of labeled and unlabeled proteins/peptides in specific organs of zebrafish fed a SILAC diet containing (13)C(6)-labeled lysine was determined by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Labeling was highest in tissues with high regenerative capacity, including intestine, liver, and fin, whereas brain and heart displayed the lowest labeling. Proteins with high degree of labeling were mainly involved in catalytic or transport activity pathways. The technique also verified increased protein synthesis during regeneration of the caudal fin following amputation. This newly developed SILAC zebrafish model constitutes a novel tool to analyze tissue regeneration in an animal model amenable to genetic and pharmacologic manipulation.
Besides language, the contribution of Broca's area to motor cognition is now widely accepted. In this study, we investigated the role of its posterior part (left Brodmann area 44) in learning of a motor sequence by altering its functioning with a continuous theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (cTBS) in 12 healthy participants before they learned the sequence by observation. Twelve control individuals underwent the same experiment with cTBS applied over the vertex. Although cTBS over Brodmann area 44 did not impair sequence learning, it significantly increased the response latency as measured during the retention test, performed 24 h later. This finding suggests that Broca's area might be critically involved in organizing, and/or storing, the individual components of a motor sequence before its execution.
This study investigated luminance and texture-defined spatial information processing in normal aging using an adapted Landolt-C technique. Sensitivity to C-target stimuli (optotypes) was measured for four age groups: 18-34, 35-49, 50-64, and 65+ years. Participants indicated optotype gap-opening orientations (up, down, left, or right) at different levels of luminance or texture contrast. Although sensitivity did not differ across age group for the luminance-defined optotypes, sensitivity for texture-defined optotypes for the 65+ years age group was significantly decreased relative to that of the youngest group (18-34 years). Results suggest that age-related changes in visual function can be dissociated at different levels of processing, and may be better defined using stimuli that necessarily depend on higher levels of neural functioning to be perceived.
Analgesic tolerance is partially mediated by enhanced glutamatergic transmission in the CNS. -lactam antibiotics, through glutamate transporter subtype 1 (GLT-1) activation, reduce extracellular glutamate levels and attenuate tolerance to morphine analgesia in rats. Similar to opioids, nicotine has potent analgesic properties that are subject to tolerance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of ceftriaxone, a -lactam antibiotic and GLT-1 activator on nicotine antinociception and its tolerance. Rats were pretreated for 5 days with ceftriaxone (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) before evaluating their analgesic response to nicotine (1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg, subcutaneously) for seven consecutive days using the tail-flick assay. Ceftriaxone-treated rats displayed an enhanced antinociceptive response to nicotine and unlike saline-injected controls, did not develop tolerance to nicotine's analgesic effects. These results suggest that GLT-1 transporter activation enhances and preserves nicotine antinociception and identify -lactam antibiotics as potential complementary therapeutic agents for the treatment of chronic pain.
Dopamine plays a key role in the regulation of stem cell turnover and neurogenesis in the subventricular zone. This effect is mediated by dopamine-induced release of epidermal growth factor (EGF), to promote stem cell proliferation in this area. We, therefore, sought to investigate whether a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAMs) are implicated in this process, as they have previously been shown to play a role in transactivation of the EGF receptor after stimulation of G protein-coupled receptors. We found that dopamine stimulation of stem cells caused the release of EGF, in agreement with our previous findings. However, the inhibition of ADAMs reversed this effect. Our results support a role for ADAMs in dopamine-induced release of EGF from stem cells in the subventricular zone.
A recent study has found that autistic people donate the same to charity regardless of whether they are observed. This is not because they are oblivious to others, but because they are free of hypocrisy.
An elegant new study has correlated the generation of sound patterns in the red-bellied piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) with three distinct behaviours.
Volatile anesthetics (VAs) cause profound neurological effects, including reversible loss of consciousness and immobility. Despite their widespread use, the mechanism of action of VAs remains one of the unsolved puzzles of neuroscience [1, 2]. Genetic studies in Caenorhabditis elegans [3, 4], Drosophila [3, 5], and mice [6-9] indicate that ion channels controlling the neuronal resting membrane potential (RMP) also control anesthetic sensitivity. Leak channels selective for K(+) [10-13] or permeable to Na(+) [14] are critical for establishing RMP. We hypothesized that halothane, a VA, caused immobility by altering the neuronal RMP. In C. elegans, halothane-induced immobility is acutely and completely reversed by channelrhodopsin-2 based depolarization of the RMP when expressed specifically in cholinergic neurons. Furthermore, hyperpolarizing cholinergic neurons via halorhodopsin activation increases sensitivity to halothane. The sensitivity of C. elegans to halothane can be altered by 25-fold by either manipulation of membrane conductance with optogenetic methods or generation of mutations in leak channels that set the RMP. Immobility induced by another VA, isoflurane, is not affected by these treatments, thereby excluding the possibility of nonspecific hyperactivity. The sum of our data indicates that leak channels and the RMP are important determinants of halothane-induced general anesthesia.
Detecting motion is a feature of all advanced visual systems [1], nowhere more so than in flying animals, like insects [2,3]. In flies, an influential autocorrelation model for motion detection, the elementary motion detector circuit (EMD; [4,5]), compares visual signals from neighboring photoreceptors to derive information on motion direction and velocity. This information is fed by two types of interneuron, L1 and L2, in the first optic neuropile, or lamina, to downstream local motion detectors in columns of the second neuropile, the medulla. Despite receiving carefully matched photoreceptor inputs, L1 and L2 drive distinct, separable pathways responding preferentially to moving &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; edges, respectively [6, 7]. Our serial electron microscopy (EM) identifies two types of transmedulla (Tm) target neurons, Tm1 and Tm2, that receive apparently matched synaptic inputs from L2. Tm2 neurons also receive inputs from two retinotopically posterior neighboring columns via L4, a third type of lamina neuron. Light microscopy reveals that the connections in these L2/L4/Tm2 circuits are highly determinate. Single-cell transcript profiling suggests that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediate transmission within the L2/L4/Tm2 circuits, whereas L1 is apparently glutamatergic. We propose that Tm2 integrates sign-conserving inputs from neighboring columns to mediate the detection of front-to-back motion generated during forward motion.
Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder affecting 1% of the world's population. Nicotine addiction is one of the most important health concerns for patients with schizophrenia. An extensive body of evidence points to a high prevalence rate of comorbid nicotine addiction in people with schizophrenia (70-90%), which contributes to significant cardiovascular and cancer risks in this vulnerable population. Therefore, effective smoking cessation strategies could play a major role in preventing significant morbidity and mortality in this population. Two of the most common pharmacological approaches to smoking cessation, bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), have been used in psychiatric patients to reduce their smoking. In 2006, varenicline, a partial agonist of 42 acetylcholine receptor, was approved for smoking cessation by the FDA. This drug not only has the beneficial effects on withdrawal symptoms, but also reduces craving and rewarding effects of smoking. While varenicline has been shown to be an effective, safe medication for the general population, its efficacy and safety for subjects with schizophrenia is less well characterized. A number of case studies have prompted FDA warnings about the potential exacerbation of psychiatric symptoms. However, other case studies and pilot studies have shown varenicline to be a safe and effective treatment for smoking cessation in subjects with schizophrenia. Varenicline has the potential to reduce smoking in subjects with schizophrenia, however, clinicians should carefully monitor patients receiving varenicline for potential exacerbation of psychiatric symptoms.
Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Since infants cannot verbally report their experiences, current methods of pain assessment are based on behavioural and physiological body reactions, such as crying, body movements or changes in facial expression. While these measures demonstrate that infants mount a response following noxious stimulation, they are limited: they are based on activation of subcortical somatic and autonomic motor pathways that may not be reliably linked to central sensory processing in the brain. Knowledge of how the central nervous system responds to noxious events could provide an insight to how nociceptive information and pain is processed in newborns. The heel lancing procedure used to extract blood from hospitalised infants offers a unique opportunity to study pain in infancy. In this video we describe how electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG) time-locked to this procedure can be used to investigate nociceptive activity in the brain and spinal cord. This integrative approach to the measurement of infant pain has the potential to pave the way for an effective and sensitive clinical measurement tool.
Previously we described a method to estimate the average number of virus genomes expressed in an infected cell. By analyzing the color spectrum of cells infected with a mixture of isogenic pseudorabies virus (PRV) recombinants expressing three fluorophores, we estimated that fewer than seven incoming genomes are expressed, replicated, and packaged into progeny per cell. In this report, we expand this work and describe experiments demonstrating the generality of the method, as well as providing more insight into herpesvirus replication. We used three isogenic PRV recombinants, each expressing a fluorescently tagged VP26 fusion protein (VP26 is a capsid protein) under the viral VP26 late promoter. We calculated a similar finite limit on the number of expressed viral genomes, indicating that this method is independent of the promoter used to transcribe the fluorophore genes, the time of expression of the fluorophore (early versus late), and the insertion site of the fluorophore gene in the PRV genome (UL versus US). Importantly, these VP26 fusion proteins are distributed equally in punctate virion assembly structures in each nucleus, which improves the signal-to-noise ratio when determining the color spectrum of each cell. To understand how the small number of genomes are distributed among the replication compartments, we used a two-color fluorescent in situ hybridization assay. Most viral replication compartments in the nucleus occupy unique nuclear territories, implying that they arose from single genomes. Our experiments suggest a correlation between the small number of expressed viral genomes and the limited number of replication compartments.
The exchange of substances between higher organisms and the environment occurs across transporting epithelia whose basic features are tight junctions (TJs) that seal the intercellular space, and polarity, which enables cells to transport substances vectorially. In a previous study, we demonstrated that 10 nM ouabain modulates TJs, and we now show that it controls polarity as well. We gauge polarity through the development of a cilium at the apical domain of Madin-Darby canine kidney cells (MDCK, epithelial dog kidney). Ouabain accelerates ciliogenesis in an ERK1/2-dependent manner. Claudin-2, a molecule responsible for the Na(+) and H(2)O permeability of the TJs, is also present at the cilium, as it colocalizes and coprecipitates with acetylated -tubulin. Ouabain modulates claudin-2 localization at the cilium through ERK1/2. Comparing wild-type and ouabain-resistant MDCK cells, we show that ouabain acts through Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. Taken together, our previous and present results support the possibility that ouabain constitutes a hormone that modulates the transporting epithelial phenotype, thereby playing a crucial role in metazoan life.
Old age and possession of the APOE-4 allele are the two main risk factors for developing later onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Carriers of the APOE-4 allele have known differences in intrinsic functional brain network activity across the life span. These individuals also demonstrate specific regional differences in gray and white matter gross structure. However, the relationship of these variations to whole brain structural network connectivity remains unclear. We performed diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), T1 structural imaging, and cognitive testing on aging APOE-4 noncarriers (n = 30; mean age = 63.88.3) and APOE-4 carriers (n = 25; mean age = 60.8 9.7). Fiber tractography was used to derive whole brain structural graphs, and graph theory was applied to assess structural network properties. Network communication efficiency was determined for each network by quantifying local interconnectivity, global integration, and the balance between these, the small worldness. Relative to noncarriers, APOE-4 carriers demonstrated an accelerated age-related loss of mean local interconnectivity (r = -0.64, P  0.01) and regional local interconnectivity decreases in the precuneus (r = -0.64), medial orbitofrontal cortex (r = -0.5), and lateral parietal cortex (r = -0.54). APOE-4 carriers also showed significant age-related loss in mean cortical thickness (r = -0.52, P &lt; 0.05). Cognitively, APOE-4 carriers had significant negative correlations of age and performance on two episodic memory tasks (P &lt; 0.05). This genotype-specific pattern of structural connectivity change with age thus appears related to changes in gross cortical structure and cognition, potentially affecting the rate and/or spatial distribution of AD-related pathology.
Environmental enrichment is designed to improve the overall welfare of laboratory animals, including mice. Few studies have directly assessed the effects of different types of enrichment on mouse offspring survival and growth. The authors examined how survival and growth of C57BL/6 mouse pups are affected by three kinds of cage enrichment materials: compressed cotton squares, two-ply tissues and plastic igloos. During the last week of gestation and the first two weeks postpartum, the authors observed cages with litters and noted use of the enrichment materials, quality of nest construction, number of pups per litter and weight of pups. Both the first and second litters were evaluated for each dam. Dams and pups had continuous contact with the enrichment materials, especially cotton squares and tissues. Neither the presence nor the type of enrichment material influenced the survival and weight of offspring, suggesting that the use of such materials does not negatively impact reproductive success or offspring survival.


L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, the rate-limiting side effect in the therapy of Parkinson's disease, is mediated by activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in the striatum. We found that Ras homolog enriched in striatum (Rhes), a striatal-specific protein, binds to and activates mTOR. Moreover, Rhes(-/-) mice showed reduced striatal mTOR signaling and diminished dyskinesia, but maintained motor improvement on L-DOPA treatment, suggesting a therapeutic benefit for Rhes-binding drugs.

Circadian rhythm is a fundamental biological system involved in the regulation of various physiological functions. However, little is known about a nature or function of circadian clock in human primary cells. In the present study, we have applied in vitro real time circadian rhythm monitoring to study human clock properties using primary skin fibroblasts. Among factors that affect human physiology, slightly lower extracellular pH was chosen to test its effects on circadian rhythm expression. We established human primary fibroblast cultures obtained from three healthy subjects, stably delivered a circadian reporter gene Bmal1-luciferase, and recorded circadian rhythms in the culture medium at pH 7.2 and 6.7. At pH 7.2, robust and sustained circadian rhythms were observed with average period length 24.47  0.03 h. Such rhythms were also found at pH 6.7; however, period length was significantly shortened to 22.60  0.20, amplitude was increased, and damping rate was decreased. The effect of exposure to low pH on the period length was reversible. The shortened period was unlikely caused by factors affecting cell viability because cell morphology and MTT assay showed no significant difference between the two conditions. In summary, our results showed that the circadian rhythm expression is affected at pH 6.7 in human primary fibroblasts without affecting cell viability.
Anergy is an important mechanism for the maintenance of peripheral tolerance and avoidance of autoimmunity. The up-regulation of E3 ubiqitin ligases, including GRAIL (gene related to anergy in lymphocytes), is a key event in the induction and preservation of anergy in T cells. However, the mechanisms of GRAIL-mediated anergy induction are still not completely understood. We examined which proteins serve as substrates for GRAIL in anergic T cells. Arp2/3-5 (actin-related protein 2/3 subunit 5) and coronin 1A were polyubiquitinated by GRAIL via Lys-48 and Lys-63 linkages. In anergic T cells and GRAIL-overexpressed T cells, the expression of Arp2/3-5 and coronin 1A was reduced. Furthermore, we demonstrated that GRAIL impaired lamellipodium formation and reduced the accumulation of F-actin at the immunological synapse. GRAIL functions via the ubiquitination and degradation of actin cytoskeleton-associated proteins, in particular Arp2/3-5 and coronin 1A. These data reveal that GRAIL regulates proteins involved in the actin cytoskeletal organization, thereby maintaining the unresponsive state of anergic T cells.
Benign familial neonatal convulsions is an autosomal-dominant idiopathic form of epilepsy primarily caused by gene mutations of the voltage-gated Kv7.2/KCNQ2/M-channel that exert only partial dominant-negative effects. However, the mechanism underlying the incomplete dominance of channel mutations, which cause epilepsy in infancy, remains unknown. Using mutagenesis and biochemistry combined with electrophysiology, we identified a novel degradation signal derived from distal C-terminal frameshift mutations, which impairs channel function. This degradation signal, transferable to non-channel CD4, can lead to accelerated degradation of mutant proteins through ubiquitin-independent proteasome machinery but does not affect mRNA quantity and protein trafficking. Functional dissection of this signal has revealed a key five-amino acid (RCXRG) motif critical for degradation. Taken together, our findings reveal a mechanism by which proteins that carry this signal are subject to degradation, leading to M-current dysfunction, which causes epilepsy.

Acute quadriplegic myopathy (AQM) is a common debilitating acquired disorder in critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) patients that is characterized by tetraplegia/generalized weakness of limb and trunk muscles. Masticatory muscles, on the other hand, are typically spared or less affected, yet the mechanisms underlying this striking muscle-specific difference remain unknown. This study aims to evaluate physiological parameters and the gene expression profiles of masticatory and limb muscles exposed to factors suggested to trigger AQM, such as mechanical ventilation, immobilization, neuromuscular blocking agents, corticosteroids (CS), and sepsis for 5 days by using a unique porcine model mimicking the ICU conditions. Single muscle fiber cross-sectional area and force-generating capacity, i.e., maximum force normalized to fiber cross-sectional area (specific force), revealed maintained masseter single muscle fiber cross-sectional area and specific-force after 5 days' exposure to all triggering factors. This is in sharp contrast to observations in limb and trunk muscles, showing a dramatic decline in specific force in response to 5 days' exposure to the triggering factors. Significant differences in gene expression were observed between craniofacial and limb muscles, indicating a highly complex and muscle-specific response involving transcription and growth factors, heat shock proteins, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor, oxidative stress responsive elements, and sarcomeric proteins underlying the relative sparing of cranial vs. spinal nerve innervated muscles during exposure to the ICU intervention.
Acid evokes pain by exciting nociceptors; the acid sensors are proton-gated ion channels that depolarize neurons. The naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber) is exceptional in its acid insensitivity, but acid sensors (acid-sensing ion channels and the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 ion channel) in naked mole-rat nociceptors are similar to those in other vertebrates. Acid inhibition of voltage-gated sodium currents is more profound in naked mole-rat nociceptors than in mouse nociceptors, however, which effectively prevents acid-induced action potential initiation. We describe a species-specific variant of the nociceptor sodium channel Na(V)1.7, which is potently blocked by protons and can account for acid insensitivity in this species. Thus, evolutionary pressure has selected for an Na(V)1.7 gene variant that tips the balance from proton-induced excitation to inhibition of action potential initiation to abolish acid nociception.




The overactivation of excitatory amino acid receptors plays a key role in the pathomechanism of several neurodegenerative disorders and in ischemic and post-ischemic events. Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is an endogenous product of the tryptophan metabolism and, as a broad-spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors, may serve as a protective agent in neurological disorders. The use of KYNA is excluded, however, because it hardly crosses the blood-brain barrier. Accordingly, new KYNA analogs which can readily cross this barrier and exert their complex anti-excitatory activity are generally needed. During the past 6 years, we have developed several KYNA derivatives, among others KYNA amides. These new analogs included one, N-(2-N,N-dimethylaminoethyl)-4-oxo-1H-quinoline-2-carboxamide hydrochloride (KYNA-1), that has proved to be neuroprotective in several models. This paper reports on the synthesis of 10 new KYNA amides (KYNA-1-KYNA-10) and on the effectiveness of these molecules as inhibitors of excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. The molecular structure and functional effects of KYNA-1 are compared with those of other KYNA amides. Behavioral studies with these KYNA amides demonstrated that they do not exert significant nonspecific general side-effects. KYNA-1 may therefore be considered a promising candidate for clinical studies.
The sigma-2 (2) receptor has been suggested to be a promising target for pharmacological interventions to curb tumor progression. Development of 2-specific ligands, however, has been hindered by lack of understanding of molecular determinants that underlie selective ligand-2 interactions. Here we have explored effects of electron donating and withdrawing groups on ligand selectivity for the 2 versus 1 receptor using new benzamide-isoquinoline derivatives. The electron-donating methoxy group increased but the electron-withdrawing nitro group decreased 2 affinity. In particular, an extra methoxy added to the para-position (5e) of the benzamide phenyl ring of 5f dramatically improved (631 fold) the 2 selectivity relative to the 1 receptor. This para-position provided a sensitive site for effective manipulation of the sigma receptor subtype selectivity using either the methoxy or nitro substituent. Our study provides a useful guide for further improving the 2-over-1 selectivity of new ligands.
Clearly new breast cancer models are necessary in developing novel therapies. To address this challenge, we examined mammary tumor formation in the Syrian hamster using the chemical carcinogen N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). A single 50mg/kg intraperitoneal dose of MNU resulted in a 60% incidence of premalignant mammary lesions, and a 20% incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas. Two cell lines, HMAM4A and HMAM4B, were derived from one of the primary mammary tumors induced by MNU. The morphology of the primary tumor was similar to a high-grade poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in human breast cancer. The primary tumor stained positively for both HER-2/neu and pancytokeratin, and negatively for both cytokeratin 5/6 and p63. When the HMAM4B cell line was implanted subcutaneously into syngeneic female hamsters, tumors grew at a take rate of 50%. A tumor derived from HMAM4B cells implanted into a syngeneic hamster was further propagated in vitro as a stable cell line HMAM5. The HMAM5 cells grew in female syngeneic hamsters with a 70% take rate of tumor formation. These cells proliferate in vitro, form colonies in soft agar, and are aneuploid with a modal chromosomal number of 74 (the normal chromosome number for Syrian hamster is 44). To determine responsiveness to the estrogen receptor (ER), a cell proliferation assay was examined using increasing concentrations of tamoxifen. Both HMAM5 and human MCF-7 (ER positive) cells showed a similar decrease at 24h. However, MDA-MB-231 (ER negative) cells were relatively insensitive to any decrease in proliferation from tamoxifen treatment. These results suggest that the HMAM5 cell line was likely derived from a luminal B subtype of mammary tumor. These results also represent characterization of the first mammary tumor cell line available from the Syrian hamster. The HMAM5 cell line is likely to be useful as an immunocompetent model for human breast cancer in developing novel therapies.

Mutations of the Interleukin-1-receptor accessory protein like 1 (IL1RAPL1) gene are associated with cognitive impairment ranging from non-syndromic X-linked mental retardation to autism. IL1RAPL1 belongs to a novel family of IL1/Toll receptors, which is localized at excitatory synapses and interacts with PSD-95. We previously showed that IL1RAPL1 regulates the synaptic localization of PSD-95 by controlling c-Jun N-terminal kinase activity and PSD-95 phosphorylation. Here, we show that the IgG-like extracellular domains of IL1RAPL1 induce excitatory pre-synapse formation by interacting with protein tyrosine phosphatase delta (PTP). We also found that IL1RAPL1 TIR domains interact with RhoGAP2, which is localized at the excitatory post-synaptic density. More interestingly, the IL1RAPL1/PTP complex recruits RhoGAP2 at excitatory synapses to induce dendritic spine formation. We also found that the IL1RAPL1 paralog, IL1RAPL2, interacts with PTP and induces excitatory synapse and dendritic spine formation. The interaction of the IL1RAPL1 family of proteins with PTP and RhoGAP2 reveals a pathophysiological mechanism of cognitive impairment associated with a novel type of trans-synaptic signaling that regulates excitatory synapse and dendritic spine formation.
Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a primary role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly in autosomal recessive forms of the disease caused by mutations encoding PINK1. Although mitochondrial pathology can be demonstrated in many cell types, it is neurons that bear the brunt of cell death in PD. We studied the mitochondrial physiology of neurons and muscle cells with loss of function of the nuclear encoded mitochondrial protein PINK1. PINK1 is widely expressed in many types of tissues, but deficiency selectively induces death in neurons. We report here that the same genetic defect results in opposing phenotypes in different cell types, depending on the metabolic properties of the cell. Thus, PINK1-deficient myocytes exhibit high basal mitochondrial membrane potential (m), whereas PINK1-deficient neurons have been shown to exhibit a low m. PINK1 deficiency induces impaired respiration in both cell types, with a concomitant increase in glycolytic activity. We demonstrate that the high glycolytic capacity in myocytes compared with neurons enables them to produce more ATP and, therefore, compensates for the metabolic defects induced by PINK1 deficiency. Furthermore, the high m generated in PINK1 knockout (KO) muscle mitochondria enables them to buffer cytosolic Ca(2+) fluxes, rendering them resistant to Ca(2+) stress effectively. Conversely, PINK1 KO neurons were previously shown to develop mitochondrial Ca(2+) overload and Ca(2+)-induced mitochondrial depolarisation. Prevention of Ca(2+) dysregulation in myocytes might therefore account for the sparing of these cells in PD.
Electrochemical detection is often used to detect catecholamines and indolamines in brain samples that have been separated by conventional reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). This paper presents the transfer of an existing chromatographic method for the determination of monoamines in brain tissues using 5 m granulometry HPLC columns to columns with a particle diameter less than 3 m. Several parameters (repeatability, linearity, accuracy, limit of detection, and stability of samples) for this new ultrafast high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) method were examined after optimization of the analytical conditions. The separation of seven compounds, noradrenaline, dopamine and three of its metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid, and 3-methoxytyramine, and serotonin and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid was analyzed using this UHPLC-electrochemical detection method. The final method, which was applied to brain tissue extracts from mice, rats, and cats, decreased analysis time by a factor of 4 compared to HPLC, while guaranteeing good analytical performance.
In this study, percentages of CD39(+) Treg and Th17 cells were compared between relapsing-remitting MS patients and controls and were related to the vitamin D status. The Th17 cell population was expanded in about 40% of the MS patients. In MS patients in remission, but not during relapse, a positive association was found between Th17 cell and CD39(+) Treg percentages (r=0.468, p=0.007). Since CD39(+) Tregs have been shown to have Th17 suppressive capacities, we propose that a dysregulated Th17/CD39(+) Treg balance might contribute to disease exacerbation. A clear role for vitamin D in this regulation could not be established.
Interest in the role of B-cells in multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis has increased, and a number of B-cell targeted therapies are currently in clinical trials. B-cells are key mediators of the humoral immune response, with roles including antibody production and acting as antigen presenting cells. Whilst previously, the presence of B-cells within MS plaques has been thought to be secondary to T-cell dysregulation, it is now becoming clear that B-cells play an independent role in disease. In this review we will discuss the potential role of B-cells in MS, how this influences our understanding of the disease, and potential therapeutic implications.
Relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), secondary progressive (SP)MS and primary progressive (PP)MS patients showed higher percentages of circulating CD8+CD56-perforin+ T cells than controls whereas only relapsing RRMS and PPMS patients showed higher perforin expression in CD8+CD56- T cells than controls. MS patients with EDSS 3 showed higher percentage of CD8+CD56-perforin+ T cells than patients with EDSS &lt;3 and controls whereas patients with EDSS &lt;3 showed higher percentage of this T cell subpopulation than controls. Our data show that MS is characterized by a dysregulation of CD8+CD56-perforin+ T cells that may play a role in the development of disability.
The county of Vrmland, Sweden, has shown a high frequency of multiple sclerosis in several investigations. It has been presented in three studies; a period prevalence study in 1925-1934, a mortality study during 1952-1992 and a prevalence investigation in 2002. The aim of this study was to investigate the pattern of industry in this high-risk area for multiple sclerosis. The three investigations were correlated with industry in 1913 and in the 1950s, all analyzed by the Kruskall-Wallis test. Select industries from wood-pulp, paper and iron/mechanical sectors were tested also in whole Sweden. The Spearman rank correlation was used for these data and forestry data in Vrmland. In Vrmland, industrial data from 1913 revealed that large sawmills were associated with the period prevalence in 1925-1934 and there was a possible correlation with the prevalence for 2002. Wood-pulp factories showed a possible association with the prevalence 1925-1934 and the mortality 1952-1992. Some industries in the 1950s were correlated with the prevalence 2002. Wood and paper industries in Sweden 1913 showed an association with the MS mortality 1952-1992. In summary, data on MS prevalence in Vrmland and mortality both in Vrmland and all Sweden from the past 100 years suggest an association with wood-related industries in 1913 and in the 1950s, whereas no consistent association was found for other industries.
High exposure to vitamin D may protect against development and progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), possibly through the immunomodulatory properties of its biologically active metabolite 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. So far, most studies on the possible mechanisms for vitamin D involvement in MS have focused on immune modulation outside the central nervous system (CNS). However, vitamin D may also interfere with the pathophysiology of MS within the CNS. In this review, the potential presence and functions of vitamin D in the inflamed and healthy CNS are explored. We discuss that vitamin D, vitamin D binding protein (DBP), the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and enzymes needed for metabolism (CYP27B1) are present in the CNS. Both VDR and CYP27B1 are expressed on a variety of cells, including neurons, glial cells, and invading lymphocytes. Additionally, vitamin D has been postulated to play a modulating role in several key-processes in MS pathophysiology, including inflammation, demyelination, axonal damage, and remyelination. We conclude that a local role of vitamin D in the inflamed CNS is likely and potentially relevant to MS. Future studies should further characterize the impact of vitamin D on the local disease process of MS in the CNS.

Glycine and/or D-serine are obligatory coagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). Serine racemase, the D-serine-synthesizing enzyme, is expressed by astrocytes and Mller cells of the retina, but little is known about its role in retinal signalling. In this study, we utilize a serine racemase knockout (SRKO) mouse to explore the contribution of D-serine to inner-retinal function. Retinal tissue levels of D-serine in SRKO mice are reduced by 85%. Whole-cell recordings from SRKO retinal ganglion cells showed markedly reduced coagonist occupancy of NMDARs and consequently a dramatic reduction in the NMDAR component of light-evoked responses. NMDAR currents in SRKOs could be rescued by applying exogenous coagonist, but SRKO ganglion cells still displayed lower NMDA/AMPA receptor ratios than wild-type (WT) controls when the coagonist site was saturated. Despite having abnormalities in synaptic glutamatergic transmission, SRKO mice displayed no obvious signs of visual impairment in behavioural testing. These findings raise interesting questions about the role of D-serine in inner-retinal function and development.
Simple synthesis and biological activities of modafinil derivatives are described. The key reactions include condensation of acid and propargyl alcohol, subsequent 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction of alkynes and (3-azido-propyl)cyclohexane or (4-azido-butyl)benzene in the presence of sodium ascorbate and CuSO5HO in excellent yield. They were then evaluated for the suppression of LPS-induced NO generation in vitro. It was found that all compounds showed moderate effects for suppression of LPS-induced NO generation.
We describe a strategy for analyzing axonal transport of cytosolic proteins (CPs) using photoactivatable GFP-PAGFP-with modifications of standard imaging components that can be retroactively fitted to a conventional epifluorescence microscope. The photoactivation and visualization are nearly simultaneous, allowing studies of proteins with rapidly mobile fractions. Cultured hippocampal neurons are transfected with PAGFP-tagged constructs, a discrete protein population within axons is photoactivated, and then the activated population is tracked by live imaging. We show the utility of this method in analyzing axonal transport of CPs that have inherent diffusible pools and distinguish this transport modality from passive diffusion and vesicle transport. The analytical tools used to quantify the motion are also described. Aside from the time needed for preparation of neuronal cultures/transfection, the experiment takes 2-3 h, during which time several axons can be imaged and analyzed. These methods should be easy to adopt by most laboratories and may also be useful for monitoring CP movement in other cell types.
Most of our motor skills are not innately programmed, but are learned by a combination of motor exploration and performance evaluation, suggesting that they proceed through a reinforcement learning (RL) mechanism. Songbirds have emerged as a model system to study how a complex behavioral sequence can be learned through an RL-like strategy. Interestingly, like motor sequence learning in mammals, song learning in birds requires a basal ganglia (BG)-thalamocortical loop, suggesting common neural mechanisms. Here, we outline a specific working hypothesis for how BG-forebrain circuits could utilize an internally computed reinforcement signal to direct song learning. Our model includes a number of general concepts borrowed from the mammalian BG literature, including a dopaminergic reward prediction error and dopamine-mediated plasticity at corticostriatal synapses. We also invoke a number of conceptual advances arising from recent observations in the songbird. Specifically, there is evidence for a specialized cortical circuit that adds trial-to-trial variability to stereotyped cortical motor programs, and a role for the BG in &quot;biasing&quot; this variability to improve behavioral performance. This BG-dependent &quot;premotor bias&quot; may in turn guide plasticity in downstream cortical synapses to consolidate recently learned song changes. Given the similarity between mammalian and songbird BG-thalamocortical circuits, our model for the role of the BG in this process may have broader relevance to mammalian BG function.
Since the early 90s, the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has started to be the subject of an increasing interest not only in the community of the basal ganglia scientists but also for neurosurgeons and neurologists, thanks to the development of the surgical treatment for Parkinson's disease. The involvement of the STN in cognitive and motivational processes has been demonstrated since, and psychiatrists are now considering this small structure as a possible target for the treatment of various disorders. In this review, we will address six questions to highlight (1) How increased knowledge has led us from a strictly motor model to an integrative one. (2) How knowledge acquired in animal models can be similar or (3) different from the effects observed in human patients. (4) How clinical trials are sometimes ahead of fundamental research carried out in animals, showing effects that could not be predicted on the basis of animal studies, thus questioning the relevance of some animal models, especially for psychiatric disorders. We will also address the possible future orientations (5) and how the use, or precaution not to use, certain key words in animal research dedicated to STN functions can lead to the omission of a certain amount of available data in the literature (6).

Dopamine (DA) is a key transmitter in the basal ganglia, yet DA transmission does not conform to several aspects of the classic synaptic doctrine. Axonal DA release occurs through vesicular exocytosis and is action potential- and Ca-dependent. However, in addition to axonal release, DA neurons in midbrain exhibit somatodendritic release by an incompletely understood, but apparently exocytotic, mechanism. Even in striatum, axonal release sites are controversial, with evidence for DA varicosities that lack postsynaptic specialization, and largely extrasynaptic DA receptors and transporters. Moreover, DA release is often assumed to reflect a global response to a population of activities in midbrain DA neurons, whether tonic or phasic, with precise timing and specificity of action governed by other basal ganglia circuits. This view has been reinforced by anatomical evidence showing dense axonal DA arbors throughout striatum, and a lattice network formed by DA axons and glutamatergic input from cortex and thalamus. Nonetheless, localized DA transients are seen in vivo using voltammetric methods with high spatial and temporal resolution. Mechanistic studies using similar methods in vitro have revealed local regulation of DA release by other transmitters and modulators, as well as by proteins known to be disrupted in Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. Notably, the actions of most other striatal transmitters on DA release also do not conform to the synaptic doctrine, with the absence of direct synaptic contacts for glutamate, GABA, and acetylcholine (ACh) on striatal DA axons. Overall, the findings reviewed here indicate that DA signaling in the basal ganglia is sculpted by cooperation between the timing and pattern of DA input and those of local regulatory factors.
The tonically active neurons (TANs) are a population of neurons scattered sparsely throughout the striatum that show intriguing patterns of firing activity during reinforcement learning. Following repeated pairings of a neutral stimulus with a primary reward, TANs develop a transient cessation of firing activity in response to the stimulus, termed the &quot;conditioned pause response.&quot; In tasks where specific cues are arranged to signal the probability of particular outcomes, the pause response to both cue and outcome may differ in ways that suggest the involvement of different inputs to the same neuron. Here we review the cellular properties of cholinergic interneurons and describe the response to their afferents in terms of inducing TAN-like pauses in tonic firing. Recent work has shown that thalamostriatal inputs to cholinergic neurons transiently suppress firing activity via dopamine release. Because these pauses are initiated by subcortical pathways with limited sensory processing abilities, we propose that they are an ideal correlate for the pauses observed in TANs in response to cues signaling trial initiation. On the other hand, pauses that accompany outcome presentation contain higher-level information, including an apparent sensitivity to reward prediction error. Thus, these pauses may be mediated by cortical inputs to cholinergic interneurons. Although there is evidence linking cholinergic pauses to synaptic plasticity, much remains to be discovered about the effect of this relatively sparse but influential population on the striatal learning system.
The dorsal pallidal complex is made up of the external and internal segments of the globus pallidus (GPe and GPi respectively). It is part of the main axis of the basal ganglia (BG) that connects the thalamo-cortical networks to the BG input stages (striatum and subthalamic nucleus) and continues directly, and indirectly through the GPe, to the BG output stages (GPi and substantia nigra reticulata). Here we review the unique anatomical and physiological features of the pallidal complex and argue that they support the main computational goal of the BG main axis (actor); namely, a behavioral policy that maximizes future cumulative gains and minimizes costs. The three mono-layer competitive networks of the BG main axis flexibly extract relevant features from the current state of the thalamo-cortical activity to control current (ongoing) and future actions. We hypothesize that the striatal and the subthalamic projections neurons act as mono-stable integrators (class I excitability) and the in-vivo pallidal neurons act as bi-stable resonators (class II excitability). GPe neurons exhibit pausing behavior because their membrane potential lingers in the vicinity of an unstable equilibrium point and bi-stability, and these pauses enable a less-greedy exploratory behavioral policy. Finally, degeneration of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and striatal dopamine depletion (as in Parkinson's disease) lead to augmentation of striatal excitability and competitive dynamics. As a consequence the pallidal network, whose elements tend to synchronize as a result of their bi-stable resonance behavior, shifts from a Poissonian-like non-correlated to synchronous oscillatory discharge mode.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive, fatal neurological condition caused by an expansion of CAG (glutamine) repeats in the coding region of the Huntington gene. To date, there is no cure but great strides have been made to understand pathophysiological mechanisms. In particular, genetic animal models of HD have been instrumental in elucidating the progression of behavioral and physiological alterations, which had not been possible using classic neurotoxin models. Our groups have pioneered the use of transgenic HD mice to examine the excitotoxicity hypothesis of striatal neuronal dysfunction and degeneration, as well as alterations in excitation and inhibition in striatum and cerebral cortex. In this review, we focus on synaptic and receptor alterations of striatal medium-sized spiny (MSNs) and cortical pyramidal neurons in genetic HD mouse models. We demonstrate a complex series of alterations that are region-specific and time-dependent. In particular, many changes are bidirectional depending on the degree of disease progression, that is, early vs. late, and also on the region examined. Early synaptic dysfunction is manifested by dysregulated glutamate release in striatum followed by progressive disconnection between cortex and striatum. The differential effects of altered glutamate release on MSNs originating the direct and indirect pathways is also elucidated, with the unexpected finding that cells of the direct striatal pathway are involved early in the course of the disease. In addition, we review evidence for early N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction leading to enhanced sensitivity of extrasynaptic receptors and a critical role of GluN2B subunits. Some of the alterations in late HD could be compensatory mechanisms designed to cope with early synaptic and receptor dysfunctions. The main findings indicate that HD treatments need to be designed according to the stage of disease progression and should consider regional differences.
In recent years, there has been a great deal of progress toward understanding the role of the striatum and dopamine in action selection. The advent of new animal models and the development of optical techniques for imaging and stimulating select neuronal populations have provided the means by which identified synapses, cells, and circuits can be reliably studied. This review attempts to summarize some of the key advances in this broad area, focusing on dopaminergic modulation of intrinsic excitability and synaptic plasticity in canonical microcircuits in the striatum as well as recent work suggesting that there are neuronal assemblies within the striatum devoted to particular types of computation and possibly action selection.
Experiments that demonstrated a role for the substantia nigra in eye movements have played an important role in our understanding of the function of the basal ganglia in behavior more broadly. In this review we explore more recent experiments that extend the role of the substantia nigra pars reticulata from a simple gate for eye movements to include a role in cognitive processes for eye movements. We review recent evidence suggesting that basal ganglia nuclei beyond the substantia nigra may also play a role in eye movements and the cognitive events leading up to the production of eye movements. We close by pointing out some unresolved questions in our understanding of the relationship of basal ganglia nuclei and eye movements.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease in developed countries. The core motor symptoms are attributable to the degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Why these neurons succumb in PD is not clear. One potential clue has come from the observation that the engagement of L-type Ca channels during autonomous pacemaking elevates the sensitivity of SNc DA neurons to mitochondrial toxins used to create animal models of PD, suggesting that Ca entry is a factor in their selective vulnerability. Recent work has shown that this Ca entry also elevates mitochondrial oxidant stress and that this stress is exacerbated by deletion of DJ-1, a gene associated with an early onset, recessive form of PD. Epidemiological data also support a linkage between L-type Ca channels and the risk of developing PD. This review examines the hypothesis that the primary factor driving neurodegenerative changes in PD is the metabolic stress created by Ca entry, particularly in the face of genetic or environmental factors that compromise oxidative defenses or proteostatic competence.
Although the roles of dopaminergic signaling in learning and behavior are well established, it is not fully understood how the activity of dopaminergic neurons is dynamically regulated under different conditions in a constantly changing environment. Dopamine neurons must integrate sensory, motor, and cognitive information online to inform the organism to pursue outcomes with the highest reward probability. In this article, we provide an overview of recent advances on the intrinsic, extrinsic (i.e., synaptic), and plasticity mechanisms controlling dopamine neuron activity, mostly focusing on mechanistic studies conducted using ex vivo brain slice preparations. We also hope to highlight some unresolved questions regarding information processing that takes place at dopamine neurons, thereby stimulating further investigations at different levels of analysis.
The striatum integrates convergent input from the cortex, thalamus, and midbrain, and has a powerful influence over motivated behavior via outputs to downstream basal ganglia nuclei. Although the anatomy and physiology of distinct classes of striatal neurons have been intensively studied, the specific functions of these cell subpopulations have been more difficult to address. Recently, application of new methodologies for perturbing activity and signaling in different cell types in vivo has begun to allow direct tests of the causal roles of striatal neurons in behavior.
Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies have shown that peak-dose dyskinesia is associated to abnormally high levels of synaptic dopamine (DA) in the caudate-putamen of dyskinetic L-DOPA-treated patients. High striatal extracellular DA levels have also been found in dyskinetic 6-OHDA-lesioned rats as compared to non-dyskinetic ones, suggesting that extracellular DA levels may play a key role in the induction of dyskinesia. In this article we review the evidences pointing to the serotonin system as the primary cause for the abnormally high levels of L-DOPA-derived extracellular DA in Parkinson's disease, and we discuss the feasibility of a therapeutic approach targeting this system.
The neural correlates of consciousness are largely unknown but many neural circuits are likely to be involved. Our experiments with mice that cannot synthesize dopamine suggest that dopamine signaling is a critical component necessary for the expression of consciousness. Although dopamine-deficient mice are awake and respond to many stimuli, they are unmotivated and have profound deficits in all but the simplest learning tasks. Dopamine-deficient mice are unable to attend to salient sensory information, integrate it with prior experience, store it in long-term memory, or choose appropriate actions. While clearly conscious from a general anesthetic point of view, dopamine-deficient mice have marginal arousal and appear to be virtually unconscious from a behavioral point of view. Restoration of dopamine signaling within the striatum by viral gene therapy strategies restores most behaviors. Therefore, I propose that dopaminergic modulation of glutamatergic inputs from the cortex and thalamus onto medium spiny neurons in the striatum contributes to cognition and the expression of consciousness.
The GABA projection neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) are output neurons for the basal ganglia and thus critical for movement control. Their most striking neurophysiological feature is sustained, spontaneous high frequency spike firing. A fundamental question is: what are the key ion channels supporting the remarkable firing capability in these neurons? Recent studies indicate that these neurons express tonically active type 3 transient receptor potential (TRPC3) channels that conduct a Na-dependent inward current even at hyperpolarized membrane potentials. When the membrane potential reaches -60 mV, a voltage-gated persistent sodium current (I(NaP)) starts to activate, further depolarizing the membrane potential. At or slightly below -50 mV, the large transient voltage-activated sodium current (I(NaT)) starts to activate and eventually triggers the rapid rising phase of action potentials. SNr GABA neurons have a higher density of I(NaT), contributing to the faster rise and larger amplitude of action potentials, compared with the slow-spiking dopamine neurons. I(NaT) also recovers from inactivation more quickly in SNr GABA neurons than in nigral dopamine neurons. In SNr GABA neurons, the rising phase of the action potential triggers the activation of high-threshold, inactivation-resistant Kv3-like channels that can rapidly repolarize the membrane. These intrinsic ion channels provide SNr GABA neurons with the ability to fire spontaneous and sustained high frequency spikes. Additionally, robust GABA inputs from direct pathway medium spiny neurons in the striatum and GABA neurons in the globus pallidus may inhibit and silence SNr GABA neurons, whereas glutamate synaptic input from the subthalamic nucleus may induce burst firing in SNr GABA neurons. Thus, afferent GABA and glutamate synaptic inputs sculpt the tonic high frequency firing of SNr GABA neurons and the consequent inhibition of their targets into an integrated motor control signal that is further fine-tuned by neuromodulators including dopamine, serotonin, endocannabinoids, and HO.
The globus pallidus consists of the external (GPe) and the internal (GPi) segments. The GPe and GPi have different functional roles. The GPe is located centrally within multiple basal ganglia feedforward and feedback connections. The GPi is an output nucleus of the basal ganglia. A complex interplay between intrinsic pacemaking conductances and the balance of glutamatergic and GABAergic input largely determines the rate and pattern of firing of pallidal neurons. The initial part of this article introduces recent findings made in vivo that are related to the roles of glutamatergic and GABAergic inputs in the control of pallidal activity. The latter part describes the roles of intrinsic mechanisms of GPe neurons in the integration of the synaptic inputs. The presence of dendritic voltage-gated sodium channels may allow the initiation of dendritic spikes, giving distal inputs on the long and thin GPe dendrites an opportunity to strongly shape spiking activity. Basal ganglia disorders including Parkinson's disease, hemiballismus, and dystonias are accompanied by increased irregularity and synchronized bursts of pallidal activity. These changes may be in part due to changes in the GABA release in the GPe and GPi, but also involve intrinsic cellular changes in pallidal neurons.
Multifunctional agents with limited motor resources must decide what actions will best ensure their survival. Moreover, given that in an unpredictable world things don't always work out, considerable advantage is to be gained by learning from experience - instrumental behaviour that maximises reward and minimises punishment. In this review we will argue that the re-entrant looped architecture of the basal ganglia represents biological solutions to these fundamental behavioural problems of selection and reinforcement. A potential solution to the selection problem is provided for by selective disinhibition within the parallel loop architecture that connects the basal ganglia with external neural structures. The relay points within these loops permit the signals of a particular channel to be modified by external influences. In part, these influences have the capacity to modify overall selections so that the probability of re-selecting reinforced behaviours in the future is altered. This is the basic process of instrumental learning, which we suggest decomposes into two sub-problems for the agent: (i) learning which external events it causes to happen and learning precisely what it is doing that is causal; and (ii) having determined agency and discovered novel action-outcome routines, how best to exploit this knowledge to maximise future reward acquisitions. Considerations of connectional architecture and signal timing suggest that the short-latency, sensory-evoked dopamine response, which can modulate the re-entrant loop structure within the basal ganglia, is ideally suited to reinforce the determination of agency and the discovery of novel actions. Alternatively, recent studies showing that presence or absence of reward can selectively modulate the magnitude of signals in structures providing input signals to the basal ganglia, offer an alternative mechanism for biasing selection within the re-entrant loop architecture. We suggest that this mechanism may be better suited to ensure the prioritisation of inputs associated with reward.
Our understanding of the pathophysiology of movement disorders and associated changes in basal ganglia activities has significantly changed during the last few decades. This process began with the development of detailed anatomical models of the basal ganglia, followed by studies of basal ganglia activity patterns in animal models of common movement disorders and electrophysiological recordings in movement disorder patients undergoing functional neurosurgical procedures. These investigations first resulted in an appreciation of global activity changes in the basal ganglia in parkinsonism and other disorders, and later in the detailed description of pathological basal ganglia activity patterns, specifically burst patterns and oscillatory synchronous discharge of basal ganglia neurons. In this review, we critically summarize our current knowledge of the pathological discharge patterns of basal ganglia neurons in Parkinson's disease, dystonia, and dyskinesias.
Neurons in the subthalamic nucleus occupy a pivotal position in the circuitry of the basal ganglia. They receive direct excitatory input from the cerebral cortex and the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus, and directly excite the inhibitory basal ganglia output neurons in the internal segment of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. They are also engaged in a reciprocal synaptic arrangement with inhibitory neurons in the external segment of the globus pallidus. Although once viewed as a simple relay of extrinsic input to the basal ganglia, physiological studies of subthalamic neurons have revealed that activity in these neurons does not directly reflect their pattern of extrinsic excitation. Subthalamic neurons are autonomously active at rates comparable to those observed in vivo, and they generate complex patterns of intrinsic activity arising from the interactions between voltage sensitive ion channels on the somatodendritic and axonal membranes. Extrinsic synaptic excitation does not create the firing pattern of the subthalamic neuron, but rather controls the timing of action potentials generated intrinsically. The dopaminergic innervation of the subthalamic nucleus, although moderate, can directly influence firing patterns by acting both on synaptic transmission and voltage-sensitive ion channels responsible for intrinsic properties. Furthermore, chronic dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease may modify both synaptic transmission and integration in the subthalamic nucleus, in addition to its effects on other regions of the basal ganglia.

RPE65 is an abundantly expressed protein within the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) of the eye that is required for retinoid metabolism to support vision. Its genetic mutations are linked to the congenital disease Leber congenital amaurosis Type 2 (LCA2) characterized by the early onset of central vision loss. Current gene therapy trials have targeted restoration of functional RPE65 within the RPE of these patients with some success. Recent data show that RPE65 is also present within mouse cones to promote function. In this study, we evaluated the presence of RPE65 in human cones and investigated its potential mechanism for supporting cone function in the 661W cone cell line. We found that RPE65 was selectively expressed in human green/red cones but absent from blue cones and mediated ester hydrolysis for photopigment synthesis in vitro. These data suggest that cone RPE65 supports human diurnal vision, potentially enhancing our strategies for treating LCA2.
Brain structural and functional development, throughout childhood and into adulthood, underlies the maturation of increasingly sophisticated cognitive abilities. High-level attentional and cognitive control processes rely on the integrity of, and dynamic interactions between, core neurocognitive networks. The right fronto-insular cortex (rFIC) is a critical component of a salience network (SN) that mediates interactions between large-scale brain networks involved in externally oriented attention [central executive network (CEN)] and internally oriented cognition [default mode network (DMN)]. How these systems reconfigure and mature with development is a critical question for cognitive neuroscience, with implications for neurodevelopmental pathologies affecting brain connectivity. Using functional and effective connectivity measures applied to fMRI data, we examine interactions within and between the SN, CEN, and DMN. We find that functional coupling between key network nodes is stronger in adults than in children, as are causal links emanating from the rFIC. Specifically, the causal influence of the rFIC on nodes of the SN and CEN was significantly greater in adults compared with children. Notably, these results were entirely replicated on an independent dataset of matched children and adults. Developmental changes in functional and effective connectivity were related to structural connectivity along these links. Diffusion tensor imaging tractography revealed increased structural integrity in adults compared with children along both within- and between-network pathways associated with the rFIC. These results suggest that structural and functional maturation of rFIC pathways is a critical component of the process by which human brain networks mature during development to support complex, flexible cognitive processes in adulthood.
Oscillatory entrainment mechanisms are invoked during attentional processing of rhythmically occurring stimuli, whereby their phase alignment regulates the excitability state of neurons coding for anticipated inputs. These mechanisms have been examined in the delta band (1-3 Hz), where entrainment frequency matches the stimulation rate. Here, we investigated entrainment for subdelta rhythmic stimulation, recording from intracranial electrodes over human auditory cortex during an intersensory audiovisual task. Audiovisual stimuli were presented at 0.67 Hz while participants detected targets within one sensory stream and ignored the other. It was found that entrainment operated at twice the stimulation rate (1.33 Hz), and this was reflected by higher amplitude values in the FFT spectrum, cyclic modulation of alpha-amplitude, and phase-amplitude coupling between delta phase and alpha power. In addition, we found that alpha-amplitude was relatively increased in auditory cortex coincident with to-be-ignored auditory stimuli during attention to vision. Thus, the data suggest that entrainment mechanisms operate within a delimited passband such that for subdelta task rhythms, oscillatory harmonics are invoked. The phase of these delta-entrained oscillations modulates alpha-band power. This may in turn increase or decrease responsiveness to relevant and irrelevant stimuli, respectively.
The nucleus accumbens shell (NAc) is a key brain region mediating emotional and motivational learning. In rodent models, dynamic alterations have been observed in synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) within the NAc following incentive stimuli, and some of these alterations are critical for acquiring new emotional/motivational states. NMDARs are prominent molecular devices for controlling neural plasticity and memory formation. Although synaptic NMDARs are predominately located postsynaptically, recent evidence suggests that they may also exist at presynaptic terminals and reshape excitatory synaptic transmission by regulating presynaptic glutamate release. However, it remains unknown whether presynaptic NMDARs exist in the NAc and contribute to emotional and motivational learning. In an attempt to identify presynaptically located NMDARs in the NAc, the present study uses slice electrophysiology combined with pharmacological and genetic tools to examine the physiological role of the putative presynaptic NMDARs in rats. Our results show that application of glycine, the glycine-site agonist of NMDARs, potentiated presynaptic release of glutamate at excitatory synapses on NAc neurons, whereas application of 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid or 7-chlorokynurenic acid, the glycine-site antagonists of NMDARs, produced the opposite effect. However, these seemingly presynaptic NMDAR-mediated effects could not be prevented by application of d-APV, the glutamate-site NMDAR antagonist, and were still present in the mice in which NMDAR NR1 or NR3 subunits were genetically deleted. Thus, rather than suggesting the existence of presynaptic NMDARs, our results support the idea that an unidentified type of glycine-activated substrate may account for the presynaptic effects appearing to be mediated by NMDARs.
Saccadic eye movements (SEMs) are the primary means of gating visual information in primates and strongly influence visual perception. The active exploration of the visual environment (&quot;active vision&quot;) via SEMs produces suppression during saccades and enhancement afterward (i.e., during fixation) in occipital visual areas. In lateral temporal lobe visual areas, the influence, if any, of eye movements is less well understood, despite the necessity of these areas for forming coherent percepts of objects. The upper bank of the superior temporal sulcus (uSTS) is one such area whose sensitivity to SEMs is unknown. We therefore examined how saccades modulate local field potentials (LFPs) in the uSTS of macaque monkeys while they viewed face and nonface object stimuli. LFP phase concentration increased following fixation onset in the alpha (8-14 Hz), beta (14-30 Hz), and gamma (30-60 Hz) bands and was distinct from the image-evoked response. Furthermore, near-coincident onsets of fixation and image presentation--like those occurring in active vision--led to enhanced responses through greater phase concentration in the same frequency bands. Finally, single-unit activity was modulated by the phase of alpha, beta, and gamma oscillations, suggesting that the observed phase-locking influences spike timing in uSTS. Previous research implicates phase concentration in these frequency bands as a correlate of perceptual performance (Womelsdorf et al., 2006; Bosman et al., 2009). Together, these results demonstrate sensitivity to eye movements in an object-processing region of the brain and represent a plausible neural basis for the enhancement of object processing during active vision.
Evoked neural activity correlates strongly with rises in cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) and cerebral blood flow (CBF). Activity-dependent rises in CMRO(2) fluctuate with ATP turnover due to ion pumping. In vitro studies suggest that increases in cytosolic Ca(2+) stimulate oxidative metabolism via mitochondrial signaling, but whether this also occurs in the intact brain is unknown. Here we applied a pharmacological approach to dissect the effects of ionic currents and cytosolic Ca(2+) rises of neuronal origin on activity-dependent rises in CMRO(2). We used two-photon microscopy and current source density analysis to study real-time Ca(2+) dynamics and transmembrane ionic currents in relation to CMRO(2) in the mouse cerebellar cortex in vivo. We report a direct correlation between CMRO(2) and summed (i.e., the sum of excitatory, negative currents during the whole stimulation period) field EPSCs (fEPSCs) in Purkinje cells (PCs) in response to stimulation of the climbing fiber (CF) pathway. Blocking stimulus-evoked rises in cytosolic Ca(2+) in PCs with the P/Q-type channel blocker -agatoxin-IVA (-AGA), or the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol, did not lead to a time-locked reduction in CMRO(2), and excitatory synaptic or action potential currents. During stimulation, neither -AGA or (-oxo)-bis-(trans-formatotetramine-ruthenium) (Ru360), a mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter inhibitor, affected the ratio of CMRO(2) to fEPSCs or evoked local field potentials. However, baseline CBF and CMRO(2) decreased gradually with Ru360. Our data suggest that in vivo activity-dependent rises in CMRO(2) are correlated with synaptic currents and postsynaptic spiking in PCs. Our study did not reveal a unique role of neuronal cytosolic Ca(2+) signals in controlling CMRO(2) increases during CF stimulation.
Inhibitory interneurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus modulate the activity of thalamocortical cells in response to excitatory input through the release of inhibitory neurotransmitter from both axons and dendrites. The exact mechanisms by which release can occur from dendrites are, however, not well understood. Recent experiments using calcium imaging have suggested that Na/K-based action potentials can evoke calcium transients in dendrites via local active conductances, making the backpropagating action potential a candidate for dendritic neurotransmitter release. In this study, we used high temporal and spatial resolution voltage-sensitive dye imaging to assess the characteristics of dendritic voltage deflections in response to Na/K action potentials in interneurons of the mouse dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. We found that trains or single action potentials elicited by somatic current injection or local synaptic stimulation rapidly and actively backpropagated throughout the entire dendritic arbor and into the fine filiform dendritic appendages known to release GABAergic vesicles. Action potentials always appeared first in the soma or proximal dendrite in response to somatic current injection or local synaptic stimulation, and the rapid backpropagation into the dendritic arbor depended upon voltage-gated sodium and tetraethylammonium chloride-sensitive potassium channels. Our results indicate that thalamic interneuron dendrites integrate synaptic inputs that initiate action potentials, most likely in the axon initial segment, that then backpropagate with high fidelity into the dendrites, resulting in a nearly synchronous release of GABA from both axonal and dendritic compartments.
Synaptic vesicles segregate into functionally diverse subpopulations within presynaptic terminals, yet there is no information about how this may occur. Here we demonstrate that a distinct subgroup of vesicles within individual glutamatergic, mossy fiber terminals contain vesicular zinc that is critical for the rapid release of a subgroup of synaptic vesicles during increased activity in mice. In particular, vesicular zinc dictates the Ca(2+) sensitivity of release during high-frequency firing. Intense synaptic activity alters the subcellular distribution of zinc in presynaptic terminals and decreases the number of zinc-containing vesicles. Zinc staining also appears in endosomes, an observation that is consistent with the preferential replenishment of zinc-enriched vesicles by bulk endocytosis. We propose that functionally diverse vesicle pools with unique membrane protein composition support different modes of transmission and are generated via distinct recycling pathways.
Neonatal seizures can lead to epilepsy and long-term cognitive deficits into adulthood. Using a rodent model of the most common form of human neonatal seizures, hypoxia-induced seizures (HS), we aimed to determine whether these seizures modify long-term potentiation (LTP) and silent NMDAR-only synapses in hippocampal CA1. At 48-72 h after HS, electrophysiology and immunofluorescent confocal microscopy revealed a significant decrease in the incidence of silent synapses, and an increase in AMPARs at the synapses. Coincident with this decrease in silent synapses, there was an attenuation of LTP elicited by either tetanic stimulation of Schaffer collaterals or a pairing protocol, and persistent attenuation of LTP in slices removed in later adulthood after P10 HS. Furthermore, postseizure treatment in vivo with the AMPAR antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfonyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline (NBQX) protected against the HS-induced depletion of silent synapses and preserved LTP. Thus, this study demonstrates a novel mechanism by which early life seizures could impair synaptic plasticity, suggesting a potential target for therapeutic strategies to prevent long-term cognitive deficits.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which mediates the body's response to stress, is largely under GABAergic control. Here we demonstrate that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons are modulated by the stress-derived neurosteroid, tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC), acting on  subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Under normal conditions, THDOC potentiates the inhibitory effects of GABA on CRH neurons, decreasing the activity of the HPA axis. Counterintuitively, following stress, THDOC activates the HPA axis due to dephosphorylation of KCC2 residue Ser940, resulting in a collapse of the chloride gradient and excitatory GABAergic transmission. The effects of THDOC on CRH neurons are mediated by actions on GABA(A)R  subunit-containing receptors since these effects are abolished in Gabrd(-/-) mice under both control and stress conditions. Interestingly, blocking neurosteroidogenesis with finasteride is sufficient to block the stress-induced elevations in corticosterone and prevent stress-induced anxiety-like behaviors in mice. These data demonstrate that positive feedback of neurosteroids onto CRH neurons is required to mount the physiological response to stress. Further, GABA(A)R  subunit-containing receptors and phosphorylation of KCC2 residue Ser940 may be novel targets for control of the stress response, which has therapeutic potential for numerous disorders associated with hyperexcitability of the HPA axis, including Cushing's syndrome, epilepsy, and major depression.
Learning induces dynamic changes to the actin cytoskeleton that are required to support memory formation. However, the molecular mechanisms that mediate filamentous actin (F-actin) dynamics during learning and memory are poorly understood. Myosin II motors are highly expressed in actin-rich growth structures including dendritic spines, and we have recently shown that these molecular machines mobilize F-actin in response to synaptic stimulation and learning in the hippocampus. In this study, we report that Myosin II motors in the rat lateral amygdala (LA) are essential for fear memory formation. Pretraining infusions of the Myosin II inhibitor, blebbistatin (blebb), disrupted long term memory, while short term memory was unaffected. Interestingly, both post-training and pretesting infusions had no effect on memory formation, indicating that Myosin II motors operate during or shortly after learning to promote memory consolidation. These data support the idea that Myosin II motor-force generation is a general mechanism that supports memory consolidation in the mammalian CNS.


The annual &quot;Roll Up the Rim to Win&quot; contest at Tim Hortons restaurants provides customers the opportunity to win prizes. This study investigated win ratios, prize types and patterns of coffee consumption.

This document provides a review of the techniques and therapies used in gait rehabilitation after stroke. It also examines the possible benefits of including assistive robotic devices and brain-computer interfaces in this field, according to a top-down approach, in which rehabilitation is driven by neural plasticity.The methods reviewed comprise classical gait rehabilitation techniques (neurophysiological and motor learning approaches), functional electrical stimulation (FES), robotic devices, and brain-computer interfaces (BCI).From the analysis of these approaches, we can draw the following conclusions. Regarding classical rehabilitation techniques, there is insufficient evidence to state that a particular approach is more effective in promoting gait recovery than other. Combination of different rehabilitation strategies seems to be more effective than over-ground gait training alone. Robotic devices need further research to show their suitability for walking training and their effects on over-ground gait. The use of FES combined with different walking retraining strategies has shown to result in improvements in hemiplegic gait. Reports on non-invasive BCIs for stroke recovery are limited to the rehabilitation of upper limbs; however, some works suggest that there might be a common mechanism which influences upper and lower limb recovery simultaneously, independently of the limb chosen for the rehabilitation therapy. Functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) enables researchers to detect signals from specific regions of the cortex during performance of motor activities for the development of future BCIs. Future research would make possible to analyze the impact of rehabilitation on brain plasticity, in order to adapt treatment resources to meet the needs of each patient and to optimize the recovery process.
Palmitoylation is a common lipid modification known to regulate the functional properties of various proteins and is a vital step in the biosynthesis of voltage-activated sodium (Nav) channels. We discovered a mutation in an intracellular loop of rNav1.2a (G1079C), which results in a higher apparent affinity for externally applied PaurTx3 and ProTx-II, two voltage sensor toxins isolated from tarantula venom. To explore whether palmitoylation of the introduced cysteine underlies this observation, we compared channel susceptibility to a range of animal toxins in the absence and presence of 2-Br-palmitate, a palmitate analog that prevents palmitate incorporation into proteins, and found that palmitoylation contributes to the increased affinity of PaurTx3 and ProTx-II for G1079C. Further investigations with 2-Br-palmitate revealed that palmitoylation can regulate the gating and pharmacology of wild-type (wt) rNav1.2a. To identify rNav1.2a palmitoylation sites contributing to these phenomena, we substituted three endogenous cysteines predicted to be palmitoylated and found that the gating behavior of this triple cysteine mutant is similar to wt rNav1.2a treated with 2-Br-palmitate. As with chemically depalmitoylated rNav1.2a channels, this mutant also exhibits an increased susceptibility for PaurTx3. Additional mutagenesis experiments showed that palmitoylation of one cysteine in particular (C1182) primarily influences PaurTx3 sensitivity and may enhance the inactivation process of wt rNav1.2a. Overall, our results demonstrate that lipid modifications are capable of altering the gating and pharmacological properties of rNav1.2a.
Epigenetic regulation of histones mediates neurotrophin actions with histone acetylation enhancing cAMP response element-binding (CREB)-associated transcription elicited by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve-growth factor (NGF). Roles for histone methylation in CREB's transcriptional activity have not been well characterized. We show that depletion of the histone methyltransferase suppressor of variegation 3-9 homolog 1 (SUV39H1) selectively augments BDNF- and NGF-mediated neurite outgrowth. SUV39H1 is the principal enzyme responsible for trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9, a molecular mark associated with transcriptional silencing. BDNF and NGF act via a signaling cascade wherein degradation of SUV39H1 down-regulates trimethylation of H3K9 in a nitric oxide-dependent pathway. BDNF activates neuronal NOS with the nitrosylated GAPDH/seven in absentia (Siah) homolog complex translocating to the nucleus. Degradation of SUV39H1 by Siah facilitates histone H3 on lysine 9 acetylation, CREB binding to DNA, enhanced expression of CREB-regulated genes and neurite outgrowth.
Stem cell-based regenerative therapy is considered a promising cellular therapeutic approach for the patients with incurable brain diseases. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represent an attractive cell source for regenerative medicine strategies for the treatment of the diseased brain. Previous studies have shown that these cells improve behavioral deficits in animal models of neurological disorders such as Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. In the current study, we examined the capability of intracerebral human MSCs transplantation (medial pre-frontal cortex) to prevent the social impairment displayed by mice after withdrawal from daily phencyclidine (PCP) administration (10 mg kg(-1) daily for 14 days). Our results show that MSCs transplantation significantly prevented the PCP-induced social deficit, as assessed by the social preference test. In contrast, the PCP-induced social impairment was not modified by daily clozapine treatment. Tissue analysis revealed that the human MSCs survived in the mouse brain throughout the course of the experiment (23 days). Significantly increased cortical brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels were observed in the MSCs-treated group as compared with sham-operated controls. Furthermore, western blot analysis revealed that the ratio of phosphorylated Akt to Akt was significantly elevated in the MSCs-treated mice compared with the sham controls. Our results demonstrate that intracerebral transplantation of MSCs is beneficial in attenuating the social deficits induced by sub-chronic PCP administration. We suggest a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of schizophrenia-like negative symptoms in animal models of the disorder.
Neostriatal cholinergic interneurons are believed to be important for reinforcement-mediated learning and response selection by signaling the occurrence and motivational value of behaviorally relevant stimuli through precisely timed multiphasic population responses. An important problem is to understand how these signals regulate the functioning of the neostriatum. Here we describe the synaptic organization of a previously unknown circuit that involves direct nicotinic excitation of several classes of GABAergic interneurons, including neuroptide Y-expressing neurogilaform neurons, and enables cholinergic interneurons to exert rapid inhibitory control of the activity of projection neurons. We also found that, in vivo, the dominant effect of an optogenetically reproduced pause-excitation population response of cholinergic interneurons was powerful and rapid inhibition of the firing of projection neurons that is coincident with synchronous cholinergic activation. These results reveal a previously unknown circuit mechanism that transmits reinforcement-related information of ChAT interneurons in the mouse neostriatal network.
Epilepsy is a common and refractory neurological disorder, but the neuronal regulatory mechanisms of epileptogenesis remain largely unclear. Activity-dependent transcription of genes for neurotrophins such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to promote epileptogenesis; however, little is known about factors that may act as intrinsic, homeostatic or counterbalancing mechanisms. Using rodent models, here we show that limbic seizure activity upregulated NRG1-ErbB4 signaling and that epileptogenesis was inhibited by infusing NRG1 intracerebrally but exacerbated by neutralizing endogenous NRG1 with soluble ErbB4 extracellular domain, by inhibiting ErbB4 activation or by deleting the Erbb4 gene. Furthermore, specific depletion of ErbB4 in parvalbumin-expressing interneurons abolished NRG1-mediated inhibition of epileptogenesis and promoted kindling progression, resulting in increased spontaneous seizures and exuberant mossy fiber sprouting. In contrast, depleting ErbB4 in CaMKII-positive pyramidal neurons had no effect. Thus, NRG1-induced activation of ErbB4 in parvalbumin-expressing inhibitory interneurons may serve as a critical endogenous negative-feedback mechanism to suppress limbic epileptogenesis.



The double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR) was originally identified as a sensor of virus infection, but its function in the brain remains unknown. Here, we report that the lack of PKR enhances learning and memory in several behavioral tasks while increasing network excitability. In addition, loss of PKR increases the late phase of long-lasting synaptic potentiation (L-LTP) in hippocampal slices. These effects are caused by an interferon- (IFN-)-mediated selective reduction in GABAergic synaptic action. Together, our results reveal that PKR finely tunes the network activity that must be maintained while storing a given episode during learning. Because PKR activity is altered in several neurological disorders, this kinase presents a promising new target for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction. As a first step in this direction, we show that a selective PKR inhibitor replicates the Pkr(-/-) phenotype in WT mice, enhancing long-term memory storage and L-LTP.
The cytoplasmic polyadenylation element-binding protein 3 (CPEB3), a regulator of local protein synthesis, is the mouse homolog of ApCPEB, a functional prion protein in Aplysia. Here, we provide evidence that CPEB3 is activated by Neuralized1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase. In hippocampal cultures, CPEB3 activated by Neuralized1-mediated ubiquitination leads both to the growth of new dendritic spines and to an increase of the GluA1 and GluA2 subunits of AMPA receptors, two CPEB3 targets essential for synaptic plasticity. Conditional overexpression of Neuralized1 similarly increases GluA1 and GluA2 and the number of spines and functional synapses in the hippocampus and is reflected in enhanced hippocampal-dependent memory and synaptic plasticity. By contrast, inhibition of Neuralized1 reduces GluA1 and GluA2 levels and impairs hippocampal-dependent memory and synaptic plasticity. These results suggest a model whereby Neuralized1-dependent ubiquitination facilitates hippocampal plasticity and hippocampal-dependent memory storage by modulating the activity of CPEB3 and CPEB3-dependent protein synthesis and synapse formation.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), which belong to the epithelial sodium channel/degenerin family, are activated by extracellular protons and are inhibited by amiloride (AMI), an important pharmacological tool for studying all known members of epithelial sodium channel/degenerin. In this study, we reported that AMI paradoxically opened homomeric ASIC3 and heteromeric ASIC3 plus ASIC1b channels at neutral pH and synergistically enhanced channel activation induced by mild acidosis (pH 7.2 to 6.8). The characteristic profile of AMI stimulation of ASIC3 channels was reminiscent of the channel activation by the newly identified nonproton ligand, 2-guanidine-4-methylquinazoline. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we showed that ASIC3 activation by AMI, but not its inhibitory effect, was dependent on the integrity of the nonproton ligand sensing domain in ASIC3 channels. Moreover, the structure-activity relationship study demonstrated the differential requirement of the 5-amino group in AMI for the stimulation or inhibition effect, strengthening the different interactions within ASIC3 channels that confer the paradoxical actions of AMI. Furthermore, using covalent modification analyses, we provided strong evidence supporting the nonproton ligand sensing domain is required for the stimulation of ASIC3 channels by AMI. Finally, we showed that AMI causes pain-related behaviors in an ASIC3-dependent manner. These data reinforce the idea that ASICs can sense nonproton ligands in addition to protons. The results also indicate caution in the use of AMI for studying ASIC physiology and in the development of AMI-derived ASIC inhibitors for treating pain syndromes.
Preferential binding of proteins on curved membranes (membrane curvature sensing) is increasingly emerging as a general mechanism whereby cells may effect protein localization and trafficking. Here we use a novel single liposome fluorescence microscopy assay to examine a common sensing motif, the amphipathic helix (AH), and provide quantitative measures describing and distinguishing membrane binding and sensing behavior. By studying two AH-containing proteins, -synuclein and annexin B12, as well as a range of AH peptide mutants, we reveal that both the hydrophobic and hydrophilic faces of the helix greatly influence binding and sensing. Although increased hydrophobic and electrostatic interactions with the membrane both lead to greater densities of bound protein, the former yields membrane curvature-sensitive binding, whereas the latter is not curvature-dependent. However, the relative contributions of both components determine the sensing of AHs. In contrast, charge density in the lipid membrane seems important primarily in attracting AHs to the membrane but does not significantly influence sensing. These observations were made possible by the ability of our assay to distinguish within our samples liposomes with and without bound protein as well as the density of bound protein. Our findings suggest that the description of membrane curvature-sensing requires consideration of several factors such as short and long range electrostatic interactions, hydrogen bonding, and the volume and structure of inserted hydrophobic residues.
Nanoparticles (NPs) are very promising for the intracellular delivery of anticancer and immunomodulatory drugs, stem cell differentiation biomolecules and cell activity modulators. Although initial studies in the area of intracellular drug delivery have been performed in the delivery of DNA, there is an increasing interest in the use of other molecules to modulate cell activity. Herein, we review the latest advances in the intracellular-targeted delivery of short interference RNA, proteins and small molecules using NPs. In most cases, the drugs act at different cellular organelles and therefore the drug-containing NPs should be directed to precise locations within the cell. This will lead to the desired magnitude and duration of the drug effects. The spatial control in the intracellular delivery might open new avenues to modulate cell activity while avoiding side-effects.
It is controversial whether the adult primate early visual cortex is sufficiently plastic to cause visual perceptual learning (VPL). The controversy occurs partially because most VPL studies have examined correlations between behavioral and neural activity changes rather than cause-and-effect relationships. With an online-feedback method that uses decoded functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals, we induced activity patterns only in early visual cortex corresponding to an orientation without stimulus presentation or participants' awareness of what was to be learned. The induced activation caused VPL specific to the orientation. These results suggest that early visual areas are so plastic that mere inductions of activity patterns are sufficient to cause VPL. This technique can induce plasticity in a highly selective manner, potentially leading to powerful training and rehabilitative protocols.


Local field potentials (LFPs) are of growing importance in neurophysiological investigations. LFPs supplement action potential recordings by indexing activity relevant to EEG, magnetoencephalographic, and hemodynamic (fMRI) signals. Recent reports suggest that LFPs reflect activity within very small domains of several hundred micrometers. We examined this conclusion by comparing LFP, current source density (CSD), and multiunit activity (MUA) signals in macaque auditory cortex. Estimated by frequency tuning bandwidths, these signals' &quot;listening areas&quot; differ systematically with an order of MUA&lt; CSD&lt; LFP. Computational analyses confirm that observed LFPs receive local contributions. Direct measurements indicate passive spread of LFPs to sites more than a centimeter from their origins. These findings appear to be independent of the frequency content of the LFP. Our results challenge the idea that LFP recordings typically integrate over extremely circumscribed local domains. Rather, LFPs appear as a mixture of local potentials with &quot;volume conducted&quot; potentials from distant sites.
Sensory experience drives robust plasticity of sensory maps in cerebral cortex, but the role of inhibitory circuits in this process is not fully understood. We show that classical deprivation-induced whisker map plasticity in layer 2/3 (L2/3) of rat somatosensory (S1) cortex involves robust weakening of L4-L2/3 feedforward inhibition. This weakening was caused by reduced L4 excitation onto L2/3 fast-spiking (FS) interneurons, which mediate sensitive feedforward inhibition and was partially offset by strengthening of unitary FS to L2/3 pyramidal cell synapses. Weakening of feedforward inhibition paralleled the known weakening of feedforward excitation. As a result, mean excitation-inhibition balance and timing onto L2/3 pyramidal cells were preserved. Thus, reduced feedforward inhibition is a covert compensatory process that can maintain excitatory-inhibitory balance during classical deprivation-induced Hebbian map plasticity.
The subunit composition of N-methyl D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) is tightly regulated during cortical development. NMDARs are initially dominated by GluN2B (NR2B), whereas GluN2A (NR2A) incorporation increases after birth. The function of GluN2B-containing NMDARs during development, however, is incompletely understood. We generated a mouse in which we genetically replaced GluN2B with GluN2A (2B2A). Although this manipulation restored NMDAR-mediated currents at glutamatergic synapses, it did not rescue GluN2B loss of function. Protein translation-dependent homeostatic synaptic plasticity is occluded in the absence of GluN2B, and AMPA receptor contribution is enriched at excitatory cortical synapses. Our experiments indicate that specificity of GluN2B-mediated signaling is due to its unique interaction with the protein effector alpha calcium-calmodulin kinase II and the regulation of the mTOR pathway. Homozygous 2B2A mice exhibited high rates of lethality, suppressed feeding, and depressed social exploratory behavior. These experiments indicate that GluN2B-containing NMDARs activate unique cellular processes that cannot be rescued by replacement with GluN2A.
The olfactory epithelium is a sensory neuroepithelium that supports adult neurogenesis and tissue regeneration following injury, making it an excellent model for investigating neural stem cell regulation invivo. Previous studies have identified the horizontal basal cell (HBC) as the neural stem cell of the postnatal olfactory epithelium. However, the molecules and pathways regulating HBC self-renewal and differentiation are unknown. In the present study, we demonstrate that the transcription factor p63, a member of the p53 tumor suppressor gene family known to regulate stem cell dynamics in other epithelia, is highly enriched in HBCs. We show that p63 is required cell autonomously for olfactory stem cell renewal and further demonstrate that p63functions to repress HBC differentiation. These results provide critical insight into the genetic regulation of the olfactory stem cell invivo and more generally provide an entre toward understanding the coordination of stem cell self-renewal and differentiation.
Neuroscience-inspired approaches to train cognitive abilities are bringing about a paradigm shift in the way scientists view the treatment of memory dysfunction, but it can be challenging to prove whether such approaches have significant effects.
In this issue of Neuron, Pestilli and coworkers provide evidence that response gain and noise reduction are insufficient to account for attention-induced changes in perception. Instead, selection may critically depend on the biased pooling of sensory signals during decision making.
Protein acetylation is mostly known for its role in chromatin remodeling. In this issue, Mikiewicz and colleagues reveal a novel function of acetylation at the nerve terminal, where it regulates T bars and the number of associated synaptic vesicles to ultimately control the efficacy of synaptic transmission.
Standard biologically inspired spatio-temporal energy models of how humans perceive moving two-dimensional patterns often have two critical stages. In the first stage, suitable filters are convolved with the pattern over time to extract information at the &quot;component&quot; level. Motion energy is then computed for each component. The second stage typically computes pattern velocity using the intersection of constraints rule (IOC). This paper describes a new implementation of the Component Level Feature Model (Bowns, 2002) that computes motion direction that is similar to these two stages except that it does not compute motion energy. Here the model computes direction for 200 randomly generated plaids. The output linearly matched that predicted by the IOC. The model was also able to predict the perceived direction even when it deviated from the IOC due to the following variables - speed ratio (Bowns, 1996); duration (Yo &amp; Wilson, 1992); adaptation (Bowns &amp; Alais, 2006). The model provides a novel explanation for each of the above and for why multiple directions can be represented for the same stimuli (Bowns &amp; Alais, 2006); and why some second-order information attributed to non-linearities (Derrington, Badcock, &amp; Holroyd, 1992) reverses perceived motion direction. Finally, CLFM is invariant to contrast and phase.
The polymorphism of eukaryotic cellular membranes is a tightly regulated and well-conserved phenotype. Recent data have revealed important regulatory roles of membrane curvature on the spatio-temporal localization of proteins and inmembrane fusion. Here we quantified the influence of membrane curvature on the efficiency of intermembrane docking reactions. Using fluorescence microscopy, we monitored the docking of single vesicle-vesicle pairs of different diameter (30-200nm) and therefore curvature, as mediated by neuronal soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) and streptavidin-biotin. Surprisingly, the intermembrane docking efficiency exhibited an 30-60 fold enhancement as a function of curvature. In comparison, synaptotagmin and calcium accelerate SNARE-mediated fusion invitro by a factor of 2-10. To explain this finding, we formulated a biophysical model. On the basis of our findings, we propose that membrane curvature can regulate intermembrane tethering reactions and consequently any downstream process, including the fusion of vesicles and possibly viruses with their target membranes.



The role of body orientation in the orienting and allocation of social attention was examined using an adapted Simon paradigm. Participants categorized the facial expression of forward facing, computer-generated human figures by pressing one of two response keys, each located left or right of the observers' body midline, while the orientation of the stimulus figure's body (trunk, arms, and legs), which was the task-irrelevant feature of interest, was manipulated (oriented toward the left or right visual hemifield) with respect to the spatial location of the required response. We found that when the orientation of the body was compatible with the required response location, responses were slower relative to when body orientation was incompatible with the response location. In line with a model put forward by Hietanen (1999), this reverse compatibility effect suggests that body orientation is automatically processed into a directional spatial code, but that this code is based on an integration of head and body orientation within an allocentric-based frame of reference. Moreover, we argue that this code may be derived from the motion information implied in the image of a figure when head and body orientation are incongruent. Our results have implications for understanding the nature of the information that affects the allocation of attention for social orienting.
Euthermia is critical for mammalian homeostasis. Circuits within the preoptic hypothalamus regulate temperature, with fine control exerted via descending GABAergic inhibition of presympathetic motor neurons that control brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis and cutaneous vascular tone. The thermoregulatory role of hypothalamic excitatory neurons is less clear. Here we report peptidergic regulation of preoptic glutamatergic neurons that contributes to temperature regulation. Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) is a ligand for the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R). Both peptide and receptor are abundant in the preoptic hypothalamus. Based on PTH2R and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGlut2) immunolabeling in animals with retrograde tracer injection, PTH2R-containing glutamatergic fibers are presynaptic to neurons projecting from the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) to the dorsomedial hypothalamus. Transneuronal retrograde pathway tracing with pseudorabies virus revealed connectivity between MnPO VGlut2 and PTH2R neurons and BAT. MnPO injection of TIP39 increased body temperature by 2C for several hours. Mice lacking TIP39 signaling, either because of PTH2R-null mutation or brain delivery of a PTH2R antagonist had impaired heat production upon cold exposure, but no change in basal temperature and no impairment in response to a hot environment. Thus, TIP39 appears to act on PTH2Rs present on MnPO glutamatergic terminals to regulate their activation of projection neurons and subsequent sympathetic BAT activation. This excitatory mechanism of heat production appears to be activated on demand, during cold exposure, and parallels the tonic inhibitory GABAergic control of body temperature.
How the brain encodes the semantic concepts represented by words is a fundamental question in cognitive neuroscience. Hemodynamic neuroimaging studies have robustly shown that different areas of posteroventral temporal lobe are selectively activated by images of animals versus manmade objects. Selective responses in these areas to words representing animals versus objects are sometimes also seen, but they are task-dependent, suggesting that posteroventral temporal cortex may encode visual categories, while more anterior areas encode semantic categories. Here, using the spatiotemporal resolution provided by intracranial macroelectrode and microelectrode arrays, we report category-selective responses to words representing animals and objects in human anteroventral temporal areas including inferotemporal, perirhinal, and entorhinal cortices. This selectivity generalizes across tasks and sensory modalities, suggesting that it represents abstract lexicosemantic categories. Significant category-specific responses are found in measures sensitive to synaptic activity (local field potentials, high gamma power, current sources and sinks) and unit-firing (multiunit and single-unit activity). Category-selective responses can occur at short latency (as early as 130 ms) in middle cortical layers and thus are extracted in the first pass of activity through the anteroventral temporal lobe. This activation may provide input to posterior areas for iconic representations when required by the task, as well as to the hippocampal formation for categorical encoding and retrieval of memories, and to the amygdala for emotional associations. More generally, these results support models in which the anteroventral temporal lobe plays a primary role in the semantic representation of words.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium, the organ of Corti, is a highly ordered cellular structure that comprises two types of auditory hair cells and several types of nonsensory supporting cells. During embryogenesis, a stereotyped sequence of cellular and molecular events is required for its development. These processes are assumed to be regulated by multiple growth and transcription factors. However, the majority of these factors have not been identified. One potential regulator of cochlear development is the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling family. To examine the roles of the IGF pathway in inner ear formation, cochleae from Igf1r mutant mice were analyzed. Deletion of Igf1r leads to several changes in inner ear development including a shortened cochlear duct, a decrease in the total number of cochlear hair cells, and defects in the formation of the semicircular canals. In addition, maturation of the cochlear sensory epithelium was delayed at the transition point between cellular proliferation and differentiation. To determine the molecular basis for these defects, inhibition of IGF signaling was replicated pharmacologically in vitro. Results indicated that IGF signaling regulates cochlear length and hair cell number as well as Atoh1 expression through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway. These results demonstrate novel roles for IGF signaling in inner ear development including regulation of vestibular formation, length of the cochlear duct, and the number of cochlear hair cells. The results also provide new insights regarding the pathological processes that underlie auditory defects in the absence of IGF signaling in both humans and mice.
Behavioral and brain responses to identical stimuli can vary with experimental and task parameters, including the context of stimulus presentation or attention. More surprisingly, computational models suggest that noise-related random fluctuations in brain responses to stimuli would alone be sufficient to engender perceptual differences between physically identical stimuli. In two experiments combining psychophysics and EEG in healthy humans, we investigated brain mechanisms whereby identical stimuli are (erroneously) perceived as different (higher vs lower in pitch or longer vs shorter in duration) in the absence of any change in the experimental context. Even though, as expected, participants' percepts to identical stimuli varied randomly, a classification algorithm based on a mixture of Gaussians model (GMM) showed that there was sufficient information in single-trial EEG to reliably predict participants' judgments of the stimulus dimension. By contrasting electrical neuroimaging analyses of auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) to the identical stimuli as a function of participants' percepts, we identified the precise timing and neural correlates (strength vs topographic modulations) as well as intracranial sources of these erroneous perceptions. In both experiments, AEP differences first occurred ~100 ms after stimulus onset and were the result of topographic modulations following from changes in the configuration of active brain networks. Source estimations localized the origin of variations in perceived pitch of identical stimuli within right temporal and left frontal areas and of variations in perceived duration within right temporoparietal areas. We discuss our results in terms of providing neurophysiologic evidence for the contribution of random fluctuations in brain activity to conscious perception.
Intravenous cocaine intake in laboratory animals is characterized by periods of apparent drug satiety between regularly spaced earned injections. The reinforcing properties of cocaine are linked primarily to dopaminergic neurotransmission in the shell and not the core of nucleus accumbens. To determine whether the satiating effects of cocaine are similarly mediated, we perfused dopamine receptor agonists into the core or the shell during intravenous cocaine self-administrations by rats. Neither D1-type (SKF38393) nor D2-type (quinpirole) agonist was effective when given alone. However, a combination of the two agonists perfused into the core but not the shell significantly increased the time between cocaine self-injections, decreasing the amount of earned intake. Together with previous findings, the current data suggest that the satiating and reinforcing effects of cocaine are mediated by different ventral striatal output neurons.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms that govern the response of the perinatal brain to injury remain largely unexplored. We investigated the role of white matter astrocytes in a rodent model of diffuse white matter injury produced by exposing neonatal mice to chronic hypoxia-a paradigm that mimics brain injury in premature infants. We demonstrate the absence of reactive gliosis in the immature white matter following chronic hypoxia, as determined by astrocyte proliferation index and glial fibrillary acidic protein levels. Instead, Nestin expression in astrocytes is transiently increased, and the glial-specific glutamate transporters glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1) are reduced. Finally, we demonstrate that Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling-which is important in both astrocyte development and response to injury-is reduced in the white matter following hypoxia, as well as in primary astrocytes exposed to hypoxia in vitro. Hypoxia and JAK/STAT inhibition reduce glutamate transporter expression in astrocytes, but unlike hypoxia JAK/STAT inhibition downregulates GLAST expression without affecting GLT-1, as demonstrated in vitro by treatment with JAK inhibitor I and in vivo by treatment with the JAK/STAT inhibitor AG490 [(E)-2-cyano-3-(3,4-dihydrophenyl)-N-(phenylmethyl)-2-propenamide]. Our findings (1) demonstrate specific changes in astrocyte function after perinatal hypoxia, which might contribute to the particular pathogenesis of perinatal white matter injury, (2) provide evidence that at least part of these changes result from a disturbance of the JAK/STAT pathway by hypoxia, and (3) identify JAK/STAT signaling as a potential therapeutic target to restore normal GLAST expression and uptake of glutamate after perinatal brain injury.
A critical component of drug addiction research involves identifying novel biological mechanisms and environmental predictors of risk or resilience to drug addiction and associated relapse. Increasing evidence suggests microglia and astrocytes can profoundly affect the physiological and addictive properties of drugs of abuse, including morphine. We report that glia within the rat nucleus accumbens (NAcc) respond to morphine with an increase in cytokine/chemokine expression, which predicts future reinstatement of morphine conditioned place preference (CPP) following a priming dose of morphine. This glial response to morphine is influenced by early-life experience. A neonatal handling paradigm that increases the quantity and quality of maternal care significantly increases baseline expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 within the NAcc, attenuates morphine-induced glial activation, and prevents the subsequent reinstatement of morphine CPP in adulthood. IL-10 expression within the NAcc and reinstatement of CPP are negatively correlated, suggesting a protective role for this specific cytokine against morphine-induced glial reactivity and drug-induced reinstatement of morphine CPP. Neonatal handling programs the expression of IL-10 within the NAcc early in development, and this is maintained into adulthood via decreased methylation of the IL-10 gene specifically within microglia. The effect of neonatal handling is mimicked by pharmacological modulation of glia in adulthood with ibudilast, which increases IL-10 expression, inhibits morphine-induced glial activation within the NAcc, and prevents reinstatement of morphine CPP. Taken together, we have identified a novel gene  early-life environment interaction on morphine-induced glial activation and a specific role for glial activation in drug-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior.
Aging-related cognitive declines are well documented in humans and animal models. Yet the synaptic and molecular mechanisms responsible for cognitive aging are not well understood. Here we demonstrated age-dependent deficits in long-term synaptic plasticity and loss of dendritic spines in the hippocampus of aged Fisher 344 rats, which were closely associated with reduced histone acetylation, upregulation of histone deacetylase (HDAC) 2, and decreased expression of a histone acetyltransferase. Further analysis showed that one of the key genes affected by such changes was the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) gene. Age-dependent reductions in H3 and H4 acetylation were detected within multiple promoter regions of the Bdnf gene, leading to a significant decrease in BDNF expression and impairment of downstream signaling in the aged hippocampus. These synaptic and signaling deficits could be rescued by enhancing BDNF and trkB expression via HDAC inhibition or by directly activating trkB receptors with 7,8-dihydroxyflavone, a newly identified, selective agonist for trkB. Together, our findings suggest that age-dependent declines in chromatin histone acetylation and the resulting changes in BDNF expression and signaling are key mechanisms underlying the deterioration of synaptic function and structure in the aging brain. Furthermore, epigenetic or pharmacological enhancement of BDNF-trkB signaling could be a promising strategy for reversing cognitive aging.
Blockade of synaptic activity induces homeostatic plasticity, in part by stimulating synthesis of all-trans retinoic acid (RA), which in turn increases AMPA receptor synthesis. However, the synaptic signal that triggers RA synthesis remained unknown. Using multiple activity-blockade protocols that induce homeostatic synaptic plasticity, here we show that RA synthesis is activated whenever postsynaptic Ca(2+) entry is significantly decreased and that RA is required for upregulation of synaptic strength under these homeostatic plasticity conditions, suggesting that Ca(2+) plays an inhibitory role in RA synthesis. Consistent with this notion, we demonstrate that both transient Ca(2+) depletion by membrane-permeable Ca(2+) chelators and chronic blockage of L-type Ca(2+)-channels induces RA synthesis. Moreover, the source of dendritic Ca(2+) entry that regulates RA synthesis is not specific because mild depolarization with KCl is sufficient to reverse synaptic scaling induced by L-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker. By expression of a dihydropyridine-insensitive L-type Ca(2+) channel, we further show that RA acts cell autonomously to modulate synaptic transmission. Our findings suggest that, in synaptically active neurons, modest &quot;basal&quot; levels of postsynaptic Ca(2+) physiologically suppress RA synthesis, whereas in synaptically inactive neurons, decreases in the resting Ca(2+) levels induce homeostatic plasticity by stimulating synthesis of RA that then acts in a cell-autonomous manner to increase AMPA receptor function.


Drug-evoked synaptic plasticity is observed at many synapses and may underlie behavioural adaptations in addiction. Mechanistic investigations start with the identification of the molecular drug targets. Cocaine, for example, exerts its reinforcing and early neuroadaptive effects by inhibiting the dopamine transporter, thus causing a strong increase in mesolimbic dopamine. Among the many signalling pathways subsequently engaged, phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in the nucleus accumbens is of particular interest because it has been implicated in NMDA-receptor and type 1 dopamine (D1)-receptor-dependent synaptic potentiation as well as in several behavioural adaptations. A causal link between drug-evoked plasticity at identified synapses and behavioural adaptations, however, is missing, and the benefits of restoring baseline transmission have yet to be demonstrated. Here we find that cocaine potentiates excitatory transmission in D1-receptor-expressing medium-sized spiny neurons (D1R-MSNs) in mice via ERK signalling with a time course that parallels locomotor sensitization. Depotentiation of cortical nucleus accumbens inputs by optogenetic stimulation in vivo efficiently restored normal transmission and abolished cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization. These findings establish synaptic potentiation selectively in D1R-MSNs as a mechanism underlying a core component of addiction, probably by creating an imbalance between distinct populations of MSNs in the nucleus accumbens. Our data also provide proof of principle that reversal of cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity can treat behavioural alterations caused by addictive drugs and may inspire novel therapeutic approaches involving deep brain stimulation or transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Administration of noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist phencyclidine to rats on postnatal days 7, 9, and 11 induces apoptosis in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In adulthood, these animals display cognitive impairment of working memory, reversal learning and attention that are similar to clinical observations in schizophrenia. In this study, expression of different NMDAR subunits, the postsynaptic mGlu5 receptor and the connecting NMDAR-mGluR5 intracellular postsynaptic density proteins have been measured in adult rats after treatment with phencyclidine on postnatal days 7, 9, and 11. We found that these animals exhibited elevated expression in medial prefrontal cortex of the NR2A and NR2B NMDA receptor subunits in adulthood. These results indicate how behavioral changes in a developmental model for cognitive dysfunction involve changes to specific molecular subsets of the cortical glutamate system.
This study used the location negative priming (NP) paradigm and the recording of event-related potentials to examine the mechanism of the impact of emotional stimulus on subsequent spatial attentional processing. The results shown to be relative to the happy and neutral condition, a significant behavioural NP effect, as well as decreased N2, increased N2pc, and P3 amplitudes for NP condition, were found selectively in the fearful prime distractor condition. These findings suggest that the effect of fearful stimulus on location NP may be related to early-inhibition processing. Larger P3 amplitudes may reflect the use of increased cognitive resources when one is necessary for overcoming the tendency to avoid viewing the position where a fearful stimulus has recently been seen.
Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) A and B are used to treat neuropathic disorders; if retargeted, these agents could be used to treat medical conditions that involve secretion from nonneuronal cells. Here, we report novel strategies for successfully retargeting BoNTs, and also tetanus neurotoxin (TeNT), to primary human blood monocyte-derived macrophages where BoNT/B inhibited the release of tumor necrosis factor-, a cytokine that plays a key role in inflammation. Furthermore, mice treated with retargeted BoNT/B exhibited a significant reduction in macrophage (M) recruitment, indicating that these toxins can be used to treat chronic inflammation.
It has been suggested that the matrix-like firing structure of entorhinal grid cells is caused by interference between membrane oscillations at slightly different theta frequencies. A recent report suggests that grid signals can be generated in the absence of theta oscillations.
The nervous system continuously predicts the sensory consequences of self-generated actions. These predictions can be used to cancel self-generated sensory information. It has been hypothesized that this cancellation process may serve to increase the perceptual sensitivity to unpredicted external events. Here, we provide the first empirical evidence for this idea. Participants were required to detect coherent motion in a random dot motion display. The task was made more difficult by a set of superimposed distractor dots that had to be ignored. When these distractors moved congruently with an active arm movement, perceptual performance in detecting the coherent motion was superior compared to a condition in which the distractor motion did not match the arm movement. To test whether this difference was due to sensory cancellation of matching distractors, or to the attentional enhancement of non-matching distractors, we introduced a control condition without any overt movement. Our results indicate that improvements in the detection of visual motion are indeed caused by sensory cancellation of self-generated events. In conjunction with other recent results, our data therefore suggest that the nervous system is able to attenuate or facilitate self-generated visual stimuli in a task-dependent manner.



This paper reviews the fate of the central ideas behind the complementary learning systems (CLS) framework as originally articulated in McClelland, McNaughton, and O'Reilly (1995). This framework explains why the brain requires two differentially specialized learning and memory systems, and it nicely specifies their central properties (i.e., the hippocampus as a sparse, pattern-separated system for rapidly learning episodic memories, and the neocortex as a distributed, overlapping system for gradually integrating across episodes to extract latent semantic structure). We review the application of the CLS framework to a range of important topics, including the following: the basic neural processes of hippocampal memory encoding and recall, conjunctive encoding, human recognition memory, consolidation of initial hippocampal learning in cortex, dynamic modulation of encoding versus recall, and the synergistic interactions between hippocampus and neocortex. Overall, the CLS framework remains a vital theoretical force in the field, with the empirical data over the past 15years generally confirming its key principles.


During axon pathfinding, growth cones commonly show changes in sensitivity to guidance cues that follow a cell-intrinsic timetable. The cellular timer mechanisms that regulate such changes are, however, poorly understood. Here we have investigated microRNAs (miRNAs) in the timing control of sensitivity to the semaphorin Sema3A in Xenopus laevis retinal ganglion cell (RGC) growth cones. A developmental profiling screen identified miR-124 as a candidate timer. Loss of miR-124 delayed the onset of Sema3A sensitivity and concomitant neuropilin-1 (NRP1) receptor expression and caused cell-autonomous pathfinding errors. CoREST, a cofactor of a NRP1 repressor, was newly identified as a target and mediator of miR-124 for this highly specific temporal aspect of RGC growth cone responsiveness. Our findings indicate that miR-124 is important in regulating the intrinsic temporal changes in RGC growth cone sensitivity and suggest that miRNAs may act broadly as linear timers in vertebrate neuronal development.
Applying emetine, a protein synthesis inhibitor, at 20-40M for 90-120 min prior to LTP induction in hippocampal slices from young rats (2-3 weeks) and washing it out afterwards revealed a slowly developing potentiation that reached maximum after 20-30 min, distinct from the LTP observed under normal conditions. Nevertheless, the later phase of this potentiation was similar to standard LTP as judged by experiments lasting up to 8h after induction. Emetine preapplication for 3h without subsequent washout resulted in a substantial decay of evoked responses. By comparison between test and control pathways, LTP could still be assessed in these experiments for up to 4-6h after induction and was found not to differ from normal, except for the slow onset. The NMDA-R blocker AP5 fully blocked LTP; however, with emetine pretreatment there was an initial depression of responses with a gradual recovery during 20-30 min. This depression involved not only the field EPSP but also the presynaptic fiber volley. However, when using the protein synthesis inhibitors cycloheximide and anisomycin there was essentially no such depression. In conclusion, the present results support the idea that preexisting proteins are sufficient for inducing stable LTP. Moreover, emetine but not anisomycin or cycloheximide impairs presynaptic action potentials, leading to an apparent slow onset of LTP. The emetine-dependent effect could be due to a characteristic blocking spectrum of the drug, preferred targeting of presynaptic compartments or effects unrelated to protein synthesis.
Previous work showed that sleep deprivation (SD) impairs hippocampal-dependent cognitive function and synaptic plasticity, and a novel wake-promoting agent modafinil prevents SD-induced memory impairment in rat. However, the mechanisms by which modafinil prevented REM-SD-induced impairment of brain function remain poorly understood. In the present study, rats were sleep-deprived by using the modified multiple platform method and brain function was detected. The results showed that modafinil treatment prevented REM-SD-induced impairment of cognitive function. Modafinil significantly reduced the number of errors compared to placebo and upregulated synapsin I expression in the dorsal hippocampal CA3 region. A synaptic plasticity-related gene, MMP-9 expression was also upregulated in modafinil-treated rats. Importantly, downregulation of MMP-9 expression by special siRNA decreased synapsin I protein levels and synapse numbers. Therefore, we demonstrated that modafinil increased cognition function and synaptic plasticity, at least in part by increasing MMP-9 expression in REM-SD rats.
We have studied the pathways for Ca(2+) transport in mitochondria of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. We demonstrate the presence of ruthenium red (RR)-sensitive Ca(2+) uptake, of RR-insensitive Ca(2+) release, and of Na(+)-stimulated Ca(2+) release in energized mitochondria, which match well characterized Ca(2+) transport pathways of mammalian mitochondria. Following larger matrix Ca(2+) loading Drosophila mitochondria underwent spontaneous RR-insensitive Ca(2+) release, an event that in mammals is due to opening of the permeability transition pore (PTP). Like the PTP of mammals, Drosophila Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release could be triggered by uncoupler, diamide, and N-ethylmaleimide, indicating the existence of regulatory voltage- and redox-sensitive sites and was inhibited by tetracaine. Unlike PTP-mediated Ca(2+) release in mammals, however, it was (i) insensitive to cyclosporin A, ubiquinone 0, and ADP; (ii) inhibited by P(i), as is the PTP of yeast mitochondria; and (iii) not accompanied by matrix swelling and cytochrome c release even in KCl-based medium. We conclude that Drosophila mitochondria possess a selective Ca(2+) release channel with features intermediate between the PTP of yeast and mammals.

Pain is a physiological and adaptive process which occurs to protect organisms from tissue damage and extended injury. Pain sensation beyond injury, however, is a pathological process which is poorly understood. Experimental models of neuropathic pain demonstrate that reactive astrocytes contribute to reduced nociceptive thresholds. Astrocytes release &quot;gliotransmitters&quot; such as D-serine, glutamate, and ATP, which is extracellularly hydrolyzed to adenosine. Adenosine 1 receptor activation in the spinal cord has anti-nociceptive effects on baseline pain threshold, but the source of the endogenous ligand (adenosine) in the spinal cord is unknown. In this study we used a transgenic mouse model in which SNARE-mediated gliotransmission was selectively attenuated (called dnSNARE mice) to investigate the role of astrocytes in mediating baseline nociception and the development of neuropathic pain. Under baseline conditions, immunostaining in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord showed astrocyte-specific transgene expression in dnSNARE mice, and no difference in expression levels of the astrocyte marker GFAP and the microglia marker Iba1 relative to wild-type mice. The Von Frey filament test was used to probe sensitivity to baseline mechanical pain thresholds and allodynia following the spared nerve injury model of neuropathic pain. DnSNARE mice exhibit a reduced nociceptive threshold in response to mechanical stimulation compared to wild-type mice under baseline conditions, but nociceptive thresholds following spared nerve injury were similar between dnSNARE and wild-types. This study is the first to provide evidence that gliotransmission contributes to basal mechanical nociception.
Radiotherapy (RT) remains an effective treatment in patients with acromegaly refractory to medical and/or surgical interventions, with durable tumor control and biochemical remission; however, there are still concerns about delayed biochemical effect and potential late toxicity of radiation treatment, especially high rates of hypopituitarism. Stereotactic radiotherapy has been developed as a more accurate technique of irradiation with more precise tumour localization and consequently a reduction in the volume of normal tissue, particularly the brain, irradiated to high radiation doses. Radiation can be delivered in a single fraction by stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) or as fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT) in which smaller doses are delivered over 5-6 weeks in 25-30 treatments. A review of the recent literature suggests that pituitary irradiation is an effective treatment for acromegaly. Stereotactic techniques for GH-secreting pituitary tumors are discussed with the aim to define the efficacy and potential adverse effects of each of these techniques.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative genetic disorder caused by an expansion of CAG repeats in the HD gene encoding for huntingtin (Htt), resulting in progressive death of striatal neurons, with clinical symptoms of chorea, dementia and dramatic weight loss. Metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction caused by the expanded polyglutamine sequence have been described along with other mechanisms of neurodegeneration previously described in human tissues and animal models of HD. In this review, we focus on mitochondrial and metabolic disturbances affecting both the central nervous system and peripheral cells, including mitochondrial DNA damage, mitochondrial complexes defects, loss of calcium homeostasis and transcriptional deregulation. Glucose abnormalities have also been described in peripheral tissues of HD patients and in HD animal and cellular models. Moreover, there are no effective neuroprotective treatments available in HD. Thus, we briefly discuss the role of creatine and coenzyme Q10 that target mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired bioenergetics and have been previously used in HD clinical trials.



Case histories of two unrelated patients suffering from sensory ataxic neuropathy, dysarthria/dysphagia and external ophthalmoplegia (SANDO) are reported. Both patients showed compound heterozygosity for POLG1 gene mutations, and presented with symptom of the clinical characteristics of SANDO. A patient with a p.A467T and p.W748S, well-known mutations showed a progressive course with early onset and multisystem involvement, including symptoms characteristics for mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE). The second patient showed a less well-known p.T251I and p.G848S mutations with late onset and dysphagia/dysarthria dominated, moderate symptoms. This later is the second published case history, when these POLG1 gene mutations are the possible background of late onset SANDO, dominantly presenting with bulbar symptoms.
We investigated the clinical and molecular pattern of two young men affected by dysferlinopathy, that was first diagnosed as polymyositis. We show that their symptoms and clinical course although progressive were peculiar, as well as their biopsy suggesting a subsequent analysis of dysferlin protein by western blotting. Molecular analysis of dysferlin gene revealed pathogenetic mutations in both cases. In such cases a screening with Western blot followed by DNA analysis of dysferlin gene is therefore recommended. We present a diagnostic algorythm for patients with suspected myositis but presenting signs of disease progression and poor response to steroids.

Low-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) has been reported to improve akinesia and gait difficulties in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We report on a patient with PD and L: -dopa refractory gait symptoms who developed detrusor over-activity immediately after right PPN DBS. Proximity between caudal PPN and brainstem structures implicated in control of micturition is a possible explanation.

In this short case-illustrated review we aimed to analyse the possible nuances of hemifacial spasm (HFS) as the presenting symptom of a tumour of the fourth ventricle. The issue is remarkable since HFS can be secondary to a fourth ventricle tumour, even when no other neurological signs are reported. In addition, the possible presentation with only upper facial muscle involvement, as in the presented case, can be deceitful because this is characteristic of the benign and much more frequent &quot;typical&quot; form. Based on our intra-operative data and on the previously reported cases, we think that pathogenesis could be referable to the facial nerve nucleus involvement and that clinical nuances could be related to the specific somatotropy of the nucleus under the fourth ventricle floor that, as in our case, can be infiltrated by tumour. Resolution of the disorder can usually be obtained after the complete resection of the tumour that in the reported case resulted a subependymoma (WHO grade I), so far never described in literature associated with HFS.

Superficial siderosis is a rare condition caused by deposition of hemosiderin in the central nervous system. In recent years, it has been used to identify dural defects connecting the intrathecal space with the intraspinal fluid-filled collection seen in patients with superficial siderosis. However rare reports describe the association of low-lying cord in superficial siderosis patients. We present a patient with progressive cerebellar ataxia, sensorineural hearing loss, low-pressure headache, pyramidal signs and additional cervical and lumbar radiculopathy with neurogenic bladder which might be related to cervical disc herniation and tethered cord. CSF and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies confirmed the diagnosis of superficial siderosis. Dural defect is indirectly suspected by existence of fluid-filled collection ventral to the spinal cord and low-pressure headache in our patient. Underlying causes of low-pressure headache and possible dural defect should be searched for as an associated and possibly treatable condition in superficial siderosis and provide further insights into the mechanism of bleeding in our patient who have an intraspinal fluid-filled collection.




Research into amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has been stimulated by a series of genetic and molecular pathology discoveries. The hallmark neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions of sporadic ALS (sALS) predominantly comprise a nuclear RNA processing protein, TDP-43 encoded by the gene TARDBP, a discovery that emerged from high throughput analysis of human brain tissue from patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) who share a common molecular pathology with ALS. The link between RNA processing and ALS was further strengthened by the discovery that another genetic locus linking familial ALS (fALS) and FTD was due to mutation of the fused in sarcoma (FUS) gene. Of potentially even greater importance it emerges that TDP-43 accumulation and inclusion formation characterises not only most sALS cases but also those that arise from mutations in several genes including TARDBP (predominantly ALS cases) itself, C9ORF72 (ALS and FTD cases), progranulin (predominantly FTD phenotypes), VAPB (predominantly ALS cases) and in some ALS cases with rare genetic variants of uncertain pathogenicity (CHMP2B). &quot;TDP-proteinopathy&quot; therefore now represents a final common pathology associated with changes in multiple genes and opens the possibility of research by triangulation towards key common upstream molecular events. It also delivers final proof of the hypothesis that ALS and most FTD cases are disorders within a common pathology expressed as a clinico-anatomical spectrum. The emergence of TDP-proteinopathy also confirms the view that glial pathology is a crucial facet in this class of neurodegeneration, adding to the established view of non-nerve cell autonomous degeneration of the motor system from previous research on SOD1 fALS. Future research into the mechanisms of TDP-43 and FUS-related neurodegeneration, taking into account the major component of glial pathology now revealed in those disorders will significantly accelerate new discoveries in this field, including target identification for new therapy.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are part of a disease spectrum associated with TDP-43 pathology. Strong evidence supporting this is the existence of kindreds with family members affected by FTD, ALS or mixed features of FTD and ALS, referred to as FTD-MND. Some of these families have linkage to chromosome 9, with hexanucleotide expansion mutation in a noncoding region of C9ORF72. Discovery of the mutation defines c9FTD/ALS. Prior to discovery of mutations in C9ORF72, it was assumed that TDP-43 pathology in c9FTD/ALS was uniform. In this study, we examined the neuropathology and clinical features of 20 cases of c9FTD/ALS from a brain bank for neurodegenerative disorders. Included are six patients clinically diagnosed with ALS, eight FTD, one FTD-MND and four Alzheimer-type dementia. Clinical information was unavailable for one patient. Pathologically, the cases all had TDP-43 pathology, but there were three major pathologic groups: ALS, FTLD-MND and FTLD-TDP. The ALS cases were morphologically similar to typical sporadic ALS with almost no extramotor TDP-43 pathology; all had oligodendroglial cytoplasmic inclusions. The FTLD-MND showed predominantly Mackenzie Type 3 TDP-43 pathology, and all had ALS-like pathology in motor neurons, but more extensive extramotor pathology, with oligodendroglial cytoplasmic inclusions and infrequent hippocampal sclerosis. The FTLD-TDP cases had several features similar to FTLD-TDP due to mutations in the gene for progranulin, including Mackenzie Type 1 TDP-43 pathology with neuronal intranuclear inclusions and hippocampal sclerosis. FTLD-TDP patients were older and some were thought to have Alzheimer-type dementia. In addition to the FTD and ALS clinical presentations, the present study shows that c9FTD/ALS can have other presentations, possibly related to age of onset and the presence of hippocampal sclerosis. Moreover, there is pathologic heterogeneity not only between ALS and FTLD, but also within the FTLD group. Further studies are needed to address the molecular mechanism of clinical and pathological heterogeneity of c9FTD/ALS due to mutations in C9ORF72.
The Fas/FasL system plays an important role in apoptosis, the inflammatory response and gliosis in a variety of neurologic disorders. A better understanding of these mechanisms could lead to effective therapeutic strategies following spinal cord injury (SCI). We explored these mechanisms by examining molecular changes in postmortem human spinal cord tissue from cases with acute and chronic SCI. Complementary studies were conducted using the in vivo Fejota clip compression model of SCI in Fas-deficient B6.MRL-Fas-lpr (lpr) and wild-type (Wt) mice to test Fas-mediated apoptosis, inflammation, gliosis and axonal degeneration by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, gelatin zymography and ELISA with Mouse 32-plex cytokine/chemokine panel bead immunoassay. We report novel evidence that shows that Fas-mediated apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes occurred in the injury epicenter in all cases of acute and subacute SCI and not in chronic SCI or in control cases. We also found significantly reduced apoptosis, expression of GFAP, NF-B, p-IKappaB and iba1, increased number of CD4 positive T cells and MMP2 expression and reduced neurological dysfunction in lpr mice when compared with Wt mice after SCI. We found dramatically reduced inflammation and cytokines and chemokine expression in B6.MRL-Fas-lpr mice compared to Wt mice after SCI. In conclusion, we report multiple lines of evidence that Fas/FasL activation plays a pivotal role in mediating apoptosis, the inflammatory response and neurodegeneration after SCI, providing a compelling rationale for therapeutically targeting Fas in human SCI.
Clinical and pathological evidence supports the notion that corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) are distinct, but overlapping neurodegenerative tauopathies. Although both disorders are characterized by abnormal accumulation of 4-repeat tau, they display distinct proteolytic profiles of tau species and they have distinct astrocytic lesions, astrocytic plaques in CBD and tufted astrocytes in PSP. To investigate other differences between these two disorders at the molecular level, we compared the profiles of proteins from caudate nucleus of CBD and PSP by quantitative two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. Twenty-one protein spots differentially expressed in CBD and PSP were dissected for mass spectrometry (MS). One of the spots was identified by MS to contain light chain (LC) ferritin. Western blot analysis verified the presence of LC ferritin in this spot and showed that this protein was two-fold higher in caudate of CBD than that of PSP samples. These results were confirmed by LC ferritin immunohistochemistry. Co-labeling of caudate nucleus with tau and LC ferritin antibodies showed the presence of LC ferritin immunoreactivity in astrocytic plaques of CBD, but minimal labeling of tufted astrocytes in PSP. This difference did not reflect the extent of gliosis. Analysis of other brain regions in CBD and PSP showed no difference in LC ferritin levels. Together the data suggest that LC ferritin is a unique marker of astrocytic lesions in CBD, adding further support to the notion that CBD and PSP are distinct clinicopathologic entities.
Vertigo and postural instability following whiplash and/or minor head injuries is very frequent. According to some authors, post-whiplash vertigo cannot be caused by real injury to vestibular structures; other authors maintain that vestibular damage is possible even in the case of isolated whiplash, with vascular or post-traumatic involvement. Furthermore, many of the balance disorders reported after trauma can be justified by post-traumatic modification to the cervical proprioceptive input, with consequent damage to the vestibular spinal reflex. The aim of this study was to evaluate the vestibular condition and postural status in a group of patients (Group A, n = 90) affected with balance disorders following whiplash, and in a second group (Group B, n = 20) with balance disorders after minor head injury associated with whiplash. Both groups were submitted to videonystagmography (VNG) and stabilometric investigation (open eyes - O E, closed eyes - CE, closed eyes with head retroflexed - CER) within 15 days of their injuries and repeated within 10 days after conclusion of cervical physiotherapy treatment. The VNG tests revealed vestibulopathy in 19% of cases in Group A (11% peripheral, 5% central, 3% in an undefined site) and in 60% of subjects in Group B (50% peripheral, 10% central). At the follow-up examination, all cases of non-compensated labyrinth deficit showed signs of compensation, while there were two cases (2%) in Group A and one case (5%) in Group B of PPV. As far as the altered posturographic recordings are concerned, while there was no specific pattern in the two groups, they were clearly pathologic, especially during CER. Both in OE and in CE there was an increase in the surface values and in those pertaining to shifting of the gravity centre on the sagittal plane, which was even more evident during CER. In Group A, the pre-post-physiotherapy comparison of CER results showed that there was a statistically significant improvement in the majority of the parameters after treatment. Moreover, in Group B there was frequent lateral shifting of the centre of gravity that was probably linked with the high percentage of labyrinth deficits. The comparison between the first and second stabilometric examinations was statistically significant only in those parameters referring to gravity centre shifting on the frontal plane, which was probably due to the progressive improvement in the associated vestibulopathy rather than to the physiotherapy treatment performed for the cervical damage. Hence, our study confirms that only in a minority of cases can whiplash cause central or peripheral vestibulopathy, and that this is more probable after minor head injury associated with whiplash. In addition, our data confirm that static stabilometry is fundamental for assessing postural deficits following a cervical proprioceptive disorder. In these cases, in fact, analysis of the different parameters and the indices referring to cervical interference not only permits evaluation of altered postural performance, but also detects and quantifies destabilisation activity within the cervical proprioceptive component.



This study examines the relationship between the anatomical location of traditional acupuncture points and their clinical indications as stated in two textbooks of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). The following relationships are noted: (1) The acupuncture points in the trunk and their stated effects on the internal organs in the trunk have a segmental relationship--that is, acupuncture points within certain spinal segments in the trunk affect the functioning of the organs that receive autonomic innervation from the same spinal segments. This is consistent with the concept of segmental acupuncture and the idea that acupuncture may act via the somatic sympathetic reflex with a spinal pathway to affect the trunk organs. (2) The acupuncture points in the trunk and extremities have a musculoskeletal effect that is local or regional, but not distal. This is consistent with some of the models of acupuncture mechanisms on musculoskeletal effects in the Western medical acupuncture approach. (3) The acupuncture points on the head and neck preferentially affect the nearest organ. This presumably reflects the belief in TCM that acupuncture can somehow regulate the functioning of the proximal organ. No clear relationship can be identified between the myotome level of the acupuncture points in the extremities and their non-musculoskeletal clinical indications.

Here, we describe a human physiology laboratory class measuring changes in autonomic function over time in response to atropine. Students use themselves as subjects, generating ownership and self-interest in the learning as well as directly experiencing the active link between physiology and pharmacology in people. The class is designed to concomitantly convey the importance of bias in experimentation by adopting a double-blind placebo-controlled approach. We have used this class effectively in various forms with 600 students receiving atropine over the last 16 yr. This class has received favorable feedback from staff and students of medicine, pharmacy, and neuroscience, and we recommend it for such undergraduates. The learning objectives that students are expected to achieve are to be able to 1) know the ethical, safety, and hygiene requirements for using human volunteers as subjects; 2) implement and explain a double-blind placebo-controlled trial; 3) design, agree, and execute a protocol for making (and accurately recording) precise reproducible measurements of pulse rate, pupil diameter, and salivary flow; 4) evaluate the importance of predose periods and measurement consistency to detect effects (including any reversibility) after an intervention; 5) experience direct cause-and-effect relationships integrating physiology with pharmacology in people; 6) calculate appropriate summary statistics to describe the data and determine the data's statistical significance; 7) recognize normal variability both within and between subjects in baseline physiological parameters and also recognize normal variability in response to pharmacological treatment; 8) infer the distribution and role of muscarinic receptors in the autonomic nervous system with respect to the heart, eye, and mouth; 9) identify and explain the clinical significance of differences in effect due to the route and formulation of atropine; 10) produce and deliver a concise oral presentation of experimental findings; and 11) produce a written report in the form of a short scientific research article. The results of a typical study are presented, which demonstrate that the administration of atropine by a subcutaneous injection elicited a significant increase in pulse rate and pupil diameter and a significant decrease in salivary flow, whereas administration of atropine in an oral liquid elicited significant effects on pulse rate and salivary flow, and an oral solid format elicited a significant alteration in salivary flow alone. More detailed analysis of the salivary flow data demonstrated clear differences between the routes of administration and formulation in the onset and magnitude of action of atropine.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling modulation has been associated with increased lifespan in model organisms, while high levels of circulating interleukin-6 (IL-6) are a marker of disability and mortality. In the prospective, population-based &quot;Treviso Longeva&quot;--TRELONG Study from Italy (n = 668, age range 70-105.5 years at baseline, followed for seven years) we investigated the effects of survival on the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) gene polymorphism rs2229765, the IL-6 gene promoter polymorphism rs1800795, and plasma concentrations of IGF-1 and IL-6, alone or in combination. We found a sex-dependent effect for the IGF-1R rs2229765 polymorphism, as male carriers of the homozygous A/A genotype survived longer, while the IL-6 rs1800795 genotype did not influence overall or sex-specific longevity. Higher IL-6 levels were more detrimental for survival among males than females, while IGF-1 had no dose-response effect. These findings sustain the hypothesis that sex-specific longevity relies on detectable differences in genetic and biochemical parameters between males and females.
An increasing number of studies use functional MRI (fMRI) and blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal to investigate the neurofunctional basis of acute alcohol effects on the brain. However, the BOLD signal reflects neural activity only indirectly as it depends on regional hemodynamic changes and is therefore sensitive to vasoactive substances, such as alcohol. We used MRI-based pulsed arterial spin labeling (ASL) method to quantify effects of acute intoxication on resting cerebral perfusion. Gender effects have not been previously examined and yet they are of particular interest given the differences in hormonal dynamics, alcohol metabolism, and hemodynamic regulation. Nineteen young, healthy individuals (nine women) with no personal or familial alcohol- or drug-related problems served as their own controls by participating in both alcohol (0.6g/kg ethanol for men, 0.55g/kg for women) and placebo scanning sessions in a counterbalanced manner. Regionally specific effects of the moderate alcohol dose on gray matter perfusion were examined with voxel-wise and region-of-interest analyses suggesting an interaction between gender and alcohol beverage. Acute intoxication increased perfusion in bilateral frontal regions in men but not in women. Under placebo, stronger cortical perfusion was observed in women compared with men primarily in the left hemisphere in frontal, parietal, and temporal areas. These results emphasize gender differences and regional specificity of alcohol's effects of cerebral perfusion possibly because of interactive influences on hormonal, metabolic, and hemodynamic autoregulatory systems. Alcohol-induced perfusion increase correlated positively with impulsivity/antisocial tendencies, consistent with dopaminergic mediation of reward, and its effects on cortical perfusion. Additional ASL studies are needed to investigate dose- and time-dependent effects of alcohol intoxication and gender on the hemodynamic factors that conjointly influence BOLD signal to disambiguate the vascular/metabolic mechanisms from the neurally based changes.

Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM) is becoming the standard of care for many spinal surgeries, especially those with deformity correction and instrumentation. We reviewed 2069 spine cases with multimodality IONM including somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP), transcranial electrical motor evoked potentials (TCeMEP), and spontaneous and triggered electromyography (s-EMG and t-EMG) in a University setting over a period of four years to examine perioperative clinical findings when an IONM event was noted and to ascertain how IONM has affected our ability to avoid potential neurological injury during spine surgery. We performed a retrospective analysis of cases from 2006 to 2010 to study the frequency and cause of intraoperative events detected via IONM and the clinical outcome of the patient. There were 32 cases (1.5%) with possible intraoperative events. There were 17 (53%) cases where IONM changes affected the course of the surgery and prevented possible postoperative neurological deficits. Seven cases (41%) were due to deformity correction, five (29%) due to hypotension, four (24%) due to patient positioning, and one (6%) due to a screw requiring repositioning. None of the 17 patients had postoperative motor or sensory deficits. There were four cases with false-positive IONM findings due to correctible technical issues. Three cases required surgical revision due to pedicle screw malposition. In each case, s-EMGs failed to exhibit intraoperative changes but the patient presented with postoperative radiculopathy. We believe that the use of t-EMGs may have prevented these complications. This review reinforces the importance of multimodality IONM for spinal surgery. The incidence of possible events in our series was 1.5%, and several likely postoperative neurologic deficits were avoided by intraoperative intervention.
U.S. Healthcare is not a system but a fragmentation of care delivery mechanisms. Healthcare Reform drives at reducing costs through access, quality, and efficiency. The U.S. economy contracted in 2007 and healthcare spending increased consuming an even greater and potentially unsustainable share of the economic wealth. Affordable care means &quot;shared risk.&quot; The Patient Protection and Accountable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The bill outlines the next ten years for new policies and pilot programs. More profound for us are the many provisions that promote fundamental delivery system reform. At this time, the burden of leadership is immense. Our profession needs a large cadre of qualified leaders to shape the future.

Several studies have evaluated the potential utility of blood-based whole-transcriptome signatures as a source of biomarkers for schizophrenia. This endeavor has been complicated by the fact that individuals with schizophrenia typically differ from appropriate comparison subjects on more than just the presence of the disorder; for example, individuals with schizophrenia typically receive antipsychotic medications, and have been dealing with the sequelae of this chronic illness for years. The inability to control such factors introduces a considerable degree of uncertainty in the results to date. To overcome this, we performed a blood-based gene-expression profiling study of schizophrenia patients (n = 9) as well as their unmedicated, nonpsychotic, biological siblings (n = 9) and unaffected comparison subjects (n = 12). The unaffected biological siblings, who may harbor some of the genetic predisposition to schizophrenia, exhibited a host of gene-expression differences from unaffected comparison subjects, many of which were shared by their schizophrenic siblings, perhaps indicative of underlying risk factors for the disorder. Several genes that were dysregulated in both individuals with schizophrenia and their siblings related to nucleosome and histone structure and function, suggesting a potential epigenetic mechanism underlying the risk state for the disorder. Nonpsychotic siblings also displayed some differences from comparison subjects that were not found in their affected siblings, suggesting that the dysregulation of some genes in peripheral blood may be indicative of underlying protective factors. This study, while exploratory, illustrated the potential utility and increased informativeness of including unaffected first-degree relatives in research in pursuit of peripheral biomarkers for schizophrenia.
Amphetamine-type substances are the second most widely used illicit drugs in the United States. There is evidence to suggest that stimulant use (cocaine and methamphetamine) has a heritable component, yet the areas of the genome underlying these use disorders are yet to be identified. This study's aims were to map loci linked to stimulant dependence, heavy use, and craving in an American Indian community at high risk for substance dependence. DSM diagnosis of stimulant dependence, as well as indices of stimulant &quot;craving,&quot; and &quot;heavy use,&quot; were obtained using the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism (SSAGA). Genotypes were determined for a panel of 791 microsatellite polymorphisms in 381 members of multiplex families using SOLAR. Stimulant dependence, stimulant &quot;craving,&quot; and &quot;heavy stimulant use,&quot; were all found to be heritable. Analyses of multipoint variance component LOD scores, failed to yield evidence of linkage for stimulant dependence. For the stimulant &quot;craving&quot; phenotype, linkage analysis revealed a locus that had a LOD score of 3.02 on chromosome 15q25.3-26.1 near the nicotinic receptor gene cluster. A LOD score of 2.05 was found at this same site for &quot;heavy stimulant use.&quot; Additional loci with LOD scores above 2.00 were found for stimulant &quot;craving&quot; on chromosomes 12p13.33-13.32 and 18q22.3. These results corroborate the importance of &quot;craving&quot; as an important phenotype that is associated with regions on chromosome 12, 15, and 18, that have been highlighted in prior segregation studies in this and other populations for substance dependence-related phenotypes.
Ano1 is a recently discovered Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel expressed on interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) that has been implicated in slow-wave activity in the gut. However, Ano1 is expressed on all classes of ICC, even those that do not contribute to generation of the slow wave, suggesting that Ano1 may have an alternate function in these cells. Ano1 is also highly expressed in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Mice lacking Ano1 had fewer proliferating ICC in whole mount preparations and in culture, raising the possibility that Ano1 is involved in proliferation. Cl(-) channel blockers decreased proliferation in cells expressing Ano1, including primary cultures of ICC and in the pancreatic cancer-derived cell line, CFPAC-1. Cl(-) channel blockers had a reduced effect on Ano1(-/-) cultures, confirming that the blockers are acting on Ano1. Ki67 immunoreactivity, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, and cell-cycle analysis of cells grown in low-Cl(-) media showed fewer proliferating cells than in cultures grown in regular medium. We confirmed that mice lacking Ano1 had less phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein compared with controls. These data led us to conclude that Ano1 regulates proliferation at the G(1)/S transition of the cell cycle and may play a role in tumorigenesis.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is produced by and released from the small intestine following ingestion of nutrients. GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists applied peripherally or centrally decrease food intake and increase glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. These effects make the GLP-1 system an attractive target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity. In addition to these more frequently studied effects of GLP-1R stimulation, previous reports indicate that GLP-1R agonists suppress water intake. The present experiments were designed to provide greater temporal resolution and site specificity for the effect of GLP-1 and the long-acting GLP-1R agonists, exendin-4 and liraglutide, on unstimulated water intake when food was and was not available. All three GLP-1R ligands suppressed water intake after peripheral intraperitoneal administration, both in the presence of and the absence of food; however, the magnitude and time frame of water intake suppression varied by drug. GLP-1 had an immediate, but transient, hypodipsic effect when administered peripherally, whereas the water intake suppression by IP exendin-4 and liraglutide was much more persistent. Additionally, intracerebroventricular administration of GLP-1R agonists suppressed water intake when food was absent, but the suppression of intake showed modest differences depending on whether the drug was administered to the lateral or fourth ventricle. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of GLP-1 receptor agonists affecting unstimulated, overnight intake in the absence of food, the first test for antidipsogenic effects of hindbrain application of GLP-1 receptor agonists, and the first test of a central effect (forebrain or hindbrain) of liraglutide on water intake. Overall, these results show that GLP-1R agonists have a hypodipsic effect that is independent of GLP-1R-mediated effects on food intake, and this occurs, in part, through central nervous system GLP-1R activation.
Hypothalamic orexin neurons project to the hindbrain, and 4th-ventricle intracerebroventricular (4th-icv) injection of orexin-A treatment increases food intake. We assessed the effects of hindbrain orexin-A and the orexin-1-receptor antagonist SB334867 on meal pattern in rats consuming standard chow. When injected 4th-icv shortly before dark onset, lower doses of orexin-A increased food intake over a 2-h period by increasing the size of the first meal relative to vehicle, whereas the highest dose increased food intake by causing the second meal to be taken sooner. Conversely, hindbrain SB334867 reduced food intake by decreasing the size of the first meal of the dark phase. We also examined the effects of 4th-icv orexin-A and SB334867 on locomotor activity. Only the highest dose of orexin-A increased activity, and SB334867 had no effect. In addition, hindbrain SB334867 induced c-Fos in the nucleus of the solitary tract. These data support the suggestion that endogenous hindbrain orexin-A acts to limit satiation. Both orexin-A and the pancreatic satiation hormone amylin require an intact area postrema to affect food intake, so we asked whether 4th-icv orexin-A impairs the satiating effect of peripheral amylin treatment. Amylin reduced the size of the first meal of the dark cycle when rats were pretreated with 4th-icv saline, yet amylin was ineffective after 4th-icv orexin-A pretreatment. Using double-label immunohistochemistry, we determined that some orexin-A fibers in the area postrema are located in proximity to amylin-responsive neurons. Therefore, hindbrain orexin-A may increase food intake, in part, by reducing the ability of rats to respond to amylin during a meal.

In this review, the authors propose that the fear extinction model can be used as an experimental tool to cut across symptom dimensions of multiple anxiety disorders to enhance our understanding of the psychopathology of these disorders and potentially facilitate the detection of biomarkers for them. The authors evaluate evidence for this proposition from studies examining the neurocircuitry underlying fear extinction in rodents, healthy humans, and clinical populations. The authors also assess the potential use of the fear extinction model to predict vulnerability for anxiety and treatment response and to improve existing treatments or develop novel ones. Finally, the authors suggest potential directions for future research that will help to further validate extinction as a biomarker for anxiety across diagnostic categories and to bridge the gap between basic neuroscience and clinical practice.
Patients with transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR) polyneuropathy, a hereditary fatal disease, often report defects in both thermal perception and autonomic nervous system function as their first clinical symptoms. While elevated thermal perception thresholds (TPT) for cold and warmth only recently have been shown as an early marker of small nerve fiber dysfunction in these patients, heart rate variability (HRV) has frequently been used to quantify autonomic neuropathy. The main purpose with this report was to elucidate a possible relationship between estimates of HRV and TPT in a selected group of early and late-onset Swedish Val30Met ATTR patients. The results show significantly more pronounced elevation of TPT in early compared to late-onset patients. Significant correlations between HRV and TPT were found among late-onset cases, indicating a possible relationship between loss of thin nerve fibers in somatic and autonomic nerves, while generally no such relationships were found among early-onset cases. This observation emphasizes the importance of testing both HRV and TPT to ensure optimal early detection of neuropathic changes in an as wide as possible range of small nerve fibers in suspected ATTR patients. This is of particular importance as the phenotype of the ATTR disease varies between groups with different age of onset.
Apnoea due to airway obstruction is an ever present concern in anaesthesia and critical care practice and results in rapid development of hypoxaemia that is not always remediable by manual bag-mask ventilation. As it is often difficult or impossible to study experimentally (although some historical animal data exist), it is useful to model the kinetics of hypoxaemia following airway obstruction. Despite being a complex event, the consequences of airway obstruction can be predicted with reasonable fidelity using mathematical and computer modelling. Over the last 15 years, a number of high fidelity mathematical and computer models have been developed, that have thrown light on this important event.
A new ultrasensitive fluorescent derivatization procedure for chromatographic analysis of primary, secondary, and nonpolar tertiary alcohols is described. The procedure uses Bodipy FL in basic dichloromethane solution with Mukaiyama's reagent (2-chloro-1-methylpyridinium iodide) to form highly fluorescent ester derivatives that can be separated by silica normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Rhodamine WT and Oregon green 488 were also useful derivatization reagents. The detection limit for detection of cholesterol and bryostatin by Bodipy FL was less than 1fmol. The reaction conditions are gentle enough that low concentrations of unstable alcohols such as bryostatin 1 can be measured.

Obesity is a medical condition of excess body fat, recognized as a global epidemic. Besides genetic factors, overconsumption of high-energy food and a sedentary lifestyle are major obesogenic causes. A newly identified determinant is altered circadian rhythmicity. To anticipate and adapt to daily changes in the environment, organisms have developed an endogenous circadian timing system, comprising a main circadian clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, principally synchronized to the light-dark cycle. Secondary peripheral clocks are found in various tissues, such as the liver, pancreas, and adipose tissue. These clocks control the rhythmic patterns of myriad metabolic processes. We will review the evidence that metabolic dysfunction is associated with circadian disturbances at both central and peripheral levels and, conversely, that disruption of circadian clock functioning can lead to obesity. The roots of these reciprocal interactions will be illustrated by transcriptional crosstalk between metabolic and circadian systems. Chronotherapeutic approaches of dieting to maintain or restore a proper circadian alignment could be useful to limit the magnitude of metabolic risks.
Recently, the 9(th) International Conference on Bipolar Disorder (ICBD) took place in Pittsburgh, PA, June 9-11, 2011. The conference focused on a number of important issues concerning the diagnosis of bipolar disorders across the life span, advances in neuroscience, treatment strategies for bipolar disorders, early intervention, and medical comorbidity. Several of these topics were discussed in four plenary sessions. This meeting report describes the major points of each of these sessions and included (1) strategies for moving biology forward; (2) bipolar disorder and the forthcoming new DSM-5 nomenclature; (3) management of bipolar disorders-both theory and intervention, with an emphasis on the medical comorbidities; and, (4) a review of several key task force reports commissioned by the International Society for Bipolar Disorder (ISBD).
The orbitofrontal cortex has been implicated in the prediction of valuable outcomes based on environmental stimuli. However, it remains unknown how it represents outcome-predictive information at the population level, and how it provides temporal structure to such representations. Here, we pay attention especially to the population coding of probabilistic reward, and to the importance of orbitofrontal theta- and gamma-band rhythmicity in relation to target areas. When rats learned to associate odors to food outcome with variable likelihood, we found single-cell and population coding of reward probability, but not uncertainty. In related experiments, reward anticipation correlated to firing activity locking to theta-band oscillations. In contrast, gamma-band activity was associated with a firing-rate suppression of neurons that was most active during goal-directed movement. Orbitofrontal coding of outcome-relevant parameters appears bound to all relevant temporal phases of behavioral tasks, has a distributed nature, and is temporally structured according to multiple modes of rhythmicity.
Rewards can be viewed as probability distributions of reward values. Besides expected (mean) value, a key parameter of such distributions is variance (or standard deviation), which constitutes a measure of risk. Single neurons in orbitofrontal cortex signal risk mostly separately from value. Comparable risk signals in human frontal cortex reflect risk attitudes of individual participants. Subjective outcome value constitutes the primary economic decision variable. The terms risk avoidance and risk taking suggest that risk affects subjective outcome value, a basic tenet of economic decision theories. Correspondingly, risk reduces neuronal value signals in frontal cortex of human risk avoiders and enhances value signals in risk takers. Behavioral contrast effects and reference-dependent valuation demonstrate flexible reward valuation. As a potential correlate, value signals in orbitofrontal neurons adjust reward discrimination to variance (risk). These neurophysiological mechanisms of reward risk on economic decisions inform and validate theories of economic decision making under uncertainty.
Individuals weigh information about both rewarding and aversive stimuli to make adaptive decisions. Most studies of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), an area where appetitive and aversive neural subsystems might interact, have focused only on reward. Using a classical conditioning task where novel stimuli are paired with a reward or an aversive air puff, we discovered that two groups of orbitofrontal neurons respond preferentially to conditioned stimuli associated with rewarding and aversive outcomes; however, information about appetitive and aversive stimuli converges on individual neurons from both populations. Therefore, neurons in the OFC might participate in appetitive and aversive networks that track the motivational significance of stimuli even when they vary in valence and sensory modality. Further, we show that these networks, which also extend to the amygdala, exhibit different rates of change during reversal learning. Thus, although both networks represent appetitive and aversive associations, their distinct temporal dynamics might indicate different roles in learning processes.
Damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) impairs decision making, but the underlying value computations that cause such impairments remain unclear. Both the OFC and ACC encode a wide variety of signals correlated with decision making. The current challenge is to determine how these two different areas support decision-making processes. Here, we review a series of experiments that have helped define these roles. A special population of neurons in the ACC, but not the OFC, multiplex value information across decision parameters using a unified encoding scheme, and encode reward prediction errors. In contrast, neurons in the OFC, but not the ACC, encode the value of a choice relative to the recent history of choice values. Together, these results suggest complementary valuation processes: OFC neurons dynamically evaluate current choices relative to the value contexts recently experienced, while ACC neurons encode choice predictions and prediction errors using a common valuation currency reflecting the integration of multiple decision parameters.



In this mini review, we summarize our findings regarding the brainstem neurons responsible for the postural, masseter, or pharyngeal muscle atonia observed during paradoxical sleep (PS) in freely moving cats. Both the pons and medulla contain neurons showing tonic activation selective to PS and atonia, referred to as PS/atonia-on-neurons. The PS/atonia-on neurons, characterized by their most slow conducting property and located in the peri-locus coeruleus alpha (peri-LCa) and adjacent LCa of the mediodorsal pontine tegmentum, play a critical executive role in the somatic and orofacial muscle atonia observed during PS. Slow conducting medullary PS/atonia-on neurons located in the nuclei reticularis magnocellularis (Mc) and parvocellularis (Pc) may play a critical executive role in the generation of, respectively, antigravity or orofacial muscle atonia during PS. In addition, either tonic or phasic cessation of activity of medullary serotonergic neurons may play an important role in the atonia of genioglossus muscles during PS via a mechanism of disfacilitation.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is sensitive to focal multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. For this reason, conventional MRI measures of the burden of disease derived from dual-echo, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences are regularly used to monitor disease course in patients with confirmed MS and have been included in the diagnostic workup of patients in whom MS is suspected. Other quantitative magnetic resonance (MR)-based techniques with a higher pathological specificity (including magnetization transfer-MRI, diffusion tensor-MRI, and proton MR spectroscopy) have been extensively applied to measure disease burden within focal visible lesions and in the normal-appearing white matter and gray matter of MS patients at different stages of the disease. These methods, combined with functional imaging techniques, are progressively improving our understanding of the factors associated with MS evolution. More recently, the application of new imaging modalities capable of measuring pathological processes related to the disease that have been neglected in the past (eg, iron deposition and perfusion abnormalities) and the advent of high- and ultrahigh-field magnets have provided further insight into the pathobiological features of MS. After a brief summary of the main results obtained from the established and emerging MR methods, this review discusses the steps needed before the latter become suitable for widespread use in the MS research community.

Postpartum depression (PPD) is an often underdiagnosed and undertreated mood disorder, with negative impact on the mother's and infant's health. Seasonal variation has been discussed as a risk factor for PPD. Candidate genes, such as those encoding for the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), serotonin transporter (5-HTT), and Period2 (PER2), have been associated with depression and seasonal disorders. The present study is aimed to examine whether functional polymorphic variants, BDNF Val66Met, 5-HTTLPR, or PER2 SNP 10870, are associated with PPD symptoms and whether these genetic polymorphisms interact with season in predicting PPD symptoms. This case-control study comprised of 275 women from a population-based cohort of delivering women in Sweden, who completed a questionnaire containing the Edinburgh postnatal depression scale (EPDS) at 6weeks and 6months postpartum. Stressful life events (SLEs) and maternity stressors were also assessed. The results did not reveal any statistically significant overall association between the studied genetic polymorphisms and PPD symptoms. However, a significant association between BDNF Met66 carrier status and development of PPD symptoms at 6weeks postpartum, even when controlling for prepartum and postpartum environmental risk factors, was evident among mothers delivering during autumn/winter. No gene-gene interactions were found but a cumulative effect was detected with carriers of a greater number of 5-HTTLPR S and BDNFVal66Met Met alleles reporting higher EPDS scores, if delivered during autumn/winter. Our findings propose a role of the BDNF gene in the development of PPD symptoms, potentially mediated by season of delivery.
Pusher behavior (PB) is a disorder of postural control affecting patients with encephalic lesions. This study has aimed to identify the brain substrates that are critical for the occurrence of PB, to analyze the influence of the midline shift (MS) and hemorrhagic stroke volume (HSV) on the severity and prognosis of the PB. We identified 31 pusher patients of a neurological unit, mean age 67.4  11.89, 61.3% male. Additional neurological and functional examinations were assessed. Neuroimaging workup included measurement of the MS, the HSV in patients with hemorrhagic stroke, the analysis of the vascular territory, etiology and side of the lesion. Lesions in the parietal region (p=0.041) and thalamus (p=0.001) were significantly more frequent in PB patients. Neither the MS nor the HSV were correlated with the PB severity or recovery time.
Depression and anxiety have been reported in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and in patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). However, the precise mechanisms that lead to depressive and anxiety symptoms in these patients are still unclear. In this study we evaluated with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) patients with MS and CIS and compared them to controls. We also correlated BDI and BAI scores with clinical parameters. Kruskall-Wallis followed by Dunn's Multiple Comparison Test, Chi-square and Spearman test were used. Patients with MS had higher depressive and anxiety scores than controls. The BDI and BAI scores of patients with CIS were not significantly different from controls. There was a positive correlation between BDI, BAI and EDSS. Our results corroborate the view that MS patients have higher depression and anxiety levels than control subjects. Anxiety and depressive symptoms also seem to progress according to the severity of the disease.

Depressive illness beginning early in life can have serious developmental and functional consequences. Therefore, understanding its etiology and pathophysiology during this developmental stage is critical for developing effective prevention and intervention strategies. There is considerable evidence of sleep alterations in adult major depressive disorder. However, studies in children and adolescents have not found consistent changes in sleep architecture paralleling adult depression. This review article summarizes sleep polysomnography research in early-onset depression, highlighting the factors associated with variable findings across studies. In addition, potential avenues for future research will be suggested in order to develop more comprehensive theoretical models and interventions for pediatric depression.
The preferred treatment of a type II odontoid fracture is anterior odontoid screw fixation to preserve the cervical spine range of movement. This case report describes an unusual complication of guidewire breakage during anterior odontoid cannulated screw fixation for a 52-year-old patient who presented with a type II odontoid fracture after a motor vehicle accident. The distal segment of the guidewire was bent over the tip of the cannulated odontoid screw and broke off during guidewire withdrawal. The three months follow-up computed tomography examination of the cervical spine showed acceptable screw placement, good odontoid process alignment with incomplete fusion, and no migration of the fractured segment of the guidewire. It is recommended that the guidewire be withdrawn once the cannulated screw is passed through the fractured site into the odontoid process and a new guidewire be used in each surgical procedure instead of been reused to avoid metal stress fatigue that can result in easy breakage.
The unintended and often promiscous inhibition of the cardiac human Ether--go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channel is a common cause for either delay or removal of therapeutic compounds from development and withdrawal of marketed drugs. The clinical manifestion is prolongation of the duration between QRS complex and T-wave measured by surface electrocardiogram (ECG)-hence Long QT Syndrome. There are several useful online resources documenting hERG inhibition by known drugs and bioactives. However, their utilities remain somewhat limited because they are biased toward well-studied compounds and their number of data points tends to be much smaller than many commercial compound libraries. The hERGCentral ( www.hergcentral.org ) is mainly based on experimental data obtained from a primary screen by electrophysiology against more than 300,000 structurally diverse compounds. The system is aimed to display and combine three resources: primary electrophysiological data, literature, as well as online reports and chemical library collections. Currently, hERGCentral has annotated datasets of more than 300,000 compounds including structures and chemophysiological properties of compounds, raw traces, and biophysical properties. The system enables a variety of query formats, including searches for hERG effects according to either chemical structure or properties, and alternatively according to the specific biophysical properties of current changes caused by a compound. Therefore, the hERGCentral, as a unique and evolving resource, will facilitate investigation of chemically induced hERG inhibition and therefore drug development.



A large protein complex consisting of Atg5, Atg12 and Atg16L1 has recently been shown to be essential for the elongation of isolation membranes (also called phagophores) during mammalian autophagy. However, the precise function and regulation of the Atg125-16L1 complex has largely remained unknown. In this study we identified a novel isoform of mammalian Atg16L, termed Atg16L2, that consists of the same domain structures as Atg16L1. Biochemical analysis revealed that Atg16L2 interacts with Atg5 and self-oligomerizes to form an ~800-kDa complex, the same as Atg16L1 does. A subcellular distribution analysis indicated that, despite forming the Atg125-16L2 complex, Atg16L2 is not recruited to phagophores and is mostly present in the cytosol. The results also showed that Atg16L2 is unable to compensate for the function of Atg16L1 in autophagosome formation, and knockdown of endogenous Atg16L2 did not affect autophagosome formation, indicating that Atg16L2 does not possess the ability to mediate canonical autophagy. Moreover, a chimeric analysis between Atg16L1 and Atg16L2 revealed that their difference in function in regard to autophagy is entirely attributable to the difference between their middle regions that contain a coiled-coil domain. Based on the above findings, we propose that formation of the Atg125-16L complex is necessary but insufficient to mediate mammalian autophagy and that an additional function of the middle region (especially around amino acid residues 229242) of Atg16L1 (e.g., interaction with an unidentified binding partner on phagophores) is required for autophagosome formation.
Mitophagy, selective autophagy of mitochondria, has been extensively demonstrated in cultured cell models but has never been described in skeletal muscle in the context of muscle disease. We recently reported the first example of human muscle disease where mitophagy plays a role in the peculiar muscle pathology. This disease is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CHKB gene encoding choline kinase . &quot;Patients&quot; and rostrocaudal muscular dystrophy (rmd) mice, spontaneous Chkb mutants, develop congenital muscular dystrophy with a peculiar mitochondrial abnormality--mitochondria are markedly enlarged at the periphery of muscle fibers and absent from the center. Choline kinase is the first enzymatic step in a biosynthetic pathway for phosphatidylcholine, the most abundant phospholipid in eukaryotes. Our discovery demonstrates that a phosphatydilcholine biosynthetic defect leads to mitochondrial dysfunction and increased mitophagy.
Working memory is a highly heritable complex cognitive trait that is critical for a number of higher-level functions. However, the neural substrates of this behavioral phenotype are intricate and it is unknown through what precise biological mechanism variation in working memory is transmitted. In this review we explore different functional and structural components of the working memory circuitry, and the degree to which each of them is contributed to by genetic factors. Specifically, we consider dopaminergic function, glutamatergic function, white matter integrity and gray matter structure all of which provide potential mechanisms for the inheritance of working memory deficits. In addition to discussing the overall heritability of these measures we also address specific genes that may play a role. Each of these heritable components has the potential to uniquely contribute to the working memory deficits observed in genetic disorders, including 22q deletion syndrome, fragile X syndrome, phenylketonuria (PKU), and schizophrenia. By observing the individual contributions of disruptions in different components of the working memory circuitry to behavioral performance, we highlight the concept that there may be many routes to a working memory deficit; even though the same cognitive measure may be a valid endophenotype across different disorders, the underlying cause of, and treatment for, the deficit may differ. This has implications for our understanding of the transmission of working memory deficits in both healthy and disordered populations.
Male zebrafish were held in dyadic social stress situation for a period of 5 days, to characterize stress coping styles and to investigate the role of the underlying neuroendocrine mechanisms in establishing dominant-subordinate relationships. A strong consistent dominant-subordinate relationship was formed in ten out of the sixteen pairs of fish (62.5%). Both dominant (DOM) and subordinate (SUB) individuals showed statistically significant higher trunk cortisol concentration than controls. Expression of genes encoding proteins involved in the functioning of the hypothalamus-hypophysis-interrenal axis (corticotropin releasing factor, CRF; glucocorticoid receptor, GR; mineralocorticoid receptor, MR); arginine vasotocin, AVT), in the biosynthesis and catabolism of catecholamines (tyrosine hydroxylase, TH1 and TH2; DOPA decarboxylase, DDC), dopamine -hydroxylase, DBH; catechol-O-methyl transferase, COMT), in the biosynthesis of histamine (histidine decarboxylase, HDC) and in the general stress response (galanin, GAL; hypocretin/orexin, Hcrt) was examined. The MR/GR ratio was higher in dominant and subordinate fish than in controls (P=0.016). The mRNA levels of TH2 and HDC were up-regulated in DOM, of AVT in SUB, while COMT mRNA levels were down-regulated in both DOM and SUB compared to control fish. In addition, mRNA levels of hypocretin/orexin (Hcrt) were up-regulated in dominant compared to subordinate and control males. There was a statistically significant correlation between mRNA expression levels of TH2, HDC, Hcrt, GR, MR and CRF genes. The obtained results provide new evidences for the use of zebrafish as an animal model to study social stress and allostasis in vertebrates.
Epidural motor cortex stimulation is an increasingly used method to control refractory neuropathic pain although its mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. Animal models are currently developed that allow reproducing the conditions of this neurosurgical approach and clarifying its mechanisms. In this study we validate a new stereotactic functional map of the cat motor cortex carried out in epidural conditions, thus allowing future experimentations that closely mimic the technique used in humans.
A number of studies have shown that modulating cortical activity by means of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) affects the performance of both healthy and brain-damaged subjects. In this study, we investigated the potential of tDCS for the recovery of apraxia of speech in 3 patients with stroke-induced aphasia. Over 2 weeks, three aphasic subjects participated in a randomized double-blinded experiment involving intensive language training for their articulatory difficulties in two tDCS conditions. Each subject participated in five consecutive daily sessions of anodic tDCS (20 min, 1 mA) and sham stimulation over the left inferior frontal gyrus (referred to as Broca's area) while they performed a repetition task. By the end of each week, a significant improvement was found in both conditions. However, all three subjects showed greater response accuracy in the anodic than in the sham condition. Moreover, results for transfer of treatment effects, although different across subjects, indicate a generalization of the recovery at the language test. Subjects 2 and 3 showed a significant improvement in oral production tasks, such as word repetition and reading, while Subjects 1 and 2 had an unexpected significant recovery in written naming and word writing under dictation tasks. At three follow-ups (1 week, 1 and 2 months after the end of treatment), response accuracy was still significantly better in the anodic than in sham condition, suggesting a long-term effect on the recovery of their articulatory gestures.
The feedback-related negativity (FRN), an event-related potentials (ERPs) component reflecting activity of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), has been shown to be modulated by feedback expectancy following active choices in feedback-based learning tasks. A general reduction of FRN amplitude has been described in observational feedback learning, raising the question whether FRN amplitude is modulated in a similar way in this type of learning. The present study investigated whether the FRN and the P300 - a second ERP component related to feedback processing - are modulated by feedback probability in observational learning. Thirty-two subjects participated in the experiment. They observed a virtual person choosing between two symbols and receiving positive or negative feedback. Learning about stimulus-specific feedback probabilities was assessed in active test trials without feedback. In addition, the bias to learn from positive or negative feedback and - in a subsample of 17 subjects - empathy scores were obtained. General FRN and P300 modulations by feedback probability were found across all subjects. Only for the FRN in learners, an interaction between probability and valence was observed. Larger FRN amplitudes for negative relative to positive feedback only emerged for the lowest outcome probability. The results show that feedback expectancy modulates FRN amplitude also in observational learning, suggesting a similar ACC function as in active learning. On the other hand, the modulation is only seen for very low feedback expectancy, which suggests that brain regions other than those of the reward system contribute to feedback processing in an observation setting.
Increasingly recognized in biological psychiatry, rodent self-grooming is a complex patterned behavior with evolutionarily conserved cephalo-caudal progression. While grooming is traditionally assessed by the latency, frequency and duration, its sequencing represents another important domain sensitive to various experimental manipulations. Such behavioral complexity requires novel objective approaches to quantify rodent grooming, in addition to time-consuming and highly variable manual observation. The present study combined modern behavior-recognition video-tracking technologies (CleverSys, Inc.) with manual observation to characterize in-depth spontaneous (novelty-induced) and artificial (water-induced) self-grooming in adult male C57BL/6J mice. We specifically focused on individual episodes of grooming (paw licking, head washing, body/leg washing, and tail/genital grooming), their duration and transitions between episodes. Overall, the frequency, duration and transitions detected using the automated approach significantly correlated with manual observations (R=0.51-0.7, p&lt;0.001-0.05). This data validates the software-based detection of grooming, also indicating that behavior-recognition tools can be applied to characterize both the amount and sequential organization (patterning) of rodent grooming. Together with further refinement and methodological advancement, this approach will foster high-throughput neurophenotyping of grooming, with multiple applications in drug screening and testing of genetically modified animals.
One of a family of devastating lysosomal storage disorders, Krabbe disease is characterized by demyelination, psychosine accumulation, and inflammation. Affected infants rarely survive longer than 2 years. Using the twitcher mouse model of the disease, this study evaluated the potential of intrastriatal injection of adipose or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) as a treatment option. Neonatal pups were injected with MSCs at 3-4 days of age and subjected to a battery of behavioral tests beginning at 15 days. While MSC injection failed to increase lifespan of twitchers, improvements in rotarod performance and twitching severity were observed at 27-38 days of age using MSCs derived from bone marrow. This study tested several different tasks developed in adult mice for evaluation of disease progression in immature twitchers. Rotarod was both reliable and extremely sensitive. Automated gait analysis using the Treadscan program was also useful for early evaluation of differences prior to overt gait dysfunction. Finally, this study represents the first use of the Stone T-maze in immature mice. Validation of rotarod and automated gait analysis for detection of subtle differences in disease progression is important for early stage efforts to develop treatments for juvenile disorders.
The &quot;hijacking&quot; and &quot;drug instrumentalization&quot; models of psychoactive drug use predict opposite outcomes in terms of adaptive behavior and fitness benefits. Which is the range of applicability of each model? To answer this question, we need more data than those reported by studies focusing on medical, psychiatric, and legal problems in addicted users. An evolutionary analysis requires a much wider focus.
Arguably, the religious use of hallucinogenic drugs stems from a human search of metaphysical insight rather than from a direct need for cognitive, emotional, social, physical, or sexual improvement. Therefore, the sacramental and spiritual intake of hallucinogenic drugs goes so far beyond other biopsychosocial functions that it deserves its own category in the drug instrumentalization list.
Understanding the perceived benefits of using drugs to achieve specific mental states will provide novel insights into the reasons individuals seek to use drugs. However, the precision of attempts to instrumentalize drugs is unclear both across drugs and individuals. Moreover, mis-instrumentalization, defined as discrepancies between such endpoints, may have relevance to understanding the relation among use, abuse, and addiction.
Syrian hamsters readily form dominant-subordinate relationships under laboratory conditions. Winning or losing in agonistic encounters can have striking, long-term effects on social behavior, but the mechanisms underlying this experience-induced behavioral plasticity are unclear. The present study tested the hypothesis that changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may at least in part mediate this plasticity. Male hamsters were paired for 15-min using a resident-intruder model, and individuals were identified as winners or losers on the basis of their behavior. BDNF was examined with in situ hybridization 2 hr after treatment during the consolidation period of emotional learning. Losing animals had significantly more BDNF mRNA in the basolateral (BLA) and medial (MeA) nuclei of the amygdala when compared with winning animals as well as novel cage and home cage controls. Interestingly, winning animals had significantly more BDNF mRNA in the dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus than did losing animals, novel, and home cage controls. No conflict-related changes in BDNF mRNA were observed in several other regions including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdala. Next, we demonstrated that K252a, a Trk receptor antagonist, significantly reduced the acquisition of conditioned defeat when administered within the BLA. These data support a model in which BDNF-mediated plasticity within the BLA supports learning of submission or subordinate social status in losing animals, whereas BDNF-mediated plasticity within the hippocampus may instantiate aspects of winning such as control of a territory in dominant animals.
We know much about how rats use their whiskers to discriminate simple tactile properties, but little about how they are used in natural settings. Here we studied whisker motion during social interactions between rats in order to gain a better understanding of natural whisker use in this model system for sensorimotor integration. In the first set of experiments, an intruder was placed in a second rat's home cage. Anogenital sniffing immediately ensued; later in the trial, facial interactions occurred at least as frequently. Whereas much previous work has focused on the importance of anogenital sniffing during social interactions, these facial interactions were accompanied by some of the most intense whisker behaviors described to date. Whisker trimming increased biting but reduced boxing. In addition, whiskers were more protracted and whisking amplitude was larger in aggressive than in nonaggressive interactions. In a second set of experiments, rats interacted facially across a gap. As rats approached each other, whisking amplitude decreased and whiskers were more protracted. Whisker trimming disrupted facial alignment and reduced the frequency of interactions, indicating that whisker use, and possibly whisker protraction, is important for rats to orient themselves with respect to one another. We also found that females whisked with smaller amplitude when interacting with males than with females, and that they held their whiskers less protracted than males. The natural whisker use described here should further our understanding of this important somatosensory system during social interactions.
A good deal is known about psychological factors that contribute to reward value, but very little is known about how reward is computed in the brain. Integration in the circuit for brain stimulation reward may provide a simple model system. Parametric studies have favored the idea that the integration is linear, although a few have suggested that it involves adaptation. However, these studies have generally not focused on relevance to psychological factors such as temporal discounting of reward. To begin to address these issues, I gave rats a choice between a simple train of 2 seconds of stimulation at a uniform frequency and a compound train of 1 second of stimulation at either 50, 150, or 250 Hz immediately followed by 1 second of stimulation at 50, 150, or 250 Hz, for a total of nine compound trains. For each compound train, the frequency of the simple train was varied until a level was found that produced indifference. The order of the frequencies was important, with Hi-Lo compound stimulation having a higher matching frequency than the symmetrical Lo-Hi. Furthermore, there was an interaction between the first and second frequencies, with the second frequency counting less when the first frequency was high. The results could be fit by computational models incorporating the ideas of either (a) adaptation or (b) temporal discounting and a power function psychological scale. These results suggest that integration in the brain stimulation reward system is nonlinear, and involves either adaptation or temporal discounting of reward value.
Our memories are not all created equally strong: Some experiences are well remembered while others are remembered poorly, if at all. Research on memory modulation investigates the neurobiological processes and systems that contribute to such differences in the strength of our memories. Extensive evidence from both animal and human research indicates that emotionally significant experiences activate hormonal and brain systems that regulate the consolidation of newly acquired memories. These effects are integrated through noradrenergic activation of the basolateral amygdala that regulates memory consolidation via interactions with many other brain regions involved in consolidating memories of recent experiences. Modulatory systems not only influence neurobiological processes underlying the consolidation of new information, but also affect other mnemonic processes, including memory extinction, memory recall, and working memory. In contrast to their enhancing effects on consolidation, adrenal stress hormones impair memory retrieval and working memory. Such effects, as with memory consolidation, require noradrenergic activation of the basolateral amygdala and interactions with other brain regions.
Cocaine addiction is a major health problem that affects millions of people. Cocaine acts by inhibiting dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT)] reuptake. The dopaminergic system is generally assumed to be involved in the reinforcing aspects of the drug, but the role of 5-HT in the addictive potential of cocaine is unclear. In light of pharmacological manipulations and cocaine use-related disease states affecting brain 5-HT levels, we review studies on the effect of cocaine on central 5-HT function. In addition, the contribution of 5-HT to the rewarding, aversive, discriminative and subjective, as well as the motivational and reinforcing effects of cocaine is discussed. We specifically focus on net changes in the extracellular 5-HT levels that occur as a consequence of acute and chronic cocaine exposure and how these influence cocaine abuse-related behaviour. Overall, the data indicate that 5-HT plays a major role in the psychomotor stimulant, rewarding and discriminative stimulant effects of cocaine, but also affects the motivational and reinforcing effects of the drug. In addition, 5-HT mediates, to some extent, the aversive effects of cocaine. Difficulties with data interpretation are discussed.
The present study investigated the effect of the histone deacetylase inhibitor, sodium butyrate (SB), on locomotor behavior and on mitochondrial respiratory-chain complexes activity in the brain of rats subjected to an animal model of mania induced by d-amphetamine (d-AMPH). In the reversal treatment, Wistar rats were first treated with d-AMPH or saline (Sal) for 14 days. Thereafter, between days 8 and 14, rats were administered SB or Sal. In the prevention treatment, rats were treated with SB or Sal for 14 days and received d-AMPH or Sal between days 8 and 14. The d-AMPH treatment increased locomotor behavior in Sal-treated rats under reversion and prevention treatment, and SB reversed and prevented d-AMPH-related hyperactivity. Moreover, d-AMPH decreased the activity of mitochondrial respiratory-chain complexes in Sal-treated rats in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and amygdala in both experiments, and SB was able to reverse and prevent this impairment. The present study suggests that the mechanism of action of SB involves induction of mitochondrial function in parallel with behavioral changes, reinforcing the need for more studies on histone deacetylase inhibitors as a possible target for new medications for bipolar disorder treatment.
The present study examined the effects of the mGluR1 antagonist JNJ16259685 (JNJ) and the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-phenylethynylpyridine (MPEP) alone and in combination with morphine in two acute pain models (hotplate, warm water tail-withdrawal), and a persistent, inflammatory pain model (capsaicin). In the hotplate and warm water tail-withdrawal procedures, JNJ and MPEP were ineffective when administered alone. In both procedures, JNJ potentiated morphine antinociception. In the hotplate procedure, MPEP potentiated morphine antinociception at the highest dose examined, whereas in the warm water tail-withdrawal procedure MPEP attenuated morphine antinociception at a moderate dose and potentiated morphine antinociception at a high dose. For both JNJ and MPEP, the magnitude of this morphine potentiation was considerably greater in the hotplate procedure. In the capsaicin procedure, the highest dose of MPEP produced intermediate levels of antihyperalgesia and also attenuated the effects of a dose of morphine that produced intermediate levels of antihyperalgesia. In contrast, JNJ had no effect when administered alone in the capsaicin procedure and did not alter morphine-induced antihyperalgesia. The present findings suggest that the effects produced by mGluR1 and mGluR5 antagonists alone and in combination with morphine can be differentiated in models of both acute and persistent pain.
The cognitive neurosciences combine behavioral experiments with acquiring physiological data from different modalities, such as electroencephalography, magnetoencephalography, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and functional magnetic resonance imaging, all of which require excellent timing. A simple framework is proposed in which uni- and multimodal experiments can be conducted with minimal adjustments when one switches between modalities. The framework allows the beginner to quickly become productive and the expert to be flexible and not constrained by the tool by building on existing software such as MATLAB and the Psychophysics Toolbox, which already are serving a large community. The framework allows running standard experiments but also supports and facilitates exciting new possibilities for real-time neuroimaging and state-dependent stimulation.
Sleep/wake identification and sleep parameter estimates from Motionlogger Watch and Actiwatch-64 actigraphs were compared to polysomnography (PSG). Following one night of baseline sleep, 29 volunteers remained awake for 36h, followed by 11h of recovery sleep in the laboratory. Two sets of analyses were performed: (1) epoch-by-epoch agreement and discriminability index (d') calculations, and (2) sleep parameter concordance with repeated measures ANOVAs. Sensitivity (sleep identification), specificity (wake detection), and overall agreement with PSG, as well as d', were higher for the Motionlogger than for Actiwatch. Relative to PSG, the Actiwatch-estimated total sleep time and sleep efficiency were underestimated and the number of awakenings was overestimated for baseline and recovery; sleep latency was underestimated on the baseline night. On the other hand, the Motionlogger-estimated total sleep time and sleep efficiency estimates were underestimated, and the sleep latency was overestimated on recovery, versus PSG. Despite these misestimations, it was concluded that the Motionlogger provided nominally better agreement with PSG, and that actigraphy generally constitutes a reasonably reliable tool for producing objective measurements of sleep/wake, but that users should remain mindful of its limitations.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the authors. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
We have investigated the mechanism of rat-selective induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (PT) by norbormide (NRB). We show that the inducing effect of NRB on the PT (i) is inhibited by the selective ligands of the 18kDa outer membrane (OMM) translocator protein (TSPO, formerly peripheral benzodiazepine receptor) protoporphyrin IX, N,N-dihexyl-2-(4-fluorophenyl)indole-3-acetamide and 7-chloro-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one; and (ii) is lost in digitonin mitoplasts, which lack an intact OMM. In mitoplasts the PT can still be induced by the NRB cationic derivative OL14, which contrary to NRB is also effective in intact mitochondria from mouse and guinea pig. We conclude that selective NRB transport into rat mitochondria occurs via TSPO in the OMM, which allows its translocation to PT-regulating sites in the inner membrane. Thus, species-specificity of NRB toward the rat PT depends on subtle differences in the structure of TSPO or of TSPO-associated proteins affecting its substrate specificity.

Antibodies and antibody conjugates have emerged as important tools for cancer therapy. However, a major therapeutic challenge for the use of antibodies is their inability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to reach tumors localized in the central nervous system (CNS). Multiple methods have been developed to enhance antibody delivery to the CNS, including direct injection, mechanical or biochemical disruption of the BBB, conjugation to a 'molecular Trojan horse', cationization, encapsulation in nanoparticles and liposomes, and more recently, stem cell-mediated antibody delivery. In this review, we discuss each of these approaches, highlighting their successes and the obstacles that remain to be overcome.
The ex-utero fertilization and development of the optically clear embryos of teleost fish have long been favorites of developmental biologists. They have, therefore, provided considerable insight with regards to our understanding of embryonic pattern formation and the early development of vertebrates. These attributes have also been most helpful in the visualization of Ca(2+) signaling events that have been reported to accompany many of the fundamental steps and processes that constitute early embryonic development. These include egg activation; segregation of the cytoplasm from the yolk; cytokinesis; axis determination; cellular rearrangement and germ layer establishment; as well as the formation of the first tissue domains. The developing eggs and embryos of medaka (Oryzias latipes) and zebrafish (Danio rerio) have for many decades been a favorite choice of investigators attempting to visualize Ca(2+) signaling events. In this short review, we have attempted to catalog and present a comparative study of the developmental Ca(2+) signals recorded in these most amenable of vertebrate models.


A major problem in recent neuroscience research on the processing of loved familiar faces is the absence of evidence concerning the elicitation of a genuine positive emotional response (love). These studies have two confounds: familiarity and arousal. The present investigation controlled for both factors in female university students. Two categories of loved faces were chosen: one with higher familiarity but lower emotionality (fathers) and the other with higher emotionality but lower familiarity (romantic partners). Unfamiliar and baby faces were used as control faces. Central and peripheral electrophysiological measures as well as subjective indices of valence, arousal, and dominance were recorded. Results support the conclusion that viewing loved familiar faces elicits an intense positive emotional reaction that cannot be explained either by familiarity or arousal. The differences between romantic and filial love appeared in the magnitude of some peripheral and subjective indices of emotionality (zygomatic activity, valence, arousal, and dominance), that were higher for images of the romantic partners, and one central index of familiarity (the P3 amplitude), that was higher for images of the fathers.
Calcium phosphate and hydroxyapatite nanoparticles are extensively researched for medical applications, including bone implant materials, DNA and SiRNA delivery vectors and slow release vaccines. Elucidating the mechanisms by which cells internalize nanoparticles is fundamental for their long-term exploitation. In this study, we demonstrate that hydrophilic hydroxyapatite nanoparticles are sequestered within a specialized compartment called SCC (surface-connected compartment). This membrane-bound compartment is an elaborate labyrinth-like structure directly connected to the extracellular space. This continuity is demonstrated by invivo 2-photon microscopy of ionic calcium using both cell-permeable and cell-impermeable dyes and by 3-D reconstructions from serial block-face SEM of fixed cells. Previously, this compartment was thought to be initiated specifically by exposure of macrophages to hydrophobic nanoparticles. However, we show that the SCC can be triggered by a much wider range of nanoparticles. Furthermore, we demonstrate its formation in A549 human lung epithelial cells, which are considerably less phagocytic than macrophages. EDX shows that extensive amounts of hydroxyapatite nanoparticles can be sequestered in this manner. We propose that SCC formation may be a means to remove large amounts of foreign material from the extracellular space, followed by slow degradation, may be to avoid excessive damage to surrounding cells or tissues.
Semiconductor nanocrystal quantum dots (QDs) possess an enormous potential of applications in nanomedicine, drug delivery and bioimaging which derives from their unique photoemission and photostability characteristics. In spite of this, however, their interactions with biological systems and impact on human health are still largely unknown. Here we used neurosecretory mouse chromaffin cells of the adrenal gland for testing the effects of CdSe-ZnS core-shell quantum dots (5-36 nM) on Ca(2+) channels functionality and Ca(2+)-dependent neurosecretion. Prolonged exposure (24 h) to commonly used concentrations of CdSe-ZnS QDs (16 nM) showed that the semiconductor nanocrystal is effectively internalized into the cells without affecting cell integrity (no changes of membrane resistance and cell capacitance). QDs reduced the size of Ca(2+) currents by 28% in a voltage-independent manner without affecting channel gating. Correspondingly, depolarization-evoked exocytosis, measured at +10 mV, where Ca(2+) currents are maximal, was reduced by 29%. CdSe-ZnS QDs reduced the size of the readily releasable pool (RRP) of secretory vesicles by 32%, the frequency of release by 33% and the overall quantity of released catecholamines by 61%, as measured by carbon fibers amperometry. In addition, the Ca(2+)-dependence of exocytosis was reduced, whereas the catecholamine content of single granules, as well as the kinetics of release, remained unaltered. These data suggest that exposure to CdSe-ZnS QDs impairs Ca(2+) influx and severely interferes with the functionality of the exocytotic machinery, compromising the overall catecholamine supply from chromaffin cells.
The biometals iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) and copper (Cu) have been associated to Parkinson's disease (PD) and Parkinsonism. In this work, we report for the first time that acute (15mM for up to 5days) or chronic (0.5mM for up to 15days) Fe, Mn and Cu exposure significantly reduced life span and locomotor activity (i.e. climbing capabilities) in Drosophila melanogaster. It is shown that the concentration of those biometals dramatically increase in Drosophila's brain acutely or chronically fed with metal. We demonstrate that the metal accumulation in the fly's head is associated with the neurodegeneration of several dopaminergic neuronal clusters. Interestingly, it is found that the PPL2ab DAergic neuronal cluster was erode by the three metals in acute and chronic metal exposure and the PPL3 DAergic cluster was also erode by the three metals but in acute metal exposure only. Furthermore, we found that the chelator desferoxamine, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and D: -penicillamine were able to protect but not rescue D. melanogaster against metal intoxication. Taken together these data suggest that iron, manganese and copper are capable to destroy DAergic neurons in the fly's brain, thereby impairing their movement capabilities. This work provides for the first time metal-induced Parkinson-like symptoms in D. melanogaster. Understanding therefore the effects of biometals in the Drosophila model may provide insights into the toxic effect of metal ions and more effective therapeutic approaches to Parkinsonism.
Biochemical analyses of many brain diseases have highlighted that oxidative damage of proteins and astrogliosis are important events associated with pathology. However, human studies on the status of protein oxidation/nitration and astrogliosis [indicated by expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)] heavily depend on postmortem tissues that might be altered by pre and postmortem factors. To evaluate the effect of these variables, we tested whether the status of GFAP expression, oxidized proteins, and nitrated proteins (by protein 3-nitrotyrosine or 3-NT) were affected in postmortem human brains (n=48) by increased storage time (11.8-104.1 months), postmortem interval (PMI) (2.5-26h), gender difference, and agonal state (based on Glasgow coma scale: range: 3-15) in different anatomical regions-frontal cortex (FC), cerebellum (CB) and medulla oblongata (MD). We observed that increasing storage time significantly decreased the stability of all 3 markers in MD (oxyblot: P=0.003; 3-NT: P=0.01; GFAP: P=0.03) and that of oxidized proteins in CB (P=0.04), whereas the status of all markers was not significantly altered in FC. On the other hand, PMI and agonal state did not influence the status of all the markers tested in any of the regions. Similarly, except for the decreased protein 3-NT among women in CB compared with men (P=0.04), there was no effect due to gender differences in other brain regions for other markers. These data highlight the influence of storage time on preservation of markers of protein damage and astrogliosis and the inherent differences in brain regions, with implications for studies on brain pathology employing stored human samples.

Lumbo-peritoneal shunt as one of the modalities for management of benign intracranial hypertension is prone to complications. We are reporting a rare complication of lumbo-peritoneal shunt insertion in which our patient had developed a painful swelling on the scar site. Surgical exploration confirmed diagnosis of abdominal wall endometriosis. Abdominal wall swelling with variation in size and tenderness during menstrual cycle in female patients with shunt, especially lumbo-peritoneal shunt, should raise the suspicion of endometriosis.
Confident intra-operative localisation of thoracic spinal pathology remains challenging. Several strategies are routinely employed, including intra-operative fluoroscopy and pre-operative image-guided skin marking. These techniques are limited both by potential inaccuracy and inconvenience. Here we present a novel, efficient and accurate technique for intra-operative localisation of thoracic spinal pathology using pre-operative CT-guided placement of a flexible hook-wire marker.

Although all trigeminal nerve schwannomas are uncommon, malignant schwannomas are extraordinarily rare. We describe a patient who presented with clinical and radiological features of a trigeminal schwannoma; however, pathological analysis showed a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour (WHO Grade IV). We discuss these extremely rare tumours and their management.
A 13-year-old boy presented with an intracerebral haematoma secondary to a large corpus callosal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) with an associated persistent trigeminal artery, and was treated with Gamma-Knife Radiosurgery for the AVM. This report discusses the embryological basis, radiological features and various classifications of this rare vascular anomaly.

Invasion of tumour cells into the normal brain is one of the major reasons of treatment failure for gliomas. Although there is a good understanding of the molecular and cellular processes that occur during this invasion, it is not possible to detect the extent of the tumour with conventional imaging. However, there is an understanding that the degree of invasion differs with individual tumours, and yet they are all treated the same. Newer imaging techniques that probe the pathological changes within tumours may be suitable biomarkers for invasion. Imaging methods are now available that can detect subtle changes in white matter organisation (diffusion tensor imaging), tumour metabolism and cellular proliferation (using MR spectroscopy and positron emission tomography) occurring in regions of tumour that cannot be detected by conventional imaging. The role of such biomarkers of invasion should allow better delineation of tumour margins, which should improve treatment planning (especially surgery and radiotherapy) and provide information on the invasiveness of an individual tumour to help select the most appropriate therapy and help stratify patients for clinical trials.
MRI offers a number of opportunities to examine characteristics of tissue well below the spatial resolution of the imaging technique. The best known of these is diffusion imaging, which allows the production of images whose contrast reflects the ability of water molecules to move through the extravascular extracellular space. Less well-known, but increasingly important, is magnetisation transfer imaging, which produces contrast based on the ability of protons to move between the free water pool and local macromolecules. Both of these techniques offer unique information about the microscopic and molecular structure of tumour tissue. This article will briefly review the underlying theory and technical aspects associated with these imaging techniques.

John Newsom-Davis was born in 1932 and died, aged 74, in 2007. After national service in the Royal Air Force, he read Natural Sciences at Cambridge. Following clinical studies at the Middlesex Hospital, he began research into respiratory neurophysiology with Tom Sears at the National Hospital, Queen Square, in London, and spent 1 year with Fred Plum at Cornell University in New York. After neurology specialist training at Queen Square, he became the director of the Batten Unit, continuing his interest in respiratory physiology. There he began to work on myasthenia gravis in collaboration with Ricardo Miledi at University College London and in 1978, after performing the first studies on plasma exchange in that disease, he established a myasthenia gravis research group at the Royal Free Hospital. There he investigated the role of the thymus in this disease and demonstrated an autoimmune basis for the Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome and 'seronegative' myasthenia. He was awarded the first Medical Research Council Clinical Research Professorship in 1979 but moved to Oxford in 1987 when he was elected Action Research Professor of Neurology. While at Oxford, he continued to run a very successful multidisciplinary group, researched further into the thymic abnormalities and cellular immunology of myasthenia, identified antibody-mediated mechanisms in acquired neuromyotonia, and began the molecular work that identified the genetic basis for many forms of congenital myasthenic syndrome. Meanwhile, he was also involved in university and college governance and contributed widely to the Medical Research Council, government committees, research charities and the Association of British Neurologists. Among many honours, he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1991, appointed Commander of the British Empire in 1996 and made a Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine of the United States in 2001. Nearing and following retirement from Oxford, where he continued to see patients with myasthenia, he was the President of the Association of British Neurologists and Editor of Brain, and led a National Institutes of Health-funded international trial of thymectomy.
An impaired ability to appreciate other people's mental states is a well-established and stable cognitive deficit in schizophrenia, which might explain some aspects of patients' social dysfunction. Yet, despite a wealth of literature on this topic, the basic mechanisms underlying these impairments are still poorly understood, and their links with the clinical dimensions of schizophrenia remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the extent to which patients' impaired ability to appreciate other people's intentions (known as mentalizing) may be accounted for by abnormal interaction between the two types of information that contribute to this ability: (i) the sensory evidence conveyed by movement kinematics; and (ii) the observer's prior expectations. We hypothesized that this is not a generalized impairment, but one confined to certain types of intentions. To test this assumption, we designed four tasks in which participants were required to infer either: (i) basic intentions (i.e. the simple goal of a motor act); (ii) superordinate intentions (i.e. the general goal of a sequence of motor acts); (iii) social basic; or (iv) social superordinate intentions (i.e. simple or general goals achieved within the context of a reciprocal interaction). In each of these tasks, both prior expectations and sensory information were manipulated. We found that patients correctly inferred non-social, basic intentions, but experienced difficulties when inferring non-social superordinate intentions and both basic and superordinate social intentions. These poor performances were associated with two abnormal patterns of interaction between prior expectations and sensory evidence. In the non-social superordinate condition, patients relied heavily on their prior expectations, while disregarding sensory evidence. This pattern of interaction predicted the severity of 'positive' symptoms. Social conditions prompted exactly the opposite pattern of interaction: patients exhibited weaker dependence on prior expectations while relying strongly on sensory evidence, and this predicted the severity of 'negative' symptoms. We suggest both these patterns can be accounted for by a disturbance in the Bayesian inferential mechanism that integrates sensory evidence (conveyed by movement kinematics) into prior beliefs (about others' mental states and attitudes) to produce accurate inferences about other people's intentions.

Anesthetic-induced changes in the neural activity of the brain have been recently utilized as a research model to investigate the neural mechanisms of phenomenal consciousness. However, the anesthesiologic definition of consciousness as &quot;responsiveness to the environment&quot; seems to sidestep the possibility that an unresponsive individual may have subjective experiences. The aim of the present study was to analyze subjective reports in sessions where sedation and the loss of responsiveness were induced by dexmedetomidine, propofol, sevoflurane or xenon in a nonsurgical experimental setting. After regaining responsiveness, participants recalled subjective experiences in almost 60% of sessions. During dexmedetomidine sessions, subjective experiences were associated with shallower &quot;depth of sedation&quot; as measured by an electroencephalography-derived anesthesia depth monitor. Results confirm that subjective experiences may occur during clinically defined unresponsiveness, and that studies aiming to investigate phenomenal consciousness under sedative and anesthetic effects should control the subjective state of unresponsive participants with post-recovery interviews.
The brain's frontal eye fields (FEF), responsible for eye movement control, are known to be involved in spatial working memory (WM). In a previous fMRI experiment (Wallentin, Roepstorff &amp; Burgess, Neuropsychologia, 2008) it was found that FEF activation was primarily related to the formation of an object-centered, rather than egocentric, spatial reference frame. In this behavioral experiment we wanted to demonstrate a causal relationship between eye movement control and manipulation of spatial reference frames. Sixty-two participants recalled either spatial (&quot;Was X in front of Y?&quot;) or non-spatial (&quot;Was X darker than Y?&quot;) relations in a previously shown image containing two to four objects, each with an intrinsic orientation and unique luminance. During half of all recall trials a moving visual stimulus was presented, which participants had to ignore, thus suppressing eye movement. Response times were significantly slower for spatial relations with distraction while there was no effect on non-spatial relations. There was no effect on accuracy, i.e. WM maintenance. This is consistent with the hypothesis that in spatial representations the FEFs are involved in WM content manipulation, such as establishing an object-centered spatial frame of reference.
We assessed the effects of time-on-task on cognitive control expressed by the CRN/Nc and the extent to which motivation modulates this relationship. We utilized two groups of participants, who were told that their performance would (evaluation condition) or would not (control condition) be evaluated online. Both groups performed a version of the Eriksen Flanker Task for 60 min. We observed classical vigilance lowering, manifested by a progressive performance decline with time-on-task, in the control, but not in the evaluation, condition. In the latter, performance remained stable throughout the task. ERP analysis indicated the same interaction in our main component of interest, the CRN/Nc, whose amplitude decreased from the first to the last period in the control condition but remained stable over time in the evaluation condition. To our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate the impact of motivation on monitoring processes as indexed by the correct response negativity, in the context of a prolonged task. Vigilance lowering caused by a repetitive and prolonged flanker task, results in compromised response control and compromised control of correct responses. Our results suggest that alterations in ACC functioning may underlie vigilance decline and can be viewed as evidence that the action monitoring functions of the ACC can be positively affected by motivation.
Motor theories of speech perception have been re-vitalized as a consequence of the discovery of mirror neurons. Some authors have even promoted a strong version of the motor theory, arguing that the motor speech system is critical for perception. Part of the evidence that is cited in favor of this claim is the observation from the early 1980s that individuals with Broca's aphasia, and therefore inferred damage to Broca's area, can have deficits in speech sound discrimination. Here we re-examine this issue in 24 patients with radiologically confirmed lesions to Broca's area and various degrees of associated non-fluent speech production. Patients performed two same-different discrimination tasks involving pairs of CV syllables, one in which both CVs were presented auditorily, and the other in which one syllable was auditorily presented and the other visually presented as an orthographic form; word comprehension was also assessed using word-to-picture matching tasks in both auditory and visual forms. Discrimination performance on the all-auditory task was four standard deviations above chance, as measured using d', and was unrelated to the degree of non-fluency in the patients' speech production. Performance on the auditory-visual task, however, was worse than, and not correlated with, the all-auditory task. The auditory-visual task was related to the degree of speech non-fluency. Word comprehension was at ceiling for the auditory version (97% accuracy) and near ceiling for the orthographic version (90% accuracy). We conclude that the motor speech system is not necessary for speech perception as measured both by discrimination and comprehension paradigms, but may play a role in orthographic decoding or in auditory-visual matching of phonological forms.
Embodied semantic theories suppose that representation of word meaning and actual sensory-motor processing are implemented in overlapping systems. According to this view, association and dissociation of different word meaning should correspond to dissociation and association of the described sensory-motor processing. Previous studies demonstrate that although tool-use actions and hand actions have overlapping neural substrates, tool-use actions show greater activations in frontal-parietal-temporal regions that are responsible for motor control and tool knowledge processing. In the present study, we examined the association and the dissociation of the semantic representation of tool-use verbs and hand action verbs. Chinese verbs describing tool-use or hand actions without tools were included, and a passive reading task was employed. All verb conditions showed common activations in areas of left middle frontal gyrus, left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 44/45) and left inferior parietal lobule relative to rest, and all conditions showed significant effects in premotor areas within the mask of hand motion effects. Contrasts between tool-use verbs and hand verbs demonstrated that tool verbs elicited stronger activity in left superior parietal lobule, left middle frontal gyrus and left posterior middle temporal gyrus. Additionally, psychophysiological interaction analyses demonstrated that tool verbs indicated greater connectivity among these regions. These results suggest that the brain regions involved in tool-use action processing also play more important roles in tool-use verb processing and that similar systems may be responsible for word meaning representation and actual sensory-motor processing.

A primary focus within neuroimaging research on language comprehension is on the distribution of semantic knowledge in the brain. Studies have shown that the left posterior middle temporal gyrus (LPMT), a region just anterior to area MT/V5, is important for the processing of complex action knowledge. It has also been found that motion verbs cause activation in LPMT. In this experiment we investigated whether this effect could be replicated in a setting resembling real life language comprehension, i.e. without any overt behavioral task during passive listening to a story. During fMRI participants listened to a recording of the story &quot;The Ugly Duckling&quot;. We incorporated a nuisance elimination regression approach for factoring out known nuisance variables both in terms of physiological noise, sound intensity, linguistic variables and emotional content. Compared to the remaining text, clauses containing motion verbs were accompanied by a robust activation of LPMT with no other significant effects, consistent with the hypothesis that this brain region is important for processing motion knowledge, even during naturalistic language comprehension conditions.
Since the first report of an aphasic patient by Paul Broca, the localization of brain function has been disputed for 150 years. In lesion studies, double dissociation has been a key concept to show the localization of particular cognitive functions. The advancement of non-invasive brain imaging methods enables us to investigate the brain activities under well-controlled conditions, further promoting the studies on the localization of the cognitive functions, including language function. Brain imaging studies, together with subtraction and correlation analyses, have accumulated evidence that syntax, phonology, and sentence comprehension are separately processed by modules in different cortical regions. More specifically, it has been clarified that the module for syntax localizes in the left lateral premotor cortex and the opercular/triangular parts of the left inferior frontal gyrus. This modular structure further suggests that aphasia is interpreted as deficits in either syntactic or phonological processing. Therefore, the classical model of contrasting speech production and comprehension should be updated. According to theoretical linguistics, on the other hand, the recursive computation of syntactic structures is an essential feature of human language faculty. One direction of research would be to contrast human beings and animals for the abilities of processing symbolic sequences. Another direction is to clarify that the human brain is indeed specialized in language processing, which can be revealed by well-controlled language tasks and functional imaging techniques. Here we will review recent studies that demonstrate the existence of grammar center in the left frontal cortex. The future studies in the neuroscience of language will eventually elucidate the cortical localization of language function in a more precise way, i.e., what is really computed in the human brain.
In recent years, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) decoding has emerged as a powerful tool to read out detailed stimulus features from multi-voxel brain activity patterns. Moreover, the method has been extended to perform a primitive form of 'mind-reading,' by applying a decoder &quot;objectively&quot; trained using stimulus features to more &quot;subjective&quot; conditions. In this paper, we first introduce basic procedures for fMRI decoding based on machine learning techniques. Second, we discuss the source of information used for decoding, in particular, the possibility of extracting information from subvoxel neural structures. We next introduce two experimental designs for decoding subjective mental states: the &quot;objective-to-subjective design&quot; and the &quot;subjective-to-subjective design.&quot; Then, we illustrate recent studies on the decoding of a variety of mental states, such as, attention, awareness, decision making, memory, and mental imagery. Finally, we discuss the challenges and new directions of fMRI decoding.
Spatial patterns of spontaneous fluctuations in blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals reflect the underlying neural architecture. The study of the brain network based on these self-organized patterns is termed resting-state functional MRI (fMRI). This review article aims at briefly reviewing a basic concept of this technology and discussing its implications for neuropsychological studies. First, the technical aspects of resting-state fMRI, including signal sources, physiological artifacts, image acquisition, and analytical methods such as seed-based correlation analysis and independent component analysis, are explained, followed by a discussion on the major resting-state networks, including the default mode network. In addition, the structure-function correlation studied using diffuse tensor imaging and resting-state fMRI is briefly discussed. Second, I have discussed the reservations and potential pitfalls of 2 major imaging methods: voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping and task fMRI. Problems encountered with voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping can be overcome by using resting-state fMRI and evaluating undamaged brain networks in patients. Regarding task fMRI in patients, I have also emphasized the importance of evaluating the baseline brain activity because the amplitude of activation in BOLD fMRI is hard to interpret as the same baseline cannot be assumed for both patient and normal groups.
Burns may have a devastating effect on psychological health among children, although previous studies report difficulties as well as positive findings. The aims were to describe the rate of psychological problems in children with burns using a standardised instrument and to explore statistical predictors of these problems. Parents (n=94) of children aged 3-18 years who sustained burns 0.3-9.0 years previously answered the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) covering Emotional symptoms, Conduct problems, Hyperactivity/Inattention, Peer relationship problems, Prosocial behaviour, and a Total difficulties score. Questions regarding parental psychological health and family situation were also included. The results for three of the SDQ subscales were close to the norm (10%) regarding the rate of cases where clinical problems were indicated, while the rate of cases indicated for Conduct, Peer problems and Total difficulties was 18-20%. Statistical predictors of the SDQ subscales were mainly parents' psychological symptoms, father's education, and changes in living arrangements. Visible scars were relevant for the Total difficulties score and Hyperactivity/Inattention. In summary, a slightly larger proportion of children with burns had psychological problems than is the case among children in general, and family variables exerted the most influence on parental reports of children's psychological problems.
4,4'-Methylenedianiline (DAPM) is an aromatic diamine used directly in the production of polyurethane foams and epoxy resins, or as a precursor to MDI in the manufacture of some polyurethanes. In our prior experiments, we showed that chronic, intermittent treatment of female rats with DAPM resulted in vascular medial hyperplasia of pulmonary arteries. In addition, treatment of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in culture with DAPM increased the rates of proliferation in a manner that was inhibited by co-treatment with N-acetylcysteine but was not associated with oxidative stress. We thus hypothesized that NAC treatment inhibited DAPM toxicity by competing for binding reactive intermediates formed through DAPM metabolism. Because the peroxidase enzyme cyclooxygenase is constitutively expressed in VSMC, and because cyclooxygenase is known to metabolize similar aromatic amines to electrophilic intermediates, we further hypothesized that DAPM-induced VSMC proliferation was dependent upon COX-1/2-mediated bioactivation. To test this hypothesis, we treated VSMC with DAPM and measured cell proliferation, COX-2 expression, COX-1/2 activity, and levels of covalent binding. DAPM treatment resulted in a dose-dependent increase in proliferation that was abolished by co-treatment with the COX-2-selective inhibitor celecoxib. In addition, DAPM exposure increased the rates of proliferation in VSMC isolated from wild-type but not COX-2 (-/-) mice. Paradoxically, treatment with DAPM reduced the cellular production of PGE(2) and PGF(2), but dose-dependently increased the COX-2 protein levels. Covalent binding of [(14)C]-DAPM to VSMC biomolecules was greater in wild-type than in COX-2 (-/-) cells. However, covalent binding of [(14)C]-DAPM was not altered by co-treatment with a nonselective inhibitor of cytochromes P450. These studies thus suggest that DAPM-induced VSMC proliferation may be due to bioactivation of DAPM, perhaps through the action of cyclooxygenase. The data furthermore suggest that DAPM's mechanism of action may possibly involve inhibition or suicide inactivation of COX-2. In addition, because we observed an increase in DAPM-induced VSMC proliferation in cells isolated from female compared to male rats, further studies into the potential interplay between DAPM, the estrogen receptor, and COX-2 seem warranted.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group of genetic childhood-onset progressive brain diseases characterized by a decline in mental and motor capacities, epilepsy, visual loss and premature death. Using patch clamp, fluorescence imaging and caged Ca(2+) photolysis, we evaluated the mechanisms of neuronal Ca(2+) clearance in Cln8(mnd) mice, a model of the human NCL caused by mutations in the CLN8 gene. In Cln8(mnd) hippocampal slices, Ca(2+) clearance efficiency in interneurons and, to some extent, principal neurons declined with age. In cultured Cln8(mnd) hippocampal neurons, clearance of large Ca(2+) loads was inefficient due to impaired mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. In contrast, neither Ca(2+) uptake by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase, nor Ca(2+) extrusion through plasma membrane was affected by the Cln8 mutation. Excitotoxic glutamate challenge caused Ca(2+) deregulation more readily in Cln8(mnd) than in wt neurons. We propose that neurodegeneration in human CLN8 disorders is primarily caused by reduced mitochondrial Ca(2+) buffering capacity.
Melanopsin (OPN4) is an opsin photopigment that, in mammals, confers photosensitivity to retinal ganglion cells and regulates circadian entrainment and pupil constriction. In non-mammalian species, two forms of opn4 exist, and are classified into mammalian-like (m) and non-mammalian-like (x) clades. However, far less is understood of the function of this photopigment family. Here we identify in zebrafish five melanopsins (opn4m-1, opn4m-2, opn4m-3, opn4x-1 and opn4x-2), each encoding a full-length opsin G protein. All five genes are expressed in the adult retina in a largely non-overlapping pattern, as revealed by RNA in situ hybridisation and immunocytochemistry, with at least one melanopsin form present in all neuronal cell types, including cone photoreceptors. This raises the possibility that the teleost retina is globally light sensitive. Electrophysiological and spectrophotometric studies demonstrate that all five zebrafish melanopsins encode a functional photopigment with peak spectral sensitivities that range from 470 to 484nm, with opn4m-1 and opn4m-3 displaying invertebrate-like bistability, where the retinal chromophore interchanges between cis- and trans-isomers in a light-dependent manner and remains within the opsin binding pocket. In contrast, opn4m-2, opn4x-1 and opn4x-2 are monostable and function more like classical vertebrate-like photopigments, where the chromophore is converted from 11-cis to all-trans retinal upon absorption of a photon, hydrolysed and exits from the binding pocket of the opsin. It is thought that all melanopsins exhibit an invertebrate-like bistability biochemistry. Our novel findings, however, reveal the presence of both invertebrate-like and vertebrate-like forms of melanopsin in the teleost retina, and indicate that photopigment bistability is not a universal property of the melanopsin family. The functional diversity of these teleost melanopsins, together with their widespread expression pattern within the retina, suggests that melanopsins confer global photosensitivity to the teleost retina and might allow for direct &quot;fine-tuning&quot; of retinal circuitry and physiology in the dynamic light environments found in aquatic habitats.
MICALs form an evolutionary conserved family of multidomain signal transduction proteins characterized by a flavoprotein monooxygenase domain. MICALs are being implicated in the regulation of an increasing number of molecular and cellular processes including cytoskeletal dynamics and intracellular trafficking. Intriguingly, some of these effects are dependent on the MICAL monooxygenase enzyme and redox signaling, while other functions rely on other parts of the MICAL protein. Recent breakthroughs in our understanding of MICAL signaling identify the ability of MICALs to bind and directly modify the actin cytoskeleton, link MICALs to the docking and fusion of exocytotic vesicles, and uncover MICALs as anti-apoptotic proteins. These discoveries could lead to therapeutic advances in neural regeneration, cancer, and other diseases.
Wiring of vascular and neural networks requires precise guidance of growing blood vessels and axons, respectively, to reach their targets during development. Both of the processes share common molecular signaling pathways. Transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels are calcium-permeable cation channels and gated via receptor- or store-operated mechanisms. Recent studies have revealed the requirement of TRPC channels in mediating guidance cue-induced calcium influx and their essential roles in regulating axon navigation and angiogenesis. Dissecting TRPC functions in these physiological processes may provide therapeutic implications for suppressing pathological angiogenesis and improving nerve regeneration.
Cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) is the most widely studied member of the Group IV PLA(2) family. The enzyme is Ca(2+)-dependent with specificity for phospholipid substrates containing arachidonic acid. As the pinnacle of the arachidonic acid pathway, cPLA(2) has a primary role in the biosynthesis of a diverse family of eicosanoid metabolites, with potent physiological, inflammatory and pathological consequences. cPLA(2) activity is regulated by pro-inflammatory stimuli through pathways involving increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels, phosphorylation coupled to increased enzymatic activity and de novo gene transcription. This study addresses the signal transduction pathways for protein phosphorylation and gene induction following IL-1 stimulation in human fetal lung fibroblasts. Our results utilizing both inhibitors and kinase-deficient cells demonstrate that cPLA(2) is phosphorylated within 10min of IL-1 treatment, an event requiring p38 MAPK as well as the upstream kinase, MKK3/MKK6. Inhibition of p38 MAPK also blocks the phosphorylation of a downstream, nuclear kinase, MSK-1. Our results further demonstrate that the activities of both cPLA(2) and a downstream lipoxygenase (15-LOX2) are required for IL-1-dependent induction of cPLA(2) mRNA expression. Overall, these data support an MKK3/MKK6p38 MAPKMSK-1cPLA(2)15-LOX2-dependent, positive feedback loop where a protein's enzymatic activity is required to regulate its own gene induction by a pro-inflammatory stimulus.
The identification of a face comprises processing of both visual features and conceptual knowledge. Studies showing that the fusiform face area (FFA) is sensitive to face identity generally neglect this dissociation. The present study is the first that isolates conceptual face processing by using words presented in a person context instead of faces. The design consisted of 2 different conditions. In one condition, participants were presented with blocks of words related to each other at the categorical level (e.g., brands of cars, European cities). The second condition consisted of blocks of words linked to the personality features of a specific face. Both conditions were created from the same 8  8 word matrix, thereby controlling for visual input across conditions. Univariate statistical contrasts did not yield any significant differences between the 2 conditions in FFA. However, a machine learning classification algorithm was able to successfully learn the functional relationship between the 2 contexts and their underlying response patterns in FFA, suggesting that these activation patterns can code for different semantic contexts. These results suggest that the level of processing in FFA goes beyond facial features. This has strong implications for the debate about the role of FFA in face identification.
Temporal voice areas showing a larger activity for vocal than non-vocal sounds have been identified along the superior temporal sulcus (STS); more voice-sensitive areas have been described in frontal and parietal lobes. Yet, the role of voice-sensitive regions in representing voice identity remains unclear. Using a functional magnetic resonance adaptation design, we aimed at disentangling acoustic- from identity-based representations of voices. Sixteen participants were scanned while listening to pairs of voices drawn from morphed continua between 2 initially unfamiliar voices, before and after a voice learning phase. In a given pair, the first and second stimuli could be identical or acoustically different and, at the second session, perceptually similar or different. At both sessions, right mid-STS/superior temporal gyrus (STG) and superior temporal pole (sTP) showed sensitivity to acoustical changes. Critically, voice learning induced changes in the acoustical processing of voices in inferior frontal cortices (IFCs). At the second session only, right IFC and left cingulate gyrus showed sensitivity to changes in perceived identity. The processing of voice identity appears to be subserved by a large network of brain areas ranging from the sTP, involved in an acoustic-based representation of unfamiliar voices, to areas along the convexity of the IFC for identity-related processing of familiar voices.
Parallel visual pathways in the primate brain known as the dorsal and ventral streams receive retinal inputs mainly through the magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus. Inputs from these layers terminate within distinct parts of layer 4C of V1 (visual area 1). Due to the complexity of M- and P-derived neural connectivity in V1 and higher visual areas, the contributions of M and P inputs to the dorsal and ventral streams remain unclear. Employing retrograde transsynaptic transport of rabies virus, we analyzed the architecture of bottom-up pathways toward ventral stream area V4 (visual area 4) and dorsal stream area MT (middle temporal area). We found that V4 receives both M and P inputs &quot;trisynaptically&quot; from layer 4C via layer 2/3 of V1, whereas MT receives M-dominant input &quot;disynaptically&quot; from layer 4C via layer 4B of V1. V4 also receives disynaptic input from the dorsal stream portion of V2 (visual area 2) (i.e., cytochrome oxidase-stained thick stripes). Moreover, both M and P inputs reach V4 trisynaptically and MT disynaptically through &quot;short-cut&quot; pathways that bypass layer 4C of V1. The differential patterns of multisynaptic geniculo-cortical pathways to V4 and MT imply distinct modes of information processing in the dorsal and ventral streams.
Continuous theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) applied over the cerebellum exerts long-lasting effects by modulating long-term synaptic plasticity, which is thought to be the basis of learning and behavioral adaptation. To investigate the impact of cTBS over the cerebellum on short-term sensory-motor memory, we recorded in two groups of eight healthy subject each the visually guided saccades (VGSs), the memory-guided saccades (MGSs), and the multiple memory-guided saccades (MMGSs), before and after cTBS (cTBS group) or simulated cTBS (control group). In the cTBS group, cTBS determined hypometria of contralateral centrifugal VGSs and worsened the accuracy of MMGS bilaterally. In the control group, no significant differences were found between the two recording sessions. These results indicate that cTBS over the cerebellum causes eye movement effects that last longer than the stimulus duration. The VGS contralateral hypometria suggested that we eventually inhibited the fastigial nucleus on the stimulated side. MMGSs in normal subjects have a better final accuracy with respect to MGSs. Such improvement is due to the availability in MMGSs of the efference copy of the initial reflexive saccade directed toward the same peripheral target, which provides a sensory-motor information that is memorized and then used to improve the accuracy of the subsequent volitional memory-guided saccade. Thus, we hypothesize that cTBS disrupted the capability of the cerebellum to make an internal representation of the memorized sensory-motor information to be used after a short interval for forward control of saccades.
The question of what modulates the firing of the cerebellar nuclei (CN) is one to which we presently have a surprisingly incomplete answer. Because most synaptic input to the CN originates from Purkinje cells (PCs), and simple spikes (SSs) are far more numerous than complex spikes (CSs), SSs are generally thought to be the dominant influence on the CN. However, evidence, reviewed here, suggests that this appears not to be the case in some physiologically important situations. As an alternative, we propose that CS activity may have at least as significant an effect on CN firing as do SSs. In particular, we suggest that CS activity has a role in controlling the bursts CN neurons show during various movements, during sleep states, and under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia. The ability to perform this role rests on the fact that CSs can be highly synchronized among PCs that project to the same CN neuron. Specifically, we suggest that synchronized CSs help determine the temporal course of the CN bursts, most often their offset, and that SSs and activity from cerebellar afferents may modulate the specific firing pattern within each burst. This joint control of CN activity may help explain anomalies present in the standard model for synaptic control of CN activity in which determination of CN firing patterns is attributed primarily to SSs.
This review examines the signals encoded in the discharge of cerebellar neurons during voluntary arm and hand movements, assessing the state of our knowledge and the implications for hypotheses of cerebellar function. The evidence for the representation of forces, joint torques, or muscle activity in the discharge of cerebellar neurons is limited, questioning the validity of theories that the cerebellum directly encodes the motor command. In contrast, kinematic parameters such as position, direction, and velocity are widely and robustly encoded in the activity of cerebellar neurons. These findings favor hypotheses that the cerebellum plans or controls movements in a kinematic framework, such as the proposal that the cerebellum provides a forward internal model. Error signals are needed for on-line correction and motor learning, and several hypotheses postulate the need for their representations in the cerebellum. Error signals have been described mostly in the complex spike discharge of Purkinje cells, but no consensus has emerged on the exact information signaled by complex spikes during limb movements. Newer studies suggest that simple spike firing may also encode error signals. Finally, Purkinje cells located more posterior and laterally in the cerebellar cortex and dentate neurons encode nonmotor, task-related signals such as visual cues. These results suggest that cerebellar neurons provide a complement of information about motor behaviors. We assert that additional single unit studies are needed using rich movement paradigms, given the power of this approach to directly test specific hypotheses about cerebellar function.
Understanding the role played by the cerebellum in the genesis and control of learned motor responses requires a precise knowledge of interdependent relationships between kinetic neural commands and the performance (kinematics) of the acquired movements. The eyelid motor system is a useful model for studying how simple motor responses are generated and performed. Here, we recorded the activity of interpositus, red nucleus, and/or facial motor neurons during classical eyeblink conditioning, using a delay paradigm. Experiments were carried out in behaving cats, and in conscious wild-type and (Purkinje cell devoid) Lurcher mice. Kinetic variables were determined by recording the firing activities of identified neurons at the mentioned nuclei, whilst kinematic variables were selected from the electromyographic activity of the orbicularis oculi muscle and/or from eyelid position recorded during the conditioned-stimulus/unconditioned-stimulus interval. Whereas motoneurons encoded eyelid kinematics for acquired eyelid responses, interpositus, and red nucleus neurons did not directly encode eyelid performance, and the dynamic association between their neuronal activities was barely significant (from moderate to weak correlation, nonlinear coupling with high asymmetry, and neural firing activities that always lagged the beginning of the conditioned response). Nevertheless, interpositus and red nucleus neurons seem to play a modulating role in the dynamic control of this type of learned motor response, and present interesting adaptive properties in Lurcher mice. The analytical procedures proposed here could be very helpful in defining the functional state corresponding to each stage across the acquisition of new motor and cognitive abilities.
Using a model system of FitzHugh-Nagumo type in the excitable regime, the similarity between synchronization of self-sustained and noise-induced oscillations is studied for the case of more than one main frequency in the spectrum. It is shown that this excitable system undergoes the same frequency lockings as a self-sustained quasiperiodic oscillator. The presence of noise-induced both stable and unstable limit cycles and tori, as well as their tangential bifurcations, are discussed. As the FitzHugh-Nagumo oscillator represents one of the basic neural models, the obtained results are of high importance for neuroscience.
Coherence and information theoretic analyses were applied to quantitate the response properties and the encoding of time-varying stimuli in paddlefish electroreceptors (ERs), studied in vivo. External electrical stimuli were Gaussian noise waveforms of varied frequency band and strength, including naturalistic waveforms derived from zooplankton prey. Our coherence analyses elucidated the role of internal oscillations and transduction processes in shaping the 0.5-20 Hz best frequency tuning of these electroreceptors, to match the electrical signals emitted by zooplankton prey. Stimulus-response coherence fell off above approximately 20 Hz, apparently due to intrinsic limits of transduction, but was detectable up to 40-50 Hz. Aligned with this upper fall off was a narrow band of intense internal noise at 25 Hz, due to prominent membrane potential oscillations in cells of sensory epithelia, which caused a narrow deadband of external insensitivity. Using coherence analysis, we showed that more than 76% of naturalistic stimuli of weak strength, 1 Vcm, was linearly encoded into an afferent spike train, which transmitted information at a rate of 30 bitss. Stimulus transfer to afferent spike timing became essentially nonlinear as the stimulus strength was increased to induce bursting firing. Strong stimuli, as from nearby zooplankton prey, acted to synchronize the bursting responses of afferents, including across populations of electroreceptors, providing a plausible mechanism for reliable information transfer to higher-order neurons through noisy synapses.




Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a rare demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system, caused by the reactivation of the ubiquitous JC virus. PML usually occurs during severe immunosuppression, and the most common causes are represented by human immunodeficiency virus infection, lymphoproliferative disorders and other forms of cancer. Recently, the introduction of monoclonal antibodies (e.g. natalizumab, rituximab, efalizumab) in the treatment of several dysimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and systemic lupus erythematosus, has led to an increased incidence of PML. This phenomenon has had severe consequences, leading, for example, to the withdrawal from the market of Efalizumab, and important restrictions in the use of the other compounds, all of which are characterized by high efficacy in improving prognosis and quality of life. In this review we will discuss clinical, laboratory and imaging findings of PML. In addition, proposed pathogenetic mechanisms promoting the reactivation of JC virus in the context of treatment with monoclonal antibodies will be described.
Comorbid cerebrovascular disease (CVD) can occur in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) but its reported prevalence varies considerably. CVD may alter the clinical presentation, course and prognosis in IPD. We aimed to determine the prevalence of radiological and clinical CVD in a neurology clinic IPD population. We undertook a retrospective case-control study of neurology clinic patients with IPD for whom cerebral imaging was available, and excluding probable vascular parkinsonism. IPD diagnosis was validated against UK PDS brain bank criteria. Age and sex-matched controls were identified from patients attending neurology clinics with headache. The presence of radiological cerebrovascular disease, symptomatic CVD (stroke and TIA), and CVD risk factors was recorded for cases and controls. Radiological findings were validated by an experienced consultant neuroradiologist using a structured proforma. Eighty-five cases and 85 controls were studied, based on the number of cases for whom brain imaging existed (CT in 50, MRI in 35) and the number of cases for whom suitable controls could be identified. Indications for brain imaging amongst cases were varied. Cases and controls comprised 55(65%) males, mean ( SD) age (years) 67.4  10.1 (cases), 66.6  9.9 (controls). Radiological CVD was significantly commoner amongst cases (39%) than controls (22%) (p=0.02, chi-square; odds ratio 2.2, 95% CI: 1.1-4.6). Cases also had significantly more symptomatic CVD, but not CVD risk factors, than controls. Our findings suggest a higher prevalence of radiological and clinical CVD in patients with IPD compared to controls.
Normal sleep architecture and arousal require an intact thalamus. Thalamic vascular lesions, particularly in the paramedian region may cause arousal disturbances and hypersomnolence. Although hypersomnolence is one of the main characteristics of acute bilateral paramedian thalamic infarcts, there are only scarce reports in literature concerning polysomnographic follow-up of these patients. The few reported cases in literature show that sleep stages do not significantly change from the acute to chronic phase. We present a case report of a patient with a bilateral paramedian thalamic infarct in which a polysomnographic evaluation of sleep was performed four days and five months after stroke. In the acute phase, polysomnography showed an impairment of phase 2 NREM and absence of phase 3 and 4 NREM with absent sleep spindles. After the acute stroke phase, hypersomnolence improved and sleep spindles reappeared as well as phase 3 and 4 of NREM sleep. Our patient clear clinical and polysomnographic improvement makes us suppose that in this case the initial impairment could have been essentially due to a functional transitory impairment of the thalamocortical and corticothalamic connections. This case report is peculiar because it discloses a marked improvement of sleep architecture which to the best of our knowledge has not been clearly described before.



The knowledge that neonatal emotional experience and associated learning processes are critical in the maturation of prefronto-limbic circuits emphasizes the importance of preterm and neonatal care. The further improvement of care and intervention strategies requires a deeper understanding of epigenetic mechanisms mediating experience-induced synaptic reorganization underlying the emergence of emotional and cognitive behavioral traits. Interdisciplinary research efforts are needed in which pediatricians and developmental biologists and psychologists merge their knowledge, concepts, and methodology. The hope is that the translational relevance of research efforts can be improved through a greater interaction between basic and clinical scientists.
The natural environment provides a flux of concurrent stimulation to all our senses, and the integration of information from different sensory systems is a fundamental feature of perception and cognition. How information from the different senses is integrated has long been of concern to several scientific disciplines, including psychology, cognitive science, and the neurosciences, each with different questions and methodologies. In this article, I briefly explore some of these recent advances in the understanding of the development of sensory integration and organization and discuss implications of these advances for the care and management of the preterm infant.


Parkinson's disease is a disorder characterized pathologically by progressive neurodegeneration of the dopaminergic cells of the nigrostriatal pathway. Although the resulting dopamine deficiency is the cause of the typical motor features of Parkinson's disease (bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor), additional non-motor symptoms appear at various timepoints and are the result of non-dopamine nerve degeneration. Monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitors are used in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease as they increase synaptic dopamine by blocking its degradation. Two MAO-B inhibitors, selegiline and rasagiline, are currently licensed in Europe and North America for the symptomatic improvement of early Parkinson's disease and to reduce off-time in patients with more advanced Parkinson's disease and motor fluctuations related to levodopa. A third MAO-B inhibitor (safinamide), which also combines additional non-dopaminergic properties of potential benefit to Parkinson's disease, is currently under development in phase III clinical trials as adjuvant therapy to either a dopamine agonist or levodopa. MAO-B inhibitors have also been studied extensively for possible neuroprotective or disease-modifying actions. There is considerable laboratory evidence that MAO-B inhibitors do exert some neuroprotective properties, at least in the Parkinson's disease models currently available. However, these models have significant limitations and caution is required in assuming that such results may easily be extrapolated to clinical trials. Rasagiline 1mg/day has been shown to provide improved motor control in terms of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score at 18 months in those patients with early disease who began the drug 9 months before a second group. There are a number of possible explanations for this effect that may include a disease-modifying action; however, the US FDA recently declined an application for the licence of rasagiline to be extended to cover disease modification.
Prescriptions for second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) have surpassed those for first-generation agents in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. While SGAs have the benefit of a much reduced risk of causing movement disorders, they have been associated with weight gain and metabolic effects. These adverse reactions are not uncommon, and threaten to have a significant impact on the patient's health over the long-term treatment that the patient requires. Currently, the aetiology of these effects is not known. This article reviews the data exploring the weight gain phenomenon. The literature was reviewed from searches of PubMed and the references of major articles in the field. The SGAs present a heterogeneous risk for weight gain. In addition, different individuals receiving the same drug can exhibit substantially different weight changes. This pattern suggests that a group of factors are associated with the weight gain phenomenon rather than a single mechanism. Coupled with the genetic profile that the patient brings to the treatment, the risk for SGA-induced weight gain will be different for different drugs and different individuals. Targets for exploration of the weight gain phenomenon include receptor interactions involving serotonin, histamine, dopamine, adrenergic, cannabinoid and muscarinic receptors. The association of SGA-induced weight gain and the role of orexigenic and anorexigenic peptides are reviewed. Also, a brief discussion of genetic factors associated with SGA-induced weight gain is presented, including that of the serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptor gene (HTR2C) and the cannabinoid 1 receptor gene (CNR1). The most promising data associated with SGA-induced weight gain include investigations of the histamine H(1), 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2C), muscarinic M(3) and adrenergic receptors. In addition, work in the genetic area promises to result in a better understanding of the variation in risk associated with different individuals.

Brain delivery is one of the major challenges for the neuropharmaceutical industry since an alarming increase in brain disease incidence is going on. Despite major advances in neuroscience, many potential therapeutic agents are denied access to the central nervous system (CNS) because of the existence of a physiological low permeable barrier, the blood-brain barrier (BBB). To obtain an improvement of drug CNS performance, sophisticated approaches such as nanoparticulate systems are rapidly developing. Many recent data demonstrate that drugs could be transported successfully into the brain using colloidal systems after i.v. injection by several mechanisms such as endocytosis or P-glycoprotein inhibition. This review summarizes the main brain targeted nanoparticulate carriers such as liposomes, lipid nanoparticles, polymeric nanoparticles, and micelles with great potential in drug delivery into the CNS.
The cannabinoid (CB) system is widespread in the central nervous system and is crucial for controlling a range of neurophysiological processes such as pain, appetite, and cognition. The endogenous CB molecules, anandamide, and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol, interact with the G-protein coupled CB receptors, CB(1) and CB(2). These receptors are also targets for the phytocannabinoids isolated from the cannabis plant and synthetic CB receptor ligands. The CB system is emerging as a key regulator of neuronal cell fate and is capable of conferring neuroprotection by the direct engagement of prosurvival pathways and the control of neurogenesis. Many neurological conditions feature a neurodegenerative component that is associated with excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, and certain CB molecules have been demonstrated to inhibit these events to halt the progression of neurodegeneration. Such properties are attractive in the development of new strategies to treat neurodegenerative conditions of diverse etiology, such as Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and cerebral ischemia. This article will discuss the experimental and clinical evidence supporting a potential role for CB-based therapies in the treatment of certain neurological diseases that feature a neurodegenerative component.
Many human activities involve a risk of physical harm. However, not much is known about the specific brain regions involved in decision making regarding these risks. To explore the neural correlates of risk perception for physical harms, 19 participants took part in an event-related fMRI study while rating risky activities. The scenarios varied in level of potential harm (e.g., paralysis vs. stubbed toe), likelihood of injury (e.g., 1 chance in 100 vs. 1 chance in 1,000), and format (frequency vs. probability). Networks of brain regions were responsive to different aspects of risk information. Cortical language- processing areas, the middle temporal gyrus, and a region around the bed nucleus of stria terminalis responded more strongly to high- harm conditions. Prefrontal areas, along with subcortical ventral striatum, responded preferentially to high- likelihood conditions. Participants rated identical risks to be greater when information was presented in frequency format rather than probability format. These findings indicate that risk assessments for physical harm engage a broad network of brain regions that are sensitive to the severity of harm, the likelihood of risk, and the framing of risk information.
This paper gives perspectives on a companion article, the case history of a professional writer who has multiple sclerosis. The patient's first-person account of her illness is combined with clinical summaries about her care. The discussion of this case illustrates the value of combining such subjective and objective reports in evaluating a patient. Furthermore, considering these reports in the context of current research findings on the organization and function of cognitive neural systems can shed light on patients' seemingly contradictory clinical findings. For this patient, a deficit in the ability to select the most important information to achieve her current goals reflected her neuropsychological test results and neuroradiologic findings, and helped to explain her difficulties with her job and her activities of daily living. Because the patient's cognitive impairments have been her primary manifestations of multiple sclerosis, she illustrates the importance of physicians attending to and helping patients manage their cognitive deficits.
Evidence suggests that mind wandering is a frequent accompaniment to an unhappy mood. Building on such work, two laboratory experiments used mood induction to assess whether the greater frequency of mind wandering in a low mood is also accompanied by a shift towards a focus on events from the past. Experiment 1 induced moods via video and induction of an unhappy mood was associated with a greater tendency for past-related mind wandering as measured by a post-task questionnaire. In Experiment 2, negative and positive moods were induced in a group of participants using the Velten mood-induction procedure and the temporal focus of mind wandering was measured using experience sampling probes. Analyses indicated that induction of an unhappy mood led to an increase in past-related mind wandering and the magnitude of this change increased with scores on a measure of depressive symptoms. Together these experiments suggest that when the mind wanders in an unhappy mood it is drawn to events from its past.
We systematically examined the impact of emotional stimuli on time perception in a temporal reproduction paradigm where participants reproduced the duration of a facial emotion stimulus using an oval-shape stimulus or vice versa. Experiment 1 asked participants to reproduce the duration of an angry face (or the oval) presented for 2,000 ms. Experiment 2 included a range of emotional expressions (happy, sad, angry, and neutral faces as well as the oval stimulus) presented for different durations (500, 1,500, and 2,000 ms). We found that participants over-reproduced the durations of happy and sad faces using the oval stimulus. By contrast, there was a trend of under-reproduction when the duration of the oval stimulus was reproduced using the angry face. We suggest that increased attention to a facial emotion produces the relativity of time perception.
Researchers have suggested that the attention system is composed of several networks that have different functions. One of these networks is responsible for achieving and maintaining an alert state (alerting system), and another for selection and conflict resolution (executive control). There is growing interest in how these attentional networks interact. The current study aims to unravel a mechanism by which the alerting system can interact with executive control. Participants were presented with a large arrow (global level) made of small arrows (local level). The arrows were pointing to the right or left so that the global and local levels could be congruent or incongruent. In separate blocks, participants were asked to attend to the global or local level. An auditory alerting cue preceded the arrow target in half of the trials. In the local task, the congruency effect was larger with the alerting cue than without it. In contrast, alerting did not modulate the congruency effect in the global task. We suggest that alerting creates a bias toward global processing and in turn, increases attention to sensory stimuli in the environment. This process can disrupt conflict resolution by allocating attention to irrelevant competing stimuli that surround the target.
In human communication, direct speech (e.g., Mary said: &quot;I'm hungry&quot;) is perceived to be more vivid than indirect speech (e.g., Mary said [that] she was hungry). However, the processing consequences of this distinction are largely unclear. In two experiments, participants were asked to either orally (Experiment 1) or silently (Experiment 2, eye-tracking) read written stories that contained either a direct speech or an indirect speech quotation. The context preceding those quotations described a situation that implied either a fast-speaking or a slow-speaking quoted protagonist. It was found that this context manipulation affected reading rates (in both oral and silent reading) for direct speech quotations, but not for indirect speech quotations. This suggests that readers are more likely to engage in perceptual simulations of the reported speech act when reading direct speech as opposed to meaning-equivalent indirect speech quotations, as part of a more vivid representation of the former.
The postsynaptic side of the synapse is specialized to receive the neurotransmitter signal released from the presynaptic terminal and transduce it into electrical and biochemical changes in the postsynaptic cell. The cardinal functional components of the postsynaptic specialization of excitatory and inhibitory synapses are the ionotropic receptors (ligand-gated channels) for glutamate and -aminobutyric acid (GABA), respectively. These receptor channels are concentrated at the postsynaptic membrane and embedded in a dense and rich protein network comprised of anchoring and scaffolding molecules, signaling enzymes, cytoskeletal components, as well as other membrane proteins. Excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic specializations are quite different in molecular organization. The postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses is especially complex and dynamic in composition and regulation; it contains hundreds of different proteins, many of which are required for cognitive function and implicated in psychiatric illness.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) and its receptors make diverse contributions to development. The ECM comes in a variety of forms, including the more &quot;standard&quot; ECM that is internal to the animal and on the basal side of epithelial sheets, as well as the apical ECM, which is especially elaborated in the invertebrates to form the exoskeleton. ECM proteins accumulate adjacent to particular target tissues in the developing animal by a variety of mechanisms: local synthesis in the target tissue; local synthesis by migrating cells; and secretion from a distant source and capture by the target tissue. The diverse developmental functions of the ECM are discussed, including the generation of a road for cell migration, creation of morphogenetic checkpoints for differentiation, modulation of morphogen gradients, insulation of organs, gluing together cell layers, and providing structure for the organism.
The neuropeptide Y-family peptides and receptors are involved in a broad range of functions including appetite regulation. Both the peptide genes and the receptor genes are known to have duplicated in early vertebrate evolution. The ancestral jawed vertebrate had 7 NPY receptors but the number varies between 4 and 7 in extant vertebrates. Herein we describe the identification of an additional NPY receptor in two fish species, zebrafish and medaka. They cluster together with the Y2 receptors in phylogenetic analyses and seem to be orthologous to each other that is why we have named them Y2-2. Their genes differ from Y2 in having introns in the coding region. Binding studies with zebrafish Y2-2 receptors show that the three endogenous peptides NPY, PYYa and PYYb have similar affinities, 0.15-0.66 nM. This is in contrast to the Y2 receptor where they differed considerably from one another. N-terminally truncated NPY binds poorly and the Y2 antagonist BIIE0246 binds well to Y2-2, results that are reversed in comparison to Y2. Zebrafish Y2-2 mRNA was detected by PCR in the intestine and the eye, but not in the brain. In conclusion, we have found a novel Y2-like NPY/PYY receptor that probably arose in early teleost fish evolution.
The concept of self-generated action is controversial, despite extensive study of its neural basis. Why is this concept so troublesome? We analyse the concept of self-generated action as employed by Passingham, Bengtsson, and Lau (2010a, 2010b). There are two definitions of self-generated action; as operant action and as underdetermined action. The latter draws on subjective experience. Experiments on action awareness suggest that experience may not be a good guide for defining self-generated action. Nevertheless, we agree with Passingham and colleagues that self-generated actions exist distinct from operant actions. But defining 'self-generated' by the degree of involvement of an endogenous process risks regress. We sketch an alternative account of self-generated action that tries to avoid these problems to make self-generated actions accessible to experimental science.
When consciousness is examined using subjective ratings, the extent to which processing is conscious or unconscious is often estimated by calculating task performance at the subjective threshold or by calculating the correlation between accuracy and awareness. However, both these methods have certain limitations. In the present article, we propose describing task accuracy and awareness as functions of stimulus intensity (thus obtaining an accuracy and an awareness curve) as suggested by Koch and Preuschoff (2007). The estimated lag between the curves describes how much stimulus intensity must increase for awareness to change proportionally as much as accuracy and the slopes of the curves are used to assess how fast accuracy and awareness increases and whether awareness is dichotomous. The method is successfully employed to assess consciousness characteristics on data from four different awareness scales.
The experience of agency refers to the feeling that we control our own actions, and through them the outside world. In many contexts, sense of agency has strong implications for moral responsibility. For example, a sense of agency may allow people to choose between right and wrong actions, either immediately, or on subsequent occasions through learning about the moral consequences of their actions. In this study we investigate the relation between the experience of operant action, and responsibility for action outcomes using the intentional binding effect (Haggard, Clark, &amp; Kalogeras, 2002) as an implicit, quantitative measure related to sense of agency. We studied the time at which people perceived simple manual actions and their effects, when these actions were embedded in scenarios where their actions had unpredictable consequences that could be either moral or merely economic. We found an enhanced binding of effects back towards the actions that caused them, implying an enhanced sense of agency, in moral compared to non-moral contexts. We also found stronger binding for effects with severely negative, compared to moderately negative, values. A tight temporal association between action and effect may be a low-level phenomenal marker of the sense of responsibility.
In a series of four experiments, we examine the hypothesis that selective attention is crucial for the generation of conscious knowledge of contingency information. We investigated this question using a spatial priming task in which participants were required to localize a target letter in a probe display. In Experiment 1, participants kept track of the frequency with which the predictive letter in the prime appeared in various locations. This manipulation had a negligible impact on contingency awareness. Subsequent experiments requiring participants to attend to features (color, location) of the predictive letter increased contingency awareness somewhat, but there remained a large proportion of individuals who remained unaware of the strong contingency. Together the results of our experiments suggest that the construct of attention does not fully capture the processes that lead to contingency awareness, and suggest a critical role for bottom-up feature integration in explicit contingency learning.
People tend to grossly overestimate the size of their mirror-reflected face. Although this overestimation bias is robust, not much is known about its relationships to self-face perception. In two experiments, we investigated the overestimation bias as a function of the presentation of the own face (left-right reversed - as in a mirror - or nonreversed - as in a photograph), the identity of the seen face, and prior exposure to a real mirror. For this we developed a computerized task requiring size estimations of displayed faces. We replicated the observation that people overestimate the size of their mirror-reflected face and showed that the overestimation can be reduced following a brief mirror exposure. We also found that left-right reversal modulates the overestimation bias, depending on the perceived face's identity. These data underline the enhanced familiarity of left-right reversed self-faces and the importance of size perception for understanding mirror reflection processing.
A substantial body of evidence suggests that autobiographical recollection and simulation of future happenings activate a shared neural network. Many of the neural regions implicated in this network are affected in patients with bipolar disorder (BD), showing altered metabolic functioning and/or structural volume abnormalities. Studies of autobiographical recall in BD reveal overgeneralization, where autobiographical memory comprises primarily factual or repeated information as opposed to details specific in time and in place and definitive of re-experiencing. To date, no study has examined whether these deficits extend to future event simulation. We examined the ability of patients with BD and controls to imagine positive, negative and neutral future events using a modified version of the Autobiographical Interview (Levine, Svoboda, Hay, Winocur, &amp; Moscovitch, 2002) that allowed for separation of episodic and non-episodic details. Patients were selectively impaired in imagining future positive, negative, and neutral episodic details; simulation of non-episodic details was equivalent across groups.
Research in cognitive neuroscience and spatial presence suggests that human mental self-localization is tied to one place at a given point in time. In this study, we examined whether it is possible to feel localized at two distinct places at the same time. Participants (N=30) were exposed to a virtual rollercoaster and they continuously judged to what extent they felt present in the immediate environment and in the mediated environment, respectively. The results show that participants distributed their self-localization to both environments, and the two values added up to closely 100% over time. In addition, even though the judgments are highly idiosyncratic, they were almost perfectly inversely related. This indicates that individuals can distribute their self over two distinct places. These findings provide important insights about understanding of the human self-localization.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be used to mask visual stimuli, disrupting visual task performance or preventing visual awareness. While TMS masking studies generally fix stimulation intensity, we hypothesized that varying the intensity of TMS pulses in a masking paradigm might inform several ongoing debates concerning TMS disruption of vision as measured subjectively versus objectively, and pre-stimulus (forward) versus post-stimulus (backward) TMS masking. We here show that both pre-stimulus TMS pulses and post-stimulus TMS pulses could strongly mask visual stimuli. We found no dissociations between TMS effects on the subjective and objective measures of vision for any masking window or intensity, ruling out the option that TMS intensity levels determine whether dissociations between subjective and objective vision are obtained. For the post-stimulus time window particularly, we suggest that these data provide new constraints for (e.g. recurrent) models of vision and visual awareness. Finally, our data are in line with the idea that pre-stimulus masking operates differently from conventional post-stimulus masking.
Biological realism (Revonsuo, 2001, 2006) states that dreaming is a biological phenomenon and therefore explainable in naturalistic terms, similar to the explanation of other biological phenomena. In the biological sciences, the structure of explanations can be described with the help of a framework called 'multilevel explanation'. The multilevel model provides a context that assists to clarify what needs to be explained and how, and how to place different theories into the same model. Here, I will argue that the multilevel framework would be useful when we try to construct scientific explanations of dreaming.
While previous research has suggested that adults with a history of childhood sexual abuse may be more prone to produce false memories, little is known about the consequences of childhood neglect on basic memory processes. For this reason, the authors investigated how a group of women with a history of childhood emotional neglect (CEN) and diagnosed with recurrent Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) performed on the Deese-Roediger-McDermott paradigm in comparison to control groups. The results indicated that women with MDD and CEN were actually less prone to produce false memories relative to both women with MDD but no CEN and healthy women without MDD and any form of childhood maltreatment. These findings were explained in terms of the inability to extract/retrieve gist memories that support false recognition of critical lures, an explanation that seems to fit well with emerging MRI findings linking childhood neglect to reduced volume of brain regions associated to memory function.
Visual feature binding has been suggested to depend on reentrant processing. We addressed the relationship between binding, reentry, and visual awareness by asking the participants to discriminate the color and orientation of a colored bar (presented either alone or simultaneously with a white distractor bar) and to report their phenomenal awareness of the target features. The success of reentry was manipulated with object substitution masking and backward masking. The results showed that late reentrant processes are necessary for successful binding but not for phenomenal awareness of the bound features. Binding errors were accompanied by phenomenal awareness of the misbound feature conjunctions, demonstrating that they were experienced as real properties of the stimuli (i.e., illusory conjunctions). Our results suggest that early preattentive binding and local recurrent processing enable features to reach phenomenal awareness, while later attention-related reentrant iterations modulate the way in which the features are bound and experienced in awareness.
Current accounts suggest that self-referential thought serves a pivotal function in the human ability to simulate the future during mind-wandering. Using experience sampling, this hypothesis was tested in two studies that explored the extent to which self-reflection impacts both retrospection and prospection during mind-wandering. Study 1 demonstrated that a brief period of self-reflection yielded a prospective bias during mind-wandering such that participants' engaged more frequently in spontaneous future than past thought. In Study 2, individual differences in the strength of self-referential thought - as indexed by the memorial advantage for self rather than other-encoded items - was shown to vary with future thinking during mind-wandering. Together these results confirm that self-reflection is a core component of future thinking during mind-wandering and provide novel evidence that a key function of the autobiographical memory system may be to mentally simulate events in the future.
Human behavior depends on the ability to effectively introspect about our performance. For simple perceptual decisions, this introspective or metacognitive ability varies substantially across individuals and is correlated with the structure of focal areas in prefrontal cortex. This raises the possibility that the ability to introspect about different perceptual decisions might be mediated by a common cognitive process. To test this hypothesis, we examined whether inter-individual differences in metacognitive ability were correlated across two different perceptual tasks where individuals made judgments about different and unrelated visual stimulus properties. We found that inter-individual differences were strongly correlated between the two tasks for metacognitive ability but not objective performance. Such stability of an individual's metacognitive ability across different perceptual tasks indicates a general mechanism supporting metacognition independent of the specific task.
Temporal conceptualisation and investigation of brain-mind functioning, in health and in neuro-psychiatric disease, is a relatively new field in neuroscience. The cerebellum has long been suspected as the centre for the organization of timing in the brain. This article examines endophenotypes for temporal coding in schizophrenia, centring on aberrant, neuronal, input connectivity to the cerebellum.
In two studies, we explored whether susceptibility to false memories and the underestimation of prior memories (i.e., forgot-it-all-along effect) tap overlapping memory phenomena. Study 1 investigated this issue by administering the Deese/Roediger-McDermott task (DRM) and the forgot-it-all-along (FIA) task to an undergraduate sample (N=110). It was furthermore explored how performances on these tasks correlate with clinically relevant traits such as fantasy proneness, dissociative experiences, and cognitive efficiency. Results show that FIA and DRM performances are relatively independent from each other, suggesting that these measures empirically apparently refer to separate dimensions. However, they do not seem to define different profiles in terms of dissociation, fantasy proneness, and cognitive efficiency. Study 2 replicated the finding of relative independence between false memory propensity (as measured with the DRM task) and the underestimation of prior memories (as measured with an autobiographical memory dating task) in people with a history of childhood sexual abuse (N=35).
Dream is a state of consciousness characterized by internally-generated sensory, cognitive and emotional experiences occurring during sleep. Dream reports tend to be particularly abundant, with complex, emotional, and perceptually vivid experiences after awakenings from rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. This is why our current knowledge of the cerebral correlates of dreaming, mainly derives from studies of REM sleep. Neuroimaging results show that REM sleep is characterized by a specific pattern of regional brain activity. We demonstrate that this heterogeneous distribution of brain activity during sleep explains many typical features in dreams. Reciprocally, specific dream characteristics suggest the activation of selective brain regions during sleep. Such an integration of neuroimaging data of human sleep, mental imagery, and the content of dreams is critical for current models of dreaming; it also provides neurobiological support for an implication of sleep and dreaming in some important functions such as emotional regulation.

Rhombencephalitis (RE) is a syndrome of multiple causes and multiple outcomes. Most authors now use the terms &quot;rhombencephalitis&quot; and &quot;brainstem encephalitis&quot; interchangeably even though anatomically they are slightly different. The etiologic categories of RE include infections, autoimmune diseases, and paraneoplastic syndromes (PNS). Listeria is the most common cause of infectious RE. Listeria RE primary occurs in healthy young adults. It usually occurs as a biphasic time course with a flu-like syndrome followed by brainstem dysfunction; 75% of patients have a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis, and almost 100% have an abnormal brain MRI scan. Positive CSF and blood cultures are the most specific for diagnosis. Treatment primarily is with ampicillin. Enterovirus 71 is probably the second most common infectious cause of RE; however, 95% of cases have occurred in the Asian-Pacific region and there is no specific treatment. Herpes simplex virus (HSV) is the third most common infectious cause of RE, and about 80% of cases are caused by HSV1 and 20% by HSV2. About 50% only had involvement of the brainstem whereas the other 50% also had supratentorial involvement of the temporal and frontal lobes. Mortality with acyclovir treatment was 22% versus those not on acyclovir 75%. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and human herpesvirus 6 (HHV6) have caused a few cases. The most common autoimmune etiology is Behet disease. Over 90% of those with Behet RE had abnormal MRI scans and 94% had a CSF pleocytosis. Treatment is with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents, but only 25% have complete recovery. Paraneoplastic causes are the third category of RE. Brain MRIs are usually normal; there is usually a CSF pleocytosis but the protein is usually normal. Often anti-neuronal antibodies can be found. Prognosis is poor and treatment is only partially beneficial. Because Listeria and HSV are the most common treatable acute causes of RE, we recommend empiric therapy with ampicillin and acyclovir for all cases after samples have been obtained from CSF and blood for cultures and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Antibiotics can be changed based upon MRI, culture results, PCR results, and antibody studies.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by profound memory dysfunction. This bellwether symptom suggests involvement of the hippocampus -- a brain region responsible for memory formation -- and coincidentally an area heavily burdened by hyperphosphorylated tau and neuritic plaques of amyloid beta (A). Recent evidence suggests that pre-fibrillar soluble A underlies an early, progressive loss of synapses that is a hallmark of AD. One of the downstream effects of soluble A aggregates is the activation of the phosphatase calcineurin (CaN). This review details the evidence of CaN hyperactivity in 'normal' aging, models of AD, and actual disease pathogenesis; elaborates on how this could manifest as memory impairment, neuroinflammation, hyperphosphorylated tau, and neuronal death.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs) are well studied for their role of peripheral metabolism, but they also may be involved in the pathogenesis of various disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) including multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's and, Parkinson's disease. The observation that PPARs are able to suppress the inflammatory response in peripheral macrophages and in several models of human autoimmune diseases, lead to the idea that PPARs might be beneficial for CNS disorders possessing an inflammatory component. The neuroinflammatory response during the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is triggered by the deposition of the -amyloid peptide in extracellular plaques and ongoing neurodegeneration. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been considered to delay the onset and reduce the risk to develop Alzheimer's disease, while they also directly activate PPAR. This led to the hypothesis that NSAID protection in AD may be partly mediated by PPAR. Several lines of evidence have supported this hypothesis, using AD related transgenic cellular and animal models. Stimulation of PPAR by synthetic agonist (thiazolidinediones) inducing anti-inflammatory, anti-amyloidogenic and insulin sensitizing effects may account for the observed effects. Several clinical trials already revealed promising results using PPAR agonists, therefore PPAR represents an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of AD.
The physiological status of an organism is able to influence stem cell behaviour to ensure that stem cells meet the needs of the organism during growth, and in response to injury and environmental changes. In particular, the brain is sensitive to metabolic fluctuations. Here we discuss how nutritional status is able to regulate systemic and local insulin/IGF signalling so as to control aspects of neural stem behaviour. Recent results have begun to reveal how systemic signals are relayed to neural stem cells through local interactions with a glial niche. Although much still remains to be discovered, emerging parallels between the regulation of Drosophila and mammalian stem cells suggest a conserved mechanism for how the brain responds to changes in nutritional state.
Olfactory networks, comprised of sensory neurons and interneurons, detect and process changes in the chemical environment to drive animal behavior. Recent studies combining genetics with behavioral analyses and imaging in worms, flies and mice have revealed new insights into the mechanisms of olfaction. In this discussion, we focus on three interesting findings. First, sensory neuron responses to odor are modulated by neuropeptides. This modulation might serve to extend the range of responses of the sensory neurons and also to integrate internal state information into the chemosensory circuit. Second, genetic tracing studies in mice and flies have shown that the first layer of connections in chemosensory circuits from olfactory epithelium to the glomeruli are stereotyped, while the subsequent connections to higher order sensory processing regions are not. Distributed connectivity to the higher order sensory processing regions has profound implications for how odors are represented in those regions. Third, recent work has revealed that odors are surprisingly sparsely represented in the piriform cortex. The sparse coding in the higher brain centers implies a much greater role for experience and learning in mediating responses to olfactory cues. Analyzing olfactory network function in various species provides us with fascinating clues about how sensory information is acquired, processed and represented at multiple levels within the nervous system.

Parkinson's disease (PD), the most common movement disorder, is characterized by age-dependent degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the mid-brain. Non-motor symptoms of PD, however, precede the motor features caused by dysfunction of the dopaminergic system, suggesting that PD is a systemic disorder. Mitochondrial dysfunction has long been observed in PD patients and animal models, but the mechanistic link between mitochondrial dysfunction and PD pathogenesis is not well understood. Recent studies have revealed that genes associated with autosomal recessive forms of PD such as PINK1 and Parkin are directly involved in regulating mitochondrial morphology and maintenance, abnormality of which is also observed in the more common, sporadic forms of PD, although the autosomal recessive PDs lack Lewy-body pathology that is characteristic of sporadic PD. These latest findings suggest that at least some forms of PD can be characterized as a mitochondrial disorder. Whether mitochondrial dysfunction represents a unifying pathogenic mechanism of all PD cases remains a major unresolved question.
Deficits of cognitive control in schizophrenia are associated with altered gamma oscillations in the prefrontal cortex. Paralbumin basket interneurons, which innervate the perisomatic region of pyramidal neurons, appear to play a key role in generating cortical gamma oscillations. In the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia, alterations are present in both pre- and post-synaptic markers of the strength of GABA inputs from parvalbumin basket neurons to pyramidal neurons. These alterations may contribute to the neural substrate for impaired gamma oscillations in schizophrenia.


The cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate signalling pathway is now recognised to transduce signals in a compartmentalised manner such that individual stimuli only engage a subset of the pathway components that are physically constrained within defined subcellular locales, thus resulting in a precise functional outcome. As we are starting to appreciate the complexity of the spatial organisation and of the temporal regulation of this pathway, it is becoming clear that disruption of local signalling may lead to pathology and that local manipulation of cAMP signals may offer alternative approaches to treat disease.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serine/threonine protein kinase that forms a multisubunit complex with numerous protein partners and it regulates cell growth, cell proliferation, cell motility, cell survival, protein synthesis, and transcription. A central role for mTOR in regulating T cell homeostasis is emerging. In various autoimmune diseases abnormal functioning, differentiation and/or activation of T cells have been documented and recent studies have detailed anomalous activation of various signaling axes including the mTOR pathway in these cells. In this review we summarize recent studies on the involvement of mTOR in T cell differentiation and metabolism, supporting a key role for this molecule in providing a direct link between these two processes. We also describe how the mTOR pathway affects multiple molecular processes in autoimmune diseases and discuss the potential of targeting this pathway in these disorders.
Tail-anchored proteins (TAPs) are a subclass of type II integral membrane proteins that carry out important and diverse functions within cells. Structurally, TAPs present an N-terminal domain exposed to the cytosol and a single transmembrane domain (TMD) close to the C-terminus, the latter is responsible for the targeting and insertion into the proper intracellular membrane (endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria, peroxisomes). Due to this particular topology, TAPs insert obligatorily into membranes by post-translational pathways and are excluded from the classical SRP dependent co-translational ER insertion. ER-targeted TAPs can follow two distinct ways of insertion according to the hydrophobicity of their TMD. In the &quot;assisted&quot; pathway, TAPs with more hydrophobic TMDs insert in the ER membrane with the requirement of energy and the involvement of proteinaceous component(s). By contrast neither energy, nor membrane or cytosolic proteins are necessary and do not even improve the &quot;unassisted&quot; insertion of TAPs with moderately hydrophobic TMDs. In this review, we discuss the most relevant recent data regarding the molecular mechanism that underlies these processes.
The longitudinal course of bipolar disorder (BD) is highly impairing. This article reviews recent research on functional impairment in the course of BD, the roles of social and intrafamilial stress in relapse and recovery, and the role of adjunctive psychosocial interventions in reducing risk and enhancing functioning. Comparative findings in adult and childhood BD are highlighted. Life events and family-expressed emotion have emerged as significant predictors of the course of BD. Studies of social information processing suggest that impairments in the recognition of facial emotions may characterize both adult- and early-onset bipolar patients. Newly developed psychosocial interventions, particularly those that focus on family and social relationships, are associated with more rapid recovery from episodes and better psychosocial functioning. Family-based psychoeducational approaches are promising as early interventions for children with BD or children at risk of developing the disorder. For adults, interpersonal therapy, mindfulness-based strategies, and cognitive remediation may offer promise in enhancing functioning.
The plasticity of neural stem/progenitor cells allows a variety of different responses to many environmental cues. In the past decade, significant research has gone into understanding the regulation of neural stem/progenitor cell properties, because of their promise for cell replacement therapies in adult neurological diseases. Both endogenous and grafted neural stem/progenitor cells are known to have the ability to migrate long distances to lesioned sites after brain injury and differentiate into new neurons. Several chemokines and growth factors, including stromal cell-derived factor-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor, have been shown to stimulate the proliferation, differentiation, and migration of neural stem/progenitor cells, and investigators have now begun to identify the critical downstream effectors and signaling mechanisms that regulate these processes. Both our own lab and others have shown that the extracellular matrix and matrix remodeling factors play a critical role in directing cell differentiation and migration of adult neural stem/progenitor cells within injured sites. Identification of these and other molecular pathways involved in stem cell homing into ischemic areas is vital for the development of new treatments. To ensure the best functional recovery, regenerative therapy may require the application of a combination approach that includes cell replacement, trophic support, and neural protection. Here we review the current state of our knowledge about endogenous adult and exogenous neural stem/progenitor cells as potential therapeutic agents for central nervous system injuries.

The Notch signaling pathway regulates metazoan development, in part, by directly controlling the transcription of target genes. For a given cellular context, however, only subsets of the known target genes are transcribed when the pathway is activated. Thus, there are context-dependent mechanisms that selectively maintain repression of target gene transcription when the Notch pathway is activated. This review focuses on molecular mechanisms that have been recently reported to mediate selective repression of Notch pathway target gene transcription. These mechanisms are essential for generating the complex spatial and temporal expression patterns of Notch target genes during development.
Cranial sense organs and a subset of cranial sensory neurons are generated from placodes, thickenings of the ectoderm. Pax3 has been known as a marker for ophthalmic trigeminal placode specification, and also an important regulator of trigeminal placode neuron differentiation. In this study, I show that Pax6 is initially expressed in the preplacodal region at the level of ophthalmic trigeminal placode, and that this expression gradually regresses in a medial-to-lateral direction as Pax3 expression expands in the same direction. Misexpression studies revealed that Pax6 represses Pax3 expression indirectly as a transcriptional activator in a cell-autonomous manner. Pax3-misexpression represses Pax6 expression in an indirect fashion, suggesting that unknown factor(s) downstream of Pax3 may repress Pax6 expression, and thereby allow an expansion of Pax3-positive ophthalmic trigeminal placode region. These results indicate that the mutual repression between Pax3 and Pax6 has important roles in the specification and the positioning of the ophthalmic trigeminal placode.
Understanding axon regenerative failure remains a major goal in neuroscience, and reversing this failure remains a major goal for clinical neurology. Although an inhibitory central nervous system environment clearly plays a role, focus on molecular pathways within neurons has begun to yield fruitful insights. Initial steps forward investigated the receptors and signaling pathways immediately downstream of environmental cues, but recent work has also shed light on transcriptional control mechanisms that regulate intrinsic axon growth ability, presumably through whole cassettes of gene target regulation. Here we will discuss transcription factors that regulate neurite growth in vitro and in vivo, including p53, SnoN, E47, cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT), c-Jun activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), sex determining region Ybox containing gene 11 (Sox11), nuclear factor -light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NFB), and Krppel-like factors (KLFs). Revealing the similarities and differences among the functions of these transcription factors may further our understanding of the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in axon growth and regeneration.
The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway is a conserved signal transduction cascade that is fundamental for the correct development of the nervous system. The major negative regulator of PI3K signaling is the lipid phosphatase DAF-18/PTEN, which can modulate PI3K pathway activity during neurodevelopment. Here, we identify a novel role for DAF-18 in promoting neurite outgrowth during development in Caenorhabditis elegans. We find that DAF-18 modulates the PI3K signaling pathway to activate DAF-16/FOXO and promote developmental neurite outgrowth. This activity of DAF-16 in promoting outgrowth is isoform-specific, being effected by the daf-16b isoform but not the daf-16a or daf-16d/f isoform. We also demonstrate that the capacity of DAF-16/FOXO in regulating neuron morphology is conserved in mammalian neurons. These data provide a novel mechanism by which the conserved PI3K signaling pathway regulates neuronal cell morphology during development through FOXO.
Development of meso-diencephalic dopamine (mdDA) neurons requires the combined actions of the orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 and the paired-like homeobox transcription factor Pitx3. Whereas all mdDA neurons require Nurr1 for expression of Th and survival, dependence on Pitx3 is displayed only by the mdDA subpopulation that will form the substantia nigra (SNc). Previously, we have demonstrated that Pitx3(-/-) embryos lack the expression of the retinoic acid (RA)-generating enzyme Ahd2, which is normally selectively expressed in the Pitx3-dependent DA neurons of the SNc. Restoring RA signaling in Pitx3(-/-) embryos revealed a selective dependence of SNc neurons on the presence of RA for differentiation into Th-positive neurons and maintenance throughout embryonic development. Whereas these data are suggestive of an important developmental role for RA in neurons of the SNc, it remained unclear whether other Nurr1 and Pitx3 target genes depend on RA signaling in a manner similar to Th. In the search for genes that were affected in Pitx3-deficient mdDA neurons and restored upon embryonic RA treatment, we provide evidence that Delta-like 1, D2R (Drd2) and Th are regulated by Pitx3 and RA signaling, which influences the mdDA terminal differentiated phenotype. Furthermore, we show that regulation of Ahd2-mediated RA signaling represents only one aspect of the Pitx3 downstream cascade, as Vmat2, Dat, Ahd2 (Aldh1a1), En1, En2 and Cck were unaffected by RA treatment and are (subset) specifically modulated by Pitx3. In conclusion, our data reveal several RA-dependent and -independent aspects of the Pitx3-regulated gene cascade, suggesting that Pitx3 acts on multiple levels in the molecular subset-specification of mdDA neurons.


Kv2.1 is a potassium channel -subunit abundantly expressed throughout the brain. It is a main component of delayed rectifier current (I(K)) in several neuronal types and a regulator of excitability during high-frequency firing. Here we identify AMIGO (amphoterin-induced gene and ORF), a neuronal adhesion protein with leucine-rich repeat and immunoglobin domains, as an integral part of the Kv2.1 channel complex. AMIGO shows extensive spatial and temporal colocalization and association with Kv2.1 in the mouse brain. The colocalization of AMIGO and Kv2.1 is retained even during stimulus-induced changes in Kv2.1 localization. AMIGO increases Kv2.1 conductance in a voltage-dependent manner in HEK cells. Accordingly, inhibition of endogenous AMIGO suppresses neuronal I(K) at negative membrane voltages. In conclusion, our data indicate AMIGO as a function-modulating auxiliary subunit for Kv2.1 and thus provide new insights into regulation of neuronal excitability.
This study explored the effects of oxytocin on Compassion Focused Imagery (CFI), that is, imagining another &quot;mind&quot; being deeply compassionate to oneself, and the interaction of these effects with self-criticism and feeling socially safe with others. Forty-four healthy participants (29 men and 15 women) completed self-report measures of self-criticism, attachment style, and social safeness before taking part in a double-blind randomized placebo controlled study. They attended two imagery sessions, receiving oxytocin in one and a placebo in the other. Positive affect was measured before and after each imagery session, and &quot;imagery experience&quot; was assessed after each session. Overall, oxytocin increased the ease of imagining compassionate qualities but there were important individual differences in how CFI was experienced. Participants higher in self-criticism, lower in self-reassurance, social safeness, and attachment security had less positive experiences of CFI under oxytocin than placebo, indicating that the effects of oxytocin on affiliation may depend on attachment and self-evaluative styles.
This review of psychosocial interventions in bipolar disorders demonstrates that some therapies, when combined with medication, are more efficacious at preventing or delaying depressive relapse, and can be more effective than medication alone in reducing time to recovery from an acute bipolar depressive episode. However, apparent benefits diminish over time, suggesting that maintenance or  booster  therapy sessions may be needed. Given the scarcity of trained therapists, further studies are needed to determine which bipolar depressed patients should be targeted and to establish more clearly the potential cost and benefits of such interventions.
Over 60% of individuals with bipolar disorders report that they received between 1-4 prior diagnoses, with delay in diagnosis being a particular problem in females with bipolar II disorders. Clinical recognition of bipolarity may take up to 10 years, during which time individuals may have received a number of inadequate or inappropriate treatments. This paper describes the adverse clinical, functional and economic consequences of the failure to identify cases of bipolar disorder at the earliest possible time.
Tropomyosin-related kinase (TRK) receptor B (TRKB) mediates the supportive actions of neurotrophin 4/5 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor on early ovarian follicle development. Absence of TRKB receptors reduces granulosa cell (GC) proliferation and delays follicle growth. In the present study, we offer mechanistic insights into this phenomenon. DNA array and quantitative PCR analysis of ovaries from TrkB-null mice revealed that by the end of the first week of postnatal life, Jagged1, Hes1, and Hey2 mRNA abundance is reduced in the absence of TRKB receptors. Although Jagged1 encodes a NOTCH receptor ligand, Hes1 and Hey2 are downstream targets of the JAGGED1-NOTCH2 signaling system. Jagged1 is predominantly expressed in oocytes, and the abundance of JAGGED1 is decreased in TrkB(-/-) oocytes. Lack of TRKB receptors also resulted in reduced expression of c-Myc, a NOTCH target gene that promotes entry into the cell cycle, but did not alter the expression of genes encoding core regulators of cell-cycle progression. Selective restoration of JAGGED1 synthesis in oocytes of TrkB(-/-) ovaries via lentiviral-mediated transfer of the Jagged1 gene under the control of the growth differentiation factor 9 (Gdf9) promoter rescued c-Myc expression, GC proliferation, and follicle growth. These results suggest that neurotrophins acting via TRKB receptors facilitate early follicle growth by supporting a JAGGED1-NOTCH2 oocyte-to-GC communication pathway, which promotes GC proliferation via a c-MYC-dependent mechanism.


The induction of neuronal apoptosis throughout many regions of the developing rat brain by phenobarbital and phenytoin, two drugs commonly used for the treatment of neonatal seizures, has been well documented. However, several limbic regions have not been included in previous analyses. Because drug-induced damage to limbic brain regions in infancy could contribute to emotional and psychiatric sequelae, it is critical to determine the extent to which these regions are vulnerable to developmental neurotoxicity. To evaluate the impact of antiepileptic drug (AED) exposure on limbic nuclei, we treated postnatal day 7 rat pups with phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine, or vehicle, and examined nucleus accumbens, septum, amygdala, piriform cortex, and frontal cortex for cell death. Histologic sections were processed using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay to label apoptotic cells. Nucleus accumbens displayed the highest level of baseline cell death (vehicle group), as well as the greatest net increase in cell death following phenobarbital or phenytoin. Phenobarbital exposure resulted in a significant increase in cell death in all brain regions, whereas phenytoin exposure increased cell death only in the nucleus accumbens. Carbamazepine was without effect on cell death in any brain region analyzed, suggesting that the neurotoxicity observed is not an inherent feature of AED action. Our findings demonstrate pronounced cell death in several important regions of the rat limbic system following neonatal administration of phenobarbital, the first-line treatment for neonatal seizures in humans. These findings raise the possibility that AED exposure in infancy may contribute to adverse neuropsychiatric outcomes later in life.
The International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) standardized classification and terminology for &quot;epileptic seizures&quot; of 1981 and &quot;epilepsies and epileptic syndromes&quot; of 1989 provide a fundamental framework for organizing and differentiating the epilepsies. However, a revision of these classifications is mandated by recent major technologic and scientific advances. Since 1997, the relevant ILAE Commissions have made significant efforts to achieve better and internationally uniform classifications as reflected in their reports of 2001, 2006, and 2010. Their initial aim to construct a &quot;new scientific classification from application of methods used in biology that determines separate species and natural classes&quot; proved elusive and, therefore, the last Commission in their report of 2010 confined their revisions to &quot;new terminology and concepts&quot; instead of &quot;proposing a new classification (in the sense of organization) of epilepsies.&quot; It is unfortunate that most of the proposals in this report are modified interpretations and nomenclature of previous ILAE classifications; new terms are not better than the old ones, and recent advances have not been incorporated. Hence, the new ILAE report met with considerable protest from several expert epileptologists. This critical review refers mainly to the epileptic seizures, the classification of which may be an easier and less controversial task in the ILAE revisions. A revised classification should incorporate advanced knowledge of seizure pathophysiology, and clinical, interictal, and ictal manifestations. Such an attempt was made and detailed in the 2006 report of the ILAE Classification Core Group. However, these changes were largely discarded in the new ILAE report of 2010, without justification. This is inexplicable considering that the scientific advances that were available to the two Commissions were the same or had improved between 2006 and 2010. Of major concern is that &quot;No specific classification is recommended for focal seizures which should be described according to their manifestations.&quot; Such a proposition defies the essence and the principle of any classification that requires an organization and a common language for communication. Free text descriptions are fine in a manual of differential diagnosis but not as a classification system. Another striking weakness is that even the accepted types of epileptic seizure are listed by name only, without defining them. The result is avoidable confusion. Furthermore, the report fails to consider reflex epileptic seizures. Status epilepticus is the most conspicuous omission despite immense advances of our understanding of it and its relevance on the classification. It appears that the new ILAE report does not fulfill its intent to improve the previous classifications and it may be premature to submit anything similar to this for approval by the ILAE General Assembly. The ILAE Commission could benefit by asking experts in basic and clinical science to provide a concise statement in their field of expertise as, for example, what are focal, myoclonic, or absence seizures, and their subtypes, their manifestations, and their possible pathophysiology. Areas of certainties and uncertainties, agreements and disagreements should be identified and stated clearly, with documentation of the reasons for it. Probably this is the only way forward for a truly scientific, sound, and clinically meaningful organizational system for the epileptic seizures and the epilepsies.

Epilepsy, one of the most common neurological diseases, affects over 50 million people worldwide. Epilepsy can have a broad spectrum of debilitating medical and social consequences. Although antiepileptic drugs have helped treat millions of patients, roughly a third of all patients have seizures that are refractory to pharmacological intervention. The evolution of our understanding of this dynamic disease leads to new treatment possibilities. There is great interest in the development of devices that incorporate algorithms capable of detecting early onset of seizures or even predicting them hours before they occur. The lead time provided by these new technologies will allow for new types of interventional treatment. In the near future, seizures may be detected and aborted before physical manifestations begin. In this chapter we discuss the algorithms that make these devices possible and how they have been implemented to date. We also compare and contrast these measures, and review their individual strengths and weaknesses. Finally, we illustrate how these techniques can be combined in a closed-loop seizure prevention system. This article is part of a Supplemental Special Issue entitled The Future of Automated Seizure Detection and Prediction.
Because of increased awareness of the high prevalence of nonconvulsive seizures in critically ill patients, use of continuous EEG (cEEG) monitoring is rapidly increasing in ICUs. However, cEEG monitoring is labor intensive, and manual review and interpretation of the EEG are impractical in most ICUs. Effective methods to assist in rapid and accurate detection of nonconvulsive seizures would greatly reduce the cost of cEEG monitoring and enhance the quality of patient care. In this study, we report a preliminary investigation of a novel ICU EEG analysis and seizure detection algorithm. Twenty-four prolonged cEEG recordings were included in this study. Seizure detection sensitivity and specificity were assessed for the new algorithm and for the two commercial seizure detection software systems. The new algorithm performed with a mean sensitivity of 90.4% and a mean false detection rate of 0.066/hour. The two commercial detection products performed with low sensitivities (12.9 and 10.1%) and false detection rates of 1.036/hour and 0.013/hour, respectively. These findings suggest that the novel algorithm has potential to be the basis of clinically useful software that can assist ICU staff in timely identification of nonconvulsive seizures. This study also suggests that currently available seizure detection software does not perform sufficiently in detection of nonconvulsive seizures in critically ill patients. This article is part of a Supplemental Special Issue entitled The Future of Automated Seizure Detection and Prediction.
Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE), also known as steroid-responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis (SREAT), is a rare condition whose pathogenesis is unknown, though autoimmune-mediated mechanisms are thought to be involved. The prevalent neurological manifestations of this disorder are epileptic seizures and psychocognitive disorders associated with EEG alterations. High anti-thyroid antibody titers (particularly in cerebrospinal fluid) and the effectiveness of steroid therapy are usually considered to be crucial elements in the diagnostic process. We describe a 19-year-old female patient who had been referred to the psychiatric unit because of behavioral disorders characterized predominantly by delirium with sexual content. She developed recurrent focal seizures characterized by atypical ictal semiology (repetitive forceful yawning) and a rare EEG pattern (recurrent seizures arising from the left temporal region without evident &quot;encephalopathic&quot; activity). The presence of anti-thyroperoxidase antibodies in her cerebrospinal fluid and a good response to steroids confirmed the diagnosis of HE. The atypical presentation in the case we describe appears to widen the electroclinical spectrum of HE and highlights its importance for differential diagnosis purposes in the neuropsychiatric setting.
Photosensitive epilepsy (PSE) offers a highly reproducible model to investigate whether changes in neuronal activity preceding the transition to an epileptic photoparoxysmal response (PPR) may be detected. We investigated this possibility in patients with idiopathic PSE using MEG, as well as normal controls and non-photosensitive epileptic patients of the same age group. Spectral analysis of the MEG signals recorded during intermittent light stimulation revealed relevant information in the phase spectrum. To quantify this effect, we introduced a second order response feature of the stimulus-triggered visual response preceding the PPR: the phase clustering index, which measures how close the phases of successive periods are grouped for each frequency component for all periods of the stimuli applied. We found that an enhancement of phase synchrony in the gamma-band (30-120Hz), harmonically related to the frequency of stimulation, preceded the stimulation trials that evolved into PPRs, and differed significantly from that encountered in trials not followed by PPR or in control subjects. Thus this index can be considered a valuable index of the pro-ictal transition to seizures in photosensitive epilepsy.
Absence seizures appear to be initiated in a putative cortical 'initiation site' by the expression of medium-amplitude 5-9Hz oscillations, which may in part be due to a decreased phasic GABA(A) receptor function. These oscillations rapidly spread to other cortical areas and to the thalamus, leading to fully developed generalized spike and wave discharges. In thalamocortical neurons of genetic models, phasic GABA(A) inhibition is either unchanged or increased, whereas tonic GABA(A) inhibition is increased both in genetic and pharmacological models. This enhanced tonic inhibition is required for absence seizure generation, and in genetic models it results from a malfunction in the astrocytic GABA transporter GAT-1. Contradictory results from inbred and transgenic animals still do not allow us to draw firm conclusions on changes in phasic GABA(A) inhibition in the GABAergic neurons of the nucleus reticularis thalami. Mathematical modelling may enhance our understanding of these competing hypotheses, by permitting investigations of their mechanistic aspects, hence enabling a greater understanding of the processes underlying seizure generation and evolution.
Suicide and suicidal behaviour are a major health concern worldwide particularly in patients with mood disorders. Family, adoption and twin studies show that genetics influences suicidal behaviour. The serotonin transporter (5HTT) plays an important role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders and may also be involved in suicidal behaviour since 5HTT binding is decreased in the brain of suicide completers. Because the effect of genomic imprinting in the 5HTT gene on suicidal behaviour has not been investigated, we analysed the parent-of-origin effect (POE) of four 5HTT markers and the differential expression of the 5HTT G2651T (rs1042173) alleles in suicide attempters affected by bipolar disorder. We performed a family based association study and ETDT/QTDT analyses of the rs25531, HTTLPR, VNTR-2 and G2651T polymorphisms in 312 nuclear families with at least one subject affected by bipolar disorder. The main outcomes investigated in this study are bipolar disorder diagnosis, suicide attempts, suicidal behaviour severity and age at onset of bipolar disorder. We also compared the allele-specific mRNA levels in lymphoblastoid cells from 13 bipolar suicide attempters and 8 bipolar non-suicide attempters. Allele 2651T was transmitted significantly more often to bipolar patients (P=0.042). There was no significant difference between maternal and paternal transmission ratios. Furthermore, there was no significant difference in the ratio of T/G-specific mRNA expression between bipolar attempters and non-attempters. These data do not support a role for differential allelic expression of 5HTT for suicidal behaviour in bipolar disorder. Small sample size and the fact that RNA was obtained from lymphoblastoid cell lines were some of the limitations of this study.
The aim of this paper was to develop a model from experimental data allowing a prediction of the cardiopulmonary responses to steady-state submaximal exercise in varying gravitational environments, with acceleration in the G(z) axis (a (g)) ranging from 0 to 3 g. To this aim, we combined data from three different experiments, carried out at Buffalo, at Stockholm and inside the Mir Station. Oxygen consumption, as expected, increased linearly with a (g). In contrast, heart rate increased non-linearly with a (g), whereas stroke volume decreased non-linearly: both were described by quadratic functions. Thus, the relationship between cardiac output and a (g) was described by a fourth power regression equation. Mean arterial pressure increased with a (g) non linearly, a relation that we interpolated again with a quadratic function. Thus, total peripheral resistance varied linearly with a (g). These data led to predict that maximal oxygen consumption would decrease drastically as a (g) is increased. Maximal oxygen consumption would become equal to resting oxygen consumption when a (g) is around 4.5 g, thus indicating the practical impossibility for humans to stay and work on the biggest Planets of the Solar System.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) induces neuronal differentiation and promotes the survival of various neuronal cell types by binding to a receptor complex formed by CNTF receptor  (CNTFR), gp130, and the leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) receptor (LIFR). The CD loop-D helix region of CNTF has been suggested to be important for the cytokine interaction with LIFR. We designed a peptide, termed cintrofin, that encompasses this region. Surface plasmon resonance analysis demonstrated that cintrofin bound to LIFR and gp130, but not to CNTFR, with apparent KD values of 35 nM and 1.1 nM, respectively. Cintrofin promoted the survival of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs), in which cell death was induced either by potassium withdrawal or H2O2 treatment. Cintrofin induced neurite outgrowth from CGNs, and this effect was inhibited by specific antibodies against both gp130 and LIFR, indicating that these receptors are involved in the effects of cintrofin. The C-terminal part of the peptide, corresponding to the D helix region of CNTF, was shown to be essential for the neuritogenic action of the peptide. CNTF and LIF induced neurite outgrowth in CGNs plated on laminin-coated slides. On uncoated slides, CNTF and LIF had no neuritogenic effect but were able to inhibit cintrofin-induced neuronal differentiation, indicating that cintrofin and cytokines compete for the same receptors. In addition, cintrofin induced the phosphorylation of STAT3, Akt, and ERK, indicating that it exerts cell signaling properties similar to those induced by CNTF and may be a valuable survival agent with possible therapeutic potential.
Among inherited retinal dystrophies, autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) is the most genetically heterogenous condition with 32 genes currently known that account for ~60 % of patients. Molecular diagnosis thus requires the tedious systematic sequencing of 506 exons. To rapidly identify the causative mutations, we devised a strategy that combines gene mapping and phenotype assessment in small non-consanguineous families. Two unrelated sibships with arRP had whole-genome scan using SNP microchips. Chromosomal regions were selected by calculating a score based on SNP coverage and genotype identity of affected patients. Candidate genes from the regions with the highest scores were then selected based on phenotype concordance of affected patients with previously described phenotype for each candidate gene. For families RP127 and RP1459, 33 and 40 chromosomal regions showed possible linkage, respectively. By comparing the scores with the phenotypes, we ended with one best candidate gene for each family, namely tubby-like protein 1 (TULP1) and C2ORF71 for RP127 and RP1459, respectively. We found that RP127 patients were compound heterozygous for two novel TULP1 mutations, p.Arg311Gln and p.Arg342Gln, and that RP1459 patients were compound heterozygous for two novel C2ORF71 mutations, p.Leu777PhefsX34 and p.Leu777AsnfsX28. Phenotype assessment showed that TULP1 patients had severe early onset arRP and that C2ORF71 patients had a cone rod dystrophy type of arRP. Only two affected individuals in each sibship were sufficient to lead to mutation identification by screening the best candidate gene selected by a combination of gene mapping and phenotype characterization.

Neuronal activity elicits metabolic and vascular responses, during which oxygen is first consumed and then supplied to the tissue via an increase in cerebral blood flow. Understanding the spatial and temporal dynamics of blood and tissue oxygen (To) responses following neuronal activity is crucial for understanding the physiological basis of functional neuroimaging signals. However, our knowledge is limited because previous To measurements have been made at low temporal resolution (&gt;100 ms). Here we recorded To at high temporal resolution (1 ms), simultaneously with co-localized field potentials, at several cortical depths from the whisker region of the somatosensory cortex in anaesthetized rats and mice. Stimulation of the whiskers produced rapid, laminar-specific changes in To. Positive To responses (i.e. increases) were observed in the superficial layers within 50 ms of stimulus onset, faster than previously reported. Negative To responses (i.e. decreases) were observed in the deeper layers, with maximal amplitude in layer IV, within 40 ms of stimulus onset. The amplitude of the negative, but not the positive, To response correlated with local field potential amplitude. Disruption of neurovascular coupling, via nitric oxide synthase inhibition, abolished positive To responses to whisker stimulation in the superficial layers and increased negative To responses in all layers. Our data show that To responses occur rapidly following neuronal activity and are laminar dependent.
A solitary, elongated cluster of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons has been previously observed in the rodent ventrolateral hypothalamus. However, the function of this so-called PV1 nucleus is unknown. In this article, we report the results of an unbiased, broad and in-depth molecular characterization of this small, compact group of neurons. The Allen Brain Atlas database of in situ hybridization was screened in order to identify genes expressed in the PV1-nucleus-containing area of the hypothalamus, and those that might be co-expressed with parvalbumin. Although GABA is the principal neurotransmitter in parvalbumin-expressing cells in various other brain areas, we found that PV1 neurons express the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGlut) VGlut2-encoding gene Slc17a6 and are negative for the glutamic acid decarboxylase 1 (GAD1) gene. These cells also express the mRNA for the neuropeptides Adcyap1 and possibly Nxph4, express several types of potassium and sodium channels, are under the control of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, bear receptors for the glial-derived neurotrophic factor, and produce an extracellular matrix rich in osteopontin. The PV1 nucleus is thus composed of glutamatergic nerve cells, expressing some typical markers of long-axon, projecting neurons (e.g. VGlut2), but also co-expressing genes typical of short-axon GABA neurons (e.g. a variety of potassium channels). Hence, neurons of the PV1 nucleus combine physiological characteristics of interneurons with those of projection neurons.
Phasic changes in dopamine activity play a critical role in learning and goal-directed behavior. Unpredicted reward and reward-predictive cues evoke phasic increases in the firing rate of the majority of midbrain dopamine neurons--results that predict uniformly broadcast increases in dopamine concentration throughout the striatum. However, measurement of dopamine concentration changes during reward has cast doubt on this prediction. We systematically measured phasic changes in dopamine in four striatal subregions [nucleus accumbens shell and core (Core), dorsomedial (DMS) and dorsolateral striatum] in response to stimuli known to activate a majority of dopamine neurons. We used fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in awake and behaving rats, which measures changes in dopamine on a similar timescale to the electrophysiological recordings that established a relationship between phasic dopamine activity and reward. Unlike the responses of midbrain dopamine neurons, unpredicted food reward and reward-predictive cues evoked a phasic increase in dopamine that was subregion specific. In rats with limited experience, unpredicted food reward evoked an increase exclusively in the Core. In rats trained on a discriminative stimulus paradigm, both unpredicted reward and reward-predictive cues evoked robust phasic dopamine in the Core and DMS. Thus, phasic dopamine release in select target structures is dynamic and dependent on context and experience. Because the four subregions assayed receive different inputs and have differential projection targets, the regional selectivity of phasic changes in dopamine has important implications for information flow through the striatum and plasticity that underlies learning and goal-directed behavior.
When we encode faces in memory, we often do so in association with biographical information regarding the person. To examine the neural dynamics underlying such encoding processes, we devised a face recognition task and recorded cortical activity using magnetoencephalography. The task included two conditions. In the experimental condition, face stimuli were preceded by biographical information regarding the person whose face was to be memorized, whereas in the control condition, nonsense syllables were presented before face stimuli. Behavioral results indicated that the biographical information about a person facilitated the recognition memory of their face. Magnetoencephalography signals showed clear visually evoked magnetic fields mainly in the occipitotemporal cortex, in response to the face stimuli that were to be encoded. The phasic peak was observed at 100-200 ms after onset of a face stimulus, which was followed by late latency deflections (200-400 ms). Comparison of the signal between conditions revealed that the preceding semantic information does modulate the neuromagnetic responses to the face stimuli. This modulation occurred primarily at the late latency component in the sensors over the occipitotemporal cortex. In addition, the effects of conditions were also observed in the signals from more anterior sensors, which occurred earlier than the effects in the occipitotemporal cortex. These results provide insights into the neural dynamics underlying the encoding of faces in association with their biographical information.
A burst of action potentials in hippocampal neurons is followed by a slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) that serves to limit subsequent firing. A reduction in the sAHP accompanies acquisition of several types of learning, whereas increases in the sAHP are correlated with cognitive impairment. The present study demonstrates in vitro that activity-dependent bidirectional plasticity of the sAHP does not require synaptic activation, and depends on the pattern of action potential firing. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices from young rats (postnatal days 14-24) were performed in blockers of synaptic transmission. The sAHP was evoked by action potential firing at gamma-related (50 Hz, gamma-AHP) or theta frequencies (5 Hz, theta-AHP), two firing frequencies implicated in attention and memory. Interestingly, when the gamma-AHP and theta-AHP were evoked in the same cell, a gradual potentiation of the gamma-AHP (186  31%) was observed that was blocked using Ca(2+) channel blockers nimodipine (10 m) or -conotoxin MVIIC (1 m). In experiments that exclusively evoked the sAHP with 50 Hz firing, the gamma-AHP was similarly potentiated (198  44%). However, theta-burst firing pattern alone resulted in a decrease (65  19%) of the sAHP. In these experiments, application of the h-channel blocker ZD7288 (25 m) selectively prevented enhancement of the gamma-AHP. These data demonstrate that induction requirements for bidirectional AHP plasticity depend on the pattern of action potential firing, and result from distinct mechanisms. The identification of novel mechanisms underlying AHP plasticity in vitro provides additional insight into the dynamic processes that may regulate neuronal excitability during learning in vivo.
Caspase 3 activation has been linked to the acute neurotoxic effects of central nervous system damage, as in traumatic brain injury or cerebral ischaemia, and also to the early events leading to long-term neurodegeneration, as in Alzheimer's disease. However, the precise mechanisms activating caspase 3 in neuronal injury are unclear. RhoB is a member of the Rho GTPase family that is dramatically induced by cerebral ischaemia or neurotrauma, both in preclinical models and clinically. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that RhoB might directly modulate caspase 3 activity and apoptotic or necrotic responses in neurons. Over-expression of RhoB in the NG108-15 neuronal cell line or in cultured corticohippocampal neurons elevated caspase 3 activity without inducing overt toxicity. Cultured corticohippocampal neurons from RhoB knockout mice did not show any differences in sensitivity to a necrotic stimulus - acute calcium ionophore exposure - compared with neurons from wild-type mice. However, corticohippocampal neurons lacking RhoB exhibited a reduction in the degree of DNA fragmentation and caspase 3 activation induced by the apoptotic agent staurosporine, in parallel with increased neuronal survival. Staurosporine induction of caspase 9 activity was also suppressed. RhoB knockout mice showed reduced basal levels of caspase 3 activity in the adult brain. These data directly implicate neuronal RhoB in caspase 3 activation and the initial stages of programmed cell death, and suggest that RhoB may represent an attractive target for therapeutic intervention in conditions involving elevated caspase 3 activity in the central nervous system.
Sensorimotor integration is important for motor learning. The inferior parietal lobe, through its connections with the frontal lobe and cerebellum, has been associated with multisensory integration and sensorimotor adaptation for motor behaviors other than speech. In the present study, the contribution of the inferior parietal cortex to speech motor learning was evaluated using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) prior to a speech motor adaptation task. Subjects' auditory feedback was altered in a manner consistent with the auditory consequences of an unintended change in tongue position during speech production, and adaptation performance was used to evaluate sensorimotor plasticity and short-term learning. Prior to the feedback alteration, rTMS or sham stimulation was applied over the left supramarginal gyrus (SMG). Subjects who underwent the sham stimulation exhibited a robust adaptive response to the feedback alteration whereas subjects who underwent rTMS exhibited a diminished adaptive response. The results suggest that the inferior parietal region, in and around SMG, plays a role in sensorimotor adaptation for speech. The interconnections of the inferior parietal cortex with inferior frontal cortex, cerebellum and primary sensory areas suggest that this region may be an important component in learning and adapting sensorimotor patterns for speech.
Elderly people often show degraded hearing performance and have difficulties in understanding speech, particularly in noisy environments. Although loss in peripheral hearing sensitivity is an important factor in explaining these low performances, central alterations also have an impact but their exact contributions remained unclear. In this study, we focus on the functional effects of aging on auditory cortex responses. Neuronal discharges and local field potentials were recorded in the auditory cortex of aged guinea pigs (&gt; 3 years), and several parameters characterizing the processing of auditory information were quantified: the acoustic thresholds, response strength, latency and duration of the response, and breadth of tuning. Several of these parameters were also quantified from auditory brainstem responses collected from the same animals, and recordings obtained from a population of animals with trauma-induced hearing loss were also included in this study. The results showed that aging and acoustic trauma reduced the response strength at both brainstem and cortical levels, and increased the response latencies more at the cortical level than at the brainstem level. In addition to the brainstem hearing loss, aging induced a 'cortical hearing loss' as judged by additive changes in the threshold and frequency response seen in the cortex. It also increased the duration of neural responses and reduced the receptive field bandwidth, effects that were not found in traumatized animals. These effects substantiate the notion that presbycusis involves both peripheral hearing loss and biological aging in the central auditory system.
The overwhelming majority of research in the neurosciences employs P-values stemming from tests of statistical significance to decide on the presence or absence of an effect of some treatment variable. Although a continuous variable, the P-value is commonly used to reach a dichotomous decision about the presence of an effect around an arbitrary criterion of 0.05. This analysis strategy is widely used, but has been heavily criticized in the past decades. To counter frequent misinterpretations of P-values, it has been advocated to complement or replace P-values with measures of effect size (MES). Many psychological, biological and medical journals now recommend reporting appropriate MES. One hindrance to the more frequent use of MES may be their scarcity in standard statistical software packages. Also, the arguably most widespread data analysis software in neuroscience, matlab, does not provide MES beyond correlation and receiver-operating characteristic analysis. Here we review the most common criticisms of significance testing and provide several examples from neuroscience where use of MES conveys insights not amenable through the use of P-values alone. We introduce an open-access matlab toolbox providing a wide range of MES to complement the frequently used types of hypothesis tests, such as t-tests and analysis of variance. The accompanying documentation provides calculation formulae, intuitive explanations and example calculations for each measure. The toolbox described is usable without sophisticated statistical knowledge and should be useful to neuroscientists wishing to enhance their repertoire of statistical reporting.
The functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal is regularly used to assign neuronal activity to cognitive function. Recent analyses have shown that the local field potential (LFP) gamma power is a better predictor of the fMRI BOLD signal than spiking activity. However, LFP gamma power and spiking activity are usually correlated, clouding the analysis of the neural basis of the BOLD signal. We show that changes in LFP gamma power and spiking activity in the primary visual cortex (V1) of the awake primate can be dissociated by using grating and plaid pattern stimuli, which differentially engage surround suppression and cross-orientation inhibition/facilitation within and between cortical columns. Grating presentation yielded substantial V1 LFP gamma frequency oscillations and significant multi-unit activity. Plaid pattern presentation significantly reduced the LFP gamma power while increasing population multi-unit activity. The fMRI BOLD activity followed the LFP gamma power changes, not the multi-unit activity. Inference of neuronal activity from the fMRI BOLD signal thus requires detailed a priori knowledge of how different stimuli or tasks activate the cortical network.


We have previously shown that both the psychostimulant d-amphetamine and the antipsychotics haloperidol and risperidone affect extracellular concentrations and tissue content of neurotensin (NT) in distinct brain regions. This study investigated the effects of acute olanzapine (1, 5mg/kg, s.c.) on extracellular NT-like immunoreactivity (-LI) concentrations in the ventral striatum (vSTR) and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and the effects of acute d-amphetamine (1.5mg/kg, s.c.) on extracellular NT-LI in these brain regions after a 30-day olanzapine (15mg/kg, p.o.) administration in rats. The effects of a 30-day olanzapine (3, 15mg/kg, p.o.) administration and d-amphetamine (1.5mg/kg, s.c.) coadministration during either the last day (acute) or the last 8days (chronic) on NT-LI tissue content in distinct rat brain regions were also studied. Acute olanzapine increased extracellular NT-LI, in both the vSTR and the mPFC. Chronic olanzapine increased and decreased basal extracellular NT-LI in the vSTR and the mPFC, respectively, and abolished the stimulatory effects of acute d-amphetamine on extracellular NT-LI in these brain regions. Chronic olanzapine as well as acute and chronic d-amphetamine affected NT-LI tissue content in a brain region-dependent manner. Chronic olanzapine prevented the effects of acute and chronic d-amphetamine on NT-LI tissue content in certain brain regions. The fact that olanzapine and d-amphetamine affected extracellular NT-LI in the vSTR and mPFC as well as NT-LI tissue content in distinct brain regions further supports the notion that NT plays a role in the therapeutic actions of antipsychotic drugs and possibly also in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.

Inferring causality is a fundamental feature of human cognition that allows us to predict outcomes in everyday events. Here, we use direct current stimulation (tDCS) to investigate the role of the right parietal lobe in the perception of causal events. Based on the results of a previous fMRI investigation, we hypothesized that the right parietal lobe plays a specific role in the processing of spatial attributes that contribute to judgments of causality. In line with our hypothesis, we found polarization-dependent modulation of causal judgments and corresponding reaction times (RTs) for trials with increasing violation of spatial contiguity in launching events. This effect was further modulated by temporal violations, as the effect of tDCS on the use of spatial information for causality judgements was strongest for trials with high temporal violations. Thus, especially for ambiguous trials with regard to temporal patterns, cathodal stimulation led to more liberal causality judgments for trials with high angles in movement trajectory. Furthermore, we found faster RTs after anodal stimulation of the right parietal lobe. These findings suggest a reduced influence of spatial attributes on the perception of causality after cathode stimulation of the right parietal lobe and an increased processing efficiency after anodal stimuli of the same region. These data demonstrate polarization-dependent tDCS modulation of spatial processing mechanisms within the right parietal lobe that contribute to the perception of causality.
The link between social influence and drug abuse has long been established in humans. However, preclinical animal models of drug abuse have only recently begun to consider the role of social influence. Since social factors influence the initiation and maintenance of drug use in humans, it is important to include these factors in preclinical animal models. The current study examined the effects of the presence of a social partner on responding for sucrose pellets under various motivational conditions, as well as on d-amphetamine (AMPH) self-administration. Rats were trained to lever press for either sucrose or AMPH (0.01 or 0.1 mg/kg/infusion unit dose). Following response stability, a novel same-sex conspecific was presented in an adjacent compartment separated by a clear divider, and responding for sucrose or AMPH reward was measured. Rats were allowed to restabilize, and subsequently given an additional partner presentation. Presence of the social partner increased responding only during the first pairing with the AMPH 0.1 mg/kg/infusion unit dose, whereas inhibition of responding was observed during the first pairing during access to the 0.01 mg/kg/infusion unit dose. Under free feed conditions, inhibition of sucrose pellet responding was observed in the presence of the social partner, but this effect was attenuated under food restriction. In contrast, the results demonstrate social facilitation of AMPH self-administration at a high unit dose, thus extending the influence of social factors to an operant conditioning task. This model of social facilitation may have important implications as a preclinical model of social influence on drug abuse.
Peroxisome Proliferator Activated Receptor (PPAR)- is a key regulator of lipid metabolism and recent studies reveal it also regulates inflammation in several different disease models. Gemfibrozil, an agonist of PPAR-, is a FDA approved drug for hyperlipidemia and has been shown to inhibit clinical signs in a rodent model of multiple sclerosis. Since many studies have shown improved outcome from spinal cord injury (SCI) by anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective agents, we tested the efficacy of oral gemfibrozil given before or after SCI for promoting tissue preservation and behavioral recovery after spinal contusion injury in mice. Unfortunately, the results were contrary to our hypothesis; in our first attempt, gemfibrozil treatment exacerbated locomotor deficits and increased tissue pathology after SCI. In subsequent experiments, the behavioral effects were not replicated but histological outcomes again were worse. We also tested the efficacy of a different PPAR- agonist, fenofibrate, which also modulates immune responses and is beneficial in several neurodegenerative disease models. Fenofibrate treatment did not improve recovery, although there was a slight trend for a modest increase in histological tissue sparing. Based on our results, we conclude that PPAR- agonists yield either no effect or worsen recovery from spinal cord injury, at least at the doses and the time points of drug delivery tested here. Further, patients sustaining spinal cord injury while taking gemfibrozil might be prone to exacerbated tissue damage.
Although prior studies have implicated maladaptive remodeling of dendritic spines on wide-dynamic range dorsal horn neurons as a contributor to pain after spinal cord injury, there have been no studies on dendritic spines after peripheral nerve injury. To determine whether dendritic spine remodeling contributes to neuronal hyperexcitability and neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury, we analyzed dendritic spine morphology and functional influence in lamina IV-V dorsal horn neurons after sham, chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve, and CCI treatment with NSC23766, a selective inhibitor of Rac1, which has been implicated in dendritic spine development. 10 days after CCI, spine density increased with mature, mushroom-shaped spines preferentially distributed along dendritic branch regions closer to the cell body. Because spine morphology is strongly correlated with synaptic function and transmission, we recorded the response of single units to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli and performed behavioral assays for tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Wide dynamic range dorsal horn neurons of CCI animals exhibited hyperexcitable responses to a range of stimuli. They also showed reduced nociceptive thresholds in the ipsilateral hind paw. 3-day treatment with NSC23766 significantly reduced post-CCI spine dimensions and densities, and attenuated injury-induced hyperexcitability. Drug treatment reduced behavioral measures of tactile allodynia, but not for thermal hyperalgesia. Together, our results demonstrate that peripheral nerve injury induces Rac1-regulated remodeling of dendritic spines on dorsal horn neurons, and suggest that this spine remodeling contributes to neuropathic pain.
In Parkinson's disease (PD) progressive alteration of striatal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) signaling has emerged as a considerable factor for the onset of the adverse motor effects of long-term levodopa (l-DOPA) treatment. In this regard, the NMDAR channel blocker amantadine is so far the only drug available for clinical use that attenuates L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). In this study, we examined the influence of a basal corticostriatal hyper-glutamatergic transmission in the appearance of dyskinesia, using a genetic mouse model lacking D-Aspartate Oxidase (DDO) enzyme (Ddo(-/-) mice). We found that, in Ddo(-/-) mice, non-physiological, high levels of the endogenous free D-amino acids D-aspartate (D-Asp) and NMDA, known to stimulate NMDAR transmission, resulted in the loss of corticostriatal synaptic depotentiation and precocious expression of LID. Interestingly, the block of depotentiation precedes any change in dopaminergic transmission associated to 6-OHDA lesion and l-DOPA treatment. Indeed, lesioned mutant mice display physiological L-DOPA-dependent enhancement of striatal D1 receptor/PKA/protein phosphatase-1 and ERK signaling. Moreover, in line with synaptic rearrangements of NMDAR subunits occurring in dyskinetic animal models, a short L-DOPA treatment produces a dramatic and selective reduction of the NR2B subunit in the striatal post-synaptic fraction of Ddo(-/-) lesioned mutants but not in controls. These data indicate that a preexisting hyper-glutamatergic tone at NMDARs in Ddo(-/-) mice produce abnormal striatal synaptic changes that, in turn, facilitate the onset of LID.
Stress has been linked to structural and functional outcomes after stroke. Moreover, the striatum, both dorsal and ventral, is a vital regulator of stress perception and associated physiological responses. This study investigates potential synergistic effects of focal stroke in the ventrolateral striatum and restraint stress on motor and spatial performance. Adult male Long-Evans rats were pre-trained in a skilled reaching task and randomly assigned to sham, stroke-only, stress-only and stroke+stress conditions. Ventrolateral striatal focal ischemia was induced by endothelin-1 (ET-1) infusion. Rats in stress-only and stroke+stress groups received 21 days of mild restraint stress after stroke. All rats were tested in the skilled reaching task and the ziggurat task (ZT) for post-stroke motor and spatial performance. There was no effect of ventrolateral striatal ischemia or stress alone on motor and spatial performance. Notably, stroke and stress interacted synergistically to reduce reaching success and to disrupt qualitative aspects of movement performance in the absence of histological differences in lesion size. Thus, stress can precipitate behavioural deficits after focal ischemia even in the absence of significant functional deficits on its own. These results emphasize the importance of prevention programmes to control post-stroke levels of stress in clinical populations.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by the progressive onset of cognitive, psychiatric, and motor symptoms. In parallel, the neuropathology of HD is characterized by progressive loss of projection neurons in cortex and striatum; striatal cholinergic interneurons are relatively spared. Nonetheless, there is evidence that striatal acetylcholine (ACh) function is altered in HD. The present study is the first to examine striatal ACh function in awake, behaving animals, using the R6/2 mouse model of HD, which is transgenic for exon 1 of the mutant huntingtin gene. Physiological levels of extracellular striatal ACh were monitored in R6/2 mice and wild type controls using in vivo microdialysis. Results indicate that spontaneous ACh release is reduced in R6/2 mice relative to controls. Intrastriatal application of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline methiodide (10.0 M) significantly elevated ACh levels in both R6/2 mice and wild type controls, while overall ACh levels were reduced in the R6/2 mice compared to the wild type group. In contrast, systemic administration of the D(1) dopamine receptor partial agonist, SKF-38393 (10.0mg/kg, IP), elevated ACh levels in control animals, but not R6/2 mice. Taken together, the present results suggest that GABA-mediated inhibition of striatal ACh release is intact in R6/2 mice, further demonstrating that cholinergic interneurons are capable of increased ACh release, whereas D(1) receptor-dependent activation of excitatory inputs to striatal cholinergic interneurons is dysfunctional in R6/2 mice. Reduced levels of extracellular striatal ACh in HD may reflect abnormalities in the excitatory innervation of cholinergic interneurons, which may have implications ACh-dependent processes that are altered in HD, including corticostriatal plasticity.
Power spectral analysis of heart rate variability has often been used to assess cardiac autonomic function; however, the relationship of low-frequency (LF) power of heart rate variability to cardiac sympathetic tone has been unclear. With or without adjustment for high-frequency (HF) power, total power or respiration, LF power seems to provide an index not of cardiac sympathetic tone but of baroreflex function. Manipulations and drugs that change LF power or LF:HF may do so not by affecting cardiac autonomic outflows directly but by affecting modulation of those outflows by baroreflexes.


Immunizations that target specific types of immune responses are used commonly to prevent microbial infections. However, a range of immune responses may prove necessary to combat the ravages of neurodegenerative diseases. The goal is to eliminate the 'root' cause of neurodegenerative disorders, misfolded aggregated proteins, while harnessing adaptive immune responses to promote neural repair. However, immunization strategies used to elicit humoral immune responses against aberrant brain proteins have yielded mixed success. While specific proteins can be cleared, the failures in halting disease progression revolve, in measure, around adaptive immune responses that promote autoreactive T cells and, as such, induce a meningoencephalitis, accelerating neurodegeneration. Thus, alternative approaches for protein clearance and neural repair are desired. To this end, our laboratories have sought to transform autoreactive adaptive immune responses into regulatory neuroprotective cells in Parkinson's disease. In this context, induction of immune responses against modified brain proteins serves to break immunological tolerance, while eliciting adaptive immunity to facilitate neuronal repair. How to harness the immune response in the setting of Parkinson's disease requires a thorough understanding of the role of immunity in human disease and the ways to modify such immune responses to elicit therapeutic gain. These are discussed in this review.
While controversial and often confounded with other forms of psychopathology, recent studies have shown that bipolar disorder (BD) is on the rise in children and adolescents. Research has made important strides in advancing our understanding of the phenomenology, neural underpinnings and treatment outcomes for BD youths. However, there is an increasing need to unite these domains to identify potential neural effects and predictors of treatment outcome. Pavuluri et al. have conducted such a study, evaluating the neural effects of divalproex or risperidone for pediatric BD. The future is likely to bring more of such studies, potentially resulting in a biomarker augmented approach to the diagnosis and treatment of pediatric BD.
Natalizumab is the first monoclonal antibody approved for the treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis. Pivotal trials demonstrated the efficacy of natalizumab on clinical and paraclinical measures of disease activity and disability progression. Although a direct comparison has not been performed yet, natalizumab seems to be more efficacious than the currently available immunomodulant drugs, such as IFN- and glatiramer acetate. Despite its efficacy, the occurrence of an increased risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy with the treatment, raises concerns about its widespread use in multiple sclerosis patients. This paper provides an overview of the most relevant results from the Phase I-IV studies on natalizumab and highlights the challenges addressed to minimize and manage its adverse events in clinical practice.

The histaminergic and hypocretin/orexin (hcrt) neurotransmitter systems play crucial roles in alertness/wakefulness in rodents. We elucidated the role of histamine in wakefulness and the interaction of the histamine and hcrt systems in larval zebrafish. Translation inhibition of histidine decarboxylase (hdc) with morpholino oligonucleotides (MOs) led to a behaviorally measurable decline in light-associated activity, which was partially rescued by hdc mRNA injections and mimicked by histamine receptor H1 (Hrh1) antagonist pyrilamine treatment. Histamine-immunoreactive fibers targeted the dorsal telencephalon, an area that expresses histamine receptors hrh1 and hrh3 and contains predominantly glutamatergic neurons. Tract tracing with DiI revealed that projections from dorsal telencephalon innervate the hcrt and histaminergic neurons. Translation inhibition of hdc decreased the number of hcrt neurons in a Hrh1-dependent manner. The reduction was rescued by overexpression of hdc mRNA. hdc mRNA injection alone led to an up-regulation of hcrt neuron numbers. These results suggest that histamine is essential for the development of a functional and intact hcrt system and that histamine has a bidirectional effect on the development of the hcrt neurons. In summary, our findings provide evidence that these two systems are linked both functionally and developmentally, which may have important implications in sleep disorders and narcolepsy. development via histamine receptor H1 in zebrafish.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in permanent loss of motor functions. A significant aspect of the tissue damage and functional loss may be preventable as it occurs, secondary to the trauma. We show that the phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) superfamily plays important roles in SCI. PLA(2) enzymes hydrolyze membrane glycerophospholipids to yield a free fatty acid and lysophospholipid. Some free fatty acids (arachidonic acid) give rise to eicosanoids that promote inflammation, while some lysophospholipids (lysophosphatidylcholine) cause demyelination. We show in a mouse model of SCI that two cytosolic forms [calcium-dependent PLA(2) group IVA (cPLA(2) GIVA) and calcium-independent PLA(2) group VIA (iPLA(2) GVIA)], and a secreted form [secreted PLA(2) group IIA (sPLA(2) GIIA)] are up-regulated. Using selective inhibitors and null mice, we show that these PLA(2)s play differing roles. cPLA(2) GIVA mediates protection, whereas sPLA(2) GIIA and, to a lesser extent, iPLA(2) GVIA are detrimental. Furthermore, completely blocking all three PLA(2)s worsens outcome, while the most beneficial effects are seen by partial inhibition of all three. The partial inhibitor enhances expression of cPLA(2) and mediates its beneficial effects via the prostaglandin EP1 receptor. These findings indicate that drugs that inhibit detrimental forms of PLA(2) (sPLA(2) and iPLA2) and up-regulate the protective form (cPLA2) may be useful for the treatment of SCI.
The Rhodopsin family of G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) includes the phylogenetic -group consisting of about 100 human members. The -group is the only group of GPCRs that has many receptors for biogenic amines which are major drug targets. Several members of this group are orphan receptors and their functions are elusive. In this study we present a detailed phylogenetic and anatomical characterization of the Gpr153 receptor and also attempt to study its functional role. We identified the homologue of Gpr153 in the elephant shark genome and phylogenetic and synteny analyses revealed that Gpr162 and Gpr153 share a common ancestor that split most likely through a duplication event before the divergence of the tetrapods and the teleost lineage. A quantitative real-time PCR study reveals widespread expression of Gpr153 in the central nervous system and all the peripheral tissues investigated. Detailed insitu hybridization on mouse brain showed specifically high expression in the thalamus, cerebellum and the arcuate nucleus. The antisense oligodeoxynucleotide knockdown of Gpr153 caused a slight reduction in food intake and the elevated plus maze test showed significant reduction in the percentage of time spent in the centre square, which points towards a probable role in decision making. This report provides the first detailed characterization of the evolution, expression and primary functional properties of the Gpr153 gene.

Reconceptualizing drugs as toxins allowed an important shift in the approach to the treatment of substance abuse, because it ushered in consideration of immunological methods of pharmacotherapy. This paradigm shift represented a dramatic departure from previously considered approaches to pharmacotherapy for substance use disorders (SUDs), which had up until that time focused predominantly on either agonist and/or antagonist medications meant to block drug effects or to decrease reward, reinforcement, or craving. Use of immunological theory in SUD treatment also meant that 1) a potentially addicting medication would not be administered as part of therapy and 2) side effects could be limited, because the individual's immune system would be responsible for delivering treatment.
Tourette's syndrome (TS) is characterised by motor and vocal tics. The clinical manifestation during childhood and the frequent remission during early adulthood point to a dysregulation in the maturation of neuronal pathways. As a neurobiological correlate, the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit is the main focus of research. Two main features of a movement, the speed and direction of a movement, are controlled by the basal ganglia. Both features are dysregulated in TS. Besides the motor symptoms, patients with TS suffer from comorbidities such as attention deficit hyperactivity syndrome, depression and obsessive compulsive disorders. Tics are modified in frequency and intensity by actions that require a high level of concentration such as reading or by distress, e.g., teasing by peers. The results of structural and functional imaging data support the hypothesis of altered signal transmission in the basal ganglia and a dysfunction in the limbic system. They also point to a complex interaction between cortical motor areas, the anterior cingulum, prefrontal regions and the basal ganglia.
