Like stressors, interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) increase hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity and monoamine turnover at hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic sites. These effects can be re-elicited more readily upon reintroduction of these challenges (sensitization), depending on their time of re-exposure and the particular system being assessed. Following TNF-alpha administration, the co-expression of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin increased within the median eminence, peaking 7-14 days after treatment, and was associated with an early corticosterone sensitization. However, the re-elicitation of sickness symptoms and corticosterone release was most pronounced at lengthy re-exposure intervals (28 days), possibly reflecting histamine release from mast cells. In addition, the cytokine engendered the sensitization of norepinephrine and serotonin utilization, and CRH immunoreactivity at mesocorticolimbic sites, but these effects were most prominent at brief re-exposure intervals (1-7 days). Cytokines may independently prime multiple regulatory systems, and by virtue of the neurochemical changes imparted, have both immediate and proactive influences on the evolution of psychopathology.
The immune system and the central nervous system form a bi-directional communication network. The critical roles of pro-inflammatory cytokines in both the periphery and the nervous system are discussed. In the periphery, these cytokines initiate the processes that signal the brain that immune activation has occurred, and communicate this information over both neural and blood-borne routes. The arrival of these signals in the central nervous system induces a neural cascade that includes the de novo induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The functions of these cytokines in the nervous system are discussed, and it is argued that they play a key role in regulating the neural control of immune processes in the periphery. In addition, it is argued that these cytokines play a variety of other roles, and some implications of the cytokine network for understanding stress, behavior, sensory processing, mood, and cognition are described. The overall argument is that because brain-mediated host defense involves behavioral, sensory, mood, and cognitive alterations, immune activation, and immune products such as the cytokines can have a pervasive effect on these functions. Finally, these phenomena are placed in an evolutionary perspective.
Deficits in the mental rotation of body parts and of external objects can be doubly dissociated (Rumiati, Tomasino, Vorano, Umilt, &amp; De Luce, 2001; Sirigu &amp; Duhamel, 2001; Tomasino, Rumiati, &amp; Umit, in press). The aim of this study was to replicate this finding and to then investigate the relevance of the specific hemispheres in these deficits. Nine patients with unilateral lesions (five in the Left Hemisphere and four in the Right) and 20 control subjects, performed a single task requiring mental rotation of hands, and two tasks requiring mental rotation of external objects. RH patients were impaired in the rotation of external objects, but showed intact performance on the rotation of hands; the opposite pattern was found for LH patients. These results support the view that the LH contributes to the mental rotation of hands, recruiting processes specific to motor preparation, while the RH is specialized for mental rotation of external objects.
The present study sought to examine the differential processing of pleasant, neutral, and unpleasant odors. The effects of the nostril stimulated (left or right) and the type of judgment (perceptual, affective, or cognitive) performed on the olfactory stimuli were also studied. To this end, 64 subjects were asked to smell pleasant, neutral, and unpleasant odors under four conditions (detection, intensity, pleasantness, and familiarity tasks). The participants were to perform these tasks as quickly as possible, while response times were recorded. The results showed that (i) unpleasant odors were assessed more rapidly than neutral or pleasant odors, and that this was specifically true (ii) during right nostril stimulation, and (iii) during pleasantness assessment, suggesting possible differential cerebral hemisphere involvement, with a right-side advantage for processing of unpleasant affect in olfaction. A handedness effect on familiarity judgment is also discussed.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) involves clinically heterogeneous dysfunctions of sustained attention, with behavioral overactivity and impulsivity, of juvenile onset. Experimental models, in addition to mimicking syndromal features, should resemble the clinical condition in pathophysiology, and predict potential new treatments. One of the most extensively evaluated animal models of ADHD is the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Other models include additional genetic variants (dopamine transporter gene knock-out mouse, coloboma mouse, Naples hyperexcitable rat, acallosal mouse, hyposexual rat, and population-extreme rodents), neonatal lesioning of dopamine neurons with 6-hydroxydopamine, and exposure to other neurotoxins or hippocampal irradiation. None is fully comparable to clinical ADHD. The pathophysiology involved varies, including both deficient and excessive dopaminergic functioning, and probable involvement of other monoamine neurotransmitters. Improved models as well as further testing of their ability to predict treatment responses are required.
Studies of phonological processes during language comprehension consistently report activation of the superior portion of Broca's area. In the domain of language production, however, there is no unequivocal evidence for the contribution of Broca's area to phonological processing. The present event-related fMRI study investigated the existence of a common neural network for phonological decisions in comprehension and production by using production tasks most comparable to those previously used in comprehension. Subjects performed two decision tasks on the initial phoneme of German picture names (/b/ or not? Vowel or not?). A semantic decision task served as a baseline for both phonological tasks. The contrasts between each phonological task and the semantic task were calculated, and a conjunction analysis was performed. There was significant activation in the superior portion of Broca's area (Brodmann's area (BA) 44) in the conjunction analysis, also present in each single contrast. In addition, further left frontal (BA 45/46) and temporal (posterior superior temporal gyrus) areas known to support phonological processing in both production and comprehension were activated. The results suggest the existence of a shared fronto-temporal neural network engaged in the processing of phonological information in both perception and production.
In the present study, we investigated implicit rule learning in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and healthy participants. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a variant of the serial reaction time task were employed to examine the performance of previously learned regular sequences. Participants responded to successively appearing visual stimuli by pressing spatially corresponding keys. Unbeknownst to them, a cycling 12-item sequence was presented. In order to measure rule learning independently from initial visuomotor learning, participants were trained with the sequence prior to scanning. In the fMRI session, alternating blocks of regular and random stimuli were performed. Imaging revealed activations in the frontomedian and posterior cingulate cortex during performance of sequence blocks as opposed to random blocks. The magnitude of activations in these two areas was correlated with the behavioral index for rule learning. As has been reported earlier, the frontomedian cortex may be involved in the prediction of future stimuli and anticipation of corresponding actions, whereas the posterior cingulate activation may rather be related to memory retrieval. Additional activations of the right putamen and the inferior frontal sulcus were not related to behavioral performance. In patients with early PD, the behavioral data showed reduced training effects during pretraining, but intact rule learning during the fMRI session. Imaging revealed highly similar frontomedian and posterior cingulate activations in patients and controls, in the absence of significant striatal and inferior frontal activations in patients. Our findings support the view that in early PD, with the lateral striatofrontal dopaminergic projections being affected, medial dopaminergic projections involved in the application of previously learned rules may still be spared.
Human stepping is a commonly executed control strategy for maintaining standing balance in the natural environment. Aging changes in the initiation triggering of both voluntary (longer latency) and perturbation-induced (shorter latency) stepping are associated with falling, and are a complex function of altered sensorimotor, neuromuscular, and cognitive system factors. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of contextual uncertainty about balance stability on the triggering of protective stepping in young and older individuals. Subjects initiated forward stepping during simple reaction time and waist-pull perturbation conditions with and without contextual uncertainty about balance stability. The results showed that, regardless of age, the initiation timing for triggering both voluntary and induced stepping was delayed substantially (100-300 ms) by the presence of balance uncertainty, and that age-associated timing differences were exacerbated with contextual uncertainty. The initiation timing of the first step liftoff for perturbation-induced stepping did not reflect entirely an immediate necessity or last resort strategy to balance instability determined directly by specific sensory input, but rather a decision to step. Moreover, the time to liftoff onset for perturbation-induced stepping was similar for the old and young with contextual certainty, and occurred 130 ms earlier for the old than for the young when balance stability was uncertain. Overall, we concluded that older individuals can retain a residual capacity to sustain stationary standing stability as a function of the prevailing task conditions, and that the reduced timing threshold with age may involve a pre-selected strategy triggered earlier by non-specific event-related sensory input rather than specific movement-related information.
Behavioral studies have provided evidence that the processing of a musical target is faster and more accurate when it is harmonically related to the preceding prime context. We investigated the neural correlates of processing related and unrelated musical targets that were presented at the end of musical sequences. Participants were scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing speeded intonation judgments (consonant versus dissonant) on the target chords. Behavioral results acquired in the scanner replicated the facilitation effect of related over unrelated consonant targets. The overall activation pattern associated with target processing showed commonalities with networks previously described for target detection and novelty processing. The blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal linked to target processing revealed activation of bilateral inferior frontal regions (i.e. inferior frontal gyrus, frontal operculum, insula) that was stronger for unrelated than for related targets. We discuss our results with regard to the role of these areas in the processing and integration of temporal information.
Analysis of regional corpus callosum fiber composition reveals that callosal regions connecting primary and secondary sensory areas tend to have higher proportions of coarse-diameter, highly myelinated fibers than callosal regions connecting so-called higher-order areas. This suggests that in primary/secondary sensory areas there are strong timing constraints for interhemispheric communication, which may be related to the process of midline fusion of the two sensory hemifields across the hemispheres. We postulate that the evolutionary origin of the corpus callosum in placental mammals is related to the mechanism of midline fusion in the sensory cortices, which only in mammals receive a topographically organized representation of the sensory surfaces. The early corpus callosum may have also served as a substrate for growth of fibers connecting higher-order areas, which possibly participated in the propagation of neuronal ensembles of synchronized activity between the hemispheres. However, as brains became much larger, the increasingly longer interhemispheric distance may have worked as a constraint for efficient callosal transmission. Callosal fiber composition tends to be quite uniform across species with different brain sizes, suggesting that the delay in callosal transmission is longer in bigger brains. There is only a small subset of large-diameter callosal fibers whose size increases with increasing interhemispheric distance. These limitations in interhemispheric connectivity may have favored the development of brain lateralization in some species like humans.


1. Aim of the present paper is to study the expression of N-Methyl-D-Aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunits NR2A and NR2B within mouse visual cortex. 2. To investigate the influence of neurotrophic factor of NGF family (neurotrophins) on NMDAR expression we used mutant mice carrying a deletion in the gene for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a well-known neurotrophin expressed in visual cortex. 3. Western blot and immunohistochemistry were performed at postnatal day P12-14, P21-23, and adulthood showing that both subunits change during postnatal development. 4. Absence of BDNF induced a reduction of NR2A level. This effect was specific since the other subunit investigated, NR2B, was not affected in mutant mice. 5. We conclude that endogenous BDNF modulates NMDAR expression in the developing visual cortex.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the validity of the headache diagnoses (migraine and tension-type headache) obtained from short interviews by nurses, where the subjects were asked to identify their headache(s) based on recognition of typical headache descriptions. All students in junior high schools and high schools aged 12-19 years in Nord-Trndelag county, Norway, were invited to participate in the youth part of the Nord-Trndelag Health Study ('Helseunderskelsen i Nord-Trndelag'-HUNT), 1995-1997. In this cross-sectional study a total of 8984 students (88%) completed a comprehensive questionnaire with different health-related items. Of these, 6149 were also interviewed by nurses about their headache complaints by giving them two alternative headache descriptions in accordance with either migraine or tension-type headache (Head-HUNT-Youth). The headache diagnoses obtained from nurse interviews were validated in a stratified random sample enriched with headache subjects from the interviewed population. Out of 159 invited individuals, 112 (70%) participated in extensive semistructured interviews by neurologists. The overall chance-corrected agreement (kappa) was 0.76 (confidence interval (CI) 0.66-0.86), which is considered good. For migraine, the positive and negative predictive values were 89% and 90%, respectively, and the chance-corrected agreement (kappa) was 0.72 (CI 0.58-0.87). For tension-type headache, positive and negative predictive values were 83% and 91%, respectively, and chance-corrected agreement (kappa) was 0.74 (CI 0.62-0.87). There was good agreement between the headache diagnoses obtained from the short interviews by nurses and the extensive interviews by neurologists. Short interviews based on recognition of typical headache descriptions seem to be an alternative and efficient way to identify migraine and tension-type headache sufferers among adolescents. The method can be useful in epidemiological research, e.g. in estimation of headache prevalence.
A fundamental question about the nature of cognitive control is whether performing two tasks successively or simultaneously activates distinct brain regions. To investigate this question, we designed a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study that compared task-switching and dual-task performance. The results showed that performing two tasks successively or simultaneously activated a common prefronto-parietal neural network relative to performing each task separately. More importantly, we found that the anterior cingulate and the lateral prefrontal cortices were differently activated in dual-task and task-switching situations. When performing two tasks simultaneously, as compared to performing them in succession, activation was found in the rostral anterior cingulate cortex. In contrast, switching between two tasks, relative to performing them simultaneously, activated the left lateral prefrontal cortex and the bilateral intra-parietal sulcus region. We interpret these results as indicating that the rostral anterior cingulate cortex serves to resolve conflicts between stimulus-response associations when performing two tasks simultaneously, while the lateral prefrontal cortex dynamically selects the neural pathways needed to perform a given task during task switching.
Posttraumatic stress disorder is a common cause of morbidity in children and adolescents. The disorder in youth is similar to that in adults, with high rates of psychiatric comorbidity. Children seem to be more sensitive to the effects of trauma, and early life trauma exposure may induce a complex sequence of events that leads to the development of multiple psychiatric disorders in adulthood. The state of knowledge regarding medication treatments for children and adolescents is in the earliest stages of development. There are no well-conducted, randomized clinical trials to guide practitioners. Medication may play an important role in reducing debilitating symptoms of PTSD and providing a buffer for children while they confront difficult material in therapy and may help to improve their general functioning in day-to-day life. Given the various medications with potential usefulness in PTSD, it is helpful to use a stepwise approach to treatment. As a general principal, broad-spectrum agents, such as the SSRIs, are a good first choice. The SSRIs have efficacy in treating the core symptoms of PTSD and conditions such as the anxiety disorders and depression that commonly co-occur with PTSD. These agents also improve social and occupational functioning and an individual's perception of improved quality of life [41, 45, 46]. Although the SSRIs are generally effective for a broad spectrum of problems, clinicians should systematically monitor for the persistence of symptoms that do not respond to these agents. For example, despite significant improvements in core PTSD symptoms in one study that used sertraline, little improvement was seen in patients' comorbid anxiety and depressive symptoms [41]. This finding demonstrates the value of continuous symptom monitoring and shows that residual or comorbid symptoms may require a different medication to augment effective SSRI treatment for PTSD. A reasonable approach is to begin with a broad-spectrum agent, such as an SSRI, which should target anxiety, mood, and reexperiencing symptoms. Adrenergic agents, such as clonidine, used either alone or in combination with an SSRI may be useful when symptoms of hyperarousal and impulsivity are problematic. Supplementing with a mood stabilizer may be necessary in severe affective dyscontrol. Similarly, introduction of an atypical neuroleptic agent may be necessary in cases of severe self-injurious behavior, dissociation, psychosis, or aggression. Comorbid conditions such as ADHD should be targeted with pharmacotherapy known to be effective, such as psychostimulants or newer agents such as atomoxetine. Pharmacologic treatment of PTSD in childhood is one approach to alleviating the acute and chronic symptoms of the disorder. Despite the lack of well-designed, randomized, controlled trials that support efficacy, medication can be used in a rational and safe manner. Reduction in even one disabling symptom, such as insomnia or hyperarousal, may have a positive ripple effect on a child's overall functioning. Pharmacotherapy is typically used as one component of a more comprehensive multiple modality treatment package, including psychoeducation of the parent and child, focused exposure-based psychotherapy with adjunctive family therapy when indicated, and long-term booster interventions that use an admixture of psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, and pharmacologic interventions.
The hypothesis that endothelial-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) is nitric oxide has stimulated a wealth of research into the significance of this novel intriguing molecule. Given its short life, many storage forms of NO as well as targets have been postulated. Among these, a pool of derivatives of NO (S-nitrosothiols, RSNOs) covalently bound to SH groups of proteins and low molecular weight thiols (e.g., glutathione) have been identified in various biological systems. The importance of RSNOs results from the very similar biological actions exhibited by both NO and RSNOs in vivo as well as in vitro. In particular, it has been observed that in the bloodstream, these molecules are able to provoke vasodilatation with a consequent fall in blood pressure and an antithrombotic effect by inhibition of platelet aggregation. Many hypotheses have been postulated about the biochemical species and the mechanisms involved in these processes, but many aspects have not yet been clarified. In addition, some RSNOs have been recently proposed to be clinical parameters, whose levels may vary under some pathological conditions. The therapeutic utility of RSNOs as an alternative to classic NO donors has also been suggested.Here, we provide a critical analysis of the main reports about the biochemical, physiological, pathological and therapeutic properties of RSNOs in the cardiovascular system. Particular attention is addressed to conflicting results and to discrepancies in the methodologies and models utilized. The numerous unanswered questions concerning the role of RSNOs in the control of vascular tone are discussed.
The effectiveness of drugs that have a specific effect on the activity of the serotonergic neurotransmitter systemhas changed the outlook for patients suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). With a response rate of about 70% to such compounds and the great amount of brain imaging studies conducted over the past decades, an understanding of the biochemical nature and origins of OCD is beginning to unfold. Convergent data including ethological and experimental observations, clinico-pathological findings and different imaging methods have implicated the basal ganglia along with the cortical and related thalamic structures to be involved in the pathophysiology of OCD. In a previous study using the quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) method known as neurometrics, in which QEEG data from OCD patients were compared statistically with those from an age-appropriate normative population, two subtypes within a clinically homogeneous patient group were classified. Patients with relative excess theta activity, especially in the frontal regions, were nonresponders to treatment with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), while those with increased relative power in alpha activity were responders to pharmacological treatment. These findings suggested at least two subgroups in a patient population with similar symptoms but differential responses to treatment. In the present study we used neurometric QEEG to subtype a group of 20 non-depressed OCD patients, fulfilling DSM-R-III criteria, treated with paroxetine, of whom 18 were responders to treatment. Of the treatment responders, 94.4% were predicted by subtype membership to be SSRI responsers. In these subjects there was a strong relative alpha baseline activity; after successful treatment through at least 3 months this activity decreased, looking more normal. The group average topographic maps showed none of the characteristics seen in the nonresponder cluster (no excess relative power in theta). As in the previous investigation, baseline QEEG profile membership points to a predictive value with regard to therapeutic response.
1. Prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle has been suggested as a model of sensorimotor gating and central sensory information processing. Prepulse inhibition is impaired in patients with schizophrenia and responses can be restored by antipsychotic drug treatment. In the present study, startle and prepulse inhibition of startle were compared in different rat strains. 2. Sprague-Dawley rats showed robust inhibition of startle responses by increasing intensities of prepulse delivered just before the startle stimulus. In contrast, at both 4 and 10 weeks of age, rats of the Hooded-Wistar line had markedly reduced prepulse inhibition, although startle responses were not different. 3. Treatment with the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (0.1 mg/kg) or the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) caused disruption of prepulse inhibition in Sprague-Dawley rats. In Hooded-Wistar rats, apomorphine further reduced the already low level of prepulse inhibition, but MK-801 treatment had no significant effect. This suggests that the impaired prepulse inhibition in Hooded-Wistar rats could be caused by changes in glutamatergic activity and/or NMDA receptors in these rats. 4. In photocell cages, spontaneous exploratory activity and inner zone activity were significantly lower in Hooded-Wistar rats than in Sprague-Dawley rats. Similarly, on the elevated plus-maze, Hooded-Wistar rats showed a lower propensity to visit the open arms. In contrast, amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg)-induced locomotor hyperactivity, an animal model of psychosis, was enhanced in Hooded-Wistar rats. 5. These data suggest that the Hooded-Wistar line could be a useful genetic animal model to study the interaction of glutamatergic and dopaminergic mechanisms in anxiety and schizophrenia.


Pregnancy in dialysis patients is a rare occurrence. When pregnancy does occur, the risk of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth and neonatal complications, such as prematurity and growth retardation, are fairly high. The authors describe their experience in the follow-up of a patient with chronic renal failure who became pregnant during regular dialysis treatment and followed nutritional care. The outcomes were successful and she gave birth to a healthy baby. It is emphasized that special dedication to the nutritional control enabled a good outcome of the pregnancy. The importance of the nutritionist intervention in the follow-up of dialysis patients with the integration of a multidisciplinary staff is stressed.


A foraging fiddler crab can estimate how close a potential intruder is from its burrow entrance, even when the entrance in the sand is invisible to the crab. Recent work shows that, to assess this depth interval, crabs combine information from vision and path integration in an unusual manner.



Traditional studies of motor learning and prediction have focused on how subjects perform a single task. Recent advances have been made in our understanding of motor learning and prediction by investigating the way we learn variable tasks, which change either predictably or unpredictably over time. Similarly, studies have examined how variability in our own movements affects motor learning.
The ability to learn novel motor skills has fundamental importance for adaptive behavior. Neocortical mechanisms support human motor skill learning, from simple practice to adaptation and arbitrary sensory-motor associations. Behavioral and neural manifestations of motor learning evolve in time and involve multiple structures across the neocortex. Modifications of neural properties, synchrony and synaptic efficacy are all related to the development and maintenance of motor skill.
In this review we discuss how we are aware that actions are self-generated. We review behavioural data that suggest that a prediction of the sensory consequences of movement might be used to label actions and their consequences as self-generated. We also describe recent functional neuroimaging experiments and studies of neurological and psychiatric patients, which suggest that the parietal cortex plays a crucial role in the awareness of action.
The ability to readily adapt to novel situations requires something beyond storing specific stimulus-response associations. Instead, many animals can detect basic characteristics of events and store them as generalized classes. Because these representations are abstracted beyond specific details of sensory inputs and motor outputs, they can be easily generalized and adapted to new circumstances. Explorations of neural mechanisms of sensory processing and motor output have progressed to the point where studies can begin to address the neural basis of abstract, categorical representations. Recent studies have revealed their neural correlates in various cortical areas of the non-human primate brain.
Recent studies aim to explain the duration and variability of behavioral reaction time in terms of neural processes. The time taken to make choices is occupied by at least two processes. Neurons in sensorimotor structures accumulate evidence that leads to alternative categorizations, while other neurons within these structures prepare and initiate overt responses. These distinct stages of stimulus encoding and response preparation support variable but flexible behavior.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is used widely to determine the spatial layout of brain activation associated with specific cognitive tasks at a spatial scale of millimeters. Recent methodological improvements have made it possible to determine the latency and temporal structure of the activation at a temporal scale of few hundreds of milliseconds. Despite the sluggishness of the hemodynamic response, fMRI can detect a cascade of neural activations - the signature of a sequence of cognitive processes. Decomposing the processing into stages is greatly aided by measuring intermediate responses. By combining event-related fMRI and behavioral measurement in experiment and analysis, trial-by-trial temporal links can be established between cognition and its neural substrate.

Protein Therapy is a newly developed method, which allows proteins, peptides and biologically active compounds to penetrate across the plasma membrane of eukaryotic cells by a polyarginine (most efficiently by 11-arginine, 11R) protein transduction domain. This method enables us to control the localization of targeted substances in subcellular compartments, such as the nuclei, mitochondria and post-synaptic density. The method is very efficient and applicable not only to cultured cells but also to tissue slices and the whole animal. Brain, heart, skeletal muscle, liver, pancreas and lymphocytes are efficient target organs and tissues for Protein Therapy. The method is therefore a very useful strategy in the post-genomic era. In this mini-review, the development of Protein Therapy and its application for cancer cells and neuroscience study will be shown.
Developmental change in human infant crying termination was studied in 60 infants who were 6, 9, and 12 weeks of age. They qualified by spontaneously crying for at least 30 s during the study's first minute. Infants then received either 0.8 ml sucrose (12% w/v) by syringe or sucked a pacifier dipped in the 12% solution for a total of 3.5 min. Crying was substantially reduced by pacifier-sucking at all three ages tested. Sucrose too was effective at 6 and 9 weeks of age but did not reduce crying in 12-week-olds. These data suggest different schedules in the decline of sweet taste and pacifier sucking as agents of crying termination. These differential rates argue for multiple systems that govern crying reduction and argue against a single central target that changes ontogenetically in sensitivity and control. Whether the continuation of sucking effectiveness is sustained by infant sucking experience or reflects a slower rate of decline cannot be determined at present.
A conserved endothelin 1 signaling pathway patterns the jaw and other pharyngeal skeletal elements in mice, chicks and zebrafish. In zebrafish, endothelin 1 (edn1 or sucker) is required for formation of ventral cartilages and joints in the anterior pharyngeal arches of young larvae. Here we present genetic analyses in the zebrafish of two edn1 downstream targets, the bHLH transcription factor Hand2 and the homeobox transcription factor Bapx1, that mediate dorsoventral (DV) patterning in the anterior pharyngeal arches. First we show that edn1-expressing cells in the first (mandibular) and second (hyoid) pharyngeal arch primordia are located most ventrally and surrounded by hand2-expressing cells. Next we show that along the DV axis of the early first arch primordia, bapx1 is expressed in an intermediate domain, which later marks the jaw joint, and this expression requires edn1 function. bapx1 function is required for formation of the jaw joint, the joint-associated retroarticular process of Meckel's cartilage, and the retroarticular bone. Jaw joint expression of chd and gdf5 also requires bapx1 function. Similar to edn1, hand2 is required for ventral pharyngeal cartilage formation. However, the early ventral arch edn1-dependent expression of five genes (dlx3, EphA3, gsc, msxe and msxb) are all present in hand2 mutants. Further, msxe and msxb are upregulated in hand2 mutant ventral arches. Slightly later, an edn1-dependent ventral first arch expression domain of gsc is absent in hand2 mutants, providing a common downstream target of edn1 and hand2. In hand2 mutants, bapx1 expression is present at the joint region, and expanded ventrally. In addition, expression of eng2, normally restricted to first arch dorsal mesoderm, expands ventrally in hand2 and edn1 mutants. Thus, ventral pharyngeal specification involves repression of dorsal and intermediate (joint region) fates. Together our results reveal two critical edn1 effectors that pattern the vertebrate jaw: hand2 specifies ventral pharyngeal cartilage of the lower jaw and bapx1 specifies the jaw joint.
Endothelin 1 (Edn1), a secreted peptide expressed ventrally in the primordia of the zebrafish pharyngeal arches, is required for correct patterning of pharyngeal cartilage development. We have studied mutants and morpholino-injected larvae to examine the role of the Edn1 signal in patterning anterior pharyngeal arch bone development during the first week after fertilization. We observe a remarkable variety of phenotypic changes in dermal bones of the anterior arches after Edn1 reduction, including loss, size reduction and expansion, fusion and shape change. Notably, the changes that occur appear to relate to the level of residual Edn1. Mandibular arch dermal bone fusions occur with severe Edn1 loss. In the dorsal hyoid arch, the dermal opercle bone is usually absent when Edn1 is severely reduced and is usually enlarged when Edn1 is only mildly reduced, suggesting that the same signal can act both positively and negatively in controlling development of a single bone. Position also appears to influence the changes: a branchiostegal ray, a dermal hyoid bone normally ventral to the opercle, can be missing in the same arch where the opercle is enlarged. We propose that Edn1 acts as a morphogen; different levels pattern specific positions, shapes and sizes of bones along the dorso-ventral axis. Changes involving Edn1 may have occurred during actinopterygian evolution to produce the efficient gill-pumping opercular apparatus of teleosts.
The fastest protocol for Pseudomonas aeruginosa subtyping by contour clamped homogeneous electric field (CHEF) electrophoresis takes around 20 h. It includes enzymatic sample preparation, DNA restriction and fragment separation. Here, P. aeruginosa cells embedded in agarose miniplugs were lysed and deproteinized by incubating the miniplugs for 30 min in a single nonenzymatic solution. DNA molecules were digested for 2 h with 5 U of XbaI, and fragments were separated in 4.96 h by miniCHEF electrophoresis at 10 V/cm. Total time for P. aeruginosa subtyping was 8 h. Control experiments included DNA preparation by enzymatic or nonenzymatic protocols, different times of DNA restriction and comparisons of DNA separations done by miniCHEF or CHEF electrophoresis. Both methods and chambers gave similar results, but the rapid nonenzymatic method and the miniCHEF gave them in less time. Cells grown in broth or on plates were useful for nonenzymatic DNA preparation. Thirteen P. aeruginosa isolates were successfully fingerprinted using the protocol described here.
We redesigned contour-clamped homogeneous electric field (CHEF) circuitry to eliminate crossover distortion, to set identical potentials at electrodes of each equipotential pair and to drive pairs with transistors in emitter follower stages. An equipotential pair comprised the two electrodes set at the same potential to provide electric field homogeneity inside of the hexagonal array. The new circuitry consisted of two identical circuits, each having a resistor ladder, diodes and transistors. Both circuits were interconnected by diodes that controlled the current flow to electrodes when the array was energized in the 'A' or 'B' direction of the electric field. The total number of transistors was two-thirds of the total number of electrodes. Average voltage deviation from potentials expected at electrodes to achieve a homogeneous electric field was 0.06 V, whereas 0.44 V was obtained with another circuit that used transistors in push-pull stages. The new voltage clamp unit is cheap, generated homogeneous electric field, and gave reproducible and undistorted DNA band patterns.
Research in basic neuroscience has provided biological plausibility for the hypothesis that estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) would protect against cognitive aging in healthy women. The weight of the evidence from randomized controlled trials of estrogen and cognition in women shows that this hormone preferentially protects verbal memory in postmenopausal women, whereas findings from observational studies are less consistent and show a more diffuse effect of estrogen on a range of cognitive functions. There is fairly consistent evidence from epidemiological studies that ERT significantly reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in women. On the other hand, findings from controlled treatment trials of women diagnosed with probable AD failed to show that physiological doses of ERT ameliorate existing deficits in cognitive functioning and/or prevent further deterioration in memory that inevitably occurs in these women over time. Finally, an accumulating body of evidence is beginning to suggest that the immediate postmenopausal period may constitute a critical window for treatment with ERT that maximizes its potential to protect against cognitive decline with aging and/or to reduce the risk of AD.
The orexins are produced in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area and implicated in the regulation of both feeding and reproductive function. Orexins stimulate LH secretion in steroid-primed ovariectomized female rats and suppress LH secretion in nonprimed ovariectomized rats. The aim of the present study was to characterize the neuroanatomical pathway by which orexin might modulate LH secretion in the rat. Using double- and triple-label immunofluorescence coupled with confocal microscopy, we found that 75-85% of GnRH neurons were contacted by orexin fibers, and triple labeling with synaptophysin provided additional confirmation of close contacts. Furthermore, about 85% of GnRH neurons were colocalized with the orexin receptor 1 (OX-R1), and the OX-R1-expressing GnRH neurons were contacted by orexin terminals, providing the basis for a functional neuroanatomical pathway. GnRH nerve terminals in the median eminence, however, do not express OX-R1. An additional study investigated the coexpression of neuropeptide Y Y4-like receptors and orexin fibers in relation to GnRH neurons. There is evidence that Y4 receptor stimulation results in LH release, and studies from our laboratory show Y4-like immunoreactivity in the majority of orexin cell bodies in the lateral hypothalamic area and some orexin fibers scattered throughout the hypothalamus. The present study found that, although Y4-positive orexin fibers are in present in the area of GnRH neurons, they never come in close contact with GnRH neurons. Together, these data suggest that Y4 receptor modulation of LH release is likely to be indirect through orexin cell bodies and that orexin modulates GnRH neurons directly via OX-R1.
Hindbrain norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) neurons play a pivotal role in the central distribution of sensory signals derived from the internal environment. Their projections influence the various secretory patterns of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and are essential for feeding and adrenal medullary responses to glucoprivation. NE and E terminals in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and associated hindbrain cell bodies can be virtually eliminated by PVH microinjection of a retrogradely transported conjugate of saporin (SAP, a ribosomal toxin) and a monoclonal antibody against dopamine beta-hydroxylase (dbetah), i.e. dbetah mouse monoclonal antibody conjugated to SAP (DSAP). To examine the effects of selective elimination of NE/E afferents on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal activation, we injected DSAP into the PVH and measured corticosterone secretion under basal circadian conditions and in response to two distinct challenges: glucoprivation and forced swim. DSAP lesions profoundly impaired glucoprivation-induced corticosterone secretion and induction of CRH heteronuclear RNA and Fos mRNA in the PVH, without impairing basal CRH mRNA expression, circadian corticosterone release, or the corticosterone response to swim stress. Thus, NE/E projections influence corticosterone secretion only in certain circumstances. They are required for the response to glucoprivation, but are dispensable for circadian activation and for the response to swim stress.
In previous studies we have demonstrated release of nitric oxide (NO) in human tissues following exposure to estrogen. We now designed experiments to determine whether estrogen is present in the neural tissue of Mytilus edulis, a marine mollusk, and whether, as in vertebrates, it stimulates constitutive NO synthase activity. After HPLC purification of 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E(2)) from M. edulis ganglionic tissue, we confirmed the presence of 17beta-E(2) by RIA and ES-Q-TOF-MS analysis. We further found that when either exogenous or endogenous (purified HPLC fraction) 17beta-E(2) was added to pedal ganglia, there was immediate concentration-dependent NO release. Furthermore, 17beta-E(2) conjugated to BSA also stimulated NO release, suggesting mediation by a membrane surface receptor. Tamoxifen, an estrogen receptor antagonist, inhibited the action of both 17beta-E(2) and 17beta-E(2) conjugated to BSA, further supporting the presence of an estrogen receptor. In addition, by Western blot analysis with anti-ER-beta antibodies, we observed a 55-kDa protein in both the membrane and cytosolic fractions in pedal ganglia as well as in human leukocytes (that have been previously shown to express ER-beta). In summary, our results suggest that a physiological dose of estrogen acutely stimulates NO release within pedal ganglia via an estrogen cell surface receptor.
Our recent studies on rat pituitary tissue suggest that the annexin 1 (ANXA1)-dependent inhibitory actions of glucocorticoids on ACTH secretion are effected via a paracrine mechanism that involves protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent translocation of a serine-phosphorylated species of ANXA1 (Ser-P-ANXA1) to the plasma membrane of the nonsecretory folliculostellate cells. In the present study, we have used a human folliculostellate cell line (PDFS) to explore the signaling mechanisms that cause the translocation of Ser-P-ANXA1 to the membrane together with Western blot analysis and flow cytometry to detect the phosphorylated protein. Exposure of PDFS cells to dexamethasone caused time-dependent increases in the expression of ANXA1 mRNA and protein, which were first detected within 2 h of steroid contact. This genomic response was preceded by the appearance within 30 min of substantially increased amounts of Ser-P-ANXA1 and by translocation of the phosphorylated protein to the cell surface. The prompt membrane translocation of Ser-P-ANXA1 provoked by dexamethasone was inhibited by the glucocorticoid receptor, antagonist, mifepristone, but not by actinomycin D or cycloheximide, which effectively inhibit mRNA and protein synthesis respectively in our preparation. It was also inhibited by a nonselective PKC inhibitor (PKC(9-31)), by a selective inhibitor of Ca(2+)-dependent PKCs (Go 6976) and by annexin 5 (which sequesters PKC in other systems). In addition, blockade of phosphatidylinositiol 3-kinase (wortmannin) or MAPK pathways with PD 98059 or UO 126 (selective for MAPK kinse 1 and 2) prevented the steroid-induced translocation of Ser-P-ANXA1 to the cell surface. These results suggest that glucocorticoids induce rapid serine phosphorylation and membrane translocation of ANXA1 via a novel nongenomic, glucocorticoid receptor-dependent mechanism that requires MAPK, phosphatidylinositiol 3-kinase, and Ca(2+)-dependent PKC pathways.

Potential neuroprotective effects of the antiepileptic drug (AED) topiramate (TPM) were evaluated using primary neuronal-astroglial cultures or astroglial-enriched cultures from newborn rats exposed to excitotoxic concentrations of glutamate (Glu) or kainate. Neurons expressed functional Glu receptors of the NMDA and AMPA/kainate types as evaluated by immunocytochemistry and Ca(2+) imaging. When Glu (10 mM) was added to 9-10-day cultures incubated with the fluorescent dye calcein/AM for 5h, there was a marked cell loss in both culture types, but was more pronounced in the neuronal-astroglial cultures. When TPM (5-10 microM) was included in the medium together with Glu, the amount of surviving cells was significantly higher in the neuronal-astroglial cultures, but not in the astroglial-enriched cultures. Immuno-labeling of the cultures revealed an enhanced survival of MAP positive neuronal cells when TPM was included in the Glu containing medium. As TPM has a proven negative modulatory effect on kainate activated receptors, neuronal-astroglial cultures were further exposed to excitotoxic concentrations of kainate (100 microM) and analyzed immunohistochemically. Significantly more MAP positive neurons survived in the TPM containing medium and showed a morphology similar to untreated cells. Valproate and phenytoin were used as reference AEDs. In conclusion, our results demonstrate a protective effect of TPM upon neuronal cells in primary culture, exposed to excitotoxic levels of Glu or kainate.
Post-stroke seizures occur in 5-20% of patients. Modeling of stroke-induced seizures in animals provides a useful tool for investigating the molecular basis of epileptogenesis and for developing therapies for stroke patients at increased risk for epileptogenesis. The questions addressed in the study were: (1) Do rats develop spontaneous seizures after transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO)? (2) Is epileptogenesis associated with impaired hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory? (3) Are the functional abnormalities linked to axonal plasticity in the dentate gyrus? (4) Does the sensorimotor impairment induced by MCAO predict the risk of epileptogenesis? Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to MCAO for 120 min. Development of spontaneous seizures was monitored by 1 week of continuous video-electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings at 3, 7, and 12 months after MCAO. Spontaneous seizures were not detected during 1-year follow-up in ischemic rats. Animals were, however, impaired in the spatial memory task (P&lt;0.001), which was not associated with altered hippocampal LTP or abnormal mossy fiber sprouting (Timm staining). Animals also had a long-lasting sensorimotor deficit (P&lt;0.05). The present study indicates that MCAO causes long-lasting sensorimotor and spatial memory impairment, but does not induce epileptogenesis or spontaneous seizures.
A commonly experienced effect of cold is a sensation of numbness and loss of sensibility in the fingers. Intact tactile sensibility of the grasping digits is essential for the efficient scaling of grip force level during the manipulation of hand-held objects. We investigated whether or not cooling of the grasping digits affects scaling of the grip force magnitude in relation to the loads resulting from continuous vertical arm movements performed with a grasped instrumented object. Maxima and minima of load force occurred at the lower and upper turning point of the movement cycle, respectively, and were accompanied by maximum and minimum peaks in grip force occurring close in time prior to and following digit cooling, respectively. Thus, digit cooling did not influence the ability to adjust the grip force profile in anticipation of movement-induced fluctuations in load force. However, subjects established significantly higher grip forces against the hand-held object following digit cooling and generated a 10-70% higher ratio between grip and load forces at the upper and lower turning points of the movement cycle. It is thought that the impaired economical scaling of grip force level is the result of reduced sensory feedback from the grasping fingers during digit cooling. The results provide further evidence to support the suggestion that cutaneous afferent input plays a subordinate role in the predictive temporal regulation of the grip force profile, but is used to adapt economically the force level to the actual loading requirements during dynamic object manipulation.
Seven alleles of the chicken melanocortin (MC) 1 receptor were cloned into expression vectors, expressed in mammalian cells and pharmacologically characterized. Four of the clones e(+R), e(+B&amp;D), e(wh)/e(y), E(Rfayoumi) gave receptors to which melanocortin stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and NDP-MSH bound with similar IC50 values and responded to alpha-MSH by increasing intracellular cAMP levels in a dose-dependent manner. Three of the cMC1 receptors; e(b), E and E(R), did not show any specific binding to the radioligand, but were found to be constitutively active in the cAMP assay. The E and E(R) alleles are associated with black feather colour in chicken while the eb allele gives rise to brownish pigmentation. The three constitutively active receptors share a mutation of Glu to Lys in position 92. This mutation was previously found in darkly pigmented sombre mice, but constitutively active MC receptors have not previously been shown in any nonmammalian species. We also inserted the Glu to Lys mutation in the human MC1 and MC4 receptors. In contrast with the chicken clones, the hMC1-E94K receptor bound to the ligand, but was still constitutively active independently of ligand concentration. The hMC4-E100K receptor did not bind to the MSH ligand and was not constitutively active. The results indicate that the structural requirements that allow the receptor to adapt an active conformation without binding to a ligand, as a consequence of this E/K mutation, are not conserved within the MC receptors. The results are discussed in relationship to feather colour in chicken, molecular receptor structures and evolution. We suggest that properties for the 'E92K switch' mechanism may have evolved in an ancestor common to chicken and mammals and were maintained over long time periods through evolutionary pressure, probably on closely linked structural features.
Because opioid and cannabinoid systems have been reported to interact in the modulation of addictive behaviour, this study was aimed at investigating the ability of cannabinoid agents to reinstate or prevent heroin-seeking behaviour after a prolonged period of extinction. In rats previously trained to self-administer heroin intravenously, non-contingent non-reinforced priming administrations of heroin and cannabinoids were presented after long-term extinction, and lever pressing following injections was observed. Results showed that: (i) intravenous priming infusions of heroin (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg) lead to reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour; (ii) intraperitoneal priming injections of the central cannabinoid receptor agonists R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-morpholinyl)methyl]pyrol[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazinyl) (1-naphthalenyl)methanonemesylate (WIN 55,212-2, 0.15 and 0.3 mg/kg) and (-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4(1,1-dimethyl-heptyl)phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexanol (CP 55,940, 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg), but not delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC, 0.1-1.0 mg/kg), effectively restored heroin-seeking behaviour; (iii) intraperitoneal priming injection of the central cannabinoid receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichloro-phenyl)4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR 141716A, 0.3 mg/kg) did not reinstate responding, but (iv) completely prevented heroin-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour. Moreover, heroin-seeking behaviour was still present for a few days following cannabinoid primings, indicating a long-lasting effect of cannabinoids on responding for heroin. These findings indicate that relapse to heroin after an extended drug-free period is triggered by cannabinoid agonists and that SR 141716A prevents drug-seeking behaviour, suggesting that the use of the cannabinoid antagonist could have some therapeutic benefits in heroin-induced relapse.
In various studies, deviances of hemispheric laterality in the organization of the perisylvian region in dyslexia have been suggested. Although associated with impaired language functioning, the clinical significance of atypical cerebral lateralization remains unclear. The present study examined interhemispheric source differences of magnetic responses to the German synthetic syllable [ba:] in the auditory cortex of 14 dyslexic children and 12 normally literate controls aged 8-15 years. In all subjects, two main deflections, P100m and N260m, were evident in the responses over each hemisphere. While in the control group the right P100m dipole was located more anterior than the corresponding dipole of the left hemisphere, the dyslexic group displayed a rather symmetrical source configuration between the hemispheres. This symmetry reflected a deviance in the right perisylvian region for the dyslexic subjects' P100m, which was generated approximately 1 cm more posterior than the response in controls. The deviation was also obvious relative to the source location of the later component, N260m, which did not systematically differ between the participant groups. Our results suggest that the altered hemispheric asymmetry reflects an atypical organization of the right hemisphere in children and adolescents with dyslexia.
Signalling via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway has been identified as an intermediate event coupling light to entrainment of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Given this observation, it was of interest to determine where within the entrainment process the MAPK pathway was functioning. In this study, we examined the role of the MAPK pathway as a regulator of light-induced gene expression in the SCN. Towards this end, we characterized the effect pharmacological disruption of the MAPK cascade has on the expression of the immediate-early genes c-Fos, JunB and EGR-1. We report that uncoupling light from MAPK pathway activation attenuated the expression of all three gene products. In the absence of photic stimulation, inhibition of the MAPK pathway did not alter basal gene product expression levels. Light-induced activation of cAMP response element (CRE)-dependent transcription, as assessed using a CRE-LacZ transgenic mouse strain, was also disrupted by blocking MAPK pathway activation. These results reveal that the MAPK cascade functions as one of the first transduction steps leading from light to rapid transcriptional activation, an essential event in the entrainment process. MAPK pathway-dependent gene expression in the SCN may result, in part, from stimulation of CRE-dependent transcription.
Computer models were used to investigate passive properties of lateral geniculate nucleus thalamocortical cells and thalamic interneurons based on in vitro whole-cell study. Two neurons of each type were characterized physiologically and morphologically. Thalamocortical cells transmitted 37% of steady-state signal orthodromically (distal dendrite to soma) and 93% antidromically (soma to distal dendrite); interneurons transmitted 18% orthodromically and 53% antidromically. Lowering membrane resistance caused a dramatic drop in steady-state signal transmission. Simulation of brief signals such as orthodromically transmitted postsynaptic potentials and antidromically transmitted action potentials showed relatively poor transmission due to the low-pass filtering property of dendrites. This attenuation was particularly pronounced in interneurons. By contrast, bursts of postsynaptic potentials or action potentials were relatively well transmitted as the temporal summation of these recurring signals gave prolonged depolarizations comparable to prolonged current injection. While synaptic clustering, active channels and reduction of membrane resistance by ongoing synaptic activity will have additional profound effects in vivo, the present in vitro modelling suggests that passive signal transmission in neurons will depend on type of signal conveyed, on directionality and on membrane state. This will be particularly important for thalamic interneurons, whose presynaptic dendrites may either work independently or function in concert with each other and with the soma. Our findings suggest that bursts may be particularly well transmitted along dendrites, allowing firing format to alter the functional anatomy of the cell.
Although it is widely known that the prefrontal cortex plays a role in memory, the specific contribution of particular prefrontal regions in mnemonic functions remains controversial. The present investigation examined whether the mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is selectively involved in active memory retrieval in situations in which mnemonic traces are embedded in ambiguous relations and automatic recollection cannot lead to successful retrieval. Thirteen subjects participated in this event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment. Throughout the scanning session, trials belonging to an experimental and a control condition were administered in a pseudorandom fashion. During the encoding phase of any particular trial, subjects were presented with a stimulus-complex that was a combination of a face and a spatial location on the screen. In the experimental active retrieval condition, a question cue following the encoding phase instructed the subjects to retrieve selectively one of the two aspects of the encoded stimulus-complex, i.e. the face or the location. In the control condition, the question cue that followed the encoding phase instructed the subjects simply to recall the initially presented stimulus-complex, so as to be able to make a decision during the test phase based on simple stimulus familiarity. The comparison of the signal obtained during the retrieval phase of these two conditions yielded an increase in activity selective to the right mid-ventrolateral prefrontal region. These results therefore establish a specific link between the mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and active retrieval mechanisms.
Muscarinic agonist-induced parasympathomimetic effects, in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis and seizures were evaluated in wild-type and muscarinic M1-M5 receptor knockout mice. The muscarinic agonist oxotremorine induced marked hypothermia in all the knockout mice, but the hypothermia was reduced in M2 and to a lesser extent in M3 knockout mice. Oxotremorine-induced tremor was abolished only in the M2 knockout mice. Muscarinic agonist-induced salivation was reduced to the greatest extent in M3 knockout mice, to a lesser degree in M1 and M4 knockout mice, and was not altered in M2 and M5 knockout mice. Pupil diameter under basal conditions was increased only in the M3 knockout mice. Pilocarpine-induced increases in in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis were completely absent in hippocampus and cortex of M1 knockout mice, but in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis was unaltered in the M2-M5 knockout mice. A high dose of pilocarpine (300 mg/kg) caused seizures and lethality in wild-type and M2-M5 knockout mice, but produced neither effect in the M1 knockout mice. These data demonstrate a major role for M2 and M3 muscarinic receptor subtypes in mediating parasympathomimetic effects. Muscarinic M1 receptors activate phosphoinositide hydrolysis in cortex and hippocampus of mice, consistent with the role of M1 receptors in cognition. Muscarinic M1 receptors appear to be the only muscarinic receptor subtype mediating seizures.
First, pubertal development of the penile reflexes, e.g., erections, cups and flips in Wistar-Imamichi male rats was investigated following sheath retraction. Second, the penile reflexes and copulatory behavior in the above males were compared between 10 and 44 weeks of age. The penile reflexes in Wistar-Imamichi rats began to appear from day 26, and all males displayed full components of the reflexes on day 47. The occurrence rates and mean numbers of erections, cups and flips in aged adults were significantly low, compared with the young adults. Also, in the observation of copulatory behavior the occurrence rate of ejaculations, and mean numbers of intromissions and ejaculations in aged adults were significantly lower than that in young adults. These results of the present study may suggest that the decrease of copulatory behavior in male rats with age results from the dysfunction of the penile reflexes with age.
The movement time of a reach-to-grasp movement increases when obstacles are placed close to the target object. We investigated whether this increase can best be explained by limits on the grip aperture or by limits on the paths of the individual digits. In our experiment subjects were instructed to pick up an object with their index finger and thumb. There was an obstacle at either side of the object. The increase in movement time when either obstacle was placed closer to the object was best described by a model in which the movement amplitude and the distance between each obstacle and the target object are independent factors. We conclude that the way that obstacles influence the movement time in reach-to-grasp movements is determined by the extent to which they limit the digits' paths.
We investigated whether direct, cortico-motoneuronal connections are present in the rat, using both light microscopic and electron microscopic techniques. Corticospinal fibres were labelled using the anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran-amine (BDA), which was injected into forelimb sensorimotor cortex. Motoneurons were retrogradely labelled after injection of cholera toxin subunit B (CTB) into forelimb muscles, contralateral to the injected hemisphere. Terminals of peripheral afferent fibres, which were also labelled by CTB, were easily distinguishable from, and much larger than, BDA-labelled corticospinal terminals. At the light microscope level, corticospinal terminals were found in all laminae contralateral to the injection site, most extensively in laminae VI and VII of cervical segments C5-C8. Although labelling in the ventral horn (lamina IX) was present, it was extremely sparse. A total of 47 corticospinal synapses were studied at the electron microscope level; most of these were in lamina VII and the majority (35/47; 74%) made axo-dendritic contacts with asymmetrical synapses; one made an axo-somatic synapse, and in the remaining 11 cases no postsynaptic structure could be identified. All corticospinal terminals contained spherical boutons. Serial sectioning of eight BDA-labelled corticospinal boutons in lamina IX revealed that most (seven out of eight) did not make synaptic contacts with any neuronal structure, and none made any contact with adjacent dendrites of CTB-labelled motoneurons. Thus these results provide no positive ultrastructural evidence for direct cortico-motoneuronal synaptic connections within lamina IX between corticospinal axon boutons and the proximal dendrites of forelimb motoneurons. The results confirm other lines of evidence suggesting that such connections are not present in the rat.
Axonal tracing and high resolution immunocytochemistry were used to identify transmitter content and postsynaptic receptors in synapses between Ia primary afferents and motoneurons and in neurons of the central cervical nucleus (CCN), respectively, in the rat. The terminals, as well as the target neurons, were identified by postembedding immunogold detection of transganglionically or retrogradely, respectively, transported cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), and in adjacent sections postembedding immunogold was employed to demonstrate glutamate and AMPA receptors in the same synapses. A total of 390 CTB-labelled Ia boutons in apposition to CTB-labelled motoneurons, CCN neurons or unlabelled dendrites in the surrounding neuropil were traced in section series from two animals. A third animal was used as a control. In the motor nucleus, a majority of the synapses were with medium-sized dendrites, whereas in the CCN the distribution was skewed towards fine-calibre dendrites. In both nuclei, somatic and juxtasomatic synapses were quite infrequent (&lt;10%). All of the CTB-labelled Ia boutons recovered in the sections incubated for glutamate (n=323) were enriched with glutamate immunoreactivity. One hundred and fifty of these disclosed synaptic contact in at least two ultrathin sections. In this sample, 50% (33-59%) appeared immunoreactive to receptor sub-units GluR1-4 in at least two ultrathin sections, whereas 35% were labelled in one section only. Distribution of gold particles relative to presynaptic and postsynaptic membrane profiles (n=23) revealed a close correlation between AMPA immunoreactivity and the postsynaptic membrane of the synapse. Finally, immunogold particles signalling GluR1 were observed much less frequently than particles signalling GluR2/3 or GluR4. Our results provide additional strong evidence that chemical transmission at Ia synapses is mediated by glutamate and identify GluR2/3 and GluR4 as important postsynaptic receptors.
How does the brain distinguish actions that we perform from movements imposed on us? To study links between the representations of actions and their somatosensory consequences, we compared the perceived times of voluntary actions or involuntary movements and of a subsequent somatic effect (a TMS-induced twitch of the right index finger). Participants perceived voluntary actions as occurring later and their bodily effects as occurring earlier in the agency context, compared to single-event baseline conditions. When the voluntary action was replaced by a passive, involuntary movement this attraction effect reversed. In a second experiment, subjects rated the intensity of the same TMS-induced somatic effect, again following a voluntary action or a passive movement. When the somatic effect was caused by a voluntary action, it was perceived as significantly less intense than when it followed a passive movement. Our results suggest a binding mechanism integrating awareness of somatic consequences occurring in voluntary action. This 'intentional binding' mechanism might underlie the way in which the mind constructs a strong association between intentions, actions and consequences so as to generate the unique and private phenomenological experience of self-agency.
Brief movement of a foveated target is known to elicit higher velocity ocular (tracking) responses if the target is in motion rather than stationary. We determined whether similar perturbations of a stationary target would have greater ocular effects if we merely increased the probability that the target might undergo sustained motion. For this, we examined the effect of interleaving trials in which the target was always stationary with trials in which the target underwent sustained motion that required the animal to track. We found that perturbation of the stationary target had a greater effect when there were interleaved trials in which the target moved, as though the gain of the visuo-motor transmission had been increased in anticipation of future tracking.
Proprioceptive sensory information carried by spinocerebellar tracts provides a major input to the spinocerebellum, which has an important role in coordinating motor output for posture and locomotion. Until recently it was assumed that the information transmitted by the dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) was organized to represent single muscles or single joints in the ipsilateral hindlimb. Recent studies have shown, however, that DSCT activity represents global kinematic parameters of the hindlimb. We now present evidence that the DSCT neurons are also modulated by passive step-like movements of either hindlimb, implying they receive a bilateral sensory input. About two-thirds of 78 cells studied had significant responses to movements of the contralateral limb alone and about 70% responded differently to bipedal movements than to ipsilateral movement alone. The same basic behavior was observed in anesthetized, paralyzed cats and in unanesthetized, decerebrate cats, although decerebrate cats may have had larger responses on average. The results suggest that many DSCT cells may encode information about interlimb coordination.
In the present report, we examine electrodermal activity (skin conductance responses, SCRs) in monkeys trained to perform target-selection (TS) tests. In each test, the animal was presented in successive trials with the same two unequally rewarded targets on a touch screen. The probabilistic contingencies of the rewards associated with each target rendered the selection of the best difficult. Our findings revealed SCRs time-locked to the arm movements toward the rewarded targets, occurring after the target touches. Parameters of the SCRs were stable when the uncertainty of the choices and of the outcomes varied. The results support the hypothesis that the physiological processes indexed by the SCRs are the correlate of anticipatory appetitive behavior. In contrast, there is no evidence that the SCRs reflect cognitive processes associated with the detection of the best target.
The ability of herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV-tk)-expressing cells incubated with ganciclovir (GCV) to induce cytotoxicity in neighboring HSV-tk-negative (bystander) cells has been well documented. Although it has been suggested that this bystander cell killing occurs via the transfer of phosphorylated GCV, the mechanism(s) of this bystander effect and the importance of gap junctions for the effect of prodrug/suicide gene therapy in primary human glioblastoma cells remains elusive. Surgical biopsies of malignant gliomas were used to establish explant primary cultures. Proliferating tumor cells were characterized immunohistochemically and found to express glial tumor markers including nestin, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100, and gap junction protein connexin 43 (Cx43). Western blot analysis revealed the presence of phosphorylated isoforms of Cx43 and Calcein/DiI fluorescent dye transfer showed evidence of efficient gap junction communication (GJC). In order to study the effect(s) of prodrug/suicide gene therapy in these cultures, human glioblastoma cell cultures were transfected with the HSVtk gene for transient or stable expression. Ganciclovir treatment of these cultures led to &gt;90% of cells dead within 1 week. Eradication of cells could be inhibited by the addition of alpha-glycyrrhetinic acid (AGA), a GJC inhibitor. In parallel experiments, AGA decreased the immunodetection of phosphorylated Cx43 as analyzed by Western blot and inhibited fluorescent dye transfer. In conclusion, these observations are consistent with GJC as the mediator of the bystander effect in primary cultures of human glioblastoma cells by the transfer of phosphorylated GCV from HSVtk gene transfected cells to untransfected ones.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC) constitute a specialized population of glia that accompany primary olfactory axons and have been reported to facilitate axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury in vivo. In the present report we describe OEC neurotrophic factor expression and neurotrophic properties of OECs in vitro. Investigation of the rat olfactory system during development and adulthood by radioactive in situ hybridization revealed positive labeling in the olfactory nerve layer for the neurotrophic molecules S-100beta, CNTF, BMP-7/OP-1, and artemin, as well as for the neurotrophic factor receptors RET and TrkC. Ribonuclease protection assay of cultured OEC revealed expression of NGF, BDNF, GDNF, and CNTF mRNA, while NT3 and NT4 mRNA were not detectable. In vitro bioassays of neurotrophic activity involved coculturing of adult OEC with embryonic chick ganglia and demonstrated increased neurite outgrowth from sympathetic, ciliary, and Remak's ganglia. However, when culturing the ganglia with OEC-conditioned medium, neurite outgrowth was not stimulated to any detectable extent. Our results suggest that the neurotrophic properties of OEC may involve secretion of neurotrophic molecules but that cellular interactions are crucial.
The distributions of descending and ascending spinal projection neurons (i.e., spinal neurons with moderate to long axons) were compared in normal larval lamprey and in animals that had recovered for 8 weeks following a complete spinal cord transection at 50% body length (BL, normalized distance from the anterior head). In normal animals, application of HRP to the spinal cord at 60% BL (40% BL) labeled an average of 713.8 +/- 143.2 descending spinal projection neurons (718.4 +/- 108.0 ascending spinal projection neurons) along the rostral (caudal) spinal cord, most of which were unidentified neurons. Some of these neurons project for at least approximately 50-60 spinal cord segments (approximately 36-47 mm in animals with an average length of approximately 90 mm used in the present study). At 8 weeks posttransection, the numbers of HRP-labeled descending or ascending spinal neurons that extended their axons through the transection were about 40% of those in similar areas of the spinal cord in normal animals. Thus, in larval lamprey, axonal regeneration of descending and ascending spinal projection neurons is incomplete, similar to that found for descending brain neurons. The majority of restored projections were from unidentified spinal neurons that have not been documented previously. In contrast to results from several other lower vertebrates, in the lamprey ascending spinal neurons exhibited substantial axonal regeneration. Identified descending spinal neurons, such as lateral interneurons and crossed contralateral interneurons, and identified ascending spinal neurons, such as giant interneurons and edge cells, regenerated their axons at least 9 mm beyond the transection site in animals with an average length of approximately 90 mm, which is appreciably farther than previously reported. In contrast, most dorsal cells, which are centrally located sensory neurons, exhibited very little axonal regeneration.
Neurodegenerative diseases remain a huge unmet pharmaceutical need. For some diseases such as Parkinson's disease, there are currently only palliative therapies, and for others such as Alzheimer's disease there are no proven therapies on the market that have any significant impact on disease progression. Recent work has suggested that cell death may play a key role in a number of neurodegenerative diseases, and halting this aberrant cell death may halt disease progression. Kinases identified in cell death pathways may be attractive targets for neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, the authors will focus on three families of related mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), namely, the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERKs), the c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) and the p38 MAPKs. The evidence for activation of each of these pathways in disease states and in models of neurodegenerative disorders will be examined. Effects of inhibitors, where available, will be discussed, and potential problems and side effects of kinase inhibitors as therapeutics will be addressed.
The catalytic subunit of telomerase (TERT) is a reverse transcriptase (RT) that adds a six-base DNA repeat onto chromosome ends and prevents their shortening during successive cell divisions. Telomerase is associated with cell immortality and cancer, which may by related to the ability of TERT to prevent apoptosis by stabilizing telomeres. However, fundamental information concerning the antiapoptotic function of TERT is lacking, including whether RT activity and/or nuclear localization are required and where telomerase acts to suppress the cell death process. Here, we show that overexpression of wild-type human TERT in HeLa cells, and in a cells lacking TERT but containing the telomerase RNA template, increases their resistance to apoptosis induced by the DNA damaging agent etoposide or the bacterial alkaloid staurosporine. In contrast, TERT mutants with disruptions of either the RT domain or a 14-3-3 binding domain fail to protect cells against apoptosis, and overexpression of TERT in cells lacking the telomerase RNA template is also ineffective in preventing apoptosis. Additional findings show that TERT suppresses apoptosis at an early step before release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor from mitochondria. We conclude that both RT activity and 14-3-3 protein binding ability are required for the antiapoptotic function of TERT in tumor cells and that TERT can suppress a nuclear signal(s) that is an essential component of apoptotic cascades triggered by diverse stimuli.
Mitochondrial complex I dysfunction is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Identification of factors involved in maintenance and restoration of complex I function could potentially help to develop prophylactic and therapeutic strategies for treatment of this class of disorders. Down-regulation of glutaredoxin (thioltransferase, a thiol disulfide oxido-reductase) using antisense oligonucleotides results in the loss of mitochondrial complex I activity in mouse brain. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,tetrahydro-pyridine (MPTP), the neurotoxin that causes Parkinson's disease-like symptoms in primates and dopaminergic cell loss in mice, acts through the inhibition of complex I. Regeneration of complex I activity in the striatum occurs concurrently with increase in glutaredoxin activity, 4 h after the neurotoxic insult, and is mediated through activation of activating protein-1. Down-regulation of glutaredoxin using anti-sense oligonucleotides prevents recovery of complex I in the striatum after MPTP treatment, providing support for the critical role for glutaredoxin in recovery of mitochondrial function in brain. Maintenance and restoration of protein thiol homeostasis by glutaredoxin may be important factors in preventing complex I dysfunction.
Long-term caloric restriction (CR) has been repeatedly shown to increase life span and delay the onset of age-associated pathologies in laboratory mice and rats. The purpose of the current study was to determine whether the CR-associated increase in life span occurs in all strains of mice or only in some genotypes and whether the effects of CR and ad libitum (AL) feeding on mortality accrue gradually or are rapidly inducible and reversible. In one experiment, groups of male C57BL/6, DBA/2, and B6D2F1 mice were fed AL or CR (60% of AL) diets beginning at 4 months of age until death. In the companion study, separate groups of mice were maintained chronically on AL or CR regimens until 7, 17, or 22-24 months of age, after which, half of each AL and CR group was switched to the opposite regimen for 11 wk. This procedure yielded four experimental groups for each genotype, namely AL--&gt;AL, AL--&gt;CR, CR--&gt;CR, and CR--&gt;AL, designated according to long-term and short-term caloric regimen, respectively. Long-term CR resulted in increased median and maximum life span in C57BL/6 and B6D2F1 mice but failed to affect either parameter in the DBA/2 mice. The shift from AL--&gt;CR increased mortality in 17- and 24-month-old mice, whereas the shift from CR--&gt;AL did not significantly affect mortality of any age group. Such increased risk of mortality following implementation of CR at older ages was evident in all three strains but was most dramatic in DBA/2 mice. Results of this study indicate that CR does not have beneficial effects in all strains of mice, and it increases rather than decreases mortality if initiated in advanced age.
There has been an increasing interest in the placebo effect over the past several decades. The relationship between the placebo effect and the underlying mechanisms of the body that control and maintain health is still not well understood. Significant evidence suggests that endogenous opioids and dopamine are involved in the mechanisms of the placebo effect. The endogenous opioid and dopaminergic systems have been demonstrated to exert effects on the functional activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The HPA system contributes to regulation of mood and behavior. The author suggests that opioid and dopamine modulation of the HPA system is one of the neurobiological mechanisms of the placebo effect on mood and behavior. To elucidate the underlying biological mechanisms of placebo effects and to study the use of placebo in clinical practice to improve health are two important and interrelated tasks. Future studies of the neurobiology of the placebo response may yield interesting and important results.
Lower limb muscle chronic hyperactivity in hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is the consequence of motor corticospinal tract involvement, which in turn has been hypothesized to be of mitochondrial origin. In order to assess skeletal muscle aerobic metabolism and sympathetic response during exercise in 10 HSP patients, we evaluated their blood lactate and catecholamine levels during an incremental workload bicycle exercise. Lactate, but not epinephrine or norepinephrine, levels were significantly higher in the HSP patients than in control subjects, in both resting conditions and during exercise. In the patients, the anaerobic lactate threshold was reached prematurely (at 50% of the predicted normal maximal power output) when compared to normal controls. This finding was not related to any specific muscle morphology or histochemical activity. Although other factors, including chronic spasticity and muscle deconditioning, have to be considered in the interpretation of our data, our results suggest the possible involvement of a mitochondrial mechanism, independently of sympathetic system overactivation, in exercising skeletal muscle of HSP patients.
This lecture focuses on the impact of classic and modern electrophysiological techniques on the diagnostic approach to patients with neuromuscular disorders, placing emphasis on the limitations of currently used techniques and on the future prospects of clinical neurophysiology. The refinement of old techniques together with the development of new ones will hopefully improve the diagnostic capability of neurophysiology, improve understanding of the complex pathogenic mechanisms underlying neuromuscular disorders and help further the research of new therapeutic strategies.
Herpes simplex virus-derived amplicon vectors simultaneously expressing the open reading frame encoding NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor, either in sense or antisense orientation, as well as the open reading frame encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP), as distinct transcription units, were constructed. Vector expression in cells was demonstrated by GFP-fluorescence, immunofluorescence, Western blots and RT-PCR. The vectors were inoculated into the dorsal hippocampus of adult male rats, which were then trained for habituation to an open field and for inhibitory avoidance to a foot-shock. Those animals injected with vectors expressing NR1 protein showed habituation to a new environment, and achieved the criteria for a step-down inhibitory avoidance to a foot-shock. In contrast, animals injected with vectors carrying the NR1 open reading frame in antisense position, showed neither habituation nor appropriate performance in the inhibitory avoidance task. There was no evidence for motor impairment or motivational disturbance, since all the animals exhibit similar behavior and performance in the training sessions. Hence, the impaired performance might be due to either amnesia or disability to record events. Transgene expression in brain, as revealed by GFP fluorescence, was mainly observed in pyramidal cells of CA1, but also in CA3. Therefore, our results strongly support the participation of hippocampal NR1 subunit in habituation to a new environment, but also in recording events for the inhibitory avoidance task. Hence, amplicon vectors appear to be useful tools to modify endogenous gene expression at a defined period, in restricted brain regions, and should allow investigating in vivo functions of genes.
Estrogen has been suggested to play a neuromodulatory and neuroprotective role on the brain dopamine system. We used aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice that lack a functional aromatase enzyme and are unable to convert testosterone into estrogen, and assessed prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle, locomotor hyperactivity to amphetamine treatment and rotarod performance. Mice were tested at either 1 month, 4-5 months or 12-18 months of age. In male, but not female ArKO mice, there was an age-related reduction of prepulse inhibition. The 12-18 months old male ArKO mice also showed significantly greater amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Mice heterozygous for the mutation showed no deficits or were in-between wildtype mice and ArKO mice. We postulate that these data indicate a neuroprotective role of estrogen, particularly in male mice, on ageing of brain mechanisms involved in pre-pulse inhibition and locomotor activity regulation. It is likely that these brain mechanisms are or include dopaminergic activity.
Rating scales for difficulty in capturing and holding mice were devised that proved to be easy to use and highly sensitive to differences among mouse strains on the A and B priority lists of the Mouse Phenome Project. The simplicity of the scales makes it feasible to rate wildness during behavioral test sessions without adding much to testing time or distracting the technician from the principal task at hand. Overall wildness and placidity ratings obtained by combining capture and hold ratings provide a good impression of the difficulties encountered while working with lab mice in the course of complex experiments. Ratings of 21 inbred strains during the course of 15 behavioral tests in two laboratories demonstrated that the SPRET/Ei, PERA/Ei, CAST/Ei and SWR/J strains were particularly difficult to handle. The NOD/LtJ strain posed no special challenge in the Edmonton laboratory but was very difficult to handle in the Portland lab. The rating scales should be useful for judging the difficulties in working with novel targeted or induced mutations in mice as well as effects of a variety of environmental treatments or drugs.
We report generation of stable transgenic lines of the ascidian Ciona savignyi carrying a Ciona intestinalis-Brachyury-promoter/Green Fluorescent Protein-reporter (Ci-Bra-GFP) construct. The transgenic lines were made using a technique in which the endonuclease I-SceI was coinjected into fertilized eggs with a transgene construct containing flanking recognition sites for I-SceI. Two founder animals, out of 12 F(0) adults tested, were found to transmit the transgene to their offspring (F(1)s) at frequencies of 42% and 23%. The transgene was further inherited by the F(2) in a Mendelian fashion and displayed nonmosaic expression, indicating integration into the genome. The Mendelian inheritance and the absence of mosaicism persisted through the F(3) and F(4) generations. Southern blot analyses showed that the transgene was organized in tandem arrays of no more than 10 copies. Using these Ci-Bra-GFP transgenics, we describe cellular movements and shape changes involved in notochord morphogenesis in both wildtype and mutant embryos.
Tumor cell migration through the extracellular space (ECS) might be affected by its pore size and extracellular matrix molecule content. ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume), tortuosity lambda (lambda(2) = free/apparent diffusion coefficient) and nonspecific uptake k' were studied by the real-time tetramethylammonium method in acute slices of human tissue. The diffusion parameters in temporal cortical tissue resected during surgical treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy (control) were compared with those in brain tumors. Subsequently, tumor slices were histopathologically classified according to the grading system of the World Health Organization (WHO), and proliferative activity was assessed. The average values of alpha, lambda, and k' in control cortex were 0.24, 1.55, and 3.66 x 10(-3)s(-1), respectively. Values of alpha, lambda, and k' in oligodendrogliomas did not significantly differ from controls. In pilocytic astrogliomas (WHO grade I) as well as in ependymomas (WHO grade II), alpha was significantly higher, while lambda and k' were unchanged. Higher values of alpha as well as lambda were found in low-grade diffuse astrocytomas (WHO grade II). In cellular regions of high-grade astrocytomas (WHO grade III and IV), alpha and lambda were further increased, and k' was significantly larger than in controls. Classic medulloblastomas (WHO grade IV) had an increased alpha, but not lambda or k', while in the desmoplastic type alpha and k' remained unchanged, but lambda was greatly increased. Tumor malignancy grade strongly corresponds to an increase in ECS volume, which is accompanied by a change in ECS structure manifested by an increase in diffusion barriers for small molecules.
The synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone is routinely used to stabilize patients with malignant gliomas. One putative target for glucocorticoid action is inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), which is produced by the tumor cells as well as the host immune cells. In this study, we characterize the stimulatory effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and the cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), as well as the inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids, on iNOS gene expression and activity in C6 glioma cells cultured in vitro. LPS significantly increased iNOS mRNA expression, peaking at 6 h, while nitrite formation increased with time up to 72 h. Although TNFalpha alone induced neither iNOS mRNA expression nor nitrite formation, it significantly potentiated the effect of LPS on both. iNOS activity induced by LPS with or without TNFalpha was dose-dependently inhibited by dexamethasone, reaching a maximum of approximately 83% inhibition. This was completely reversed by the addition of RU38486, an antagonist of glucocorticoid receptors (GR). Dexamethasone inhibited iNOS mRNA expression; however, the maximum inhibition obtained was only 10%. These results suggest that as for induction of iNOS activity in C6 cells in vitro, the stimulatory effect of LPS is mainly due to an action at the transcriptional level. TNFalpha does not have intrinsic inducing activity, but has potentiating effects at the transcriptional and possibly at the posttranscriptional levels in the presence of LPS. The inhibitory effect of dexamethasone is GR-mediated and is mainly due to action at the posttranscriptional level.

Ephrins and Eph receptors are a family of molecules that have been implicated in many developmental processes including neuronal network formation, guidance of cell migration, and axonal pathfinding. These molecules exhibit the ability to send bidirectional signals following ligand-receptor interactions resulting from cell-cell contacts. Gene-targeted knockout mice of B-class ephrins and Eph receptors have been shown to display phenotypic responses that correlate with anatomical defects. For example, disruption of the EphB2 receptor leads to defects of the vestibular system, including pathfinding abnormalities in efferent axons and reduced endolymph production. Such developmental distortions lead to deficiencies in ionic homeostasis and repetitive circling behaviors. The present study demonstrates that B-class ephrins and Eph receptors are expressed in cochlear tissues, suggesting that they may play some role in auditory function. To determine whether ephrins and Eph receptors have a functional role in the peripheral auditory system, distortion-product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) levels, collected across a broad frequency range, were compared between groups of mice expressing different Eph receptor genotypes. In particular, EphB1 and EphB3 receptor knockout mice exhibited significantly diminished DPOAE levels as compared to wild-type littermates, indicating that these specific Eph receptors are necessary for normal cochlear function.
At our laboratory, we have recently demonstrated the immunohistochemical expression of aromatase P450 in the pituitary glands of adult rats; this expression was seen to be sex-dependent. In order to determine whether the changes in the expression of the enzyme are related to changes in the gonadal sphere and whether the expression of the enzyme is related to the postnatal differentiation of hypophyseal cytology, in the present work we performed an immunohistochemical study in the rat pituitary gland from birth to old age. The immunohistochemical reaction to aromatase was evident and very generalized at 7 days after birth, with no large differences between the male and female animals. At 14 days the immunohistochemical reaction was decreased in the females, with no changes in the males. At 17 days, aromatase immunoreactivity in the pituitary glands of female rats was very weak whereas the males showed large numbers of reactive cells. These observations were further pronounced at 21 days and 2 months of life. At 24 months, the immunoreactivity found in the pituitary glands of the male rats had almost completely disappeared. Our results show that a postnatal differentiation in the immunohistochemical expression of aromatase occurs; this is tightly linked to sexual activity and is lost in old age. This suggests that hypophyseal aromatase would be related to the mechanisms of action of gonadal steroids on hypophyseal differentiation and secretion.
The Society for Behavioral Neuroendocrinology was, in part, an outgrowth of the Conference on Reproductive Behavior, which was, in turn, an outgrowth of the West Coast Sex Meetings. In this article I trace the history of these organizations. The West Coast meetings provided an opportunity for free and informal exchange among west coast researchers studying sexual behavior. The 29 meetings of the Conference on Reproductive Behavior began with a similar format that evolved as success and growth forced numerous changes. With time, the meetings became more structured and more dependent on time limits, and added invited addresses, symposia, workshops, roundtables, posters, tours, and papers presented by abstract only. The administrative structure was kept as simple as possible. With changing times, these informal meetings eventually were superseded by the Society for Behavioral Neuroendocrinology.
The successful control of upper limb movements is an essential skill of the human motor system. Yet, the neural organization of bimanual actions remains an issue of debate. Their control can be directed from both hemispheres, or, coordinated motion might be organized from the dominant (left) hemisphere. In order to unravel the neural mechanisms of bimanual behavior, we analyzed the standard task-related and directed coherence between EEG signals picked up over the primary sensorimotor cortices in right-handed subjects during unimanual as well as bimanual in-phase (symmetrical) and anti-phase (asymmetrical) movements. The interhemispheric coherence in the beta frequency band (&gt;13-30 Hz) was increased in both unimanual and bimanual patterns, compared to rest. During unimanual actions, the drive in the beta band from one primary sensorimotor cortex to the other was greater during movement of the contralateral as opposed to ipsilateral hand. In contrast, during bimanual actions, the drive from the dominant to the non-dominant primary sensorimotor cortex prevailed, unless task constraints induced by an external perturbation resulted in a substantial uncoupling of the hand movements, when interhemispheric coherence would also drop. Together, these results suggest that the contralateral hemisphere predominantly organizes unimanual movements, whereas coupled bimanual movements are mainly controlled from the dominant hemisphere. The close association between changes in interhemispheric coupling and behavioral performance indicates that synchronization of neural activity in the beta band is exploited for the control of goal-directed movement.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) provirus load differs more than 100-fold among carriers and a high provirus load in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) is regarded as a risk factor for both preleukemic states and inflammatory diseases including HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (HAM). We examined polymorphisms in the genes for tumor necrosis factor (TNF), TNF receptor type 1 and 2, lymphotoxin (LT)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, and mannose binding protein (ManBP) in 143 HTLV-I carriers whether these polymorphisms affect the provirus load in the PBMCs of carriers. No significant association was observed between these polymorphisms and the provirus load. Homozygotes for a ManBP-variant allele, however, showed a tendency for the decreased number of provirus load. When combined, the data on the alleles of LT-alpha and MCP-1, HTLV-I carriers having high producer alleles of both genes showed a trend for increased provirus load. These data suggest that inflammation or an active immune response may induce an increased amount of HTLV-I-infected T cells, leading to a high provirus load.
A body of experimental evidence indicates that transcription and/or mRNA processing factors interacting with the polyglutamine disease gene products play crucial roles in the pathology. PQBP-1 is one of these factors and it has been shown to interact with the spinocerebellar ataxia type-1 (SCA1) disease gene product, ataxin-1. Our previous data suggested that relatively high expression of PQBP-1 in the cerebellum might explain the selective neuronal degeneration of SCA1. To further test whether PQBP-1 expression level regulates neuronal death, we generated transgenic mice of human PQBP-1 driven by a regulatory element for ubiquitous gene expression. The mice showed a late-onset and gradually progressive motor neuron disease-like phenotype, which might be related to neurogenic muscular atrophy observed in SCA1 patients. Ataxia could not be discriminated from predominant progressive weakness. Pathological examinations of the transgenic mice revealed loss of Purkinje and granular cells in the cerebellum as well as that of spinal motor neurons, corresponding to the pathology of human SCA1. These findings show that excessive action of PQBP-1 causes neuronal dysfunction and support PQBP-1 being involved in the pathology of SCA1.
Previous paradigms have used reaching movements to study coupling of eye-hand kinematics. In the present study, we investigated eye-hand kinematics as curved trajectories were drawn at normal speeds. Eye and hand movements were tracked as a monkey traced ellipses and circles with the hand in free space while viewing the hand's position on a computer monitor. The results demonstrate that the movement of the hand was smooth and obeyed the 2/3 power law. Eye position, however, was restricted to 2-3 clusters along the hand's trajectory and fixed approximately 80% of the time in one of these clusters. The eye remained stationary as the hand moved away from the fixation for up to 200 ms and saccaded ahead of the hand position to the next fixation along the trajectory. The movement from one fixation cluster to another consistently occurred just after the tangential hand velocity had reached a local minimum, but before the next segment of the hand's trajectory began. The next fixation point was close to an area of high curvature along the hand's trajectory even though the hand had not reached that point along the path. A visuo-motor illusion of hand movement demonstrated that the eye movement was influenced by hand movement and not simply by visual input. During the task, neural activity of pre-motor cortex (area F4) was recorded using extracellular electrodes and used to construct a population vector of the hand's trajectory. The results suggest that the saccade onset is correlated in time with maximum curvature in the population vector trajectory for the hand movement. We hypothesize that eye and arm movements may have common, or shared, information in forming their motor plans.
Modafinil is a selective wakefulness-promoting agent with beneficial effects in narcolepsy and conditions of sleep deprivation. In a double-blind study we examined its effects in 30 healthy, non sleep-deprived students (19 men and 11 women, aged 19-23 years), who were randomly allocated to placebo, 100 or 200 mg modafinil and 3 h later completed 100 mm visual analogue scales relating to mood and bodily symptoms, before and after an extensive battery of cognitive tests (pen and paper and CANTAB). There were no significant differences between the three treatment groups on any of the cognitive tests used in this study. There was a significant post-treatment change in the factor measuring 'somatic anxiety' and in individual ratings of 'shaking', 'palpitations', 'dizziness', 'restlessness', 'muscular tension', 'physical tiredness' and 'irritability', which was mainly due to significantly higher ratings of somatic anxiety in the 100 mg group compared with the other two groups. Further changes in mood were revealed after the stress of cognitive testing, with the 100 mg group showing greater increases in the 'psychological anxiety' and the 'aggressive mood' factors (as measured from the Bond and Lader scales).
We set out a new general framework for making inferences from neuroimaging data, which includes a standard approach to neuroimaging analysis, statistical parametric mapping (SPM), as a special case. The model offers numerous conceptual and statistical advantages that derive from analyzing data at the &quot;cluster level&quot; rather than the &quot;voxel level&quot; and from explicit modeling of the shape and position of clusters of activation. This provides a natural and principled way to pool data from nearby voxels for parameter and variance-component estimation. The model can also be viewed as performing a spatio-temporal cluster analysis. The parameters of the model are estimated using an expectation maximization (EM) algorithm.





In the last decade, functional brain imaging techniques ranging from fMRI to PET to EEG have added to understanding the mechanisms involved in cognitive, affective, and motoric processes. More recently, as demonstrated by papers in a variety of neuroscience journals, the hypnotic experience and its modulation of critical human processes such as pain have added hypnotic procedures to the experimental techniques available for the neuroscience community. For this interplay to be manifested, it is critical that readers understand brain imaging procedures and the types of questions they can and cannot answer. In this spirit, the present article is an overview of the major brain imaging techniques available to a researcher interested in hypnosis.
Dementia has the potential to become a major public health concern during this century due to increasing life expectancy and growth in the ageing population. The commonest types of dementia include Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), and dementia with cerebrovascular components. Galantamine is the only acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that exhibits a dual mechanism of action--inhibition of acetylcholinesterase and nicotinic receptor modulation. Clinical studies demonstrate the efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients with AD, VaD, and AD with cerebrovascular components. Galantamine shows beneficial effects on cognition, global function, activities of daily living and behaviour. Adverse events observed with galantamine use are generally mild to moderate in severity, transient and gastrointestinal in nature. The dose of galantamine should be escalated to 16 and 24 mg/day at four-week intervals to achieve maximal tolerability. Because of its unique mechanism of action, galantamine may have potential benefits over conventional enzyme-inhibiting agents.
Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase which in non-neuronal cells is localized to focal adhesions, where it participates to adhesion-dependent intracellular signalling. FAK is highly expressed in the central nervous system both during development and in the adult. FAK(+), a splice isoform of FAK selectively enriched in neurons, contains a three-amino acid insertion in the carboxy-terminal sequence responsible for the localization of FAK to focal adhesions. Enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged constructs were used to study the targeting of FAK and FAK(+) in neuronal and non-neuronal cells of the central nervous system. In transfected non-neuronal cells, both fusion proteins colocalized with vinculin in focal contacts. When expressed in hippocampal neurons in culture, both chimeras were locally concentrated in the growth cone, where they overlapped with F-actin enrichments but not with vinculin. In the growth cone of living neurons, the FAK(+) chimera showed a dynamic relocalization to membrane ruffles and to the tips of the membrane protrusions induced by cytochalasin D treatment, indicating a dependence of FAK distribution on F-actin organization. Since virtually identical patterns of distribution were found for FAK and FAK(+) chimeras, it follows that the additional insertion in FAK(+) is not responsible for the localization of the kinase. Finally, we showed that the carboxy-terminal domain of both FAK and FAK(+) is sufficient to mediate the localization of the proteins to focal adhesions in non-neuronal cells and to maintain their correct intracellular targeting in neurons.
The purpose of this study was to test whether slow cortical electrical activity is specific to performance on verbal, pictorial and spatial tasks. Twenty-nine healthy subjects were required to compare pairs of visual stimuli separated by a delay of 2.5 s in a S1-S2 contingent negative variation-type paradigm. Slow potentials (SPs) were recorded by high-resolution EEG (123 channels) and their generators modeled by current density reconstruction using individual MRIs as source space models. Activity in each architectonic area of Brodmann was scored with respect to individual maximum current by a percentile method. Results showed a multifocal pattern of current density foci comprising the SP generators, including frontal and posterior cortices in all subjects, with the most active areas being common to the three tasks. In spite of the intersubject variability in the sets of active areas for each given task, a few cortical areas were observed to discriminate between tasks in a statistically significant way: the verbal task corresponded to stronger electrical activity in right area 45 than the other tasks; the spatial to weaker activity in right area 38 and left area 5 than the other tasks; the pictorial, compared to the spatial task, to stronger activity in left area 39; the verbal, compared to the spatial task, to stronger activity in left area 10, and compared to the pictorial, to weaker activity in right area 20. The present method of SP analysis may aid in the functional mapping of human association cortices in individual cases. We discuss our results emphasizing intersubject variability in cortical activity patterns and the possibility of finding more universal patterns.
One developing theme in consciousness research is that consciousness is not the product of any specific component of the brain, rather it is an emergent property of the changing patterns of connectivity between different specialised functional components. For example, the dynamic core hypothesis proposes that conscious experience requires high levels of neural complexity, where complexity is defined in terms of functional connectivity. To test this hypothesis, electroencephalography was recorded while participants were shown random dot-stereograms. Consistent with the dynamic core hypothesis, neural complexity increased as the participants changed from simply viewing the stereogram to consciously perceiving the hidden 3D image.
The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus is a primate phylogenetically close to humans which, when immunized with myelin proteins, is susceptible to a form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) that resembles multiple sclerosis (MS). Neuropathological features of marmoset EAE, including inflammation, demyelination and axonal injury, are strikingly similar to findings in the human disease and are the final result of a joint autoimmune attack by myelin-specific T and B cells. The molecular and functional similarity of the marmoset immune system, together with the availability of diagnostic tools that can be used in humans (such as magnetic resonance imaging), makes the marmoset EAE a unique model with which to evaluate the safety and efficacy of therapeutic strategies for the treatment of MS.
Low backrest and supine positions are associated with increased mortality and ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP). Data are not available across ICU settings about the level of backrest position used and its relationship to enteral feeding and hemodynamic status. The purpose of this descriptive study was to document the level of backrest elevation and position and identify factors associated with and predict positioning in a medical, surgical and neuroscience intensive care unit. Data were collected randomly in each unit over a 6-week period, resulting in 506 observations for170 patients. Backrest elevation was determined by electronic bed read-out or bed frame elevation gauge. BP, HR and enteral feeding status were retrieved from the medical record. Results showed that mean backrest elevation was 19.2 degrees and 70% of subjects were supine. No difference in backrest elevation among units was found. Significant correlations between backrest elevation and systolic BP (r=0.15, P=0.006); and backrest and diastolic BP (r=0.13, P=0.02) were found. There was no difference in backrest elevation between patients being fed and not being fed. Differences in backrest elevation for intubated versus nonintubated patients approached significance (P=0.07) with intubated patients at lower backrest elevations. In summary, use of higher backrest elevations (&gt;30 degrees ) is minimal, is not related to feeding and minimally related to hemodynamic status. Strategies to meet published recommendations for backrest elevation (30-45 degrees ) must include repeated feedback about nurse's use of backrest elevation and estimates of elevation.
Abstract Antithrombotic treatment has now been joined by other evidence-based drug interventions for prevention of stroke, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors. The efficacy of oral anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation has not been seen in other stroke-prone groups, although trials are continuing. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging improves diagnostic accuracy in acute stroke, which is important in arriving at the right secondary prevention strategy. Carotid endarterectomy has been shown to be beneficial for 50-69% symptomatic -stenosis but with a much narrower therapeutic index than for 70-99% stenosis. A comparison of endarterectomy with angioplasty and/or stent placement has been the subject of one small trial suggesting similar procedural stroke and mortality risks. Device closure of cardiac abnormalities increases in the absence of any trial data, and in spite of a low subsequent stroke risk for young patients with isolated patent foramen ovale treated with aspirin.

Activation of muscle contraction is a rapid event that is initiated by depolarization of the plasma membrane and transverse (T) tubules, which following transduction in the interior of the muscle cell, activate the release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). Pioneer studies using electron microscopy defined the organization of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the details of the junctions between sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubules, which are essential for translating the electrical signal on the plasma membrane to calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Molecular biology and biochemistry studies have revealed the presence of several proteins located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum, some of which participate together with the ryanodine receptors to the assembly of a large multi-protein complex, while others, like the calcium pumps, have independent localization and activities. As a whole, the current view of this system contemplates the existence of a high level of structural organization in the sarcoplasmic reticulum with respect to the localization of ryanodine receptors and other proteins. In this review we shall summarize studies on the expression and possible functional significance of the ryanodine receptor type 3 in mammalian skeletal muscles and recent studies aimed to dissect the mechanisms that establish the organization of the SR in striated muscles.
This paper uses insights from contemporary neuroscience and attachment theory to explore the profound dissociative defences associated with trauma. I discuss the effects of trauma on the emotional, intellectual and imaginative life of the individual and on the development of the self. Based on work with three patients with very different experiences of trauma, the paper offers clinical illustration of 'right brain to right brain' Jungian analysis. I argue that through repeated transference and countertransference experiences dissociative defences may be undone and change brought about.
Respiratory afferent stimulation can elicit increases in respiratory motor output that outlast the period of stimulation by seconds to minutes [short-term potentiation (STP)]. This study examined the potential contribution of spinal mechanisms to STP in anesthetized, vagotomized, paralyzed rats. After C(1) spinal cord transection, stimulus trains (100 Hz, 5-60 s) of the C(1)-C(2) lateral funiculus elicited STP of phrenic nerve activity that peaked several seconds poststimulation. Intracellular recording revealed that individual phrenic motoneurons exhibited one of three different responses to stimulation: 1) depolarization that peaked several seconds poststimulation, 2) depolarization during stimulation and then exponential repolarization after stimulation, and 3) bistable behavior in which motoneurons depolarized to a new, relatively stable level that was maintained after stimulus termination. During the STP, excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by single-stimulus pulses were larger and longer. In conclusion, repetitive activation of the descending inputs to phrenic motoneurons causes a short-lasting depolarization of phrenic motoneurons, and augmentation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials, consistent with a contribution to STP.
The rat anterior pituitary gland undergoes changes in its cyto-architecture during the second and third weeks of postnatal life. However, little is known about the factors that regulate these tissue conformational changes. The epidermal growth factor (EGF) is one of the growth factors that are synthesized by the pituitary gland, and almost all of the pituitary cells have EGF receptors (EGFR). In addition to the effects of the EGF on mitosis and differentiation, this growth factor can modulate cell adhesion, cell migration, and cytoskeletal organization. In this study we focussed our attention in examining the effects of EGF on the adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix and on the actin cytoskeletal arrangement of pituitary cells from infantile and adult rats. Our results show that in infantile cells the EGF induces cell adhesion with increase in cell surface area. The arrangement of actin-F in infantile EGF-treated cells was in stress fibers and vinculin acquired a striped shape at the membrane border, suggesting the assembly of focal adhesion contacts. In contrast, in adult pituitary cells EGF does not induce any change in cell adhesion, and the cells maintain a rounded shape with an arrangement of actin-F in thin cortical bands even though, immuno-localization of the EGFR was observed in adult cells cultured in defined medium. We also looked for the EGFR in membrane preparations from infantile and adult pituitaries, and a marked difference in membrane EGFR was observed between them, the infantile pituitaries showing a significantly higher amount. Our results suggest that in infantile cells EGF induces the assembly of focal adhesion contacts, and that in adult cells the receptor of this growth factor is uncoupled of the signaling pathway by which a rearrangement of actin cytoskeleton occurs.
Neuroendocrine secretory granules, the storage organelles for neuropeptides and hormones, are formed at the trans-Golgi network, stored inside the cell and exocytosed upon stimulation. Previously, we have reported that newly formed secretory granules of PC12 cells are transported in a microtubule-dependent manner from the trans-Golgi network to the F-actin-rich cell cortex, where they undergo short directed movements and exhibit a homogeneous distribution. Here we provide morphological and biochemical evidence that myosin Va is associated with secretory granules. Expression of a dominant-negative tail domain of myosin Va in PC12 cells led to an extensive clustering of secretory granules close to the cell periphery, a loss of their cortical restriction and a strong reduction in their motility in the actin cortex. Based on this data we propose a model that implies a dual transport system for secretory granules: after microtubule-dependent delivery to the cell periphery, secretory granules exhibit a myosin Va-dependent transport leading to their restriction and even dispersal in the F-actin-rich cortex of PC12 cells.
Naturally occurring mutations in insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) have previously been implicated in impaired insulin action. We now report a novel mutation in IRS-1 with substitution of Arg for Thr(608) that was identified in a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus. We detected the T608R mutation in 1 of 136 chromosomes from diabetic patients and in 0 of 120 chromosomes from nondiabetic controls, suggesting that this is a rare IRS-1 variant. Conservation of Thr(608) in human, monkey, rat, mouse, and chicken IRS-1 sequences is consistent with a crucial function for this residue. Moreover, Thr(608) is located near the YMXM motif containing Tyr(612) that is important for binding and activation of phosphoinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase). To investigate whether the T608R mutation impairs insulin signaling, we transiently transfected NIH-3T3(IR) cells with hemagglutinin-tagged wild-type or T608R mutant IRS-1 constructs. Recombinant IRS-1 immunoprecipitated from transfected cells treated with or without insulin was subjected to immunoblotting for the p85 regulatory subunit of PI 3-kinase as well as a PI 3-kinase assay. As expected, in control cells transfected with wild-type IRS-1, insulin stimulation caused an increase in p85 coimmunoprecipitated with IRS-1 as well as a 10-fold increase in IRS-1-associated PI 3-kinase activity. Interestingly, when cells transfected with IRS1-T608R were stimulated with insulin, both the amount of p85 coimmunoprecipitated with IRS1-T608R as well as the associated PI 3-kinase activity were approximately 50% less than those observed with wild-type IRS-1. Moreover, in rat adipose cells, overexpression of IRS1-T608R resulted in significantly less translocation of GLUT4 to the cell surface than comparable overexpression of wild-type IRS-1. We conclude that a naturally occurring substitution of Arg for Thr(608) in IRS-1 is a rare human mutation that may contribute to insulin resistance by impairing metabolic signaling through PI 3-kinase-dependent pathways.
EGF promotes proliferation and migration of stem/progenitor cells in the normal adult brain. The effect of epidermal growth factor on neurogenesis in ischemic brain is unknown, however. Here we show that intraventricular administration of EGF and albumin augments 100-fold neuronal replacement in the injured adult mouse striatum after cerebral ischemia. Newly born immature neurons migrate into the ischemic lesion and differentiate into mature parvalbumin-expressing neurons, replacing more than 20% of the interneurons lost by 13 weeks after ischemia and representing 2% of the total BrdU-labeled cells. These data suggest that administration of EGF and albumin could be used to manipulate endogenous neurogenesis in the injured brain and to promote brain self-repair.



Picture-word experiments investigating the production of multiword utterances with distractors that are phonologically related to words in noninitial position have yielded inconsistent results, ranging from facilitation to inhibition. A comparison of these studies is complicated by differences in detail. In parallel to the empirical inconsistencies, different theoretical accounts of phonological encoding in speech production have been provided. In the present article, the authors propose a unitary account, which can in principle account for facilitation, null effects, and inhibition. It assumes a graded activation pattern of the elements within the scope of phonological advance planning. The account is tested in an experiment varying utterance format while keeping all other aspects constant. The results are consistent with the proposed unitary account.


Elderly persons are especially exposed to folate deficiency, where normal/subnormal folate levels do not exclude tissue deficiency. Accompanying diseases, medication, and lifestyle factors may contribute to/cause deficiency. Symptoms of deficiency can be hematological, neurological, or neuropsychiatric, but it is likely that there are also cardiovascular manifestations as well as associations with malignancies. The physician should make an individualized investigation to establish the probable cause. Among the available determinants of the folate/cobalamin state, plasma homocysteine (Hcy) is a swift and sensitive marker and has the strongest connection to cognitive function. The association is generally stronger between Hcy levels and symptoms than between vitamin-related levels and symptoms. The duration as well as the severity of symptoms are of importance in terms of the improvement of neurological and neuropsychiatric symptoms when substitution is performed. The issue of general folate fortification of flour is complex, and there are as many pros and cons as there are countries in which it is considered to be launched. It is important to bear in mind that in our modern society, deficiency of folate/cobalamin--overt or latent--mainly is a problem of the elderly and a challenge to the doctor.
Long-Term Publication (LTP) is a kind of synaptic plasticity that many contemporary neuroscientists believe is a component in mechanisms of memory. This essay describes the discovery of LTP and the development of the LTP research program. The story begins in the 1950's with the discovery of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus (a medial temporal lobe structure now associated with memory), and it ends in 1973 with the publication of three papers sketching the future course of the LTP research program. The making of LTP was a protracted affair. Hippocampal synaptic plasticity was initially encountered as an experimental tool, then reported as a curiosity, and finally included in the ontic store of the neurosciences. Early researchers were not investigating the hippocampus in search of a memory mechanism; rather, they saw the hippocampus as a useful experimental model or as a structure implicated in the etiology of epilepsy. The link between hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning or memory was a separate conceptual achievement. That link was formulated in at least three different ways at different times: reductively (claiming that plasticity is identical to learning), analogically (claiming that plasticity is an example or model of learning(, and mechanistically (claiming that plasticity is a component in learning or memory mechanisms). The hypothesized link with learning or memory, coupled with developments in experimental techniques and preparations, shaped how researchers understood LTP itself. By 1973, the mechanistic formulation of the link between LTP and memory provided an abstract framework around which findings from multiple perspectives could be integrated into a multifield research program.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and semaphorin3A (Sema3A) are guidance cues found in pathways and targets of developing dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. DRG growth cone motility is regulated by cytoplasmic signaling triggered by these molecules. We investigated interactions of NGF and Sema3A in modulating growth cone behaviors of axons extended from E7 chick embryo DRGs. Axons extending in collagen matrices were repelled by Sema3A released from transfected HEK293 cells. However, if an NGF-coated bead was placed adjacent to Sema3A-producing cells, axons converged at the NGF bead. Growth cones of DRGs raised in 10(-9) M NGF were more resistant to Sema3A-induced collapse than when DRGs were raised in 10(-11) M NGF. After overnight culture in 10(-11) M NGF, 1-hr treatment with 10(-9) M NGF also increased growth cone resistance to Sema3A. Pharmacological studies indicated that the activities of ROCK and PKG participate in the cytoskeletal alterations that lead to Sema3A-induced growth cone collapse, whereas PKA activity is required for NGF-mediated reduction of Sema3A-induced growth cone collapse. These results support the idea that growth cone responses to a guidance cue can be modulated by interactions involving coincident signaling by other guidance cues.
Nervous system development is reliant on neuronal pathfinding, the process in which axons are guided to their target cells by specific extracellular cues. The ability of neurons to extend over long distances in response to environmental guidance signals is made possible by the growth cone, a highly motile structure found at the end of neuronal processes. Growth cones detect directional cues and respond with either attractive or repulsive movements. The motility of growth cones is dependent on rapid reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, presumably mediated by actin-associated proteins under the control of incoming guidance signals. This article reviews how one such family of proteins, the ADF/cofilins, are emerging as key regulators of growth cone actin dynamics. These proteins are essential for rapid actin turnover in a variety of different cell types. ADF/cofilins are heavily co-localized with actin in growth cones and are necessary for neurite outgrowth. ADF/cofilin activities are regulated through reversible phosphorylation by LIM kinases and slingshot phosphatases. LIM kinases are downstream effectors of the Rho GTPases Rho, Rac, and Cdc42. Growing evidence suggests that extracellular guidance cues may locally alter actin dynamics by regulating the activity of LIM kinase and ADF/cofilin phosphatases via the Rho GTPases. In this way, ADF/cofilins and their upstream effectors may be pivotal to our understanding of how guidance information is translated into physical alterations of the growth cone actin cytoskeleton.

The inwardly rectifying potassium ion channel Kir2.2 has recently been demonstrated to have nuclear and plasma membrane subcellular localization. Nuclear expression of Kir2.2 is controversial, as a functional role for Kir2.0 potassium channels in the nucleus has not been investigated. However, in this report we have demonstrated Kir2.2 nuclear localization in sections of rat hindbrain and dorsal root ganglia tissue, using two anti- Kir2.2 polyclonal antisera with different epitope specificities. These data confirm nuclear localization and are suggestive of new functions of Kir2.0 potassium ion channels in the nucleus.

We have previously shown that agrin regulates the rates of axonal and dendritic elongation by modulating the expression of microtubule-associated proteins in cultured hippocampal neurons. However, the mechanisms by which agrin-induced signals are propagated to the nucleus where they can lead to the phosphorylation, and hence the activation, of transcription factors, are not known. In the present study, we identified downstream elements that play essential roles in the agrin-signaling pathway in developing central neurons. Our results indicate that agrin induces the combined activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/ERK2) and p38 in central neurons. In addition, they showed that PD98059 and SB202190, synthetic inhibitors of ERK1/ERK2 and p38 respectively, prevented the changes in the rate of neurite elongation induced by agrin in cultured hippocampal neurons. Collectively, these results suggest that agrin might modulate the expression of neuron-specific genes involved in neurite elongation by inducing CREB phosphorylation through the activation of the MAPK signal transduction pathway in cultured hippocampal neurons.
Blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors induces neuronal cell apoptosis. We investigated if mitochondria-mediated death signals would contribute to neuronal apoptosis following administration of glutamate antagonists. The administration of MK-801 and CNQX (MK-801/CNQX), the selective antagonists of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors, produced widespread neuronal death in neonatal rat brain and cortical cell cultures. MK-801/CNQX-induced neuronal apoptosis was prevented by zVAD-fmk, a broad inhibitor of caspases, but insensitive to inhibitors of calpain or cathepsin D. Activation of caspase-3 was observed within 6-12 h and sustained over 36 h after exposure to MK-801/CNQX, which cleaved PHF-1 tau, the substrate for caspase-3. Activation of caspase-3 was blocked by high K+ and mimicked by BAPTA-AM, a selective Ca2+ chelator. Reducing extracellular Ca2+, but not Na+, activated caspase-3, suggesting an essential role of Ca2+ deficiency in MK-801/CNQX-induced activation of caspases. Cortical neurons treated with MK-801/CNQX triggered activation of caspase-9, release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and translocation of Bax into mitochondria. The present study suggests that blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors causes caspase-3-mediated neuronal apoptosis due to Ca2+ deficiency that is coupled to the sequential mitochondrial death pathway.
Free iron has been assumed to potentiate oxygen toxicity by generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) via the iron-catalyzed Haber-Weiss reaction, leading to oxidative stress. ROS-mediated iron cytotoxicity may trigger apoptotic cell death. In the present study, we used iron treatment of organotypic cultures of hippocampal slices to study potential mechanisms involved in iron-induced neuronal damage. Exposure of mature hippocampal slices to ferrous sulfate resulted in concentration- and time-dependent cell death. After iron treatment, markers of ROS formation and lipid peroxidation, i.e. intensity of dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence and levels of thiobarbiturate reactive substances (TBARS), were significantly increased. Levels of cytochrome c were increased while levels of pro-caspase-9 and pro-caspase-3 were decreased in cytosolic fractions of iron-treated hippocampal slice cultures. Treatment of cultured slices with a synthetic catalytic ROS scavenger, EUK-134, provided between 50 and 70% protection against various parameters of cell damage and markers of oxidative stress. In addition, inhibition of caspase-3 activity by Ac-DEVDcho partially protected cells from iron toxicity. The combination of EUK-134 and Ac-DEVDcho resulted in an almost complete blockade of iron-induced damage. These results indicate that iron elicits cellular damage predominantly by oxidative stress, and that ROS-mediated iron toxicity may involve cytochrome c- and caspase-3-dependent apoptotic pathways.
Excessive release of proinflammatory products by activated glia causes neurotoxicity and participates in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) has been shown to play a key role in nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB)-driven expression of inflammatory mediators by glia during the neuroimmune response. Here we report the novel finding that the enzymatic activity of PARP-1 promotes, in an beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent fashion, the DNA binding of NF-kappaB in microglia exposed to lipopolysaccharides, interferon-gamma or beta-amyloid 1-40. Consistently, we found that targeting NF-kappaB-dependent glial activation with pharmacological inhibitors of PARP-1 enzymatic activity reduces expression of inflammatory mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin 1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha and amyloid precursor protein, and reduces the neurotoxic potential of activated glia in vitro. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of lipopolysaccharide-induced poly(ADP-ribose) formation in vivo suppresses neuroinflammation and related neural cell death. Our findings build on prior published reports in PARP-1 null mice and highlight the importance of PARP-1 enzymatic activity in transcriptional control during glial activation, identifying PARP-1 activity-dependent regulation of NF-kappaB as a novel pharmacological target for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
Unilateral administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) causes a loss of dopamine (DA) in the ipsilateral striatum and contralateral motor deficits. However, if a cast is placed on the ipsilateral limb during the first 7 days following 6-OHDA infusion, forcing the animal to use its contralateral limb, both the behavioral and neurochemical deficits are reduced. Here, we examine the effect of forced reliance on a forelimb during the 7 days prior to ipsilateral infusion of 6-OHDA on the deficits characteristic of this lesion model. Casted animals displayed no behavioral asymmetries as measured 14-28 days postlesion and a marked attenuation in the loss of striatal DA and its metabolites at 30 days. In addition, animals receiving a unilateral cast alone had an increase in glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protein in the striatum corresponding to the overused limb. GDNF increased within 1 day after the onset of casting, peaked at 3 days, and returned to baseline within 7 days. These results suggest that preinjury forced limb-use can prevent the behavioral and neurochemical deficits to the subsequent administration of 6-OHDA and that this may be due in part to neuroprotective effects of GDNF.
The proper diagnosis of the arrested or the progressive form of hydrocephalus has a critical impact on treatment, but remains difficult. The assessment of early changes in cerebral metabolism might help in the development of adequate non-invasive diagnostic tools. This study examined the alterations in label incorporation in neurotransmitter amino acids and other compounds in kaolin-induced progressive hydrocephalus in rats by means of magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) combined with the administration of [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate. Some 2, 4 and 6 weeks after kaolin injection into the cisterna magna, cerebrum, brainstem and cerebellum were dissected. Interestingly, labelling of most amino acids derived from [1-13C]glucose showed no alterations, whereas labelling from [1,2-13C]acetate was affected. Two weeks after induction of hydrocephalus the taurine concentration was decreased, whereas the concentration of [1,2-13C]lactate was increased in the cerebrum and that of [1,2-13C]GABA in the brainstem. Furthermore, labelling from [1,2-13C]acetate was significantly decreased in [4,5-13C]glutamate, [1,2-13C]glutamate and [1,2-13C]GABA in cerebrum from 4 weeks after hydrocephalus induction. The concentration of N-acetylaspartate, a neuronal marker, was unchanged. However, labelling of the acetyl group from [1-13C]glucose was decreased in cerebellum and brainstem at 6 weeks after the induction of hydrocephalus. As glucose is metabolized predominately by neurones, whereas acetate is exclusively taken up by astrocytes, these results indicate that mostly astrocytic, and only later neuronal, metabolism is disturbed in the kaolin model of hydrocephalus. If verified in patients using in vivo MRS, impaired astrocyte metabolism might serve as an early indication for operative treatment.
In previous studies, we showed that overexpression of peripherin, a neuronal intermediate filament (IF) protein, in mice deficient for neurofilament light (NF-L) subunits induced a progressive adult-onset degeneration of spinal motor neurons characterized by the presence of IF inclusion bodies reminiscent of axonal spheroids found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In contrast, the overexpression of human neurofilament heavy (NF-H) proteins provoked the formation of massive perikaryal IF protein accumulations with no loss of motor neurons. To further investigate the toxic properties of IF protein inclusions, we generated NF-L null mice that co-express both peripherin and NF-H transgenes. The axonal count in L5 ventral roots from 6 and 8-month-old transgenic mice showed that NF-H overexpression rescued the peripherin-mediated degeneration of motor neurons. Our analysis suggests that the protective effect of extra NF-H proteins is related to the sequestration of peripherin into the perikaryon of motor neurons, thereby abolishing the development of axonal IF inclusions that might block transport. These findings illustrate the importance of IF protein stoichiometry in formation, localization and toxicity of neuronal inclusion bodies.
There is considerable current interest in the neuroprotective effects of flavonoids. This study focuses on the potential for dietary flavonoids, and their known physiologically relevant metabolites, to enter the brain endothelium and cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) using well-established in vitro models (brain endothelial cell lines and ECV304 monolayers co-cultured with C6 glioma cells). We report that the citrus flavonoids, hesperetin, naringenin and their relevant in vivo metabolites, as well as the dietary anthocyanins and in vivo forms, cyanidin-3-rutinoside and pelargonidin-3-glucoside, are taken up by two brain endothelial cell lines from mouse (b.END5) and rat (RBE4). In both cell types, uptake of hesperetin and naringenin was greatest, increasing significantly with time and as a function of concentration. In support of these observations we report for the first time high apparent permeability (Papp) of the citrus flavonoids, hesperetin and naringenin, across the in vitro BBB model (apical to basolateral) relative to their more polar glucuronidated conjugates, as well as those of epicatechin and its in vivo metabolites, the dietary anthocyanins and to specific phenolic acids derived from colonic biotransformation of flavonoids. The results demonstrate that flavonoids and some metabolites are able to traverse the BBB, and that the potential for permeation is consistent with compound lipophilicity.
Oxidative damage, produced by mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), may play a role in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a devastating motor neuron degenerative disease. A novel approach to antioxidant therapy is the use of metalloporphyrins that catalytically scavenge a wide range of reactive oxygen and reactive nitrogen species. In this study, we examined the therapeutic potential of iron porphyrin (FeTCPP) in the G93A mutant SOD1 transgenic mouse model of ALS. We found that intraperitoneal injection of FeTCPP significantly improved motor function and extended survival in G93A mice. Similar results were seen with a second group of mice wherein treatment with FeTCPP was initiated at the onset of hindlimb weakness-roughly equivalent to the time at which treatment would begin in human patients. FeTCPP-treated mice also showed a significant reduction in levels of malondialdehyde (a marker of lipid peroxidation), in total content of protein carbonyls (a marker of protein oxidation), and increased neuronal survival in the spinal cord. These results therefore provide further evidence of oxidative damage in a mouse model of ALS, and suggest that FeTCPP could be beneficial for the treatment of ALS patients.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized neuropathologically by intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) formed of tau-based paired helical filaments (PHFs) and extracellular beta-amyloid plaques. The degree of Alzheimer dementia correlates with the severity of PHFs and NFTs. As an intraneuronal accumulation of oxidatively damaged proteins has been found in the brains of patients with AD, a dysfunction of the proteasomal system, which degrades damaged proteins, has been assumed to cause protein aggregation and therefore neurodegeneration in AD. In this study, we revealed that such proteasome dysfunction in AD brain results from the inhibitory binding of PHF-tau to proteasomes. We analysed the proteasome activity in brains from patients with AD and age-matched controls, and observed a significant decrease to 56% of the control level in the straight gyrus of patients with AD. This loss of activity was not associated with a decrease in the proteasome protein. PHF-tau co-precipitated during proteasome immunoprecipitation and proteasome subunits could be co-isolated during isolation of PHFs from AD brain. Furthermore, the proteasome activity in human brains strongly correlated with the amount of co-precipitated PHF-tau during immunoprecipitation of proteasome. Incubation of isolated proteasomes with PHF-tau isolated from AD brain, and with PHFs after in vitro assembly from human recombinant tau protein, resulted in a distinct inhibition of proteasome activity by PHF-tau. As this inhibition of proteasome activity was sufficient to induce neuronal degeneration and death, we suggest that PHF-tau is able directly to induce neuronal damage in the AD brain.
When administered in a novel environment relatively low doses of amphetamine induce c-fos mRNA in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and in preproenkephalin mRNA-containing (ENK+) neurons in the caudate-putamen (CPu). When administered at home, however, low doses of amphetamine do not produce these effects. Environmental novelty also facilitates the behavioral effects of acute and repeated amphetamine, but this is dose-dependent. The purpose of the present experiment therefore was to determine if the effect of context on amphetamine-induced c-fos expression is also dose-dependent. It was found that: (i) No dose of amphetamine tested (1-10 mg/kg) induced c-fos in many ENK+ cells when given at home. (ii) When given in a novel environment low to moderate doses of amphetamine (1-5 mg/kg) induced c-fos in substantial numbers of ENK+ cells, but the highest dose examined (10 mg/kg) did not. (iii) Environmental novelty enhanced the ability of low to moderate doses of amphetamine to induce c-fos in the STN, but the highest dose of amphetamine induced robust c-fos mRNA expression in the STN regardless of context. The results do not support the idea that engaging ENK+ cells, at least as indicated by c-fos mRNA expression, is critical to produce robust behavioral sensitization, but do suggest a possible role for the STN. Furthermore, the results highlight the importance of drug-environment interactions on the neurobiological effects of drugs, and have implications for thinking about the circuits by which context modulates the acute and long-lasting consequences of amphetamine treatment.
Several studies have established that melatonin synthesis occurs in the retina of vertebrates, including mammals. In mammals, a subpopulation of photoreceptors (probably the cones) synthesize melatonin. Melatonin synthesis in the retina is elevated at night and reduced during the day in a fashion similar to events in the pineal gland. Both the MT1 and MT2 melatonin receptors are present in the retina and retinal melatonin does not contribute to circulating levels, suggesting that retinal melatonin acts locally as a neurohormone and/or neuromodulator. Melatonin synthesis in the retina of mammals is under the control of a circadian oscillator, and circadian rhythms in melatonin synthesis and/or release have been described for several species of mammals. These rhythms are present in vivo, persist in vitro, are entrained by light and are temperature compensated. The cloning of the gene responsible for the synthesis of the enzyme arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (the key enzyme in the melatonin biosynthetic pathway) has allowed studies of the molecular mechanisms responsible for the generation of retinal melatonin rhythmicity. The present review focuses on the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate melatonin synthesis. In particular, we discuss how the photic environment and the circadian clock interact in determining melatonin levels, in addition to the role that melatonin plays in retinal physiology.
Anatomical and physiological studies have suggested that the pineal gland of neonatal mammals has a photoreceptive capacity. Using the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) as our model, we applied biochemical approaches to look for a functional photopigment within the pineal during early development. Immunocytochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to localize and quantify opsin, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to identify photopigment chromophore (11-cis and all-trans retinaldehyde) in the developing eye and pineal. For HPLC analysis, retinaldehydes were converted to their corresponding retinoid oximes. Eluted retinoids were identified by comparison with standard vitamin A1 retinoid oxime isomers on the basis of relative elution sequence and characteristic absorbance spectra. Both immunocytochemistry and ELISA suggested an increase in the opsin content of the pineal during the first week of life. In the eye, 11-cis retinaldehyde was first detected between days 3 and 5 after birth. In three separate extractions, and using a considerable excess of pineal tissue, we failed to identify chromophore within the pineal during the first week of postnatal development. The appearance of 11-cis retinaldehyde within the eye between postnatal days 3-5 is consistent with the hypothesis that retinol isomerase activity is coordinated with outer segment development. The failure to identify chromophore within the neonatal pineal suggests that this gland lacks a functional opsin-based photopigment. These data contradict physiological evidence suggesting that the neonatal pineal of mammals contains photoreceptors.
Two structurally related neuropeptides, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), colocalized with glutamate in neurones of the retinohypothalamic tract, and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), present in light-responsive cells of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), appear to play distinct and important roles in the control of mammalian circadian rhythms. Mice deficient in the PACAP-selective PAC1 receptor exhibit altered responsiveness of the SCN clock to light-induced phase-shifts, but display robust circadian patterns of wheel-running behaviour. By contrast, our studies of mice lacking the VPAC2 receptor, which responds to both PACAP and VIP, indicate that this receptor plays a critical role in rhythm generation in the SCN. The predominant factor determining wheel-running activity in VPAC2 receptor null (Vipr2-/-) mice is &quot;masking&quot; by light. Mutant animals re-entrain immediately to advances or delays in the light/dark cycle and do not exhibit robust circadian rhythms of behaviour when in constant darkness. The mice do not exhibit circadian expression of core clock genes (mPer1, mPer2, mCry1), or of the clock-controlled gene arginine vasopressin (AVP), in the SCN. We propose that VIP signalling between SCN neurones provides a paracrine reinforcing signal that is essential for sustained rhythm generation. The presence of VIP signalling in the SCN may explain why SCN neurones are capable of generating long-lasting self-sustained oscillations, whereas rhythmic clock gene expression in other tissues is dependent on periodic reinforcement by neural or hormonal signals.
Past studies have implicated the Drosophila LARK protein in the circadian control of adult eclosion behavior. LARK has a broad tissue pattern of distribution, and is pan-neuronal in the differentiated brain. In certain peptidergic neurons, LARK abundance changes in a circadian manner. However, the precise cellular requirement for LARK, with respect to circadian behavior, is still not known. To explore this issue, we employed the GAL4/UAS binary expression system to increase LARK abundance in defined neuronal cell types. Interestingly, LARK expression in Crustacean Cardioactive Peptide (CCAP) neurons caused an early-eclosion phenotype, whereas a similar perturbation in the Eclosion Hormone (EH) cells resulted in abnormally late peaks of eclosion. Surprisingly, LARK expression in Pigment Dispersing Factor (PDF)- or TIMELESS (TIM)-containing clock neurons caused behavioral arrhythmicity, even though clock protein cycling was found to be normal in these flies. Although the observed effects of LARK expression mirrored those seen with genetic ablation of the relevant peptidergic populations, there was no evidence of defective cell development or morphology. This suggests that an alteration of cell function rather than cell death is the cause of the aberrant phenotypes. Diminished PDF immunoreactivity in flies expressing LARK in the PDF neurons suggests that an effect on neuropeptide synthesis, transport, or release may contribute to the observed arrhythmicity. Importantly, the expression of LARK in several other cell populations did not have detectable effects on development, viability or behavior, indicating a specificity of action within certain cell types.

In multiple sclerosis (MS), an impaired apoptotic deletion of activated CNS-specific immune cells, leading to their pathogenic persistence, has been suggested to maintain chronic brain inflammation. We here investigated whether interferon-beta (IFN-beta) therapy induces apoptosis of peripheral immune cells. Serial blood samples from 127 relapsing-remitting MS patients were analyzed prior to the initiation of a weekly IFN-beta 1a therapy and 4, 26, and 52 weeks thereafter. Peripheral immune cells were investigated for apoptosis and for the expression of apoptosis-regulatory genes CD95, CD95 ligand, FLIP, Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), Bag-1, and caspase 3 by quantitative real-time PCR. Biological efficacy of IFN-beta treatment was checked by quantification of Mx expression (ELISA and real-time PCR). We found a significant increase in the apoptosis rate of immune cells in response to IFN-beta treatment, compared to baseline levels. While Bcl-2 levels were permanently and Bag-1 levels transiently elevated upon therapy, other apoptosis-regulatory genes revealed no alterations. Upregulation of Mx expression confirmed the activity of IFN-beta in vivo. These findings indicate that immunomodulatory IFN-beta therapy involves the induction of apoptotic cell death with the observed RNA upregulation of Bcl-2 family members rather reflecting a possible compensatory mechanism. The increased apoptosis susceptibility of peripheral immune cells may contribute to the known reduction of brain inflammatory lesions during IFN-beta treatment.
Splenocytes from socially stressed male mice display functional glucocorticoid (GC) resistance, viz., the antiproliferative effects of GC on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated splenocytes is absent. In this study, we investigated changes in the structure and function of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in socially stressed animals. Changes of GR at both DNA and RNA levels were excluded. Reduced GR function was restricted to macrophages (CD11b(+)) in association with impaired nuclear translocation of GR after GC stimulation. Consequently, GC failed to block the activation of NF-kappa B in these cells. Thus, impaired nuclear translocation of GR and the lack of transcriptional suppression of NF-kappa B by GC were identified as the molecular mechanisms responsible for the observed GC resistance in spleens of socially stressed mice.
Although quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) studies have shown that primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) patients have subtle and diffuse changes of the normal-appearing brain tissue (NABT), the nature of these changes is still poorly understood. The aim of this study was to improve our understanding of the NABT damage in PPMS patients by comparing diffusion tensor magnetic resonance (DT MR) quantities of a large portion of the brain from these patients with those from healthy subjects with and without T2-visible lesions. Dual-echo and DT MR images of the brain were obtained from 20 patients with PPMS, 20 age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers with normal conventional MR scans of the brain, and 20 age-, gender- and T2 lesion volume-matched healthy subjects. Mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA) histograms of the NABT were derived from all the individuals. Average lesion MD and FA were calculated in PPMS patients and healthy controls with T2-visible lesions. MD and FA histogram-derived metrics of the NABT from PPMS patients differed significantly from the corresponding quantities from healthy volunteers with no brain T2-visible lesions and from those from healthy volunteers with overt brain MR abnormalities (p values ranging from &lt; 0.0001 to 0.01). Average lesion MD was also significantly higher in PPMS patients than in healthy volunteers with T2-visible lesions (p = 0.03). In PPMS patients, no significant correlation was found between any of the DT MR quantities of NABT damage and a) the T2 lesion volume, b) the average lesion MD, and c) the normalized brain volume. This study shows that in PPMS patients there is a significant microscopic damage of the NABT which is independent of the extent of T2-visible abnormalities. This suggests that Wallerian degeneration of fibers passing through macroscopic abnormalities is not a major factor contributing to diffuse NABT pathology of these patients.


The possible link between the opioid peptide beta endorphin and the heterogeneity of the clinical course of multiple sclerosis (MS) was investigated. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) concentrations of beta endorphin were measured in 50 patients in different phases of MS. Thirty nine patients also underwent post-contrast magnetic resonance imaging of the brain. Among MS forms, the highest beta endorphin concentrations were found in PBMC from patients with relapsing remitting MS and the lowest in patients with the progressive forms. Average beta endorphin concentrations were lower, although not significantly, in patients with than in those without magnetic resonance imaging enhanced lesions. These data suggest that beta endorphin may have a role in the downregulation of the inflammatory process.


The amygdaloid complex (AC) was found highly vulnerable to alpha-synuclein (alphaS) pathology in both familial and sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD), and recently, incidental Lewy bodies (LBs) were identified primarily in the lower brainstem. This challenges the traditional view that the substantia nigra (SN) is the region that is predominately affected in the spectrum of LB disorders. We examined the immunoreactivity of alphaS in the SN, the nucleus basalis of Meynert (nbM), and the AC in 904 subjects with or without concomitant AD pathology. AlphaS-positive structures were seen in at least one of the studied brain areas in 121 subjects (13%). The affected regions in the alphaS-positive subjects included the SN (89%), the nbM (73%), and the AC (67%). This study also included 82 sporadic AD patients diagnosed using CERAD criteria. AlphaS-positive structures were seen in 32% of the AD patients, with the SN and AC being equally affected. In a few subjects the AC was the only affected area. However, this was not inevitably associated with AD pathology, but was related to cognitive decline. Incidental LBs in the SN were described in the occasional subjects, with no alphaS pathology in the lower brainstem.
In the neocortex, inhibitory interneurons tightly regulate the firing patterns and integrative properties of pyramidal neurons (PNs). The endocannabinoid system of the neocortex may play an important role in the activity-dependent regulation of inhibitory (i.e., GABAergic) inputs received by PNs. In the present study, using whole cell recordings from layer 2/3 PNs in slices of mouse sensory cortex, we have identified a role for PN-derived endocannabinoids in the control of afferent inhibitory strength. Pairing evoked inhibitory currents with repeated epochs of postsynaptic depolarization led to a transient suppression of inhibition that was induced by a rise in postsynaptic Ca(2+) and was expressed as a reduction in presynaptic GABA release. An antagonist (AM251) of the type-1 cannabinoid receptor blocked the depolarization-induced suppression of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs), and the cannabinoid WIN55,212-2 reduced eIPSC amplitude and occluded suppression. The degree of WIN55,212-2-mediated inhibition of eIPSCs was strongly correlated with the magnitude of depolarization-induced suppression of the eIPSCs, suggesting that the WIN-sensitive afferents are suppressed by PN depolarization. Moreover, blocking endocannabinoid uptake with AM404 strongly modulated the kinetics and magnitude of eIPSC suppression. We conclude that the release of endocannabinoids from PNs allows for the postsynaptic control of presynaptic inhibition and could have profound consequences for the integrative properties of neocortical PNs.
High-frequency activity often precedes seizure onset. We found that electrographic seizures, induced in vitro using the low-Ca(2+) model, start with high-frequency (&gt;150 Hz) activity that then decreases in frequency while increasing in amplitude. Multichannel and unit recordings showed that the mechanism of this transition was the progressive formation of larger neuronal aggregates. Thus the apparent high-frequency activity, at seizure onset, can reflect the simultaneous recording of several slower firing aggregates. Aggregate formation rate can be accelerated by reducing osmolarity. Because synaptic transmission is blocked when extracellular Ca(2+) is reduced, nonsynaptic mechanisms (gap junctions, field effects) must be sufficient for aggregate formation and recruitment.
This study characterized the spatiotemporal responses in ferret somatosensory cortex after sensory deprivation at different phases of cortical development. We hypothesized that cortical responses to stimulation of intact superficial radial nerve in adults will vary systematically according to maturation of thalamocortical relationships at the time of an ulnar nerve transection. Depending on the age of the animal at the time of the lesion, we found differential effects on the spatial distribution of the short- and long-latency components of the cortical response. In animals lesioned at postnatal days 5-7, when thalamic projections are not yet stabilized and layer 4 is not yet formed, we found that initial (short-latency) cortical responses are widespread and fragmented. Ulnar nerve transections performed at postnatal day 20 or 21, when thalamocortical afferents are more stabilized and layer 4 is clearly identifiable, yield moderate expansions in the distribution of short- and long-latency components of the cortical response. Nerve lesions in adults lead to a wider distribution of long-latency cortical activity. Neonatal lesions broaden the spatial distribution and increase the latency of the initial cortical response; interruption of nerve input in older juveniles alters both the early and later components; and nerve lesions in adult animals expand the distribution of later cortical activity only. These findings demonstrate correlation between developmental phase at the time sensory input is interrupted and the latency of affected components of the cortical response. This supports the hypothesis that differential response changes are regulated by functional reorganization of thalamocortical connections after neonatal lesions and alteration of corticocortical dynamics after adult lesions.
The cross-correlation coefficient between neural spike trains is a commonly used tool in the study of neural interactions. Two well-known complications that arise in its interpretation are 1) modulations in the correlation coefficient may result solely from changes in the mean firing rate of the cells and 2) the mean firing rates of the neurons impose upper and lower bounds on the correlation coefficient whose absolute values differ by an order of magnitude or more. Here, we propose a model-based approach to the interpretation of spike train correlations that circumvents these problems. The basic idea of our proposal is to estimate the cross-correlation coefficient between the membrane voltages of two cells from their extracellular spike trains and use the resulting value as the degree of correlation (or association) of neural activity. This is done in the context of a model that assumes the membrane voltages of the cells have a joint normal distribution and spikes are generated by a simple thresholding operation. We show that, under these assumptions, the estimation of the correlation coefficient between the membrane voltages reduces to the calculation of a tetrachoric correlation coefficient (a measure of association in nominal data introduced by Karl Pearson) on a contingency table calculated from the spike data. Simulations of conductance-based leaky integrate-and-fire neurons indicate that, despite its simplicity, the technique yields very good estimates of the intracellular membrane voltage correlation from the extracellular spike trains in biologically realistic models.
ATP release from astrocytes contributes to calcium ([Ca(2+)]) wave propagation and may modulate neuronal excitability. In epithelial cells and hepatocytes, cell swelling causes ATP release, which leads to the activation of a volume-sensitive Cl(-) current (I(Cl,swell)) through an autocrine pathway involving purinergic receptors. Astrocyte swelling is counterbalanced by a regulatory volume decrease, involving efflux of metabolites and activation of I(Cl,swell) and K(+) currents. We used whole cell patch-clamp recordings in cultured astrocytes to investigate the autocrine role of ATP in the activation of I(Cl,swell) by hypo-osmotic solution (HOS). Apyrase, an ATP/ADP nucleotidase, inhibited HOS-activated I(Cl,swell), whereas ATP and the P2Y agonists, ADPbetaS and ADP, induced Cl(-) currents similar to I(Cl,swell). Neither the P2U agonist, UTP nor the P2X agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, were effective. BzATP was less effective than ATP, suggesting that P2X7 receptors were not involved. P2 purinergic antagonists, suramin, RB2, and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) reversibly inhibited activation of I(Cl,swell), suggesting that ATP-activated P2Y1 receptors. Thus ATP release mediates I(Cl,swell) in astrocytes through the activation of P2Y1-like receptors. The multidrug resistance protein (MRP) transport inhibitors probenicid, indomethacin, and MK-571 all potently inhibited I(Cl.swell). ATP release from astrocytes in HOS was observed directly using luciferin-luciferase and MK-571 reversibly depressed this HOS-induced ATP efflux. We conclude that ATP release via MRP and subsequent autocrine activation of purinergic receptors contributes to the activation of I(Cl,swell) in astrocytes by HOS-induced swelling.
A key feature of skilled motor behavior is the ability of the CNS to predict the consequences of its actions. Such prediction occurs when one hand pulls on an object held in the other hand; the restraining hand generates an anticipatory increase in grip force, thereby preventing the object from slipping. When manipulating a novel object, the CNS adapts its predictive response to ensure that predictions are accurately tuned to the dynamics of the object. Here we examine whether learning to predict the consequences of an action on a novel object is restricted to the actions performed during manipulation or generalizes to novel actions. A bimanual task in which subjects held an object in each hand and the relationship between actions on one object and the motion of the other could be computer controlled from trial-to-trial was used. In four conditions we varied the spatial relationship between the direction of force subjects applied to the left-hand object and the consequent direction of motion of an object held in their right hand, which subjects were required to restrain. The results show that predictive learning was local to the direction of forces experienced during learning and that the magnitude of predictive responses was greatly reduced for novel directions of action of the left hand. The pattern of generalization shows that the representation of predictive learning is spatially local and can be approximated as having a spatially narrow Gaussian basis function.
To what degree does neuronal morphology determine or correlate with intrinsic electrical properties within a particular class of neuron? This question has been examined using microelectrode recordings and subsequent neurobiotin filling and reconstruction of neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) of brain slices from young rats (P13-16). The neurons reconstructed from these recordings were mostly large and multipolar (17/21 cells) and were likely to represent glutamatergic projection neurons. Within this class, there was considerable variation in intrinsic electrical properties and cellular morphology. Remarkably, in a correlation matrix of 18 electrophysiological and 6 morphological measures, only one morphological characteristic was predictive of intrinsic excitability: neurons with more spines had a significantly slower basal firing rate. To address the possibility that neurons with fewer spines represented a slowly maturing subgroup, recordings and reconstructions were also made from neurons at a younger age (P6-9). While P6-9 neurons were morphologically indistinguishable from P13 to 16 neurons, they were considerably less excitable: P6-9 neurons had a lower spontaneous spiking rate, larger fast AHPs, higher resting membrane potentials, and smaller rebound depolarizations. Thus while the large projection neurons of the DCN are morphologically mature by P6-9, they continue to mature electrophysiologically through P13-16 in a way that renders them more responsive to the burst-and-pause pattern that characterizes Purkinje cell inhibitory synaptic drive.
We have adopted an analysis that produces a post hoc prediction of the time course of electromyogram (EMG) activity from the discharge of ensembles of neurons recorded sequentially from the primary motor cortex (M1) of a monkey. Over several recording sessions, we collected data from 50 M1 neurons and several distal forelimb muscles during a stereotyped precision grip task. Ensemble averages were constructed from 5 to 10 trials for each neuron and EMG signal. We used multiple linear regression on randomly chosen subsets of these neurons to find the best fit between the neuronal and EMG data. The fixed delay between neuronal and EMG signals that yielded the largest coefficient of determination (R(2)) between predicted and actual EMG was 50 ms. R(2) averaged 0.83 for ensembles composed of 15 neurons. If, instead, each neuronal signal was delayed by the time of its peak cross-correlation with the EMG signal, R(2) increased to 0.88. Using all 50 neurons, R(2) under these conditions averaged nearly 0.97. A similar analysis was conducted with signals recorded during both a power grip and a precision grip task. Quality of the fit dropped dramatically when parameters from the precision grip for a given set of neurons were used to fit data recorded during the power grip. However, when a single set of regression parameters was used to fit a combination of the two tasks, the quality of the fits decreased by &lt;10% from that of a single task.
The superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) is a prominent nucleus of the superior olivary complex. In rats, this nucleus is composed of a morphologically homogeneous population of GABAergic neurons that receive excitatory input from the contralateral cochlear nucleus and inhibitory input from the ipsilateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body. SPON neurons provide a dense projection to the ipsilateral inferior colliculus and are thereby capable of exerting profound modulatory influence on collicular neurons. Despite recent interest in the structural and connectional features of SPON, little is presently known concerning the physiological response properties of this cell group or its functional role in auditory processing. We utilized extracellular, in vivo recording methods to study responses of SPON neurons to broad band noise, pure tone, and amplitude-modulated pure tone stimuli. Localization of recording sites within the SPON provides evidence for a medial (high frequency) to lateral (low frequency) tonotopic representation of frequencies within the nucleus. Best frequencies of SPON neurons spanned the audible range of the rat and receptive fields were narrow with V-shaped regions near threshold. Nearly all SPON neurons responded at the offset of broad band noise and pure tone stimuli. The vast majority of SPON neurons displayed very low rates of spontaneous activity and only responded to stimuli presented to the contralateral ear, although a small population showed binaural facilitation. Most SPON neurons also generated spike activity that was synchronized to sinusoidally amplitude-modulated tones. Taken together, these data suggest that SPON neurons may serve to encode temporal features of complex sounds, such as those contained in species-specific vocalizations.
A number of sensory modalities most likely converge in the rat perirhinal cortex. The perirhinal cortex also interconnects with the amygdala, which plays an important role in various motivational and emotional behaviors. The neural pathway from the perirhinal cortex to the entorhinal cortex is considered one of the main paths into the entorhinal-hippocampal network, which has a crucial role in memory processes. To investigate the potential associative function of the perirhinal cortex with respect to sensory and motivational stimuli and the influence of the association on the perirhinal-entorhinal-hippocampal neurocircuit, we prepared rat brain slices including the perirhinal cortex, entorhinal cortex, hippocampal formation, and amygdala. We used an optical imaging technique with a voltage-sensitive dye to analyze 1) the spatial and functional distribution of inputs from the lateral nucleus of the amygdala to the perirhinal cortex; 2) the spread of neural activity in the perirhinal cortex after layers II/III stimulation, which mimics sensory input to the perirhinal cortex; and 3) the effect of associative inputs to the perirhinal cortex from both the lateral amygdaloid nucleus and layers II/III of the perirhinal cortex on the perirhinal-entorhinal-hippocampal neurocircuit. Following stimulation in the superficial layers of the perirhinal cortex, electrical activity only propagated into the entorhinal cortex when sufficient activation occurred in the deep layers of perirhinal area 35. We observed that single stimulation of either the perirhinal cortex or amygdala did not result in sufficient neural activation of the deep layers of areas 35 to provoke activity propagation into the entorhinal cortex. However, the deep layers of area 35 were depolarized much more strongly when the two stimuli were applied simultaneously, resulting in spreading activation in the entorhinal cortex. Our observations suggest that a functional neural basis for the association of higher-order sensory inputs and emotion-related inputs exists in the perirhinal cortex and that transfer of sensory information to the entorhinal-hippocampal circuitry might be affected by the association of that information with incoming information from the amygdala.
Previous results from this laboratory have shown that human infants (&lt;12 mo old) respond appropriately to transient changes in sensory input during stepping. We examined how infants adapted to a more enduring change in sensory input by applying load to one limb during stepping. A small weight (500-900 g) was strapped around the lower leg of infants aged 3-11 mo. Stepping with the weight on was recorded on the treadmill for a period of 0.5-3 min. The weight was then quickly detached during stepping, and the immediate response to unexpected loss of the weight recorded. Three-segment dynamic analysis of leg motion was used to estimate hip, knee, and ankle torques during swing in the sagittal plane. All infants adapted to the additional load on the leg by immediately increasing the generation of hip and knee flexor muscle torques. When the weight was removed, 7 of the 22 infants tested exhibited an after-effect (high stepping) in the first step after removal of the weight. The after-effect was manifested as an increase in toe trajectory height and hip flexion and coincided with higher hip flexor muscle torque in early swing. In an additional series of control experiments using seven infants, after-effects were shown to be unrelated to a sudden change in cutaneous input with removal of the weight. The presence of an after-effect indicates that some infants made an enduring adaptation to their stepping pattern that is revealed with the unexpected removal of the weight.
Purkinje cells generate simultaneous complex spikes as a result of olivocerebellar activity. This synchronization (to within 1 ms) is thought to result from electrotonic coupling of inferior olivary neurons. However, the distance from the inferior olive (IO) varies across the cerebellar cortex. Thus signals generated simultaneously at the IO should arrive asynchronously across the cerebellar cortex, unless the length differences are compensated for. Previously, it was shown that the conduction time from the IO to the cerebellar cortex remains nearly constant at approximately 4 ms in the rat, implying the existence of such compensatory mechanisms. Here, we examined the role of myelination in generating a constant olivocerebellar conduction time by investigating the latency of complex spikes evoked by IO stimulation during development in normal rats and myelin-deficient mutants. In normal rats, myelination not only reduced overall olivocerebellar conduction time, but also disproportionately reduced the conduction time to vermal lobules, which had the longest response latencies prior to myelination. The net result was a nearly uniform conduction time. In contrast, in myelin-deficient rats, conduction time differences to different parts of the cerebellum remained during the same developmental period. Thus myelination is the primary factor in generating a uniform olivocerebellar conduction time. To test the importance of a uniform conduction time for generating synchronous complex spike activity, multiple electrode recordings were obtained from normal and myelin-deficient rats. Average synchrony levels were higher in normal rats than mutants. Thus the uniform conduction time achieved through myelination of olivocerebellar fibers appears to be essential for the normal expression of complex spike synchrony.
The proprioceptors that signal the position and movement of the first two joints of crustacean legs provide an excellent system for comparison of spiking and nonspiking (graded) information transfer and processing in a simple motor system. The position, velocity, and acceleration of the first two joints of the crab leg are monitored by both nonspiking and spiking proprioceptors. The nonspiking thoracic-coxal muscle receptor organ (TCMRO) spans the TC joint, while the coxo-basal (CB) joint is monitored by the spiking CB chordotonal organ (CBCTO) and by nonspiking afferents arising from levator and depressor elastic strands. The response characteristics and nonlinear models of the input-output relationship for CB chordotonal afferents were determined using white noise analysis (Wiener kernel) methods. The first- and second-order Wiener kernels for each of the four response classes of CB chordotonal afferents (position, position-velocity, velocity, and acceleration) were calculated and the gain function for each receptor determined by taking the Fourier transform of the first-order kernel. In all cases, there was a good correspondence between the response of an afferent to deterministic stimulation (trapezoidal movement) and the best-fitting linear transfer function calculated from the first-order kernel. All afferents also had a nonlinear response component and second-order Wiener kernels were calculated for afferents of each response type. Models of afferent responses based on the first- and second-order kernels were able to predict the response of the afferents with an average accuracy of 86%.
The proprioceptor that signals the position and movement of the first joint of crustacean legs provides an excellent system for investigating information processing and transmission in neurons that function in a graded (nonspiking) manner in the context of a simple motor system. The thoracic-coxal muscle receptor organ (TCMRO) spans the thoracic-coxal joint and transmits graded signals to the CNS via two large nonspiking axons. The response characteristics and nonlinear models of the input-output relationship for the two nonspiking TCMRO afferents (S and T fibers) were determined using white noise analysis (Wiener kernel) methods. The best-fitting linear responses of these neurons was similar, as were their second-order kernels. The gains of the afferents slowly increased with increasing frequency and reached a maximum at approximately 40-60 Hz for the S fiber and 60-80 Hz for the T fiber. Above this corner frequency, the gains of both afferents decreased at approximately 20 dB/decade for the remainder of the 220-Hz stimulus bandwidth. The shape of the first-order kernels, and hence the corresponding (linear) gain functions, of both afferents were similar when driven with different amplitudes of noise, covering a 40-fold amplitude range. Predictions of the S fiber response based on the first two Wiener kernels were accurate, with the second-order model producing a mean square error of 6-8%. Second-order Wiener models for the T fiber were less accurate with a mean square error of approximately 22-26%, but this accuracy improved to 10-16% with the incorporation of the third-order term in the Wiener expansion. The effect of cable properties on the transmission of the sensory potentials to the CNS was evaluated by determining the system characteristics using membrane potentials 5-7 mm distal to the transduction site. The major change after transmission along the axon was a low-pass filtering of the sensory signals and consequent reduction in signal bandwidth.
Male rats were screened for their response to a novel environment and designated as high responders (HRs) or low responders (LRs). They then received daily injections of saline or cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.). Basal and cocaine-evoked extracellular dopamine (DA(ext)) levels as well as basal DA uptake rate and cocaine-evoked inhibition of uptake in the nucleus accumbens were determined on abstinence day 3 using quantitative microdialysis under transient conditions. The kinetics of uptake, dopamine transporter (DAT) expression, and [(3)H](-)-2-beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane 1,5-naphthalenedisulfonate ([(3)H]WIN35428) binding were also examined. The locomotor activating effects of cocaine and the magnitude of behavioral sensitization were greater in HRs. Saline-treated HRs had lower basal uptake than LRs. DA uptake after cocaine challenge was also lower in these animals. Although basal DA(ext) did not differ, cocaine-evoked DA(ext) was greater in HRs. The K(m) and V(max) of DA uptake were higher in naive HRs than LRs, as were the K(d) and B(max) of [(3)H]WIN35428 binding. DAT protein expression did not differ. Previous cocaine exposure decreased basal DA uptake. It increased cocaine-evoked DA(ext) and decreased the cocaine-induced inhibition of uptake, especially in HRs, indicating greater DA release during cocaine challenge in this phenotype. We hypothesize that lower basal uptake in HRs results from a decrease in DAT binding affinity that is compensated for, in part, by an increased number of plasma membrane binding sites. Basal uptake, but not DA(ext), was lower in HRs, indicating lower basal DA release in HRs. The finding that cocaine-evoked DA(ext) is higher in naive and cocaine-exposed HRs suggests that the greater responsiveness of DA neurons in HRs may underlie the enhanced behavioral responses that characterize this phenotype.
Avoidance turns in the sea slug Pleurobranchaea are responses to noxious stimuli and replace orienting turns to food stimuli after avoidance conditioning or satiation. Avoidance turns proved to be centrally patterned behaviors, the fictive expression of which could be elicited in reduced preparations and the isolated CNS. Activity in one of a bilateral interneuron pair, the A4 cells, was necessary and sufficient to drive the avoidance turn toward the contralateral side. Single A4 cells appeared to encode both turn direction and angle, in contrast to directional behaviors of other animals in which displacement angle is usually encoded by multiple units. The As1-4 cells, bilateral serotonergic cell clusters, excited the prolonged A4 burst during the turn through electrical and chemical coupling. However, during the escape swim, As1-4 became integral elements of the swim motor network, and A4 activity was entrained to the swim rhythm by alternating excitatory-inhibitory inputs, with only weak spiking. This provides a likely mechanism for the previously observed suppression of the avoidance turn by escape swimming. These observations add significant new aspects to the multiplying known functions of As1-4 and their homologs in other molluscs and point to a pivotal role of these neurons in the organization of gastropod behavior. Simple functional models predict (1) the essential actions of inhibitor neurons in the directionality of the turning network motor output and (2) an integrating role for As1-4 in the behavioral switch between turning avoidance and swimming escape, on the basis of their response to increasing stimulus intensity.
Responses to horizontal and vertical ocular pursuit and head and body rotation in multiple planes were recorded in eye movement-sensitive neurons in the rostral vestibular nuclei (VN) of two rhesus monkeys. When tested during pursuit through primary eye position, the majority of the cells preferred either horizontal or vertical target motion. During pursuit of targets that moved horizontally at different vertical eccentricities or vertically at different horizontal eccentricities, eye angular velocity has been shown to include a torsional component the amplitude of which is proportional to half the gaze angle (&quot;half-angle rule&quot; of Listing's law). Approximately half of the neurons, the majority of which were characterized as &quot;vertical&quot; during pursuit through primary position, exhibited significant changes in their response gain and/or phase as a function of gaze eccentricity during pursuit, as if they were also sensitive to torsional eye velocity. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed a significant contribution of torsional eye movement sensitivity to the responsiveness of the cells. These findings suggest that many VN neurons encode three-dimensional angular velocity, rather than the two-dimensional derivative of eye position, during smooth-pursuit eye movements. Although no clear clustering of pursuit preferred-direction vectors along the semicircular canal axes was observed, the sensitivity of VN neurons to torsional eye movements might reflect a preservation of similar premotor coding of visual and vestibular-driven slow eye movements for both lateral-eyed and foveate species.
Serotonin (5-HT) neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) are implicated in mediating learned helplessness (LH) behaviors, such as poor escape responding and expression of exaggerated conditioned fear, induced by acute exposure to uncontrollable stress. DRN 5-HT neurons are hyperactive during uncontrollable stress, resulting in desensitization of 5-HT type 1A (5-HT1A) inhibitory autoreceptors in the DRN. 5-HT1A autoreceptor downregulation is thought to induce transient sensitization of DRN 5-HT neurons, resulting in excessive 5-HT activity in brain areas that control the expression of learned helplessness behaviors. Habitual physical activity has antidepressant/anxiolytic properties and results in dramatic alterations in physiological stress responses, but the neurochemical mediators of these effects are unknown. The current study determined the effects of 6 weeks of voluntary freewheel running on LH behaviors, uncontrollable stress-induced activity of DRN 5-HT neurons, and basal expression of DRN 5-HT1A autoreceptor mRNA. Freewheel running prevented the shuttle box escape deficit and the exaggerated conditioned fear that is induced by uncontrollable tail shock in sedentary rats. Furthermore, double c-Fos/5-HT immunohistochemistry revealed that physical activity attenuated tail shock-induced activity of 5-HT neurons in the rostral-mid DRN. Six weeks of freewheel running also resulted in a basal increase in 5-HT1A inhibitory autoreceptor mRNA in the rostral-mid DRN. Results suggest that freewheel running prevents behavioral depression/LH and attenuates DRN 5-HT neural activity during uncontrollable stress. An increase in 5-HT1A inhibitory autoreceptor expression may contribute to the attenuation of DRN 5-HT activity and the prevention of LH in physically active rats.
Acetylcholine acts as a neurotransmitter in the retina. Although previous physiological studies have indicated that some retinal ganglion cells may be cholinergic, several immunohistochemical studies using antibodies to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) have stained only amacrine cells but not ganglion cells. Recently, we identified a splice variant of ChAT mRNA, lacking exons 6-9, in rat peripheral nervous system. The encoded protein was designated as ChAT of a peripheral type (pChAT), against which an antiserum was raised. In the present study, we examined expression of pChAT in rat retina, both at the protein level by immunohistochemistry using the antiserum and at the mRNA level by RT-PCR. Immunohistochemistry revealed that although no positive neurons were found in untreated intact retinas, many neurons became immunoreactive for pChAT after intravitreal injection of colchicine. Damage of the optic nerve was also effective in disclosing positive cells. Such positive neurons were shown to be ganglion cells by double labeling with a retrograde tracer that had been injected into the contralateral superior colliculus. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR revealed a corresponding band to the pChAT protein and to the amplified pChAT gene fragment, respectively, in retinal samples. In addition, ChAT activity was definitely detected in retinofugal fibers of the optic nerve. These results indicate the presence of cholinergic ganglion cells in rat retina.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is known to promote both the survival of cholinergic neurons after injury and the regeneration of damaged cholinergic axons. Recent evidence has implicated NGF in the regulation of cholinergic axonal sprouting by intact neurons projecting to the hippocampus of rats, sustaining a lesion of the entorhinal cortex. We explored the possibility that NGF may regulate this lesion-induced cholinergic sprouting by injecting recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector expressing NGF and green fluorescent protein (GFP) into the dentate gyrus of rats that were subsequently given unilateral entorhinal lesions. Sprague Dawley rats were unilaterally injected with (1) rAAV vector expressing NGF and GFP or (2) rAAV vector expressing GFP. Fourteen days after injection, the animals received lesions of the entorhinal area ipsilateral to the virus injection. Four days after lesion, GFP expression and the septodentate sprouting response in the dentate gyrus were assessed. Optical densitometric analyses revealed a significant increase in acetylcholinesterase label (a marker for cholinergic septodentate sprouting) in the ipsilateral outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in rats injected with rAAV vector expressing NGF. Thus, NGF-expressing rAAV vector enhanced the sprouting response of intact cholinergic neurons after unilateral entorhinal lesions in rats.
BH3 (Bcl-2 homology 3)-only proteins of the Bcl-2 family activate Bax or Bak during apoptosis to promote the release of pro-death factors sequestered in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Previous results demonstrated that a synthetic BH3 peptide mimics the ability of the BH3-only protein Bid to promote Bax insertion and cytochrome c (cyt c) release from neural cell mitochondria. However, the BH3 peptide was deficient in promoting cyt c release from mitochondria without associated Bax, such as adult rat brain mitochondria. This study tested the hypothesis that the amphiphilic membrane-active cationic drugs dibucaine and propranolol block BH3 peptide-initiated cyt c efflux by preventing the integration of Bax into the mitochondrial outer membrane. BH3 peptide-initiated release of cyt c from GT1-7 neural cell mitochondria was inhibited by dibucaine and propranolol at concentrations of 100-300 microm. Recombinant Bax (100 nm) alone did not release cyt c from adult rat brain mitochondria; however, when BH3 peptide or caspase-8 cleaved Bid (cBid) was added, robust cyt c release was achieved that was inhibited completely by 200 microm dibucaine or propranolol. These drugs at similar concentrations also inhibited release of entrapped 10 kDa dextrans from protein-free liposomes treated with Bax and cBid. Contrary to the hypothesis that dibucaine and propranolol act by inhibiting the insertion of Bax into the mitochondrial outer membrane, membrane insertion of Bax was not inhibited in mitochondria or liposomes, indicating a mechanism of drug action downstream from this event. These results suggest that dibucaine and propranolol inhibit Bax-induced permeability changes through a direct interaction with the lipid membrane and present a novel target for the development of neuroprotective, antiapoptotic therapeutics.
The dopamine (DA) innervation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) regulates cognitive activity in a complex manner. Alterations of DA function, particularly via the DA D1 receptor class (D1R), are implicated in both schizophrenia and drug addiction, yet the precise roles of DA in modulating mPFC excitability remain unclear. We focused on DA modulation of voltage-gated K(+) current (VGKC) in acutely dissociated rat mPFC pyramidal neurons. We defined three components of the whole-cell VGKC according to biophysical and pharmacological properties. The A-type current (I(A)), with rapid activation and inactivation kinetics, was completely inactivated by prolonged holding of the membrane potential at -40 mV and was sensitive to the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) but not tetraethylammonium (TEA) or dendrotoxin (DTX). The slowly inactivating K(+) current (I(D)), with rapid activation but relatively slow inactivation, was the major contributor to VGKC and was completely inactivated at -40 mV and sensitive to TEA and DTX but less so to 4-AP. The very slowly inactivating K(+) current (I(K)) was elicited by command steps to more depolarized potentials from a prolonged holding potential of -40 mV and was sensitive to all three blockers. Stimulation of DA D2 receptors failed to alter any component of whole-cell VGKC. Stimulation of DA D1Rs selectively suppressed I(D), an effect mimicked by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin, the active cAMP analog Sp-cAMP, and the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. Inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) with either PKI or Rp-cAMP abolished D1R modulation. Thus, the DA D1R/cAMP/PKA signaling pathway mediates modulation of I(D) by DA in rat mPFC pyramidal neurons.
Senile plaques found in the Alzheimer's disease brain are foci of local inflammatory reactions mediated by plaque-associated microglia. The interaction of microglia with compacted deposits of beta-amyloid (Abeta) fibrils results in the stimulation of intracellular Tyr kinase-based signaling cascades and cellular activation, leading to the secretion of proinflammatory molecules. This study identifies a cell surface receptor complex that mediates the binding of microglia to Abeta fibrils and the subsequent activation of intracellular signaling pathways leading to a proinflammatory response. The receptor complex includes the B-class scavenger receptor CD36, the integrin-associated protein/CD47, and the alpha(6)beta(1)-integrin. Antagonists of scavenger receptors, CD36, CD47, and alpha(6)beta(1) inhibited the adhesion of THP-1 monocytes to Abeta fibrils. In addition, peptide competitors of Abeta fibril interactions with CD36, scavenger receptors, CD47, and the alpha(6)beta(1)-integrin inhibited Abeta stimulation of Tyr kinase-based signaling cascades in both THP-1 monocytes and murine microglia as well as interleukin 1beta production. A scavenger receptor antagonist and antibodies specific for CD36 and the beta(1)-integrin subunit also inhibited the Abeta-stimulated generation of reactive oxygen species. Importantly, the principal components of this receptor complex are shared with those for other fibrillar proteins and thus represent general elements through which myeloid lineage cells recognize complex fibrillar proteins. Identification of the cell surface molecules that interact with Abeta fibrils and mediate their activation of intracellular signaling cascades represents a potential intervention point in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
The theory of &quot;parallel pathways&quot; predicts that, except for a sign reversal, ON and OFF ganglion cells are driven by a similar presynaptic circuit. To test this hypothesis, we measured synaptic inputs to ON and OFF cells as reflected in the subthreshold membrane potential. We made intracellular recordings from brisk-transient (Y) cells in the in vitro guinea pig retina and show that ON and OFF cells in fact express significant asymmetries in their synaptic inputs. An ON cell receives relatively linear input that modulates a single excitatory conductance; whereas an OFF cell receives rectified input that modulates both inhibitory and excitatory conductances. The ON pathway, blocked by L-AP-4, tonically inhibits an OFF cell at mean luminance and phasically inhibits an OFF cell during a light increment. Our results suggest that basal glutamate release is high at ON but not OFF bipolar terminals, and inhibition between pathways is unidirectional: ON --&gt; OFF. These circuit asymmetries explain asymmetric contrast sensitivity observed in spiking behavior.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a disorder of human cognition characterized by severe mental retardation and epilepsy. Recently, a mouse model for AS (Ube3a maternal null mutation) was developed that displays deficits in both context-dependent learning and hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). In the present studies, we examined the molecular basis for these LTP and learning deficits. Mutant animals exhibited a significant increase in hippocampal phospho-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), specifically at sites Thr(286) and Thr(305), with no corresponding change in the levels of total CaMKII. In addition, mutants show a reduction in CaMKII activity, autophosphorylation capability, and total CaMKII associated with postsynaptic density. These findings are the first to implicate misregulation of CaMKII as a molecular cause for the neurobehavioral deficits in a human learning disorder.
Cell cycle events play a major role in the loss of neurons in advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is currently unknown, however, whether the same is true for the neuronal losses in early disease stages. To explore this issue we analyzed brain autopsy material from individuals clinically categorized with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), many if not most of whom will progress to AD. Immunocytochemistry for three cell cycle-related proteins, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, cyclin D, and cyclin B, was performed on sections from hippocampus, basal nucleus of Meynert, and entorhinal cortex. The results obtained from MCI cases were compared with material from individuals diagnosed with AD and those without cognitive impairment. In both hippocampus and basal nucleus, there was a significant percentage of cell cycle immunopositive neurons in the MCI cases. These percentages were similar to those found in the AD cases but significantly higher than non-cognitively impaired controls. In entorhinal cortex, the density of cell cycle-positive neurons was greater in MCI than in AD. However, we observed large variations in the percentages of immunopositive neurons from individual to individual. These findings lend support to the hypothesis that both the mechanism of cell loss (a cell cycle-induced death) and the rate of cell loss (a slow atrophy over several months) are identical at all stages of the AD disease process. The implication of the findings for human clinical trials is discussed.
Amblyopia results in a loss of contrast sensitivity and position acuity. Here we report the results of experiments using noise to try to better understand the nature of the neural losses in amblyopia. In the first experiment, we used noise to derive the template or classification image used to detect a target and to discriminate its position. We found that some amblyopic observers show markedly abnormal templates for the position task and moderately abnormal classification images for the detection task; however, the abnormal template could not fully account for the loss of performance (efficiency). Reduced efficiency in the amblyopic visual system may reflect a poorly matched template, a high fraction of internal to external noise, or both. Comparison of the observers' performance with that of their template suggests that the amblyopes have a high fraction of internal (relative to external) noise. To analyze the internal noise further, we used a &quot;double-pass&quot; technique, in which observers performed the identical experiment twice. The amount of disagreement between the two experiments provides another estimate of the fraction of internal noise. Amblyopes show a much higher fraction of stimulus-dependent internal noise than do normal observers. We conclude that the loss of efficiency in amblyopia is attributable in part to a poorly matched template, but to a greater degree, to a high fraction of internal (relative to external) noise.
Many pharmacological and nonpharmacologic neuroprotective therapies are in various phases of animal or human testing. The future in acute ischemic stroke therapy most likely will consist of combination therapies (Bonnono et al., 2000; Schellinger et al., 2001). An IV thrombolytic agent may be combined with an IA agent and then followed up with a neuroprotective strategy early in treatment of acute ischemic stroke. A hemicraniectomy may be combined with hypothermia to improve outcome (Georgiadis et al., 2002). Many resources (Fig 2) are available to assist neuroscience nurses in keeping abreast of this fast-paced area of development.
In the preceding companion article, we showed that the neurotoxin methylpyridinium (MPP(+)) increases mitochondrial nitric oxide (NO), causes a post-transcriptional, NO-dependent increase in Bax protein and produces caspase-dependent apoptosis and caspase-independent cell death. In the present study, we show that exogenous NO replicates these findings. The long-term NO generator diethylenetriamine-NO (DETA-NO) reproduced the post-transcriptional Bax protein increase, but did not increase Bcl-2 or Bcl-X(L) proteins. Like MPP(+), DETA-NO caused an early decrease in Bcl-2 mRNA, did not increase Bax protein in rho(0) cells and caused caspase- and cycloheximide-dependent apoptosis and caspase-independent cell death. We developed cell lines with inducible overexpression of Bcl proteins, at levels relevant to those we found in cells exposed to MPP(+) or DETA-NO. Inducible overexpression ( approximately 2-fold) of Bcl-2 or Bcl-X(L) proteins reduced MPP(+) or NO-induced apoptosis but did not affect cell death. Inducible Bax overexpression ( approximately 5-fold) slightly increased cell death. Our results show that exogenous NO mimics actions of MPP(+) on SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and supports the mediation of MPP(+) neurotoxicity by NO generated intracellularly in mitochondria.
We studied effects of methylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) on apoptosis, cell death and regulation of Bcl-2-family proteins in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. MPP(+) increased intracellular accumulation of DNA-histone complexes as a measure of apoptosis and decreased intracellular calcein fluorescence as a measure of cell death. If ATP synthesis was supported, MPP(+) caused apoptosis in rho(0) cells devoid of electron transport function. Caspase inhibition blocked apoptosis but not cell death caused by MPP(+). MPP(+) increased levels of Bax, Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) proteins approximately 2-fold over 24 hr, with Bax increases occurring first; Bax did not increase in rho(0) cells. The Bax increase, but not that of Bcl-2 or Bcl-X(L), was dependent on nitric oxide (NO) and seemed post-transcriptional. DAF-FM imaging revealed increased mitochondrial NO within hours of exposure to MPP(+). Western blots showed a constitutive approximately 130 kD protein that stained for NOS-2, consistent with reports of mitochondrial nitric oxide synthase (mtNOS). MPP(+) caused a NO-dependent release of cytochrome C into cytoplasm. MPP(+) increases mitochondrial NO levels and causes a NO-dependent increase in Bax protein, providing a mechanism for NOS-and Bax-dependency of MPTP neurotoxicity in vivo and implicating locally produced NO as a signaling molecule used by mitochondria to manipulate cell death cascades.
We examined neuroprotective effects of recombinant adenoviral vectors encoding glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), cardiotrophin-1 (CT1), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1), and transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGFbeta2) on lesioned adult rat facial motoneurons. The right facial nerves of adult Fischer 344 male rats were avulsed and removed from the stylomastoid foramen, and adenoviral vectors were injected into the facial canal. Animals avulsed and treated with adenovirus encoding GDNF, BDNF, CNTF, CT1, IGF1 and TGFbeta2 showed intense immunolabeling for these factors in lesioned facial motoneurons, respectively, indicating adenoviral induction of the neurotrophic factors in these neurons. The treatment with adenovirus encoding GDNF, BDNF, or TGFbeta2 after avulsion significantly prevented the loss of lesioned facial motoneurons, improved choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and prevented the induction of nitric oxide synthase activity in these neurons. The treatment with adenovirus encoding CNTF, CT1 or IGF1, however, failed to protect these neurons after avulsion. These results indicate that the gene transfer of GDNF and BDNF and TGFbeta2 but not CNTF, CT1 or IGF1 may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases.

Since the initial description of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in 1958, clinical and basic science investigators have demonstrated a growing interest in the area of neurovirology, with a recent focus on polyomaviruses. In this review, the authors present an overview of the biological properties of the human polyomavirus, JC virus (JCV), and its association with PML as the etiologic agent. Additionally, the authors provide a discussion of the current understanding of JCV molecular pathogenesis and therapeutic strategies.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is used clinically by a variety of health care professionals for the reduction of pain. Clinical effectiveness of TENS is controversial, with some studies supporting whereas others refute its clinical use. Although used by health professionals for decades, the mechanisms by which TENS produces analgesia or reduces pain are only recently being elucidated. This article describes the basic science mechanisms behind different frequencies of TENS stimulation. Specifically, we describe the literature that supports the use of different frequencies and intensities of TENS. We further describe theories that support the use of TENS such as the gate control theory and the release of endogenous opioids. The literature that supports or refutes each of these theories is described. We also review the clinical literature on TENS effectiveness and elucidate the problems with clinical research studies to date. In conclusion, TENS is a noninvasive modality that is easy to apply with relatively few contraindications. However, the clinical efficacy of TENS will remain equivocal until the publication of sufficient numbers of high quality, randomized, controlled clinical trials.
Sulfasalazine is widely used to treat inflammatory diseases. Besides anti-inflammatory actions such as blockade of nuclear factor-kappaB and cyclooxygenases, we found that 30 to 1000 micro M sulfasalazine dose dependently blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity without intervening kainate or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid neurotoxicity. The neuroprotective effects of sulfasalazine were attributable to prevention of Ca(2+) influx and accumulation through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors as a low-affinity antagonist. The systemic administration of sulfasalazine reduced neuronal death following transient cerebral and retinal ischemia in adult rat. The present findings suggest that the neuroprotective action of sulfasalazine can be therapeutically applied to halt devastating neuronal death following hypoxic ischemia, trauma, and neurodegenerative diseases.
For several decades, it has been suggested that dopamine (DA), especially in nucleus accumbens, mediates the primary reinforcing characteristics of natural stimuli such as food, as well as drugs of abuse. Yet, several fundamental aspects of primary food reinforcement, motivation, and appetite are left intact after interference with accumbens DA transmission. Recent studies have shown that accumbens DA is involved in responsiveness to conditioned stimuli and activational aspects of motivation. In concurrent choice tasks, accumbens DA depletions cause animals to reallocate their choice behavior in the direction of instrumental behaviors that involve less effort. Also, an emerging body of evidence has demonstrated that the effects of accumbens DA depletions on instrumental food-seeking behavior can vary greatly depending upon the task. For example, some schedules of reinforcement are insensitive to the effects of DA depletions, whereas others are highly sensitive (e.g., large fixed ratios). Accumbens DA depletions slow the rate of operant responding, blunt the rate-facilitating effects of moderate-sized ratios, and enhance the rate-suppressing effects of very large ratios (i.e., produce ratio strain). Accumbens DA may be important for enabling rats to overcome behavioral constraints, such as work-related response costs, and may be critical for the behavioral organization and conditioning processes that enable animals to engage in vigorous responses, such as barrier climbing, or to emit large numbers of responses in ratio schedules in the absence of primary reinforcement. The involvement of accumbens DA in activational aspects of motivation has implications for energy-related disorders in psychiatry, as well as aspects of drug-seeking behavior.
Sound-evoked vibrations of the basilar membrane (BM) in anaesthetised guinea-pigs are shown to be affected over two distinct time scales by electrical stimulation of the medial olivocochlear efferent system: one is fast (10-100 ms), the other much slower (10-100 s). For low and moderate level tones near the BM's characteristic frequency, both fast and slow effects inhibited BM motion. However, fast inhibition was accompanied by phase leads, while slow inhibition was accompanied by phase lags. These findings are consistent with a hypothesis that both fast and slow effects decrease sound amplification in the cochlea. However, the opposing directions of the phase changes indicate that separate mechanical processes must underlie fast and slow effects. One plausible interpretation of these findings is that efferent slow effects are caused by outer-hair-cell stiffness decreases, while efferent fast effects are caused by reductions in 'negative damping'.
Schaffer collateral axons form excitatory synapses that are distributed across much of the dendritic arborization of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Remarkably, AMPA-receptor-mediated miniature EPSP amplitudes at the soma are relatively independent of synapse location, despite widely different degrees of dendritic filtering. A progressive increase with distance in synaptic conductance is thought to produce this amplitude normalization. In this study we examined the mechanism(s) responsible for spatial scaling by making whole-cell recordings from the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons. We found no evidence to suggest that there is any location dependence to the range of cleft glutamate concentrations found at Schaffer collateral synapses. Furthermore, we observed that release probability (Pr), paired-pulse facilitation and the size of the readily releasable vesicular pool are not dependent on synapse location. Thus, there do not appear to be any changes in the fundamental presynaptic properties of Schaffer collateral synapses that could account for distance-dependent scaling. On the other hand, two-photon uncaging of 4-methoxy-7-nitroindolinyl-caged L-glutamate onto isolated dendritic spines shows that the number of postsynaptic AMPA receptors per spine increases with distance from the soma. We conclude, therefore, that the main synaptic mechanism involved in the production of distance-dependent scaling of Schaffer collateral synapses is an elevated postsynaptic AMPA receptor density.
Ca2+ imaging and multiple microelectrode recording procedures were used to investigate a slow wave-like electrical rhythmicity in single bundle strips from the circular muscle layer of the guinea-pig gastric pylorus. The 'slow waves' (SWs) consisted of a pacemaker and regenerative component, with both potentials composed of more elementary events variously termed spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs) or unitary potentials. STDs and SW pacemaker and regenerative potentials exhibited associated local and distributed Ca2+ transients, respectively. Ca2+ transients were often larger in cellular regions that exhibited higher basal Ca2+ indicator-associated fluorescence, typical of regions likely to contain intramuscular interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCIM). The emergence of rhythmicity arose through entrainment of STDs resulting in pacemaker Ca2+ transients and potentials, events that exhibited considerable spatial synchronicity. Application of ACh to strips exhibiting weak rhythmicity caused marked enhancement of SW synchronicity. SWs and underlying Ca2+ increases exhibited very high 'apparent conduction velocities' ('CVs') orders of magnitude greater than for sequentially conducting Ca2+ waves. Central interruption of either intercellular connectivity or inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-mediated store Ca2+ release in strips caused SWs at the two ends to run independently of each other, consistent with a coupled oscillator-based mechanism. Central inhibition of stores required much wider regions of blockade than inhibition of connectivity indicating that stores were voltage-coupled. Simulations, made using a conventional store array model but now including depolarization coupled to IP3R-mediated Ca2+ release, predicted the experimental findings. The linkage between membrane voltage and Ca2+ release provides a means for stores to interact as strongly coupled oscillators, resulting in the emergence of Ca2+ phase waves and associated pacemaker potentials. This distributed pacemaker triggers regenerative Ca2+ release and resultant SWs.
A comparative study was carried out on the inactivation of Na+ channels in two types of endocrine cells in rats, beta-cells and adrenal chromaffin cells (ACCs), using patch-clamp techniques. The beta-cells were very sensitive to hyperpolarization; the Na+ currents increased ninefold when the holding potential was shifted from -70 mV to -120 mV. ACCs were not sensitive to hyperpolarization. The half-inactivation voltages were -90 mV (rat beta-cells) and -62 mV (ACCs). The time constant for recovery from inactivation at -70 mV was 10.5 times slower in beta-cells (60 ms) than in ACCs (5.7 ms). The rate of Na+-channel inactivation at physiological resting potential was more than three times slower in beta-cells than in ACCs. Na+ influx through Na+ channels had no effect on the secretory machinery in rat beta-cells. However, these 'silent Na+ channels' could contribute to the generation of action potentials in some conditions, such as when the cell is hyperpolarized. It is concluded that the fractional availability of Na+ channels in beta-cells at a holding potential of -70 mV is about 15 % of that in ACCs. This value in rat beta-cells is larger than that observed in mouse (0 %), but is smaller than those observed in human or dog (90 %).
Substantial evidence continues to accrue for familial transmission of specific language impairment (SLI). The incidence in families with a history of SLI is estimated at approximately 20%-40%, whereas in the general population the estimated incidence is about 4%. Typical aggregation studies compare data on the speech and language status of parents and siblings of individuals with SLI (the probands) to similar data from family members of control individuals with no speech or language disorder history. In the present study, family aggregation of SLI was examined for a unique sample of children who were ascertained before 6 months of age and thus did not have SLI, but were born into a family with a positive history of SLI (FH+). No study to date has examined the pattern of affectance in families of children ascertained at such a young age. In addition, the ratio of boys to girls born into such families was investigated, as previous studies have suggested alterations in the expected gender ratios. Consistent with prior research, SLI was found to aggregate in families; the average affectance rate in FH+ families was 32%, with significantly more boys (41%) reported as having SLI than girls (16%). A comparison of FH+ and control families (FH-) on sociodemographic factors and medical history revealed differences in the overall rate of autoimmune diseases; FH+ families reported a significantly higher incidence (35%) compared to FH- families (9%). Finally, the 3-year language abilities of a subset of 32 children from FH+ families were compared with those of 60 children from FH- families. Children from FH+ families scored significantly lower on standardized measures of language and were more likely to fall below the 16th percentile (28%) than children from FH- families (7%). These results provide converging evidence that children from FH+ families are indeed at greater risk of developing language delay compared to children from control families.
We established a simple and effective method for DNA immunization against Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection with plasmids encoding the viral PrM and E proteins and colloidal gold. Inoculation of plasmids mixed with colloidal gold induced the production of specific anti-JEV antibodies and a protective response against JEV challenge in BALB/c mice. When we compared the efficacy of different inoculation routes, the intravenous and intradermal inoculation routes were found to elicit stronger and more sustained neutralizing immune responses than intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection. After being inoculated twice, mice were found to resist challenge with 100,000 times the 50% lethal dose (LD(50)) of JEV (Beijing-1 strain) even when immunized with a relatively small dose of 0.5 micro g of plasmid DNA. Protective passive immunity was also observed in SCID mice following transfer of splenocytes or serum from plasmid DNA- and colloidal gold-immunized BALB/c mice. The SCID mice resisted challenge with 100 times the LD(50) of JEV. Analysis of histological sections detected expression of proteins encoded by plasmid DNA in the tissues of intravenously, intradermally, and intramuscularly inoculated mice 3 days after inoculation. DNA immunization with colloidal gold elicited encoded protein expression in splenocytes and might enhance immune responses in intravenously inoculated mice. This approach could be exploited to develop a novel DNA vaccine.
Lacunar infarcts, small deep infarcts that result from occlusion of a penetrating artery, account for about a quarter of all ischaemic strokes. These infarcts have commonly been regarded as benign vascular lesions with a favourable long-term prognosis. However, recent studies have shown that this is only the case early in the disease course. A few years after infarct, there is an increased risk of death, mainly from cardiovascular causes. The risk of recurrent stroke after lacunar infarct is similar to that for most other types of stroke, and patients have an increased risk of developing cognitive decline and dementia. Age, vascular risk factors, high nocturnal blood pressure, and severity of cerebral small-vessel disease at onset have significant prognostic implications for almost all outcomes. More studies on mechanisms, prevention, and treatment are needed to provide specific guidance on the long-term management of patients with lacunar infarcts. Risk-factor modification is likely to play a large part in therapeutic interventions targeted at this stroke subtype.
Between 1967 and 1988, 69 cases of single perpetrator/single victim child homicide resulted in remands into custody in the Yorkshire region. Sixty-four of these cases were examined retrospectively to identify the characteristics of the perpetrators and of victims under 16 years, the relationship of the victim to the accused and the circumstances of the offence. Sixty-four men singly accused of killing a single child victim are described in detail. They were characterized by relatively young age and a lack of long-term stable relationships. Previous psychiatric contact and/or a history of self-harm was noted in one-third of cases. Over half of the group had a criminal record and previous violence to children was noted in 28% of cases. Fathers or surrogate fathers accounted for nearly two-thirds of the accused. In terms of the victims, children under six months were at greatest risk. Nearly one-third of victims were the biological offspring of the accused. Sexually motivated homicide accounted for approximately 18.7% of deaths. Victim behaviours and domestic disharmony acted as precipitants in 64% of the cases, with 54.7% of the victims dying as a result of physical beatings. Alcohol consumption at the material time was more common than noted in previous studies of child homicide.
Collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the lumbar subarachnoid space is a routine procedure in clinical neurology, providing an opportunity to obtain hematogenous cells from the central nervous system environment in vivo. The ability to study individual cells in samples with low cell numbers has made flow cytometry an attractive method for studies of chemokine receptor expression on such cells. Several methodological variables such as staining temperature and cell isolation techniques may, however, influence the final outcome of the staining. In addition, low numbers of cells in the normal lumbar CSF, together with a tendency of CSF cells to decay rapidly after sampling, require meticulous handling of the samples. Here, we describe the methodology used in our laboratory to study chemokine receptor expression on cells in paired samples from peripheral blood and CSF using flow cytometry.
Mutants of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) carrying a frame-shift mutation in vpx, vpr, and in both genes were monitored for their growth potentials in a newly established lymphocytic cell line, HSC-F. Worthy of note, the replication of a vpx single mutant, but not vpr, was severely impaired in these cells, and that of a vpx-vpr double mutant was more damaged. Defective replication sites of the vpx single and vpx-vpr double mutants were demonstrated to be mapped, respectively, to the nuclear import of viral genome, and to both, this process and the virus assembly/release stage. While the mutational effect of vpr was small, the replication efficiency in one cycle of the vpx mutant relative to that of wild-type virus was estimated to be 10%. The growth phenotypes of the vpx, vpr, and vpx-vpr mutant viruses in HSC-F cells were essentially repeated in primary human lymphocytes. In primary human macrophages, whereas the vpx and vpx-vpr mutants did not grow at all, the vpr mutant grew equally as well as the wild-type virus. These results strongly suggested that Vpx is critical for up-regulation of HIV-2 replication in natural target cells by enhancing the genome nuclear import, and that Vpr promotes HIV-2 replication somewhat, at least in lymphocytic cells, at a very late replication phase.
Rett syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder hypothesized to be due to defective neuronal maturation, is a result of mutations in the mecp2 gene encoding the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG binding protein (MeCP2). We utilized the olfactory system, which displays postnatal neurogenesis, as a model to investigate MeCP2 expression during development and after injury. MeCP2 expression increased postnatally, localizing to mature olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and sustentacular supporting cells. The timing of MeCP2 expression was defined by using detergent ablation (to remove the ORNs) and unilateral olfactory bulbectomy (to remove the ORN target), both of which increase neurogenesis. MeCP2 expression in the ORNs reached prelesioning levels as cells matured after ablation, whereas expression was not completely restored after bulbectomy, in which functional synaptogenesis cannot occur. Thus, MeCP2 expression correlates with the maturational state of ORNs, and precedes synaptogenesis. Identifying the time window of MeCP2 expression should help further clarify the biological defects in Rett syndrome.
Anterior pituitary corticotropes show a wide repertory of responses to hypothalamic neuropeptides and adrenal corticosteroids. The hypothesis that plasticity of the cAMP signaling system underlies this adaptive versatility was investigated. In dispersed rat anterior pituitary cells, depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores with thapsigargin combined with ryanodine or caffeine enhanced the corticotropin releasing-factor (CRF)-evoked cAMP response by 4-fold, whereas reduction of Ca2+ entry alone had no effect. CRF-induced cAMP was amplified 15-fold by arginine-vasopressin (AVP) or phorbol-dibutyrate ester. In the presence of inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases and phorbol-dibutyrate ester, the depletion of Ca2+ stores had no further effect on CRF-induced cAMP accumulation. Adenohypophysial expression of mRNAs for the Ca2+-inhibited adenylyl cyclases (ACs) VI and IX, and the protein kinase C-stimulated ACs II and VII was demonstrated. ACIX was detected in corticotropes by immunocytochemistry, whereas ACII and ACVI were not present. The data show negative feedback regulation of CRF-induced cAMP levels by Ca2+ derived from ryanodine receptor-operated intracellular stores. Stimulation of protein kinase C by AVP enhances Ca2+-independent cAMP synthesis, thus changing the characteristics of intracellular Ca2+ feedback. It is proposed that the modulation of intracellular Ca2+ feedback in corticotropes by AVP is an important element of physiological control.
Mechanosensory hair cells of the vertebrate cochlea offer an excellent developmental system to study cell-fate specification, and to gain insight into the many human neurological deficits which result in a hearing loss, by affecting primarily the hair cells. Therefore, there is great interest in studying the molecular mechanisms that regulate their specification and differentiation. Recent studies, based mostly on loss-of-function experiments that target the role of Notch signaling and basic helix-loop-helix genes in inner-ear development have indicated that they can regulate mechanosensory hair cell-fate specification and their initial differentiation.
Single or repeated exposure to psychostimulants such as amphetamines and cocaine after postnatal week 3 leads to an enduring enhancement in the psychotomimetic responses elicited by a subsequent challenge of a stimulant in rodents. This behavioral sensitization phenomenon has been considered to be the neural consequences of stimulant-induced alterations in gene expression in the brain after a critical period of postnatal development. Using a differential cloning technique, RNA arbitrarily primed PCR, we have now identified from the rat neocortex a novel and developmentally regulated methamphetamine (MAP)-inducible gene mrt1 (MAP responsive transcript 1). mrt1 encodes two major types of PDZ- and PX-domains containing proteins of approximately 62 kDa in size with different carboxy termini, Mrt1a and Mrt1b. The mrt1 mRNAs for Mrt1a, mrt1a, and for Mrt1b, mrt1b, are predominantly expressed in various brain regions and the testes, respectively. Acute MAP injection upregulated mrt1b expression in the neocortex after postnatal week 3 in a D1 receptor antagonist-sensitive manner without affecting mrt1a expression. This upregulation was mimicked by another stimulant, cocaine, whereas pentobarbital and D1 antagonist failed to change the mrt1b transcript levels. Moreover, repeated daily treatment of MAP, but not MAP plus D1 antagonist, for 5 days caused an augmentation of the basal expression of mrt1b 2 and 3 weeks after the drug discontinuation. These late-developing, cocaine-crossreactive, D1 antagonist-sensitive and long-term regulations of mrt1b by MAP are similar to the pharmacological profiles of stimulant-induced behavioral sensitization, and therefore may be associated with the initiation and/or maintenance of the long-term neuronal adaptation.
Traditionally, addiction research in neuroscience has focused on mechanisms involving dopamine and endogenous opioids. More recently, it has been realized that glutamate also plays a central role in processes underlying the development and maintenance of addiction. These processes include reinforcement, sensitization, habit learning and reinforcement learning, context conditioning, craving and relapse. In the past few years, some major advances have been made in the understanding of how glutamate acts and interacts with other transmitters (in particular, dopamine) in the context of processes underlying addiction. It appears that while many actions of glutamate derive their importance from a stimulatory interaction with the dopaminergic system, there are some glutamatergic mechanisms that contribute to addiction independent of dopaminergic systems. Among those, context-specific aspects of behavioral determinants (ie control over behavior by conditioned stimuli) appear to depend heavily on glutamatergic transmission. A better understanding of the underlying mechanisms might open new avenues to the treatment of addiction, in particular regarding relapse prevention.
The present study investigates the respective roles of both the host immune response and the metabolic requirements in determining the long-term survival of erythropoietin-secreting myoblasts within encapsulating polymer membranes. Hollow-fiber capsules loaded with a high density of erythropoietin-secreting C(2)C(12) myoblasts survived poorly in the subcutaneous tissue of syngeneic mice, inducing variable hematocrit responses. To determine the role and the nature of the host response, recipients were treated with anti-inflammatory (diclofenac) and immunosuppressive (dexamethasone, FK506) agents. Only immunosuppressive drugs led to improved graft survival after 5 weeks of implantation, indicating an immune process as the cause of cell death. Furthermore, transient blocking of this process allowed long-term preservation of the implanted cells (&gt; 100 days). The formation of necrotic cell cores inside densely packed devices elicited a local chronic inflammatory reaction. Hence, implants were designed to limit early cell death by inserting a supporting matrix and decreasing the number of loaded cells. The most efficient erythropoietin delivery was obtained with matrix-containing capsules that had received the lowest myoblast density. These results highlight the critical role of initial engraftment in the long-term acceptance of encapsulated myoblasts and the need to limit early cell death in the device to prevent subsequent host immuno-inflammatory responses.
Before an aspect of a movement that is predicted by a control theory can be considered as evidence for that theory, it should be clear that this aspect is not the result of some other property of the movement. We investigate whether this condition is met in studies that claim to provide evidence for the tau-coupling theory. This theory proposes that moving targets are intercepted at a specified goal zone by maintaining a constant ratio between the tau (time to closure) of the gap between the hand and the goal zone and the tau of the gap between the hand and the moving target. In line with the theory, previous research has found a linear relationship between these two decreasing taus during the last part of such a movement. To investigate whether this linear relationship was a side-effect of smooth successful movements, we modeled smooth ballistic hand movements that were independent of the target's movement but led to successful interception. We found that the resulting taus of decreasing gaps were also related linearly. We conclude that this relationship cannot be considered as evidence for the tau-coupling theory.
We evaluated the impact of pallidotomy and thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) on disability of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease and investigated whether the activities of daily living (ADL) section of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) measures disability in everyday life. Nineteen patients who had pallidotomy and 14 patients who had thalamic DBS were followed for a mean of 11 months. Evaluation tools included the UPDRS as well as a generic ADL scale, called ADL taxonomy. The 13 items belonging to the ADL part of the UPDRS were classified into two categories according to whether the items described a disability or impairment. The total scores of the UPDRS Part II (ADL) were ameliorated in both the pallidotomy and the thalamic DBS groups. When analysing separately the scores from the two categories of the ADL part of the UPDRS, i.e., disability and impairment, only patients who underwent pallidotomy showed improvement in disability-related items. These findings were confirmed when evaluating the patients with the ADL taxonomy. The ADL part of the UPDRS contains a mixture of impairment- and disability-related items. This mixture may confound results when evaluating the impact of surgery on ADL.
There has been an increase of interest in olfactory dysfunction since it was realised that anosmia was a common feature of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer-type dementia (AD). It is an intriguing possibility that the first sign of a disorder hitherto regarded as one of movement or cognition may be that of disturbed smell sense. In this review of PD, parkinsonian syndromes, essential tremor, AD, motor neurone disease (MND) and Huntington's chorea (HC) the following observations are made: 1). olfactory dysfunction is frequent and often severe in PD and AD; 2). normal smell identification in PD is rare and should prompt review of diagnosis unless the patient is female with tremor-dominant disease; 3). anosmia in suspected progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration is atypical and should likewise provoke diagnostic review; 4). hyposmia is an early feature of PD and AD and may precede motor and cognitive signs respectively; 5). subjects with anosmia and one ApoE-4 allele have an approximate 5-fold increased risk of later AD; 6). impaired smell sense is seen in some patients at 50% risk of parkinsonism; 7). smell testing in HC and MND where abnormality may be found, is not likely to be of clinical value; and 8). biopsy of olfactory nasal neurons shows non-specific changes in PD and AD and at present will not aid diagnosis.
Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) has a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Immunization with Abeta in a transgenic mouse model of AD reduces both age-related accumulation of Abeta in the brain and associated cognitive impairment. Here we present the first analysis of human neuropathology after immunization with Abeta (AN-1792). Comparison with unimmunized cases of AD (n = 7) revealed the following unusual features in the immunized case, despite diagnostic neuropathological features of AD: (i) there were extensive areas of neocortex with very few Abeta plaques; (ii) those areas of cortex that were devoid of Abeta plaques contained densities of tangles, neuropil threads and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) similar to unimmunized AD, but lacked plaque-associated dystrophic neurites and astrocyte clusters; (iii) in some regions devoid of plaques, Abeta-immunoreactivity was associated with microglia; (iv) T-lymphocyte meningoencephalitis was present; and (v) cerebral white matter showed infiltration by macrophages. Findings (i)-(iii) strongly resemble the changes seen after Abeta immunotherapy in mouse models of AD and suggest that the immune response generated against the peptide elicited clearance of Abeta plaques in this patient. The T-lymphocyte meningoencephalitis is likely to correspond to the side effect seen in some other patients who received AN-1792 (refs. 7-9).
The subcortical white matter of the adult human brain harbors a pool of glial progenitor cells. These cells can be isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) after either transfection with green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the CNP2 promoter, or A2B5-targeted immunotagging. Although these cells give rise largely to oligodendrocytes, in low-density culture we observed that some also generated neurons. We thus asked whether these nominally glial progenitors might include multipotential progenitor cells capable of neurogenesis. We found that adult human white-matter progenitor cells (WMPCs) could be passaged as neurospheres in vitro and that these cells generated functionally competent neurons and glia both in vitro and after xenograft to the fetal rat brain. WMPCs were able to produce neurons after their initial isolation and did not require in vitro expansion or reprogramming to do so. These experiments indicate that an abundant pool of mitotically competent neurogenic progenitor cells resides in the adult human white matter.


Visually guided grasping movements require a rapid transformation of visual representations into object-specific motor programs. Here we report that graspable objects may facilitate these visuomotor transformations by automatically grabbing visual spatial attention. Human subjects viewed two task-irrelevant objects--one was a 'tool', the other a 'non-tool'--while waiting for a target to be presented in one of the two object locations. Using event-related potentials (ERPs), we found that spatial attention was systematically drawn to tools in the right and lower visual fields, the hemifields that are dominant for visuomotor processing. Using event-related fMRI, we confirmed that tools grabbed spatial attention only when they also activated dorsal regions of premotor and prefrontal cortices, regions associated with visually guided actions and their planning. Although it is widely accepted that visual sensory gain aids perception, our results suggest that it may also have consequences for object-directed actions.
During motor skill acquisition, the brain learns a mapping between intended limb motion and requisite muscular forces. We propose that regions where sensory and motor representations overlap are crucial for motor learning. In primary motor cortex, for example, cells that modulate their activity for motor actions at a joint tend to receive input from that same portion of the periphery. We predict that this correspondence reflects a default strategy--a Bayesian prior--in which subjects tend to associate loads at a joint with motion at that joint (local sensorimotor association) when there is ambiguity regarding the nature of the load. As predicted, we found that in the presence of uncertainty, humans inappropriately generalized elbow loads as though they were based on elbow velocity. Generalization improved when we reduced uncertainty by decreasing coupling between elbow velocity and load during training. These results illustrate a key link between motor learning and the underlying neural circuitry.
This article presents a general approach for employing lesion analysis to address the fundamental challenge of localizing functions in a neural system. We describe functional contribution analysis (FCA), which assigns contribution values to the elements of the network such that the ability to predict the network's performance in response to multilesions is maximized. The approach is thoroughly examined on neurocontroller networks of evolved autonomous agents. The FCA portrays a stable set of neuronal contributions and accurate multilesion predictions that are significantly better than those obtained based on the classical single lesion approach. It is also used for a detailed synaptic analysis of the neurocontroller connectivity network, delineating its main functional backbone. The FCA provides a quantitative way of measuring how the network functions are localized and distributed among its elements. Our results question the adequacy of the classical single lesion analysis traditionally used in neuroscience and show that using lesioning experiments to decipher even simple neuronal systems requires a more rigorous multilesion analysis.
We present a new technique, based on a proposed event-based strategy (Mattia &amp; Del Giudice, 2000), for efficiently simulating large networks of simple model neurons. The strategy was based on the fact that interactions among neurons occur by means of events that are well localized in time (the action potentials) and relatively rare. In the interval between two of these events, the state variables associated with a model neuron or a synapse evolved deterministically and in a predictable way. Here, we extend the event-driven simulation strategy to the case in which the dynamics of the state variables in the inter-event intervals are stochastic. This extension captures both the situation in which the simulated neurons are inherently noisy and the case in which they are embedded in a very large network and receive a huge number of random synaptic inputs. We show how to effectively include the impact of large background populations into neuronal dynamics by means of the numerical evaluation of the statistical properties of single-model neurons under random current injection. The new simulation strategy allows the study of networks of interacting neurons with an arbitrary number of external afferents and inherent stochastic dynamics.
It has recently been suggested that neuronal cell death in response to many brain insults may be mediated by the upregulation of tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family members and their ligands. In the present study, we investigated whether the expression of the TNFR family death domain receptor, Fas, and its ligand, FasL, is altered in association with neuropathology and activated caspase markers in Alzheimer disease (AD) brain, and Abeta-induced neuronal cell death in vitro. To evaluate this hypothesis, we examined Fas and FasL expression in AD and control brain, and Abeta-treated primary neurons, using immunocytochemistry and Western blots. Neurons in both AD brain and Abeta-treated cultures exhibited FasL upregulation and changes in immunoreactivity for Fas receptor. Further, FasL expression was remarkably elevated in senile plaques and neurofilament-positive dystrophic neurites, and in association with caspase activation and neuritic apoptosis in AD brain. Based on these and previous data regarding protection of primary neuronal cultures from Abeta(1-42)-induced apoptosis by blockade of Fas-associated death domain signaling, we also tested the hypothesis that dynamic regulation of Fas and FasL may contribute to Abeta-mediated neuronal cell death. Accordingly, neuronal cultures derived from mice carrying inactivating mutations in Fas (Faslpr) or FasL (Fasgld) exhibited protection from Abeta(1-42)-induced cell death. These findings suggest that Fas-FasL interactions may contribute to mechanisms of neuronal loss and neuritic degeneration in AD.
We studied reading performance for words and for isolated letters in a pure alexic patient. She performed reasonably well when naming isolated letters but was slower in reading letters than a control subject when reaction times (RTs) were recorded. When the patient read isolated letters, RTs were slower for a subset of letters that cannot be recognized from their left part alone (e.g. &quot;b&quot;, an ambiguous letter, could be read &quot;b&quot; &quot;h&quot; &quot;l&quot; or &quot;k&quot; whereas &quot;a&quot; has no predictable confounders). We observed a significant positive correlation between the RTs for reading a word and the mean RTs for reading each of its composing letters before its uniqueness point (i.e. the point, when reading from the left to the right, where a word cannot be a word other than the one it is). This result suggests that, in our patient, the letter identification deficit can account for the slow, letter-by-letter reading behaviour, insofar as each letter represents a perceptual problem. Our findings can be accounted for by a deficit in the parallel processing of the left and right parts of each letter, compounded with a bias to process first the left part of the letter, and may thus reconcile the hypotheses of spatially-based deficit (Rapp and Caramazza, 1991) and of a perceptual deficit occurring at the letter identification level (Behrmann and Shallice, 1995; Perri et al., 1996).
This paper is the first report of an aphasic patient (GT) who shows a selective impairment in naming musical notes and letters in the context of preserved instrumental reading of notes. The ability to orally name notes (which are given the letter names A-G in English) and to play notes from a spoken note name was severely impaired. By contrast, instrumental sightreading and matching of written letters and single notes were both well preserved. This complex pattern of impairments can be explained in terms of a selective deficit in the letter name system.
The intraplantar injection of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), a representative neurosteroid, showed hyperalgesia in the Hargreaves' thermal or automatic paw-pressure mechanical nociception test. The DHEAS-induced hyperalgesia was abolished by diphenhydramine (DPH), a H(1) histamine (His) receptor antagonist, as well as the hyperalgesia induced by His or compound 48/80, a mast cell degranulating agent. The DHEAS-induced hyperalgesia was also blocked by progesterone (PROG), another type of neurosteroid and a putative neurosteroid receptor antagonist. Neither DPH nor PROG showed any changes in the thermal threshold. On the other hand, endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are known to disrupt reproductive system in wild-lives and humans through the disturbance of the endocrine homeostasis. In this study, the flexor responses induced by intraplantar injection of DHEAS were blocked by p,p'-DDE, an EDC as well as by PROG in the algogenics-induced nociceptive flexor responses test (ANF test) in mice. Similarly, p,p'-DDE blocked the DHEAS-induced hyperalgesia in Hargreaves' thermal nociception test. Besides the hyperalgesic actions, DHEAS increased vascular permeability as measured with Evans blue plasma extravasation. Consistent with behavioral studies, it was blocked by DPH, PROG, and p,p'-DDE. These results suggest that DHEAS has significant hyperalgesic and vasodilatory actions through histamine release, and these actions were reversible by PROG and an EDC.

Previous work had demonstrated that organomercurial-mediated modification of two cysteine residues in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) from Torpedo californica inhibits binding of vesamicol. The cysteines are protected by acetylcholine and vesamicol (Keller et al. 2000. J. Neurochem. 74:1739-1748). Modified &quot;cysteine 1&quot; is accessible to glutathione from the cytoplasmic surface, whereas modified &quot;cysteine 2&quot; is not. Different organomercurials and aqueous environments were used here to characterize diffusion pathway(s) leading to the cysteines. para-Chloromercuriphenylsulfonate modifies VAChT much more slowly than do more hydrophobic p-chloromercuribenzoate and phenylmercury chloride. Permeabilization of vesicles with cholate detergent increases the rate of modification by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate. Permeabilization does not affect the ability of glutathione to reverse modification by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate. Higher ionic strength causes about four-fold increase in the rate of modification. The results suggest that hydrophobic and electrostatic barriers inhibit modification of Torpedo VAChT by negatively charged organomercurials and glutathione cannot reach cysteine 2 from either side of the membrane.
To explore the hypothesis that denervation hypersensitivity increases ileocolonic motor activity after extrinsic denervation, we compared muscarinic neurotransmission in canine ileocolonic loops that were isolated and either extrinsically innervated or extrinsically denervated. We recorded ileal, ileocolonic sphincter (ICS) and colonic pressures, and colonic tone, compliance and relaxation during ileal distention. Muscarinic effects were probed by neostigmine, and minimally effective doses of muscarinic receptor antagonists. Denervation augmented ileal, ICS and colonic contractile activity; colonic high-amplitude propagating contractions (HAPCs) were also augmented; colonic relaxation during ileal distention was abolished. Neostigmine induced HAPCs in both loop preparations. Pirenzipine (M1 antagonist) reduced ileal contractile activity in all loops and reduced colonic relaxation during ileal distention in innervated loops. Pirenzipine also reduced colonic tone and colonic HAPCs, more in denervated loops. Darifenacin (M3 antagonist) reduced ileocolonic contractile activity and tone more than did AF-DX 116 (M2 antagonist) in all loops. Cholinergic receptor subtypes modulate different facets of ileocolonic motor activity in the canine ileocolonic region. Increased sensitivity at M1 muscarinic receptors may partly account for the effects of extrinsic denervation.
In the macaque monkey ventral premotor cortex (F5), &quot;canonical neurones&quot; are active when the monkey observes an object and when the monkey grasps that object. In the same area, &quot;mirror neurones&quot; fire both when the monkey observes another monkey grasping an object and when the monkey grasps that object. We used event-related fMRI to investigate where in the human brain activation can be found that reflects both canonical and mirror neuronal activity. There was activation in the intraparietal and ventral limbs of the precentral sulcus when subjects observed objects and when they executed movements in response to the objects (canonical neurones). There was activation in the dorsal premotor cortex, the intraparietal cortex, the parietal operculum (SII), and the superior temporal sulcus when subjects observed gestures (mirror neurones). Finally, activations in the ventral premotor cortex and inferior frontal gyrus (area 44) were found when subjects imitated gestures and executed movements in response to objects. We suggest that in the human brain, the ventral limb of the precentral sulcus may form part of the area designated F5 in the macaque monkey. It is possible that area 44 forms an anterior part of F5, though anatomical studies suggest that it may be a transitional area between the premotor and prefrontal cortices.
Pure autonomic failure (PAF) is characterized by an acquired, selective, peripheral denervation of the autonomic nervous system. Patients with PAF fail to generate bodily states of arousal via the autonomic nervous system in response to physical or cognitive effort. We used voxel-based morphometry to test the hypothesis that changes in the morphology of brain regions involved in autonomic control would arise as a consequence to the longstanding absence of peripheral autonomic responses in PAF patients. Optimized voxel-based morphometry of structural magnetic resonance scans was used to test for regional differences in grey and white matter in 15 PAF patients and matched controls. There were no group differences observed in global measures of grey matter, white matter, or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We identified morphometric differences reflecting regional decreases in grey matter volume and concentration in anterior cingulate and insular cortices in PAF patients relative to controls. Morphometric differences in brainstem and subcortical regions did not reach statistical significance. Our findings suggest that peripheral autonomic denervation is associated with grey matter loss in cortical regions encompassing areas that we have previously shown are functionally involved in generation and representation of bodily states of autonomic arousal. The nature of these changes cannot be determined from morphometric analysis alone, but we suggest that they reflect experience-dependent change consequent upon loss of afferent input to brain regions involved in representation of autonomic states.
A major difficulty in fast-rate event-related fMRI experiments is the extensive overlap from adjacent trials in the stimulus sequence. One approach to address this problem is to include &quot;no-stim&quot; or &quot;null&quot; events as a trial type. These are randomized as if they were true stimulus events but no stimulus actually occurs. Assuming that no response is elicited by the null events, their time-locked average reflects only the averaged overlap. Thus, contrasting the averages for the other trial types versus the null-event average subtracts out the overlap, enabling the extraction of the response functions for these other trial types. ERP studies, however, have indicated that an endogenous brain response, the omitted stimulus response (OSR), can be evoked by a missing event in a stream of regularly occurring stimuli. To the extent that this response is elicited by null events in an event-related fMRI experiment, the null-event subtraction or contrast would falsely introduce the inverse of the OSR into the averaged responses to the other trial types. Using high-density ERP recordings, we investigated the effect of different percentages of omitted stimuli (11, 22, and 33%) on the auditory OSR at stimulus rates of one event per second or one event per 2 s. Significant OSRs were found for each percentage in the 1-s condition as well as in the 11% 2-s condition. The responses consisted of an early posterior negative wave (180-280 ms) followed by a larger anterior positive wave. These results have important implications for fast-rate fMRI designs, while also providing new data on the brain's response to omitted stimuli.
Previous work has suggested that functional reorganization of cortical areas might have a role in limiting the clinical impact of axonal pathology in patients with established multiple sclerosis (MS). Since there is evidence for irreversible tissue damage even in patients with early MS, we assessed, using functional MRI (fMRI) and a general search method, the brain pattern of movement-associated cortical activations in patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of MS. To elucidate the role of cortical reorganization in these patients, we also investigated the extent to which the fMRI changes correlated with the extent of overall axonal injury of the brain. From 16 right-handed patients at presentation with CIS and 15 right-handed, age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers, we obtained: (1). fMRI (repetitive flexion-extension of the last four fingers of the right hand), (2). conventional MRI scans, and (3). a new, unlocalized proton MR spectroscopy ((1)HMRS) sequence to measure the concentration of N-acetylaspartate of the whole brain (WBNAA). Compared to controls, patients with CIS had more significant activations of the contralateral primary somatomotor cortex (SMC), secondary somatosensory cortex, and inferior frontal gyrus. They also had significant decreased WBNAA concentration. Relative activation of the contralateral primary SMC was strongly correlated with WBNAA levels (r = -0.78, P &lt; 0.001). This study shows that axonal pathology and functional cortical changes over a rather distributed sensorimotor network occur in patients at presentation with CIS suggestive of MS and that these two aspects of the disease are strictly correlated. This suggests that the increased functional recruitment of the cortex in these patients might have an adaptive role in limiting the clinical impact of irreversible tissue damage.
Accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) in the extracellular spaces of the cerebral cortex and in blood vessel walls as cerebral amyloid angiopathy is a characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the ageing human brain. Studies in animals suggest that Abeta is eliminated from the brain either directly into the blood or along perivascular interstitial fluid drainage channels. The aim of the present study is to define the perivascular route for the drainage of Abeta from the human brain. Smears and paraffin sections of post-mortem cortical tissue from 17 cases of AD and from two controls were stained with thioflavin and for Abeta by immunohistochemistry. Histology and confocal microscopy showed that deposits of Abeta in the cortical parenchyma were continuous with Abeta in capillary walls but Abeta in artery walls was not in continuity with Abeta in brain parenchyma. Quantitative studies supported these observations. The results of this study suggest that when Abeta is eliminated from the extracellular spaces of the human brain by the perivascular route, it enters pericapillary spaces and from there drains along the walls of cortical arteries to leptomeningeal arteries. Factors such as overproduction of Abeta, entrapment of Abeta in drainage pathways and poor drainage of Abeta due to functional changes in ageing arteries might result in the failure of elimination of Abeta from the ageing brain and play a major role in the pathogenesis of AD. Such factors might affect therapies for AD that entail administration of anti-Abeta antibodies to eliminate Abeta from the human brain.
This study was designed to examine the role of opioids in cell survival, with an emphasis on the mechanism of opioid growth factor (OGF, [Met(5)]-enkephalin)-dependent growth inhibition. Using three human cancer cell lines: MIA PaCa-2 pancreatic adenocarcinoma, HT-29 colon adenocarcinoma, and CAL-27 squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, and OGF and the opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX) at a dosage (10(-6)M) selected because it is known to repress or increase, respectively, cell replication, the effects on apoptosis (TUNEL, Annexin V) and necrosis (trypan blue) were investigated on days 2, 5, and 7 of exposure. In addition, the influence of a variety of other natural and synthetic opioids on apoptosis and necrosis was examined at a dosage of 10(-6)M. OGF, NTX, naloxone, [D-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin, [Leu(5)]-enkephalin, dynorphin A1-8, beta-endorphin, endomorphin-1 and -2, and methadone at concentrations of 10(-6)M did not alter cell viability of any cancer cell line. Exposure of cultures to [D-Ala(2),MePhe(4),Glycol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO), morphine, or etorphine at 10(-6)M significantly increased the number of adherent cells positively stained for TUNEL and Annexin V, as well as the number of necrotic cells in the supernatant, from control levels at all time points studied. The effects of DAMGO, morphine, and etorphine on apoptosis/necrosis were not fully blocked by concomitant administration of naloxone. Despite the increase in cell death in some opioid-treated groups, the number of apoptotic and necrotic adherent cells, and the number of necrotic cells in the supernatant, was no more than 1-2% of the total cell population. These results indicate that the inhibitory (OGF) or stimulatory (NTX) action on cell growth in tissue culture is not due to alterations in apoptotic or necrotic pathways. Moreover, although some opioids increased cell death, and dose-effect relationships need to be established, this activity was not of great magnitude and supports the previously reported lack of growth inhibition of many of these compounds.
Cerebral functional exploration using Event related potentials (ERPs) is greatly relevant in clinical psychiatry. Although ERP usefulness as a diagnostic tool is limited due to the complexity of psychiatric diagnosis, which raises theoretical, methodological and ethical problems that cannot be resolved by neurobiological methods, ERP offers relevant information in 3 different topics: the choice of psychotropes in pharmacotherapy; the description and understanding of cognitive processes; the psychotherapeutic relation. 1) Converging arguments from experimental studies support the hypothesis that the amplitude of P300 and CNV as well as the loudness dependence of the auditory N1/P2 response (LDAEP) are regulated by central catecholaminergic and serotoninergic neurotransmission. These systems also are the target of several psychotropes, and therefore the neurophysiological assessment may bring reliable indicators to predict favourable response to psychotropes and drug intolerance. 2) Moreover the assessment of Reaction Times and P300 and VCN parameters, jointly recorded in a single investigation, brings information about the self-organization and self-regulation of cerebral functioning, and might help the clinicians to understand the functional meaning of attentional disorders in Psychiatry. 3) Finally, the discussion of the neurophysiological results with the patient, in comparing objective and subjective data, might help him to better understand his/her difficulties and to modify his/her subjective experience of the disease.
It is widely accepted that patients with frontal lesions have problems inhibiting automatic response tendencies. Whereas inhibition deficits of overlearned responses have been extensively investigated using interference tasks like the Stroop task (J. R. Stroop, 1935), it is controversial whether patients with frontal brain lesions also have problems inhibiting imitative responses. Using an interference paradigm, the present study investigated imitative response tendencies in patients with frontal lesions. In addition, it tested whether patients deficient in the inhibition of imitative responses correspondingly have problems inhibiting overlearned responses. It was found that the group with frontal lesions displayed significantly stronger imitative response tendencies than the group with nonfrontal lesions. Furthermore, it was shown that the inhibition of imitative responses is functionally unrelated to Stroop interference.
The authors measured simple reaction time (RT) to visual stimuli, presented either singly to 1 or the other visual field or in bilaterally presented pairs, to 2 women with callosal agenesis. The stimuli were either white against a black background or gray against an equiluminant yellow background. RTs to bilateral pairs were decreased beyond predictions based on a simple race between independent unilateral processes, implying interhemispheric neural summation. This effect was enhanced under equiluminance in the participant M.M. whose anterior commissure was within normal limits, but not in the participant J.P. whose anterior commissure was enlarged. The anterior commissure may act, relative to its size, to inhibit cortical activation to bilateral pairs, which then acts to decrease subcortical neural summation.
The aim of this study was to test for an influence of benzodiazepine (BZD) on various perceptual and/or cognitive auditory processes. Loudness, auditory selective attention, and the ability of subjects to form perceptual streams out of alternating tone sequences were tested. Nine subjects were tested before, 1, 3, 7, and 24 h after a single-dose oxazepam vs placebo administration in a crossover design. A sample of blood allows us to measure plasma oxazepam concentration. The results revealed a significant reduction in stream segregation expressed as d' scores 1 h after oxazepam intake in the test subjects. No significant change occurred across time in the same subjects when they were administrated a placebo in another session. Furthermore, oxazepam had no substantial and systematic influence either on auditory selective attention or on loudness perception. Altogether, these results suggest that the perceptual organization of sound sequences involves inhibitory neural mechanisms, which can be affected by BZDs. This outcome is consistent with existing models of auditory stream segregation and may be paralleled with earlier findings on the effect of BZDs on perceptual binding in the visual modality.
Long-term acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR) administration prevents the development of escape deficit produced by acute exposure to unavoidable stress. However, it does not revert the escape deficit sustained by chronic stress exposure. Rats exposed to chronic stress show a low dopamine (DA) output in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) and do not acquire an appetitive behavior sustained by the earning of vanilla sugar (VS) made contingent on the choice of one of the two divergent arms of a Y-maze (VS-sustained appetitive behavior, VAB), while control rats consistently do. The present study shows that ALCAR treatment in rats exposed to a 7-day stress protocol prevented a decrease in DA output in the NAcS and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats, and that it strengthened the DA response to VS consummation in the same two areas. Moreover, rats treated with long-term ALCAR or exposed to chronic stress while treated with ALCAR acquired VAB as efficiently as control rats. Moreover, VAB acquisition in stressed rats treated with ALCAR coincided with the reversal of the deficits in escape and in dopaminergic transmission in the NAcS. Thus, repeated ALCAR treatment preserved the DA response to VS in chronically stressed rats and this effect appeared to be predictive of the rat's competence to acquire VAB.
The present experiments characterized the acquisition of fear-potentiated startle (FPS) and determined the sensitivity of FPS to anxiolytic compounds in DBA/1J mice. A light (30 s) conditioned stimulus (CS) and mild footshock (0.14 mA, 0.5 s) unconditioned stimulus (US) were used. First, acquisition of FPS was examined by presenting the acoustic startle probe during and after each CS-US pairing trial, allowing for a trial-by-trial measurement of experience-dependent startle plasticity. In this novel protocol, mice showed robust acquisition (larger acoustic startle reflex in the presence of the CS) of FPS after as few as eight CS-US pairings. FPS was significantly greater when the CS and US were paired explicitly (light-paired) as compared to when both the US and CS were presented randomly (unpaired), or when the CS was presented alone (no shock), indicating pairing-dependent learning of the CS. Second, the present study assessed the sensitivity of FPS in mice to anxiolytic drugs. The GABA-A receptor agonists diazepam (3 and 6 mg/kg) and chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg) significantly reduced the expression of FPS post-training, as did the serotonin 1A receptor partial agonist buspirone (5 and 10 mg/kg). Furthermore, all three anxiolytic drugs reduced startle responding in a cue-specific manner and without significant changes in baseline responding. These data demonstrate a novel method of studying acquisition of FPS, and support the predictive validity of the FPS model of anxiolytic drug action in mice.
Since the attempt to evidence structural brain damage in Parkinson's disease (PD) by conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is usually disappointing, we have investigated whether the magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) can reflect changes in grey and white matter of PD patients. MTR was quantified in 44 regions of interest (ROIs) in both grey and white matter of 11 non-demented PD patients, ranging from 2 to 4 on the Hoehn and Yahr Scale, and eight age-matched healthy subjects. MTR differences between patients and controls were found in the supratentorial white matter and in the brainstem. In particular, lower MTR values were found in the paraventricular white matter of PD patients (p&lt;0.05) while no differences were observed in corpus callosum, frontal, parietal, occipital lobes or centrum semiovalis. Lower MTR values were found in substantia nigra (p&lt;0.001), red nucleus (p&lt;0.05) and pons (p&lt;0.05) of the patient group. No differences were discovered in basal ganglia and thalamus. These findings suggest that MTR measurements in the paraventricular white matter and brainstem may help to recognize a marker for probable PD.
Individuals with Down's syndrome (DS) develop the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's (AD) disease at an early age, subsequently followed by memory decline and dementia. We have utilized an animal model for DS, mice with segmental trisomy of chromosome 16 (Ts65Dn), to study biological events linked to memory loss. Previous studies demonstrated a cognitive decline and loss of cholinergic markers after 6-8 months of age. In the current study, we found increased levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the striatum by 6-8 months of age, and in the hippocampus and parietal cortex by 13-16 months of age in Ts65Dn but not in normosomic mice. Additionally, Ts65Dn mice exhibited alterations in nerve growth factor (NGF) levels in the basal forebrain and hippocampus. Ts65Dn mice demonstrated a significant decline in NGF levels in the basal forebrain with age, as well as a reduction in hippocampal NGF by 13-16 months of age. These findings demonstrate that elevated APP and decreased NGF levels in limbic areas correlate with the progressive memory decline and cholinergic degeneration seen in middle-aged trisomic mice.



We present a case of a 23-year-old immunocompetent male who presented with chronic meningitis and was diagnosed as cryptococcal meningitis by positive cryptococcal antigen titer. The cerebrospinal fluid culture was positive for Cryptococcus neoformans. He was treated initially with amphotericin B but was later changed to fluconazole due to toxicity. This case highlights the use of fluconazole to successfully treat chronic meningitis in an immunocompetent host.
Cyclosporine was suggested recently by Japanese workers to provoke central nervous systems symptoms in Behcet`s disease. We report 2 cases supporting this notion. Our aim is to draw the attention of physicians to such phenomenon as cyclosporine being frequently advocated in the treatment of uveitis due to Behcet`s disease.
We analyzed the features of opsoclonus syndrome as a manifestation of post viral encephalopathy in 3 patients (one child and 2 adults). This is the first report of opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome in the Arabian Peninsula. Symptoms appeared a few days after a viral-like illness in all patients. We excluded the possibility of paraneoplastic syndrome as investigations were carried out and follow-up did not reveal malignancy. One patient received a relatively long duration steroid treatment, another one received steroids in pulsed therapy, the third did not receive any specific treatment. The outcome was very good with improvement except in one who had severe sequelae.






Status epilepticus (SE) is defined as a condition characterized by an epileptic seizure that is so frequently repeated or so prolonged as to create a fixed and lasting condition. Any type of epileptic seizure can develop into SE. Status epilepticus can be classified as generalized convulsive, non-convulsive and simple partial. Generalized convulsive SE includes tonic clonic seizures with either a partial or a generalized onset. Generalized tonic clonic status is defined when consecutive seizures occur without recovery of consciousness between them. Generalized tonic clonic SE is a medical emergency associated with a high morbidity and mortality if untreated. The most common etiology of SE is non-compliance to antiepileptic drugs. Other causes include alcohol withdrawal, cerebrovascular lesions, drug intoxication, central nervous system infections, neoplasms and acute metabolic derangements. The metabolic-biochemical complication of SE includes respiratory and metabolic acidosis, anoxia, hyperazotemia, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia and autonomic and endocrine dysfunctions. Prognosis of SE depends on the duration and etiology of SE. Vigorous treatment of SE is recommended. Effective medical treatment of SE includes Benzodiazepines, Phenytoin, Barbiturates and several other new antiepileptic drugs. In this presentation, we discuss the updated management of SE and propose a protocol for management of convulsive SE.
The paper reviews both the influencing factors and calculation strategies of sample size determination for survey research. It indicate the factors that affect the sample size determination procedure and explains how. It also provides calculation methods (including formulas) that can be applied directly and easily to estimate the sample size needed in most popular situations.
TMS is a powerful new tool with extremely interesting research and therapeutic potentials. Further understanding of the ways by which TMS changes neuronal function, especially as a function of its use parameters, will improve its ability to answer neuroscience questions as well as to treat diseases. Because of its noninvasiveness, it does not readily fit under the umbrella of neurosurgery. Nevertheless, it is important for neurosurgeons to be aware of TMS, because findings from TMS studies will have implications for neurosurgical approaches like DBS and VNS. Indeed, it is possible to think of using TMS as a potential noninvasive initial screening tool to identify whether perturbation of a circuit has short-term clinical effects. In the example of chronic refractory depression or OCD, which is generally a chronic illness, it might then follow that rather than having daily or weekly TMS for the rest of their lives, patients would have DBS electrodes implanted in the same circuit. Whatever road the future takes, TMS is an important new tool that will likely be of interest to neurosurgeons over the next 20 years and perhaps even longer.
Neurocircuitry models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and major depression (MD) are described, focusing on relevant supporting neuroimaging data. Corticostriatothalamocortical circuitry is implicated in OCD. In MD, the relation between &quot;dorsal&quot; and &quot;ventral&quot; cortical compartments is emphasized; the amygdala, hippocampus, and pregenual anterior cingulate are implicated in the pathophysiology of MD and are potential targets for treatment. The neuroanatomy of psychiatric neurosurgical procedures and related neuroimaging findings are reviewed. Finally, anticipated future directions of research in this field are discussed.

Nucleotides such as ATP and UTP are everywhere. They play a key role in transducing mechanosensory signals via P2Y receptors in the large intestine or colon, leading to secretion of the sensory mediator 5-HT, and act as autocrine, paracrine, or neurocrine mediators in neural reflexes regulating chloride secretion.
The aberrant splicing isoform(PS2V), generated by exon 5 skipping of the Presenilin-2(PS2) gene transcript, is a diagnostic feature of sporadic Alzheimer's disease(sAD). We found PS2V is hypoxia-inducible in SK-N-SH cells and purified a responsible trans-acting factor based on its binding to an exon 5 fragment. The factor was identified as the High Mobility Group protein A1a: (HMGA1a). HMGA1a bound to a specific sequence on exon5, located upstream of the 5'-splice site. HMGA1a expression was induced by hypoxia. Over-expression of HMGA1a generated PS2V, through interference with U1snRNP binding to the 5'-splice site and caused exon5 skipping. HMGA1a levels were increased in brain from sAD patients. We propose a novel mechanism of sAD that involves HMGA1a-induced aberrant splicing of PS2 pre-mRNA in the absence of any mutations.
Intermittent delivery of drugs into a discrete brain region has proven to be a useful technique. Described here is a micro-pump injection unit with miniature step-motors. This injection system is reliable, easy to operate and inexpensive to construct. The application of intermittent injection systems to study reward neurochemical circuits is discussed.
The first article describing the patch-clamp recording from neurons in the mammalian brain slice appeared in 1989. Since that article, there have been substantial scientific successes in the neuropharmacological and neurophysiological fields using this promising technique, which itself advanced largely owing to the progress in microscopic techniques such as infrared differential interference contrast (IR-DIC) video-enhanced microscopy. This article describes recent advances in the methods for the patch-clamp recording in the brainstem slices, which is now more and more important due to the increased needs in this post-genomic era for identification of the mechanisms underlying cell-to-cell communication in the central nervous system. Here we introduce some of the technical tips developed and being used in our laboratory, which include methods for making the best brainstem slices, pre-recording identification of neuron types using fluorescent tracers, markers, and green fluorescent protein (GFP) signal in transgenic mice. We also describe a method for rapid and secure drug application onto the recorded cell using electromagnetic valves, which we term the &quot;macro Y-tube&quot; method. These techniques may help to accelerate the understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying dynamic regulation of central nervous function.
Consider implementing a Quiet Time for patient relaxation to enhance the healing process and increase patient satisfaction.

The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate, adequate-protein diet that has been used for more than eight decades for the treatment of refractory epilepsy in children. Despite this long history, the mechanisms by which the KD exerts its anti-seizure action are not fully understood. Questions remain regarding several aspects of KD action, including its effects on brain biochemistry and energetics, neuronal membrane function and cellular network behavior. With the explosion of the KD use in the last 10 years, it is now imperative that we understand these factors in greater detail, in order to optimize the formulation, administration and fine-tuning of the diet. This review discusses what is known and what remains to be learned about the KD, with emphasis on clinical questions that can be approached in the laboratory. We encourage scientists with a primary interest in nutritional neuroscience to join with those of us in the epilepsy research community to address these urgent questions, for the benefit of children ravaged by intractable seizures.



The tripeptide thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) has multiple interesting and complex physiological effects. One of these is the cerebrovasodilating effect, which has been described under several different conditions. The final mechanism for this effect is unknown. In the present study, we found an initial atropine-resistant cerebral vasodilation (24%) elicited by the NOS inhibitor L-NAME in the rat. D-NAME and 7-NI did not produce this effect. TRH (300 microg kg(-1), i.v.) induced an increase in cerebral blood flow by 62%. L-NAME reduced this effect significantly. The cerebrovasodilating mechanism of TRH, at least in part, is endothelial NO dependent as the neuronal 7-NI NOS inhibitor does not affect the TRH response.
When orienting attention, inhibition mechanisms prevent the return of attention to previously examined stimuli. This inhibition of the return of attention (IOR) has been shown to be associated additively with location- and object-based representations. That is, when static objects are attended, IOR is associated with both the object and the location cued, and hence IOR is larger than when only spatial location is attended. Recently McAuliffe, Pratt, and O'Donnell (2001) failed to observe such additive effects except under a narrow set of conditions (at short cue-target intervals and using mixed blocks in which object- and pure location-based effects were probed in the same display). The present study shows that additive IOR effects are observed under conditions that violate all of these boundary conditions. The results also show that IOR is modulated by internal structural properties of objects. These findings are cosistent with the hypothesis that IOR operates over functionally independent object- and location-based frames of reference.
Culture is a powerful cause of human behavior, yet there have been few attempts to synthesize the biological and social sciences in order to provide an explanation of culture and hence to lay the foundations for a comprehensive human science. This essay explores one possible way of doing this by outlining the likely psychological mechanisms that give rise to the unique human capacity for creating social reality. The core assumption is that &quot;we-intentionality,&quot; which is key to understanding social constructions, can and must be linked to specific evolved psychological traits, and hence placed within a neuroscience perspective.
Clinical studies with intrastriatal transplants of human embryonic mesencephalic tissue have provided proof-of-principle for the cell replacement strategy in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The grafted dopaminergic neurons can reinnervate the denervated striatum, restore regulated dopamine (DA) release and movement-related frontal cortical activation, and give rise to significant symptomatic relief. However, there are several problems linked to the use of primary embryonic tissue: (i) lack of sufficient amounts of tissue for transplantation in a large number of patients; (ii) variability of functional outcome, with some patients showing major improvement and others modest if any clinical benefit; (iii) occurrence of troublesome dyskinesias in a significant proportion of patients after transplantation. Stem cells could be useful to generate large numbers of DA neurons in standardized and quality-controlled preparations. So far, neurons with at least some dopaminergic characteristics have been generated from stem cells. However, in most cases their survival after grafting in animal PD models has been poor and it is also unclear if they function as normal mesencephalic DA neurons. For the development of a clinically useful cell therapy in PD, it is also necessary to define better criteria for patient selection and how graft placement should be optimized in each patient. Several scientific issues need to be addressed before stem cell-based therapies can be tested in PD patients.
We show that symmetric n-mixture states, when they exist, are almost never stable in autoassociative networks with threshold-linear units. Only with a binary coding scheme, we could find a limited region of the parameter space in which either 2-mixture or 3-mixture states are stable attractors of the dynamics.
The pattern of sex differences in a large sample (about 400 for each sex) of F2-generation rats, derived from inbred Roman high- and low-avoidance strains differing in fearfulness and brain functioning, was investigated. We obtained measures from responses to a battery of novel/threatening tests [open field (OF), plus maze (PM), hole board (HB), activity (A), and acoustic startle reflex (ASR)] as well as learned fear paradigms [classical fear conditioning (CFC) and shuttlebox avoidance conditioning (SAC)]. The results showed that almost all behaviors assessed fit with a pattern of unidirectional sex effects characterized by male rats as being more fearful than females: males defecated more than females in the OF, PM, HB, ASR, and CFC; ambulated less in the OF, PM, A, and SAC; showed more self-grooming in PM and HB; explored the open arms of the PM and the holes of the HB less; displayed enhanced ASR; and showed poorer performance in the SAC task. We applied two factor analyses to each sex showing that, in general, they shared a common three-factor structure: a Learned Fear Factor comprising SAC and CFC responding, a Fear of Heights/Open Spaces Factor with the highest loadings for open arm behavior in the PM, and an Emotional Reactivity Factor, mainly grouping defecations, ambulation, and self-grooming. These results indicate that the essential components of fearful behavior are similar for both sexes in an inbred but genetically heterogeneous population.
Two strategies that have evolved to help animals meet energy demands are increases in body fat and in hoarded food. Reliance on each varies, but both are characterized by energy stored in excess of current demands for future use. Fasted Siberian hamsters decrease their lipid stores and, upon refeeding, food hoarding rather than food intake increases. Here, we tested the effect of foraging-effort level on fasting-induced increases in food hoarding and whether decreases in total body fat or individual fat pad masses were associated with the hoarding increases. This was accomplished by housing female Siberian hamsters in a foraging/hoarding system where they earned food pellets upon completion of a programmed number of wheel revolutions (10, 75 or 200 per 75-mg pellet), or had no foraging requirement (free food and an active or blocked running wheel). After baseline, half the hamsters in each group were food deprived for 32 h and then refed (control hamsters were killed after the fast without refeeding). Fasted-refed hamsters increased foraging and food hoarding, especially at the lowest foraging effort, but not food intake, with few exceptions. These responses became progressively smaller as foraging effort increased. Fasting induced similar losses in carcass lipid across foraging efforts, but the lipid loss was not uniform across the fat pads and was not clearly related to hoard size. Collectively, the fasting-induced, increased food hoarding may be triggered by an overall change in energy metabolism rather than by a general or fat-pad-specific decrease in lipid stores.
High-strength static magnetic fields are common tools in clinical imaging, but the behavioral effects are not well characterized. Previous studies on rats showed that fields of 7 T or above produced locomotor circling, conditioned taste aversion (CTA) and c-Fos in vestibular nuclei. To determine the generality of the behavioral effects on a smaller species, we subjected restrained or unrestrained mice to 30-min exposures in a 14.1-T field. Mice were given saccharin immediately prior to magnet or sham exposure on 3 consecutive days. All mice exposed to the magnet developed a CTA, and a significant number displayed tight circling and suppression of rearing. Unrestrained mice exhibited larger effects than restrained mice. These effects, similar to the effects in rats, may be the result of a vestibular disturbance caused by the magnetic field.
Metalloneurochemistry is the study of metal ion function in the brain and nervous system at the molecular level. Research in this area is exemplified through discussion of several forefront areas where significant progress has been made in recent years. The structure and function of ion channels have been elucidated through high-resolution x-ray structural work on the bacterial K(+) ion channel. Selection of potassium over sodium ions is achieved by taking advantage of key principles of coordination chemistry. The role of calcium ions in neuronal signal transduction is effected by several Ca(2+)-binding protein such as calmodulin, calcineurin, and synaptotagmin. Structural changes in response to calcium ion concentrations allow these proteins to function in memory formation and other neurochemical roles. Metallochaperones help to achieve metal ion homeostasis and thus prevent neurological diseases because of metal ion imbalance. Much detailed chemical information about these systems has become available recently. Zinc is another important metal ion in neuroscience. Its concentration in brain is in part controlled by metallothionein, and zinc is released in the hippocampus at glutamatergic synapses. New fluorescent sensors have become available to help track such zinc release.
Dopamine D2 receptors are highly expressed in the dorsal striatum where they participate in the regulation of (i) tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in nigrostriatal nerve terminals, and (ii) the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), in medium spiny neurons. Two isoforms of the D2 receptor are generated by differential splicing of the same gene and are referred to as short (D2S) and long (D2L) dopamine receptors. Here we have used wild-type mice, dopamine D2 receptor knockout mice (D2 KO mice; lacking both D2S and D2L receptors) and D2L receptor-selective knockout mice (D2L KO mice) to evaluate the involvement of each isoform in the regulation of the phosphorylation of TH and DARPP-32. Incubation of striatal slices from wild-type mice with quinpirole, a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, decreased the state of phosphorylation of TH at Ser-40 and its enzymatic activity. Both effects were abolished in D2 KO mice but were still present in D2L KO mice. In wild-type mice, quinpirole inhibits the increase in DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr-34 induced by SKF81297, a dopamine D1 receptor agonist. This effect is absent in D2 KO as well as D2L KO mice. The inability of quinpirole to regulate DARPP-32 phosphorylation in D2L KO mice cannot be attributed to decreased coupling of D2S receptors to G proteins, because quinpirole produces a similar stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in wild-type and D2L KO mice. These results demonstrate that D2S and D2L receptors participate in presynaptic and postsynaptic dopaminergic transmission, respectively.
Odor stimulation of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) leads to both the activation and subsequent desensitization of a heteromultimeric cyclic-nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel present in these cells. The native olfactory CNG channel consists of three distinct subunits: CNGA2, CNGA4, and CNGB1b. Mice in which the CNGA4 gene has been deleted display defective Ca(2+)calmodulin-dependent inhibition of the CNG channel, resulting in a striking reduction in adaptation of the odor-induced electrophysiological response in the OSNs. These mutants therefore afford an excellent opportunity to assess the importance of Ca(2+)-mediated CNG channel desensitization for odor discrimination and adaptation in behaving animals. By using an operant conditioning paradigm, we show that CNGA4-null mice are profoundly impaired in the detection and discrimination of olfactory stimuli in the presence of an adapting background odor. The extent of this impairment depends on both the concentration and the molecular identity of the adapting stimulus. Thus, Ca(2+)-dependent desensitization of the odor response in the OSNs mediated by the CNGA4 subunit is essential for normal odor sensation and adaptation of freely behaving mice, preventing saturation of the olfactory signal transduction machinery and extending the range of odor detection and discrimination.
Radial glial cells and astrocytes function to support the construction and maintenance, respectively, of the cerebral cortex. However, the mechanisms that determine how radial glial cells are established, maintained, and transformed into astrocytes in the cerebral cortex are not well understood. Here, we show that neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) exerts a critical role in the establishment of radial glial cells. Radial glial cell generation is significantly impaired in NRG mutants, and this defect can be rescued by exogenous NRG-1. Down-regulation of expression and activity of erbB2, a member of the NRG-1 receptor complex, leads to the transformation of radial glial cells into astrocytes. Reintroduction of erbB2 transforms astrocytes into radial glia. The activated form of the Notch1 receptor, which promotes the radial glial phenotype, activates the erbB2 promoter in radial glial cells. These results suggest that developmental changes in NRG-1-erbB2 interactions modulate the establishment of radial glia and contribute to their appropriate transformation into astrocytes.
Oxidative stress is believed to be an important mediator of neurodegeneration. However, the transcriptional pathways induced in neurons by oxidative stress that activate protective gene responses have yet to be fully delineated. We report that the transcription factor Sp1 is acetylated in response to oxidative stress in neurons. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors augment Sp1 acetylation, Sp1 DNA binding, and Sp1-dependent gene expression and confer resistance to oxidative stress-induced death in vitro and in vivo. Sp1 activation is necessary for the protective effects of HDAC inhibitors. Together, these results demonstrate that HDAC inhibitors inhibit oxidative death independent of polyglutamine expansions by activating an Sp1-dependent adaptive response.
A significant fraction of the total calciumcalmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activity in neurons is associated with synaptic connections and is present in nerve terminals, thus suggesting a role for CaMKII in neurotransmitter release. To determine whether CaMKII regulates neurotransmitter release, we generated and analyzed knockout mice in which the dominant alpha-isoform of CaMKII was specifically deleted from the presynaptic side of the CA3-CA1 hippocampal synapse. Conditional CA3 alpha-CaMKII knockout mice exhibited an unchanged basal probability of neurotransmitter release at CA3-CA1 synapses but showed a significant enhancement in the activity-dependent increase in probability of release during repetitive presynaptic stimulation, as was shown with the analysis of unitary synaptic currents. These data indicate that alpha-CaMKII serves as a negative activity-dependent regulator of neurotransmitter release at hippocampal synapses and maintains synapses in an optimal range of release probabilities necessary for normal synaptic operation.
The ability of an animal to carry out its normal behavioral repertoire requires generation of an enormous diversity of neurons and glia. The relative simplicity of the spinal cord makes this an especially attractive part of the nervous system for addressing questions about the development of vertebrate neural specification and function. The last decade has witnessed an explosion in our understanding of spinal cord development and the functional interactions among spinal cord neurons and glia. Cellular, genetic, molecular, physiological and behavioral studies in zebrafish have all been important in providing insights into questions that remained unanswered by studies from other vertebrate model organisms. This is the case because many zebrafish spinal neurons can be individually identified and followed over time in living embryos and larvae. In this review, we discuss what is currently known about the cellular, genetic and molecular mechanisms involved in specifying distinct cell types in the zebrafish spinal cord and how these cells establish the functional circuitry that mediates particular behaviors. We start by describing the early signals and morphogenetic movements that form the nervous system, and in particular, the spinal cord. We then provide an overview of the cell types within the spinal cord and describe how they are specified and patterned. We begin ventrally with floor plate and proceed dorsally, through motoneurons and oligodendrocytes, interneurons, astrocytes and radial glia, spinal sensory neurons and neural crest. We next describe axon pathfinding of spinal neurons. Finally, we discuss the roles of particular spinal cord neurons in specific behaviors.
Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) mediated by sarcoplasmic reticulum resident ryanodine receptors (RyRs) has been well described in cardiac, skeletal and smooth muscle. In brain, RyRs are localised primarily to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and have been demonstrated in postsynaptic entities, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes where they regulate intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), membrane potential and the activity of a variety of second messenger systems. Recently, the contribution of presynaptic RyRs and CICR to functions of central and peripheral presynaptic terminals, including neurotransmitter release, has received increased attention. However, there is no general agreement that RyRs are localised to presynaptic terminals, nor is it clear that RyRs regulate a large enough pool of intracellular Ca(2+) to be physiologically significant. Here, we review direct and indirect evidence that on balance favours the notion that ER and RyRs are found in presynaptic terminals and are physiologically significant. In so doing, it became obvious that some of the controversy originates from issues related to (i) the ability to demonstrate conclusively the physical presence of ER and RyRs, (ii) whether the biophysical properties of RyRs are such that they can contribute physiologically to regulation of presynaptic [Ca(2+)](i), (iii) how ER Ca(2+) load and feedback gain of CICR contributes to the ability to detect functionally relevant RyRs, (iv) the distance that Ca(2+) diffuses from plasma membranes to RyRs to trigger CICR and from RyRs to the Active Zone to enhance vesicle release, and (v) the experimental conditions used. The recognition that ER Ca(2+) stores are able to modulate local Ca(2+) levels and neurotransmitter release in presynaptic terminals will aid in the understanding of the cellular mechanisms controlling neuronal function.
There is increasing evidence that some neuronal death after brain ischaemia is mediated by the action of cysteine-requiring aspartate-directed proteases (caspases), the proteases responsible for apoptosis in mammals, although this form of neuronal death is not always accompanied by the morphological changes that are typical of apoptosis in other tissues. Caspase-mediated neuronal death is more extensive after transient than permanent focal brain ischaemia and may contribute to delayed loss of neurons from the penumbral region of infarcts. The activation of caspases after brain ischaemia is largely consequent on the translocation of Bax, Bak, and other BH3-only members of the Bcl-2 family to the mitochondrial outer membrane and the release of cytochrome c, procaspase-9, and apoptosis activating factor-1 (Apaf-1) from the mitochondrial intermembrane space. How exactly ischaemia induces this translocation is still poorly understood. NF-kappaB, the c-jun N-terminal kinase-c-Jun pathway, p53, E2F1, and other transcription factors are probably all involved in regulating the expression of BH3-only proteins after brain ischaemia, and mitochondrial translocation of Bad from sequestering cytosolic proteins is promoted by inactivation of the serine-threonine kinase, Akt. Other processes that are probably involved in the activation of caspases after brain ischaemia include the mitochondrial release of the second mitochondrial activator of caspases (Smac) or direct inhibitor-of-apoptosis-binding protein with low pI (DIABLO), the accumulation of products of lipid peroxidation, a marked reduction in protein synthesis, and the aberrant reentry of neurons into the cell cycle. Non-caspase-mediated neuronal apoptosis may also occur, but there is little evidence to date that this makes a significant contribution to brain damage after ischaemia. The intracellular processes that contribute to caspase-mediated neuronal death after ischaemia are all potential targets for therapy. However, anti-apoptotic interventions in stroke patients will require detailed evaluation using a range of outcome measures, as some such interventions seem simply to delay neuronal death and others to preserve neurons but not neuronal function.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a severe and progressive neurodegenerative disease. It is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, after Alzheimer's disease. It is caused by the selective loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) pars compacta. Although subject to intensive research, the etiology of PD is still enigmatic and treatment is basically symptomatic. Many factors are thought to operate in the mechanism of cell death of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in PD. In recent years, evidence for the role of apoptotic cell death in PD arises from morphological, as well as molecular, studies in cell cultures, animal models for PD, as well as human studies on postmortem brains from PD patients. These studies indicate that apoptosis takes place in PD and that there is a proapoptotic environment in the nigrostriatal region of parkinsonian patients. It is of utmost importance to conclusively determine the mode of cell death in PD because new &quot;antiapoptotic&quot; compounds may offer a means of protecting neurons from cell death and of slowing the rate of neurodegeneration and disease progression.
No one can or has doubted that the brain &quot;lights up&quot; in the context of normal and abnormal experience and behavior. The anatomy of the brain ensures that its regions, circuits, distributed pathways, and cell assemblies have to provide the &quot;electricity&quot; for the lights. Some of the relevant structures light up preferentially for some neurocognitive functions (e.g., language, attention and working memory, spatial orientation). However, many domains of experience and behavior relevant to mental health problems (e.g., motivation, attachment residuals, emotional responses) appear to have a different neural representation than traditional neurocognitive functions. At any rate, the preceding describes the territory that Strumwasser emphasizes should be taken into consideration in context of mental health problems. The territory he wants to connect with involves disturbances of experience and behavior, social inefficiency, behavioral breakdowns, and disordered thought, all of which demarcate the clinical domain. Strumwasser believes that a relevant and clinically useful bridge can be devised to cross and link together these territories in an effective way. He proposes and urges that attention be given to developing a frame of reference by means of which a solid correspondence can be established between the two territories. He provides a stimulating and provocative image of a future clinical cognitive neuroscience. His vision, however, raises many questions. Furthermore, whether future developments in the neural sciences will or can accommodate Strumwasser's wishes remains to be seen.
This essay proposes the existence of four unique behavioral characteristics that distinguish Homo sapiens from its nearest evolutionary kin, the great apes. These are inventiveness, capacity for language, curiosity, and self-reflection or self-analysis. Some would counterargue that none of these features are &quot;unique&quot; to humans. Examples would be given of animal &quot;intelligence&quot; involving at times surprising problem-solving abilities. Even &quot;conversations&quot; between humans and parrots might be cited. However, this is to misunderstand what the focus is in the article. This is not a thesis on the continuity or discontinuities of evolution. Every well-trained biologist learns about evolution and understands that the most complex human traits have some hint of related traits in nearest relatives. Rather, the emphasis of this article has been to select and emphasize certain distinctive aspects of human behavior that are the most important features distinguishing human &quot;uniqueness.&quot; Uniqueness may be quantified by the number and complexity of processes within the four attributes presented in this article. While this may be an interesting mathematical exercise, the author would rather take it for granted that the outcome would be that humans are significantly more complex in each of the four features referred to than the great apes. For those in the mental health field, one would hope that this overview of the most highly evolved systems in human brain may provide a useful framework where creative therapeutic processes can be applied to the ultimate beneficiary, the client or patient. This article proposes that psychosis can be considered the impossibility of conflict resolution among the special neuronal assemblies that separately mediate feelings of attachment versus abandonment, security versus anxiety, calmness versus anger, fulfillment versus helplessness, and satisfaction of sexual needs. Given this model, the role of the therapist is to consider whether the client is in touch with the various equilibrium points in their current life situation or crisis. A questionnaire designed to help access information on these internal states may work better than an oral interview because it forces the client to reflect. How much conflict does the client feel in sorting out personal priorities? Does the client have any practice at resolving internal conflicts? If unpracticed, is the client likely to act out in destructive ways to self or others to resolve the pressure of internal conflicts? I am sure that we can all think of current well-publicized destructive acts in which one has to wonder precisely what model of mind the psychotherapists were using to assist the client. At a higher level, each human has the potential to be creative. Whether expressed as curiosity about the universe and nature or inventiveness, as in improving the quality of one's life or by the use of gifted language as in art and music, the therapist needs to determine how to assist the client into these kinds of self-defined fulfillments, which one hopes will reduce the other tensions of conflict resolution. There is no doubt that the journey for both the client and therapist will be challenging. Ultimately, the journey is the reward for both the client and therapist. In closing, the following quotation seems appropriate. Sydney Brenner (2002), a pioneer in molecular biology, reviewed a current book on the Science, Politics, and Ethics of the Human Genome Project (Sulston and Ferry 2002). He states, &quot;What I found interesting in the account is that Sulston doesn't tell us anything about the genomes he has sequenced. What did he find there that excited him? What did he learn about genes, about life, about evolution, about worlds to come? It is the play of Hamlet without Hamlet&quot; (p. 794).
In order to examine the co-occurrence of nightmares with dissociative experiences in the adolescent population and to demonstrate the impact of childhood traumatic events in this association, 292 undergraduate students were interviewed for childhood traumatic events. The Van Dream Anxiety Scale (VDAS) and Dissociative Experiences Scale (DES) were also administered to the subjects. For nightmares a 7.5% prevalence of 'often' and a 58.2% prevalence of 'sometimes' was found for college students. Nightmare prevalence was higher in women than in men. The rate of childhood traumatic experiences was higher in nightmare sufferers than in those who did not have nightmares. The subjects who had undergone physical and sexual abuse had higher VDAS global scores and item scores. When the DES scores of the subjects with nightmares were compared with that of those who had never reported nightmares, the subjects with nightmares had significantly higher scores on DES. The DES scores were also negatively correlated with duration of nightmares in subjects who had childhood traumatic experiences. These findings suggest that the subjects with childhood traumatic events failed to psychologically integrate their traumatic experiences and used dissociation as a coping strategy.
Structural cerebral abnormalities are frequently observed in schizophrenia. These abnormalities may indicate vulnerability for the disorder, as evidenced by reports of familial clustering of measures identified through region-of-interest analyses using manual outlining procedures. We used computational morphometry to detect structural differences within the entire brain to further examine possible structural endophenotypes. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained in 31 psychotic patients, 32 non-psychotic first-degree relatives of psychotic patients and 27 healthy controls. The images were processed using an automated procedure, yielding global grey matter, white matter, CSF and total brain volume. The relative distribution of grey matter was compared between groups on a clustered-voxel basis. Global grey matter and total brain volume did not differ between the groups. White matter volume was significantly higher and CSF volume significantly lower in relatives compared to both cases and controls. The clustered-voxel based group comparison yielded evidence for significant grey matter deficits in fronto-thalamic-cerebellar regions, in psychotic patients, whereas the most prominent deficits in relatives involved the cerebellum. Patients with psychosis and first-degree healthy relatives of patients with psychosis show cerebellar abnormalities, which may constitute a marker of genetic transmission.
Prenatal morphine exposure (5-10 mg/kg twice daily on gestation days 11-18) can adversely affect neurological development, including seizure susceptibility. The present study examines the effects of prenatal morphine exposure on seizure susceptibility to the GABA antagonist and convulsant bicuculline and GABA(A) alpha(1) receptor mRNA in the substantia nigra (SN) of female rats. The results demonstrate that prenatally morphine-exposed ovariectomized (OVX) females and OVX females with estradiol benzoate (EB) replacement have an increased latency to seizure onset compared to controls. In addition, prenatal morphine exposure decreases the area covered by grains of GABA(A) alpha(1) receptor mRNA in the anterior SN in both OVX and EB+progesterone (P)-treated groups, and decreases the number of GABA(A) alpha(1) receptor mRNA-labeled cells/field in EB females. Furthermore, prenatally morphine- and saline-exposed EB and EB+P females had decreased GABA(A) alpha(1) receptor mRNA-labeled cells/field in the anterior SN compared to OVX animals of the same prenatal exposure. These results demonstrate that the long term effects of prenatal morphine exposure in female rats is dependent on their hormonal status, and suggest that seizure susceptibility may be altered via neuropharmacological changes in the GABA system in the SN.

We describe the clinical response and the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of fluoxetine and serotonin levels in plasma and platelets in 10 depressive patients treated with 20 mg/day of fluoxetine for 30 days. Depression severity was assessed at baseline and after treatment by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). &quot;Good clinical response&quot; was defined as a decrease of 50% or more of the total HAM-D score compared with baseline. Using this measure, patients were thus classified as &quot;responders&quot; or &quot;nonresponders.&quot; For both groups we describe the AUC of fluoxetine and serotonin levels in plasma and platelets at baseline and after 30 days of treatment. We found different trends of biochemical parameters in the examined groups. In fact, after treatment responders showed, in comparison with nonresponders, higher levels of fluoxetine in platelets and lower levels in plasma; responders also showed lower concentrations of serotonin in platelets and higher concentrations in plasma.







Neurological complications of cosmopolitan parasitosis are rare. We report a case of a cerebral and systemic vasculitis secondary to a visceral larva migrans syndrome associated with a Toxocara canis and Fasciola hepatica co-infestation.
The insula is increasingly the subject of great interest in psychiatric disorders of neurodevelopmental origin because of its anatomical location, wide interconnectivity, and variety of functions. This study explores the possible morphometric change of the insula in schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and its potential relationship to clinical symptoms. The insula was traced on all coronal slices of magnetic resonance images of three age- and sex-matched diagnostic groups, which consisted of 21 patients with schizophrenia, 21 patients with OCD and 21 normal volunteers. The volumetric measures of the insula were compared among the three groups, and their relationships to the symptom severity were investigated. Volumetric reduction of the left insula was observed in the schizophrenia group, but not in the OCD group. These results confirm the involvement of deficient insular function in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Gender differences in schizophrenia are among the most consistently reported findings in schizophrenia research. However, the biological substrate underlying these gender differences is still largely unknown. Differences in language lateralization between men and women may underlie some gender differences in schizophrenia. In previous functional imaging studies, language lateralization was found to be decreased in male schizophrenia patients as compared to healthy males, which was due to enhanced language activation of the right hemisphere as compared to the healthy males. It could be hypothesized that decreased language lateralization in schizophrenia is gender specific, i.e. decreased lateralization in male patients and normal lateralization in female patients. To test this hypothesis, language activation was measured in 12 right-handed female patients with schizophrenia and 12 healthy females, and compared to findings in 12 male patients and 12 male controls of an earlier study. Language lateralization was significantly lower in the female patients (0.44) as compared to the female controls (0.75), which was due to increased activation of the right-sided language areas (patients: 19 voxels; controls: 8 voxels), while left hemisphere activation was similar in patients and controls. When these data are compared to the male patients and controls, both patient groups had lower lateralization than their healthy counterparts, but there was no difference between male and female patients. In both sexes, decreased lateralization resulted from increased right hemispheric language activation, which suggests a failure to inhibit nondominant language areas in schizophrenia. These findings indicate that lower language lateralization in women is not likely to underlie gender differences in schizophrenia.
In 1994, the governing council of the Society for Neuroscience was asked to make a brief statement on an issue regarding responsible conduct in publishing. The present article reviews how that initial request grew over the next four years into a lengthy document. Drawing on that experience, which was presided over by the author, comments are made about the potential impact of such guidelines, the lessons learned, and the proper role of professional societies in promoting responsible conduct in research.

Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is a monophasic inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system (CNS). Unlike viral encephalitis, microorganisms do not invade the CNS. Instead, ADEM is a postinfectious disease mediated by auto-reactive cells or molecules. Clinical characteristics of ADEM are consistent with disseminated involvement of the CNS, including encephalopathy and pyramidal, cerebellar, and brainstem signs. Bilateral optic neuritis and transverse myelitis are particularly suggestive of demyelinating diseases such as ADEM. Unlike viral encephalitis, seizures rarely are a prominent symptom. The most useful diagnostic investigation is magnetic resonance neuroimaging that commonly shows multifocal lesions throughout the brain and spinal cord. As ADEM is an immune-mediated disorder, treatment includes immunomodulatory therapies (particularly steroids), although no clinical trials have been performed to define the most efficacious agent. In view of the treatment differences between ADEM and viral encephalitis, being familiar with ADEM is essential for pediatricians managing acute neurological disorders.
DNA chips and proteomics are two of the recently developed high-throughput technologies that allow us to simultaneously analyze the expression levels of multiple genes and the interactions of their products in the brain. Their applications in neuroscience provide us with the unprecedented opportunities for understanding of the brain. A typical gene chip experiment contains a series of steps, including preparations (or purchase) of DNA chips, target DNA and probes, hybridization of chips with target DNA, chip scanning, and imaging analysis. The technologies in proteomics are more complicated, which comprise of three main aspects of technologies: protein isolation, identification and bioinformatic analysis of data. If protein isolation is based on 2-D, it includes the preparation of protein sample, 2-D, staining gels, spot excision, proteolysis, mass spectrometry of purified protein and finally undergoing bioinformatic analysis. Here we review the two technologies with emphasis on their applications in neurosciences. The challenges, advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques, and perspectives for their developments are discussed.




Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease typified by progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Mild excitotoxicity has been implicated as one of the factors contributing to RGC death during the glaucomatous process. This type of excitotoxic cell death is due, at least in part, to somewhat excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors. NMDA-receptor activity, however, is also essential for normal neuronal function. This means that potential neuroprotective agents that block virtually all NMDA-receptor activity will have unacceptable clinical side effects. Studies in our laboratory have shown that the adamantane derivative, memantine, blocks only excessive NMDA-receptor activity without disrupting normal activity. Past clinical use has demonstrated that memantine is safe, and it has recently been approved in Europe for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Clinical studies of the safety and efficacy of memantine in glaucoma are currently underway. A series of second-generation memantine derivatives called nitro-memantines are currently in development and may prove to have even greater neuroprotective properties than does memantine.
The hypophagic action of the sympathomimetic amine ephedrine (EPH) in the rat may reflect actions on central dopaminergic (DA) and noradrenergic (NE) systems. EPH indirectly facilitates DA and NE activity and acts as a partial agonist at alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors. Two approaches were used to assess the possible contribution of NE and DA pathways to EPH-induced hypophagia. In the first, regression analyses of published archival data were computed to characterize the relation between the hypophagic potency values of (-)-(EPH) and related sympathomimetic drugs, including (+)-amphetamine, aminorex, mazindol, and phentermine (data derived from Blosser JC et al., 1987) and the most potent action of these drugs on facilitating NE activity or DA activity in rat brain (data derived from Rothman RB et al., 2001). In the NE analyses, the ED(50) values for these drugs for the inhibition of eating in rats were significantly related (r = 0.91, P = 0.03) to the potency of each drug in facilitating NE activity (either release or inhibition of [(3)H]NE reuptake), whereas in the DA analyses the correlation between ED(50) values and DA activity for these drugs was also significant (r = 0.98, P = 0.003). The regression analyses are thus supportive of a role for NE or DA in the hypophagic capacity of EPH. Although an earlier study noted that administration of the putative DA antagonist pimozide in rats attenuated EPH hypophagia, pimozide exerts similar potency in antagonizing DA receptors and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors. To clarify the role of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in EPH-induced hypophagia, adult male rats were pretreated with the alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin (0.0.5 and 2 mg/kg) prior to the administration of (-)-EPH (0, 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg, IP). Prazosin pretreatment at 2.0 mg/kg significantly attenuated the hypophagia, but not the hypodipsia, induced by administration of 10 mg/kg and by 20 mg/kg (-)-EPH. Collectively, these results confirm a critical contribution of of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors to the hypophagic action of (-)-EPH in rats.
Previous work has demonstrated that acute and chronic administration of amphetamine causes phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB, the cAMP response element (CRE) binding protein, in striatum, a brain region important for the behavioral actions of the drug. To determine whether such phosphorylation is associated with changes in CREB transcriptional activity, we mapped beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) expression in a CRE-LacZ transgenic mouse, in which the beta-gal reporter is downstream of CRE sequences, following acute or chronic amphetamine administration. We found that acute amphetamine induced beta-gal expression in a relatively small number of brain regions, including nucleus accumbens (ventral striatum), amygdala, ventral tegmental area, and locus coeruleus. Chronic amphetamine generally produced greater changes in CRE-mediated transcription in most brain regions and induced CRE-transcription in several regions unaffected by acute drug exposure. Interestingly, amphetamine regulation of CRE activity differed dramatically between males and females. In nucleus accumbens, beta-gal expression colocalized predominantly with dynorphinergic neurons after acute amphetamine administration, while chronic administration induced beta-gal expression in both dynorphinergic and enkephalinergic neurons. In ventral tegmental area, acute and chronic amphetamine induced beta-gal expression mainly in dopaminergic neurons, while induction in the locus coeruleus occurred mainly in nonnoradrenergic neurons. This study identifies several brain regions where CRE-mediated transcription may play a key role in the development of neuronal plasticity associated with amphetamine administration.
Extracellular single-unit recordings of nigral dopamine (DA) neurons were obtained from conscious rats habituated to having their body suspended in a cloth jacket and their head immobilized in the stereotaxic frame by means of a &quot;restraining platform&quot; permanently fixed to the skull. The electrophysiological characteristics of DA neurons from head-restrained rats and their responses to apomorphine and haloperidol were compared with single-unit recordings obtained from rats lightly and deeply anesthetized with chloral hydrate and from mesencephalic slices. Head-restrained rats showed a higher number of spontaneously active DA neurons and a higher percentage of bursting neurons than lightly and deeply anesthetized rats. Indeed, bursting activity was rare in deeply anesthetized rats and was totally absent in slices. Haloperidol was more potent and effective in stimulating the firing rate and bursting activity in head-restrained than in lightly anesthetized rats, while it was virtually ineffective in deeply anesthetized rats and totally ineffective in slices. On the other hand, DA neurons in head-restrained rats showed the same average firing rate as DA neurons in lightly and deeply anesthetized rats and in slices. The potency of apomorphine in inhibiting the firing rate, and that of haloperidol in reversing apomorphine effect, did not vary among the different in vivo preparations. The results suggest that chloral hydrate anesthesia blunts or suppresses not only the excitatory inputs which normally sustain the number of spontaneously active DA neurons and their bursting activity, but also the feedback excitation of DA neurons following haloperidol-induced D(2) receptor blockade. On the other hand, chloral hydrate anesthesia modifies neither D(2) autoreceptor sensitivity to apomorphine and haloperidol nor the automatic genesis of action potentials. The head-restrained rat appears to be an important model for studies into the pharmacology and physiology of DA neurons.
Racemic citalopram (CIT) was introduced in Sweden in 1992 for management of major depression. During a 5-year period, 1992 to 1997, serum samples of CIT and desmethylcitalopram (DCIT) were collected for therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) from patients from all over Sweden. These samples were accompanied by clinical information on a specially designed TDM request form. They represented men and women of various ages (11-94 years) usually on multiple concomitant medications and treated in a naturalistic setting. The TDM samples eligible for evaluation (n = 749), all trough values at steady state, were studied with respect to inter- and intraindividual pharmacokinetic variability. Extensive, interindividual serum concentration variability was seen on all dose levels. For dose-corrected concentrations (C/D) and for clearance (Cl) we found the coefficient of variation (CV) to be approximately 55% for all variables (C/D CIT, C/D DCIT, the ratio DCIT to CIT, and for Cl CIT). The intraindividual variations over time for the same parameters were 30% to 35%. On a population level, signs of a possible saturation of CYP2D6 associated with increasing DCIT-to-CIT ratios with increasing daily doses was observed. Age and gender affected the pharmacokinetics of CIT and DCIT. Women showed significantly higher C/D CIT and C/D DCIT and lower Cl CIT values compared with men, and patients aged more than 65 years had higher C/D CIT and C/D DCIT and lower Cl CIT values compared with younger patients. Finally, concomitant medication affected the outcome of serum concentrations by a general increase in C/D CIT and C/D DCIT but without alteration in the DCIT-to-CIT ratio. Thus, this tendency of changes in the CIT disposition when multiple drugs are used (and multiple diseases are prevailing?) seems more general in character than specific for a certain drug or type of drugs.
Active components of classical working memory are conscious, but traditional theory does not account for this fact. Global Workspace theory suggests that consciousness is needed to recruit unconscious specialized networks that carry out detailed working memory functions. The IDA model provides a fine-grained analysis of this process, specifically of two classical working-memory tasks, verbal rehearsal and the utilization of a visual image. In the process, new light is shed on the interactions between conscious and unconscious aspects of working memory.
Recent studies that identify distinct neural correlates of perceptual awareness offer a promising step towards improved understanding of the neurological underpinnings of conscious experience. Such studies indicate that perceptual awareness is modular in nature, with neural correlates of awareness consisting of the specialized structures involved in perceptual processing. However, the integrative, multimodal nature of conscious experience appears to require a functional architecture that overcomes this modular segregation of function. We propose a model in which experience emerges from the dynamic interactions of specialized component processes via a distributed neural network. Such a model offers a mechanism to explain several empirical observations of the neural correlates of perceptual awareness, cognitive function, and symptoms of neurological damage.

Electrical signaling in neurons is based on the operation of plasmalemmal ion pumps and carriers that establish transmembrane ion gradients, and on the operation of ion channels that generate current and voltage responses by dissipating these gradients. Although both voltage- and ligand-gated channels are being extensively studied, the central role of ion pumps and carriers is largely ignored in current neuroscience. Such an information gap is particularly evident with regard to neuronal Cl- regulation, despite its immense importance in the generation of inhibitory synaptic responses by GABA- and glycine-gated anion channels. The cation-chloride co-transporters (CCCs) have been identified as important regulators of neuronal Cl- concentration, and recent work indicates that CCCs play a key role in shaping GABA- and glycine-mediated signaling, influencing not only fast cell-to-cell communication but also various aspects of neuronal development, plasticity and trauma.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons maintain low ongoing &quot;tonic&quot; activity interrupted by high frequency bursts associated with behavioral reward. Dopamine released during bursts feeds back onto D(2) autoreceptors that depress neuronal activity. New findings from Ingram and colleagues suggest that, by contrast, tonic activity excites these neurons by activating an uncoupled Cl- conductance that is mediated by the dopamine uptake transporter. This response extends the range of states regulated by neurotransmitter feedback, and could contribute importantly to understanding amphetamine action.
A historical review of the early phases of molecular investigations of opioid receptors is presented. The 'modern' era of molecular studies of neurotransmitter and drug receptor research commenced in the 1970s with the identification of receptors using ligand binding techniques. These findings had several ramifications. Reversible ligand binding to opioid receptors using simple, sensitive and specific techniques provided a paradigm for the study of receptors for the principal neurotransmitters in the brain. The relatively high-throughput binding techniques employed facilitated drug development in the pharmaceutical industry. Differentiation of agonist and antagonist receptor interactions by Na(+) ions and other substances helped elucidate how ligand recognition at receptors is translated into second messenger alterations. Localizations of opioid receptors clarified many of the pharmacological actions of opiate drugs. Differential binding interactions of various drugs led to the identification of opioid receptor subtypes. Receptor influences in binding paradigms and smooth muscle pharmacology permitted the identification and isolation of endogenous opioid peptides.
1. Curcumin has anti-carcinogen effects and is under clinical evaluation as a potential colon cancer chemopreventive agent. The first aim was to see whether curcumin inhibited phenol sulfotransferase (SULT1A1) and, if so, to study the variability of the IC(50) of curcumin for SULT1A1 in 50 human liver samples. For comparative purposes, the inhibition of catechol sulfotransferase (SULT1A3) in five human liver specimens was studied. The second aim was to measure the IC(50) of curcumin against SULT1A1 in five samples of human duodenum, colon, kidney and lung. 2. Curcumin was a potent inhibitor of SULT1A1 in human liver; the mean +/- SD and median of IC(50) were 14.1 +/- 7.3 nM and 12.8 nM, respectively. The IC(50) ranged from 6.2 to 30.6 nM between the 5th and 95th percentiles and the fold of variation was 4.9. The distribution of IC(50) was positively skewed (skewness 1.2) and deviated from normality (p = 0.0004). 3. Curcumin inhibited human SULT1A3, and the inhibition was studied in five liver specimens with an IC(50) of 4324 +/- 1026 nM. This inhibition was greater than the IC(50) of curcumin for SULT1A1 (p &lt; 0.0001). 4. In the extrahepatic tissues, the IC(50) of curcumin for SULT1A1 was 25.9 +/- 4.8 nM (duodenum), 25.4 +/- 6.8 nM (colon), 23.4 +/- 2.2 nM (kidney) and 25.6 +/- 5.6 nM (lung). Inhibition in these tissues is greater than that of curcumin for SULT1A1 in human liver (p &lt; 0.0001). 5. In conclusion, curcumin is a potent inhibitor of SULT1A1 in human liver, duodenum, colon, kidney and lung. The IC(50) of curcumin for SULT1A1 varied 4.9-fold in human liver. The comparison of the present data with those of the literature revealed that the IC(50) of curcumin in the liver and extrahepatic tissues is one order of magnitude lower that the peak serum concentration of curcumin after therapeutic doses of 4 g to humans.
To understand the animal mind, we have to reconstruct how animals recognize the external world through their own eyes. For the reconstruction to be realistic, explanations must be made both in their proximate causes (brain mechanisms) as well as ultimate causes (evolutionary backgrounds). Here, we review recent advances in the behavioral, psychological, and system-neuroscience studies accomplished using the domestic chick as subjects. Diverse behavioral paradigms are compared (such as filial imprinting, sexual imprinting, one-trial passive avoidance learning, and reinforcement operant conditioning) in their behavioral characterizations (development, sensory and motor aspects of functions, fitness gains) and relevant brain mechanisms. We will stress that common brain regions are shared by these distinct paradigms, particularly those in the ventral telencephalic structures such as AIv (in the archistriatum) and LPO (in the medial striatum). Neuronal ensembles in these regions could code the chick's anticipation for forthcoming events, particularly the quality/quantity and the temporal proximity of rewards. Without the internal representation of the anticipated proximity in LPO, behavioral tolerance will be lost, and the chick makes impulsive choice for a less optimized option. Functional roles of these regions proved compatible with their anatomical counterparts in the mammalian brain, thus suggesting that the neural systems linking between the memorized past and the anticipated future have remained highly conservative through the evolution of the amniotic vertebrates during the last 300 million years. With the conservative nature in mind, research efforts should be oriented toward a unifying theory, which could explain behavioral deviations from optimized foraging, such as &quot;nave curiosity,&quot; &quot;contra-freeloading,&quot; &quot;Concorde fallacy,&quot; and &quot;altruism.&quot;
Recent empirical studies have implicated the use of the motor system during action observation, imitation and social interaction. In this paper, we explore the computational parallels between the processes that occur in motor control and in action observation, imitation, social interaction and theory of mind. In particular, we examine the extent to which motor commands acting on the body can be equated with communicative signals acting on other people and suggest that computational solutions for motor control may have been extended to the domain of social interaction.
Human emotional expressions serve a crucial communicatory role allowing the rapid transmission of valence information from one individual to another. This paper will review the literature on the neural mechanisms necessary for this communication: both the mechanisms involved in the production of emotional expressions and those involved in the interpretation of the emotional expressions of others. Finally, reference to the neuro-psychiatric disorders of autism, psychopathy and acquired sociopathy will be made. In these conditions, the appropriate processing of emotional expressions is impaired. In autism, it is argued that the basic response to emotional expressions remains intact but that there is impaired ability to represent the referent of the individual displaying the emotion. In psychopathy, the response to fearful and sad expressions is attenuated and this interferes with socialization resulting in an individual who fails to learn to avoid actions that result in harm to others. In acquired sociopathy, the response to angry expressions in particular is attenuated resulting in reduced regulation of social behaviour.
Movement imitation requires a complex set of mechanisms that map an observed movement of a teacher onto one's own movement apparatus. Relevant problems include movement recognition, pose estimation, pose tracking, body correspondence, coordinate transformation from external to egocentric space, matching of observed against previously learned movement, resolution of redundant degrees-of-freedom that are unconstrained by the observation, suitable movement representations for imitation, modularization of motor control, etc. All of these topics by themselves are active research problems in computational and neurobiological sciences, such that their combination into a complete imitation system remains a daunting undertaking-indeed, one could argue that we need to understand the complete perception-action loop. As a strategy to untangle the complexity of imitation, this paper will examine imitation purely from a computational point of view, i.e. we will review statistical and mathematical approaches that have been suggested for tackling parts of the imitation problem, and discuss their merits, disadvantages and underlying principles. Given the focus on action recognition of other contributions in this special issue, this paper will primarily emphasize the motor side of imitation, assuming that a perceptual system has already identified important features of a demonstrated movement and created their corresponding spatial information. Based on the formalization of motor control in terms of control policies and their associated performance criteria, useful taxonomies of imitation learning can be generated that clarify different approaches and future research directions.
Both developmental and neurophysiological research suggest a common coding between perceived and generated actions. This shared representational network is innately wired in humans. We review psychological evidence concerning the imitative behaviour of newborn human infants. We suggest that the mechanisms involved in infant imitation provide the foundation for understanding that others are 'like me' and underlie the development of theory of mind and empathy for others. We also analyse functional neuroimaging studies that explore the neurophysiological substrate of imitation in adults. We marshal evidence that imitation recruits not only shared neural representations between the self and the other but also cortical regions in the parietal cortex that are crucial for distinguishing between the perspective of self and other. Imitation is doubly revealing: it is used by infants to learn about adults, and by scientists to understand the organization and functioning of the brain.
The mentalizing (theory of mind) system of the brain is probably in operation from ca. 18 months of age, allowing implicit attribution of intentions and other mental states. Between the ages of 4 and 6 years explicit mentalizing becomes possible, and from this age children are able to explain the misleading reasons that have given rise to a false belief. Neuroimaging studies of mentalizing have so far only been carried out in adults. They reveal a system with three components consistently activated during both implicit and explicit mentalizing tasks: medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), temporal poles and posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS). The functions of these components can be elucidated, to some extent, from their role in other tasks used in neuroimaging studies. Thus, the MPFC region is probably the basis of the decoupling mechanism that distinguishes mental state representations from physical state representations; the STS region is probably the basis of the detection of agency, and the temporal poles might be involved in access to social knowledge in the form of scripts. The activation of these components in concert appears to be critical to mentalizing.
During aging, neurotransmission systems such as the cholinergic and serotonergic ones are altered. Using rats aged 3 or 24-26 months, this study investigated whether the well-described 8-OH-DPAT-induced increase of hippocampal acetylcholine release was altered in aged rats and whether it may vary according to the magnitude of age-related cognitive deficits. Long-Evans female rats aged 24-26 months were classified as good or bad performers on the basis of their reference-memory performance in a Morris water-maze task. Subsequently, the efficiency of 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) in triggering hippocampal acetylcholine release was evaluated by in vivo microdialysis and high performance liquid chromatography analysis. Besides a reduced baseline release in aged rats and a correlation between the baseline release and probe-trial performance in all rats, the results demonstrated that 8-OH-DPAT produced a significant increase of hippocampal acetylcholine release (peak value) in all rats, whether aged or young. While significant in bad performers (+56%), this increase did not reach significance in good performers (+32%). The results suggest that (i) some aspects of cognitive alterations related to aging might be linked to the baseline release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus, and (ii) the cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus of aged rats responds almost normally to systemic activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors, and (iii) differential alterations of cholinergic/serotonergic interactions assessed by determination of the 8-OH-DPAT-induced release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus could not be linked with clarity to the cognitive status of aged rats.
It has been reported that cerebral ischemia induces Thr286 autophosphorylation and translocation of CaMKIIalpha which targets to and phosphorylates NR2B in hippocampus of rats [Neuroscience 96 (2000) 665; J. Biol. Chem. 275 (2000) 23798]. To further illustrate the mechanisms underlying these processes, we examined the effects of ketamine (a selective antagonist of NMDA receptor), KN-62 (1-[N,O-bis-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperazine, a selective inhibitor of CaMKII) and reperfusion on CaMKII and NMDA receptors and the interactions between these signal proteins. Firstly, our results showed that ketamine decreased the ischemia-induced autophosphorylation, translocation and the targeting of CaMKIIalpha to NR2B and the serine-phosphorylation of NR2B. Secondly, KN-62 also inhibited the autophosphorylation of CaMKIIalpha, NR2B serine-phosphorylation and the binding of CaMKIIalpha to NR2B but had no effect on the translocation of CaMKII. These data strongly suggest that NMDA receptor channels mediated the Ca(2+)-dependent activation of CaMKII and NMDA receptors surely were the substrates on membranes of active CaMKII. Thirdly, our results indicated the concomitant phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of CaMKII and NR2B following ischemia or longer reperfusion. Moreover, the dissociation of CaMKII from NR2B had the same trend as that of the return of CaMKII to cytosol. All these data imply the close relationships between CaMKII and NR2B during ischemia and reperfusion, namely, CaMKII might act as an amplifier of detrimental cellular calcium signal regulated by NMDA receptors when becoming autophosphorylated and targeting to NR2B; conversely, autophosphorylated CaMKII could modulate NMDA receptor channel properties by phosphorylating NR2B.
Cyclic GMP (cGMP) has been implicated in the modulation of long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) in the hippocampus. Transcripts for subunits of several types of cGMP specific phosphodiesterase are found in the mammalian brain but their relative role in hippocampal function is unclear. The retinal degeneration (rd) mutation in the gene encoding the PDE6B subunit causes a loss of function in PDE6 enzyme and in adult mice homozygous to the mutation it causes blindness. We have used this natural mutation, and the cGMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast, in wild-type and rd/rd mouse littermates to investigate whether PDE5 and/or PDE6 regulates excitatory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Mice were genotyped using two independent PCR methods. Glutamate-mediated synaptic transmission in the CA1 region or dentate gyrus was unaffected in hippocampal brain slices from mice carrying the rd mutation. Similarly the facilitation of synaptic events by paired-pulse stimuli, and LTP induced by a theta-burst (10 bursts of four events at 100 Hz with a 200-ms inter-burst interval) were normal in rd/rd mice. Inhibition of cGMP-specific PDE activity by zaprinast (10 microM, an inhibitor of PDE5 and PDE6) induced a slowly developing and sustained depression of field synaptic potentials that was quantitatively similar in both wild-type and rd/rd mice. Thus in the CA1 region synaptic plasticity is likely to be regulated by the PDE5 rather than the PDE6 isoform.
Mechanical compression and chemical inflammation of the spinal nerve root are considered major sensory pathologies secondary to a lumbar disc herniation. In order to elucidate the dorsal horn responsiveness to noxious stimulation to the peripheral tissue in the neuritis model of the nerve root, we examined extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and Fos expression in spinal cord dorsal horn neurons. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received hemilaminectomies and the implantation of disc tissue that was obtained from coccygeal intervertebral discs. Three or 7 days after surgery, rats were perfused after receiving noxious mechanical stimulation of the plantar surface of the hind paw using a hemoclip, and the L4/5 spinal cord was processed for immunohistochemistry with antibodies for phospho-ERK and Fos. The number of Fos-immunoreactive (Fos-LI) neurons and phospho-ERK-immunoreactive (phospho-ERK-LI) neurons in the neuritis group after the noxious stimulation significantly increased compared to the sham-treated group at 3 and 7 days after surgery. The change in number of phospho-ERK-LI and Fos-LI neurons occurred mainly in the superficial dorsal horn. The number of Fos-LI neurons observed when the MEK inhibitor, U0126, was administered was significantly suppressed compared to the DMSO- (vehicle control) administered group. The increase in ERK phosphorylation and Fos expression in the spinal cord dorsal horn neurons indicates that responses/activation by the noxious stimulation applied to the periphery were elevated in spinal cord neurons in this neuritis model of the lumbar nerve root. Moreover, the increase in the Fos expression in the spinal cord dorsal horn may have been the result of the activation of the MAP kinase cascade.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) content in the suprachiasmatic nucleus have been shown to exhibit seasonal changes with an increase in late summer, the period of sexual quiescence in the jerboa (Jaculus orientalis). In this study, VIP content in the SCN and NPY and enkephaline (ENK) content in the geniculo-suprachiasmatic system have been assayed in wild-caught male jerboas (Jaculus orientalis) in order to determine whether these neuropeptides are controlled directly by photoperiod changes or indirectly by short photoperiod induced changes in circulating sex hormones levels. In agreement with previous studies seasonal variations occur in the VIP and NPY content in the SCN. Variations also occur in NPY content in the IGL with an increase in the period of sexual quiescence. In contrast, no seasonal changes are observed in Enk content in the IGL or the SCN. In short photoperiod conditions increases are observed in both VIP and NPY content in the SCN as well as NPY content in the IGL. Castration during the period of sexual activity (spring) or under long photoperiod which drastically reduces testosterone, also induced an increase in the levels of these neuropeptides. Testosterone implants which reproduce the sex hormonal status of the sexual activity period failed to prevent the short photoperiod-induced increase of VIP and NPY in the SCN and of NPY in the IGL. These results clearly show that the photoperiod modulates VIP and NPY in the geniculo-suprachiasmatic system both by testosterone-linked and testosterone-independent mechanisms.
This study was conducted to determine the cellular and subcellular location(s) of the opioid growth factor receptor (OGFr), and the opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met(5)]-enkephalin, in the corneal epithelium. Laser scanning confocal microscopy analysis revealed that both OGFr and OGF were colocalized in the paranuclear cytoplasm and cell nuclei in basal, as well as suprabasal, cells of adult rat corneal epithelium. Using a postembedding immunogold procedure for immunoelectron microscopy that included embedding in Unicryl, both single- and double-face labeling studies were performed. Immunogold labeling of OGFr was detected on the outer nuclear envelope, in the paranuclear cytoplasm proximal to the nuclear envelope, perpendicular to the nuclear envelope in a putative nuclear pore complex, and within the nucleus adjacent to heterochromatin. Immunoreactivity for OGF was noted in locations similar to that for OGFr. In addition, aggregates of staining for OGF were found throughout the cytoplasm, including subjacent to the plasma membrane. Double labeling experiments revealed that complexes of OGF-OGFr were colocalized on the outer nuclear envelope, in the paranuclear cytoplasm, extending across the nuclear pore complex, and in the nucleus. Anti-OGFr IgG by itself, but not anti-OGF IgG alone, was associated with the outer nuclear envelope, and uncomplexed OGF immunoreactivity was detected in the cytoplasm in dual labeling experiments. These results based on complementary approaches of confocal microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy, suggest that: (i) OGFr resides on the outer nuclear envelope, (ii) OGF interacts with OGFr at the outer nuclear envelope, (iii) the colocalized receptor and peptide translocates between the cytoplasm and the nucleus at the nuclear pore, and (iv) signal transduction for modulation of cell proliferation necessitates a peptide-receptor complex that interfaces with chromatin in the nucleus.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of serine/threonine protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitors on morphine-induced antinociception in the tail flick test in mice, and on [3H]naloxone binding to the forebrain crude synaptosome fraction. Neither okadaic acid nor cantharidin (1-10000 nM) displaced [3H]naloxone from its specific binding sites, which indicates that they do not interact at the opioid receptor level. The i.c.v. administration of very low doses of okadaic acid (0.001-1 pg/mouse) and cantharidin (0.001-1 ng/mouse), which inhibit PP2A, produced a dose-dependent antagonism of the antinociception induced by morphine (s.c.). However, L-nor-okadaone (0.001 pg/mouse-1 ng/mouse, i.c.v.), an analogue of okadaic acid lacking activity against protein phosphatases, did not affect the antinociceptive effect of morphine. On the other hand, high doses of okadaic acid (10 ng/mouse, i.c.v.) and cantharidin (1 microg/mouse, i.c.v.), which also block PP1, and calyculin-A (0.1 fg/mouse-1 ng/mouse, i.c.v.), which inhibits equally both PP1 and PP2A, did not modify the morphine-induced antinociception. These results suggest that the activation of type 2A serine/threonine protein phosphatases may play a role in the antinociceptive effect of morphine, and that PP1 might counterbalace this activity.
The inhibitory effect of ethanol on N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) is well documented in several brain regions. However, the molecular mechanisms by which ethanol affects NMDARs are not well understood. In contrast to the inhibitory effect of ethanol, phosphorylation of the NMDAR potentiates channel currents (Lu, W. Y., Xiong, Z. G., Lei, S., Orser, B. A., Dudek, E., Browning, M. D., and MacDonald, J. F. (1999) Nat. Neurosci. 2, 331-338). We have previously shown that protein kinase C activators induce tyrosine phosphorylation and potentiation of the NMDAR (Grosshans, D. R., Clayton, D. R., Coultrap, S. J., and Browning, M. D. (2002) Nat. Neurosci. 5, 27-33). We therefore hypothesized that the ethanol inhibition of NMDARs might be due to changes in tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDAR subunits. In support of this hypothesis, we found that tyrosine phosphorylation of both NR2A and NR2B subunits was significantly reduced following in situ exposure of hippocampal slices to 100 mm ethanol. Specifically, phosphorylation of tyrosine 1472 on NR2B was reduced 23.5%. These data suggest a possible mechanism by which ethanol may inhibit the NMDAR via activation of a tyrosine phosphatase. Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that ethanol inhibited NMDAR field excitatory postsynaptic potential slope and amplitude to a similar degree as previously reported by our laboratory and others (Schummers, J., Bentz, S., and Browning, M. D. (1997) Alcohol Clin. Exp. Res. 21, 404-408). Inclusion of bpV(phen), a potent phosphotyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, in the recording chamber prior to and during ethanol exposure significantly reduced the inhibitory effect of ethanol on NMDAR field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Taken together, these data suggest that phosphatase-mediated dephosphorylation of NMDAR subunits may play an important role in mediating the inhibitory effects of ethanol on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor.
The role of autocrine growth factors in the stimulation of lung cancer growth is well established. Nicotine is an agonist for acetylcholine receptors and stimulates lung cancer growth. This suggests that if lung cancers synthesize acetylcholine (ACh), then ACh may be an autocrine growth factor for lung cancer. Analysis of normal lung demonstrated that the cells of origin of lung cancers express the proteins necessary for non-neuronal ACh storage and synthesis. Analysis of mRNA from squamous cell lung carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and adenocarcinoma showed synthesis of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and nicotinic receptors. Immunohistochemical analysis of a retrospective series of SCLC and adenocarcinomas showed that more than 50% of the lung cancers screened expressed ChAT and nicotinic receptors. To study the effect of endogenous ACh synthesis on growth, SCLC cell lines were studied. SCLC cell lines were found to express ChAT mRNA and to secrete ACh into the medium as measured by HPLC separation and enzymatically-coupled electrochemical detection. The SCLC cell line NCI-H82 synthesized highest levels of ACh. Showing that the endogenously synthesized ACh interacted with its receptors to stimulate cell growth, addition of muscarinic and nicotinic antagonists slowed H82 cell proliferation. These findings demonstrate that lung cancer cell lines synthesize and secrete ACh to act as an autocrine growth factor. The existence of a cholinergic autocrine loop in lung cancer provides a basis for understanding the effects of nicotine in cigarette smoke on lung cancer growth and provides a new pathway to investigate for potential therapeutic approaches to lung cancer.
Previous reports from this laboratory have demonstrated evidence for synthesis and release of acetylcholine (ACh) and catecholamines (CAs) by human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) and the presence of ACh and CAs in amniotic fluid. To study the physiological role of amniotic ACh, we used an experimental pregnant rat model for intrauterine growth retardation. Prior to this experiment, we confirmed the presence of choline acetyltransferase in the HAEC by immunocytochemical staining. Amniotic fluid was collected at 48 and 72 h after a transient ligation of the uterine vessels near the lower and upper ends of the right horn of the pregnant rat. The ACh concentration in the amniotic fluid from rats received intrauterine ischemia increased with time to a greater degree compared with the control rat, although the increase was not statistically significant. These results suggest that intrauterine hypoxic conditions cause a tendency to increase ACh concentrations in the amniotic fluid.
The hypothalamus integrates metabolic, neural and hormonal signals to evoke an intermittent appetitive drive in the daily management of energy homeostasis. Three major players identified recently in the feedback communication between the periphery and hypothalamus are leptin, ghrelin and neuropeptide Y (NPY). We propose that reciprocal circadian and ultradian rhythmicities in the afferent humoral signals, anorexigenic leptin from adipocytes and orexigenic ghrelin from stomach, encode a corresponding discharge pattern in the appetite-stimulating neuropeptide Y network in the hypothalamus. An exquisitely intricate temporal relationship among these signaling modalities with varied sites of origin is paramount in sustenance of weight control on a daily basis. Our model envisages that subtle and progressive derangements in temporal communication, imposed by environmental shifts in energy intake, impel a positive energy balance culminating in excessive weight gain and obesity. This conceptual advance provides a new target for designing pharmacologic or gene transfer therapies that would normalize the rhythmic patterns of afferent hormonal and efferent neurochemical messages.
Mutations in presenilin genes account for the majority of the cases of the familial form of Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Presenilin is essential for gamma-secretase activity, a proteolytic activity involved in intramembrane cleavage of Notch and beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP). Cleavage of betaAPP by FAD mutant presenilin results in the overproduction of highly amyloidogenic amyloid beta42 peptides. gamma-Secretase activity requires the formation of a stable, high-molecular-mass protein complex that, in addition to the endoproteolysed fragmented form of presenilin, contains essential cofactors including nicastrin, APH-1 (refs 15-18) and PEN-2 (refs 16, 19). However, the role of each protein in complex formation and the generation of enzymatic activity is unclear. Here we show that Drosophila APH-1 (Aph-1) increases the stability of Drosophila presenilin (Psn) holoprotein in the complex. Depletion of PEN-2 by RNA interference prevents endoproteolysis of presenilin and promotes stabilization of the holoprotein in both Drosophila and mammalian cells, including primary neurons. Co-expression of Drosophila Pen-2 with Aph-1 and nicastrin increases the formation of Psn fragments as well as gamma-secretase activity. Thus, APH-1 stabilizes the presenilin holoprotein in the complex, whereas PEN-2 is required for endoproteolytic processing of presenilin and conferring gamma-secretase activity to the complex.
What types of computations are performed on synaptic inputs within the dendritic trees of single neurons? In this issue of Neuron, present a systematic method to reduce complex, biophysically realistic neuron models to more tractable, simplified two-layered neural networks that could shed some light on this issue.
Galanin is co-localized with classical neurotransmitters, such as acetylcholine, serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) in neurons or in brain regions implicated in cognitive and affective behaviour. In the present study, the effects of galanin on extracellular 5-HT and NA levels in the rat hippocampus were measured by in vivo microdialysis under basal conditions and following systemic administration of antidepressant drugs. Galanin (1.5 nmol i.c.v.) reduced basal 5-HT and NA levels to 65% and 86% of controls, respectively. Galanin (0.5 and 1.5 nmol i.c.v.) dose-dependently attenuated the elevation of 5-HT concentrations induced by imipramine and citalopram (10 mg/kg i.p., each) from 350% to 312% and from 230% to 160%, respectively. Galanin at 1.5 nmol transiently attenuated the effect of desipramine-induced (10 mg/kg i.p.) increase in extracellular NA levels from a maximal increase of 389-296% of the predrug levels. It is concluded that intraventricularly administered galanin attenuated both basal 5-HT and NA release and antidepressant drug-induced accumulation of extracellular 5-HT and NA levels most likely via a predominant inhibitory action on serotonergic and noradrenergic neurons in the raphe and locus coeruleus, respectively. These results further emphasize a possible role of galanin in regulation of 5-HT and NA neurotransmission in depressive states and during the course of antidepressant therapy.
We examined whether regeneration of serotonergic (5-HT) and noradrenergic (NA) axons might be affected by stress. Neurotoxins to 5-HT or NA axons were injected into the frontal cortex to cause partial denervation. Mild restraint stress (40 min/day) was started 16 days later and given for 14 consecutive days (30-day stressed group). Non-stressed animals were divided into two groups, animals sacrificed at 14 days (14-day control group) and those sacrificed at 30 days (30-day control group) after the toxin injection. In immunohistochemical study, the denervation area of 5-HT axons but not that of NA axons was significantly smaller in the 30-day control group than in the 14-day control group. However, there was no significant difference between the 14-day control and 30-day stressed groups. These findings suggested that regeneration of 5-HT axons occurred earlier than that of NA axons, and that stress exerted inhibitory influence on regeneration of 5-HT axons.
The present study investigated the influence of implicit speaker information on the sentence interpretation. We auditorily presented sentences that comprised of either stereotypically male or stereotypically female self-referent utterances. In the congruent conditions, these utterances were produced by speakers whose gender matched the semantic content. In the incongruent condition, stereotypically male utterances were produced by female speakers and vice versa. The event-related brain potentials (ERP) of 32 listeners exhibited a late positivity (P600) for the incongruent condition. No significant differences were observed between male and female listeners. In the absence of any ERP effect in the earlier time range, it was concluded that the access of the semantic information as such is independent of the speaker's voice, but that speaker property, semantic content and stereotypical knowledge are integrated in a later processing stage.


Nogo-A is known to be a myelin-associated protein with strong inhibitory effect on neurite outgrowth and has been considered one of the major factors that hinder fiber regeneration in the central nervous system. Recent studies have demonstrated widespread occurrence of nogo-A mRNA and Nogo-A protein in neurons. Our concurrent immunohistochemical study substantiated the widespread distribution of neuronal Nogo-A. The present study was thus focused on its intraneuronal distribution in the central nervous system, using Western blotting, immunohistochemical, and immunogold electron microscopic techniques. Western blotting of the nucleus, cytoplasm, and membrane subcellular fractions of the cerebellum and spinal cord tissues demonstrated that all three fractions contained Nogo-A. Nogo-A immunoreactivity could be identified under confocal microscope in the nucleus, perikayon, and proximal dendrite and along the cell membrane. Under the electron microscope, the perikaryonal Nogo-A immunogold particles were mainly distributed at polyribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum, suggesting its relationship with translation process. The immunogold particles could also be found beneath or on the plasma membrane. In the nucleus, the Nogo-A immunogold particles were found to be localized at the chromatins of the nucleus, indicating its possible involvement in gene transcription. The presence of Nogo-A in the nucleus was further supported by transfection of COS-7L cells with nogo-A. This study provides the first immunocytochemical evidence for intraneuronal distribution of Nogo-A. Apparently, the significance of Nogo-A in the central nervous system is far more complex than what has been envisioned.
Low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the primary motor cortex (M1) results in a lasting decrease of motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Here we investigated the effects of supra-threshold rTMS (15 min, 1 Hz) to the left M1 on the excitability of the stimulated and homologous (unstimulated) M1 in healthy subjects by using single and double pulse TMS before and after rTMS. We found reduction of MEP amplitudes on the stimulated side and, most importantly, disinhibition of intracortical excitability of the homologous M1. This crossed effect of rTMS supports the concept of a physiological balance of reciprocal inhibitory projections and emphasizes that rTMS can induce remote effects that are relevant for the physiological interpretation of such interventions.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by the abnormal expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. We have developed PC12 cell lines in which the expression of an N-terminal truncation of huntingtin (N63) with either wild type (23Q) or expanded polyglutamine (148Q) can be induced by the removal of doxycycline. Differentiated PC12 cells induced to express N63-148Q showed cellular toxicity reaching up to 50% at 6 days post-induction. Histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity and global histone acetylation was significantly decreased in cells expressing truncated huntingtin with mutant but not normal huntingtin. These data suggest that altered chromatin modification via reduction in coactivator activity may cause neuronal transcriptional dysregulation and contribute to cellular toxicity.
The sensory neuron specific sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is normally detectable at only very low levels within cerebellar Purkinje cells. Annexin II light chain (p11) binds to the amino terminus of Na(v)1.8 and facilitates its functional expression within the cell membrane. We previously demonstrated that expression of Na(v)1.8 is up-regulated in cerebellar Purkinje cells in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study we demonstrate that expression of p11 is significantly up-regulated in Purkinje cells in EAE (71 +/- 9.0% vs 21.3 +/- 4.9% in controls) and in MS(65.5 +/- 1.6% vs 21.8 +/- 6.2% in controls). We also demonstrate a high degree of co-expression of p11 and Na(v)1.8 (84.8 +/- 8.9%). Together with earlier results which show that experimental expression of Na(v)1.8 within Purkinje cells perturbs the temporal pattern of impulse generation in these cells, our results extend the evidence for an acquired channelopathy which interferes with cerebellar function in MS.


Predation is an important selective pressure in natural ecosystems. Among non-human primates, relatively little is known about how predators hunt primate prey and how primates acquire adaptive responses to counteract predation. In this study we took advantage of the recent reintroduction of radio-tagged harpy eagles (Harpia harpyja) to Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama to explore how mantled howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata), one of their primary prey, acquire anti-predator defences. Based on the observation that harpies follow their prey prior to attack, and often call during this pursuit period, we broadcast harpy eagle calls to howlers on BCI as well as to a nearby control population with no harpy predation. Although harpies have been extinct from this area for 50-100 years, results indicate that BCI howlers rapidly acquired an adaptive anti-predator response to harpy calls, while showing no response to other avian vocalizations; howlers maintained this response several months after the removal of the eagles. These results not only show that non-human primates can rapidly acquire an alarm response to a newly introduced predator, but that they can detect and identify predators on the basis of acoustic cues alone. These findings have significant implications both for the role of learning mechanisms in the evolution of prey defence and for conservation strategies, suggesting that the use of 'probing' approaches, such as auditory playbacks, may highly enhance an a priori assessment of the impact of species reintroduction.
Transgenic mice that express dystroglycan containing a serine to alanine point mutation at the normal site of cleavage (DG(S654A)) in their skeletal muscles fail to express endogenously cleaved dystroglycan and have muscular dystrophy [Neuromusc. Disord., in press]. Dystrophic DG(S654A) muscles have reduced binding of antibodies, including VIA4-1, that recognize carbohydrate antigens on alpha dystroglycan, a finding similar to muscles in some forms of congenital muscular dystrophy. Here we describe one DG(S654A) transgenic line where VIA4-1 antibody binding is absent in skeletal muscle. In theory, the absence of this carbohydrate antigen should inhibit later glycosylation events that would occur on the structure or structures this antibody binds to. One such modification is likely to be the CT carbohydrate antigen, which is present on alpha dystroglycan in muscles overexpressing the CT GalNAc transferase [Dev. Biol. 242 (2002) 58]. To test the relationship between the VIA4-1 and CT carbohydrate antigens, we made DG(S654A)/CT GalNAc transferase (DG(S654A)/CT) transgenic mice. Surprisingly, dystroglycan was cleaved, and alpha dystroglycan was glycosylated with the VIA4-1 antigen, in DG(S654A)/CT muscles. In addition, muscles in DG(S654A)/CT transgenic mice had little or no evidence of muscular dystrophy when compared to DG(S654A) littermates. These experiments demonstrate that the CT GalNAc transferase can affect the post-translational processing of dystroglycan and the extent of muscular dystrophy even in muscles where the VIA4-1 antigen is not present.
Vascular dysfunction is important in the pathogenesis of peripheral complications of diabetes. However, the effects of diabetes on cerebral blood flow and the role of vascular deficits in the pathogenesis of diabetic encephalopathy are still unknown. The present study examined whether experimental diabetes is associated with reduced cerebral blood flow and whether treatment with enalapril can improve cerebral perfusion and function (blood flow and functional cerebral deficits). Streptozotocin-diabetic rats were treated with the ACE inhibitor enalapril (24 mg/kg) from onset of diabetes. After 14 weeks of diabetes, 12 enalapril treated and 12 untreated diabetic rats, and 12 nondiabetic age-matched control rats were tested in a spatial version of the Morris water maze. After 16 weeks of diabetes, in the same groups, blood flow in the hippocampus and thalamus was measured by hydrogen clearance microelectrode polarography. In a separate study, hippocampal long-term potentiation was measured after 26 weeks of diabetes. Water maze performance and hippocampal long-term potentiation were impaired in diabetic rats. Furthermore, blood flow in diabetic rats was reduced by 30% (P&lt;0.001) in the hippocampus and by 37% (P&lt;0.005) in the thalamus compared to nondiabetic controls. Enalapril treatment significantly improved water maze performance (P&lt;0.05), hippocampal long term potentiation (P&lt;0.05) and hippocampal blood flow (P&lt;0.05). Cerebral perfusion is reduced in diabetic rats compared to controls. Treatment aimed at the vasculature can improve cerebral blood flow, deficits in Morris maze performance and long term potentiation. These findings suggest that vasculopathy plays a role in the development of cerebral dysfunction in diabetic rats.
We evaluated the hydroxyl radical (*OH) scavenging action of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), sodium salicylate (SA), diclofenac and celecoxib in Fenton's reaction and their neuroprotective effects in 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-induced striatal dopamine (DA) depletion in rats. Salicylate hydroxylation procedure employing HPLC-electrochemistry was used to assay formation of *OH in Fenton's reaction in test tubes. While SA dose- and time-dependently hydroxylated itself and inactivated *OH, celecoxib (up to 10 mM) showed no effect on *OH formation and diclofenac caused a reduction in *OH generation only at high doses (100 microM-10 mM). Administration of the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, SA (50, 100 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated striatal DA depletion caused by intrastriatal infusion of MPP(+) (100 nmol in 4 microl). Treatment with another nonselective, reversible COX inhibitor, diclofenac (5, 10 mg/kg) did not protect against MPP(+)-induced DA depletion. The selective COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib (2.5-50 mg/kg) treatment exacerbated MPP(+)-induced decrease in DA. Failure of celecoxib or diclofenac to render protection in animals against MPP(+)-induced DA depletion indicates absence of prostaglandin involvement in MPP(+) action. These results also suggest that the neuroprotective ability of SA is independent of prostaglandin mediation. A relationship between inactivation of *OH by SA and its ability to protect DA depletion in the striatum caused by MPP(+) indicates a direct involvement of *OH in the action of this neurotoxin. The present study establishes potent neuroprotective activity of SA and suggests the use of aspirin in adjuvant therapy in Parkinson's disease.
Drosophila 14-3-3zeta (D14-3-3zeta) modulates the activity of the Slowpoke calcium-dependent potassium channel (dSlo) by interacting with the dSlo binding protein, Slob. We show here that D14-3-3zeta forms dimers in vitro. Site-directed mutations in its putative dimerization interface result in a dimerization-deficient form of D14-3-3zeta. Both the wild-type and dimerization-deficient forms of D14-3-3zeta bind to Slob with similar affinity and form complexes with dSlo. When dSlo and Slob are expressed in mammalian cells, the dSlo channel activity is similarly modulated by co-expression of either the wild-type or the dimerization-deficient form of D14-3-3zeta. In addition, dSlo is still modulated by wild-type D14-3-3zeta in the presence of a 14-3-3 mutant, which does not itself bind to Slob but forms heterodimers with the wild-type 14-3-3. These data, taken together, suggest that monomeric D14-3-3zeta is capable of modulating dSlo channel activity in this regulatory complex.
PSD-Zip45/Homer1c, which contains an enabled/VASP homology 1 (EVH1) domain and leucine zipper motifs, is a postsynaptic density (PSD) scaffold protein that interacts with metabotropic glutamate receptors and the shank family. We studied the molecular mechanism underlying the synaptic targeting of PSD-Zip45 in cultured hippocampal neurons. The EVH1 domain and the extreme C-terminal leucine zipper motif were molecular determinants for its synaptic targeting. The overexpression of the mutant of the EVH1 domain or deletion of the extreme C-terminal leucine zipper motif markedly suppressed the synaptic localization of endogenous shank but not PSD-95 or GKAP. In contrast, an overexpressed GKAP mutant lacking shank binding activity had no effect on the synaptic localization of shank. Actin depolymerization by latrunculin A reduced the synaptic localization of PSD-Zip45, shank, and F-actin but not of PSD-95 or GKAP. Overexpression of PSD-Zip45 enhanced the accumulation of synaptic F-actin. Additionally, overexpression of PSD-Zip45 and an isoform of shank induced synaptic enlargement in association with the further accumulation of synaptic F-actin. The EVH1 domain and extreme C-terminal leucine zipper motif of PSD-Zip45 were also critical for these events. Thus, these data suggest that the PSD-Zip45-shank and PSD-95-GKAP complexes form different synaptic compartments, and PSD-Zip45 alone or PSD-Zip45-shank is involved in the synaptic accumulation of F-actin.

The response patterns of pallidal neurons to electrical stimulation of the median and tibial nerves were examined in awake monkeys. Around 30% of the recorded neurons responded to the stimulation of either the median or tibial nerve, while only 6% responded to the stimulation of both nerves. The vast majority of these pallidal neurons displayed monophasic excitation or monophasic inhibition. The latency of the excitation was shorter than that of the inhibition. In each pallidal segment, the neurons responding to the median nerve stimulation (representing the forelimb) tended to be located ventral to those responding to the tibial nerve stimulation (representing the hindlimb). The present results indicate that the somatotopical arrangement in the globus pallidus can be outlined based on the neuronal responses to peripheral nerve stimulation.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of several neurological disorders. We now tested whether the endogenous neuroprotective substance, adenosine, attenuates the cell damage induced by ROS. In rat hippocampal slices, the xanthine oxidase (40 mU/ml) plus xanthine (1 mM) (X/XO) system produced a 27.8+/-7.3% (n=3) increase in ROS, measured by fluorimetry with 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein, a 246.9+/-18.4% (n=6) increase in the release of tritiated adenosine, and a decrease in synaptic transmission that fully recovered after washout. In the presence of the adenosine A(1) receptor selective antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (100 nM), X/XO induced a similar inhibition, however synaptic transmission only recovered to 70.7+/-5.8% of control (n=5). The blockade of A(2A) receptors was devoid of effect (n=4). Adenosine is released by ROS-generating systems, and attenuates the deleterious cellular consequences of ROS through A(1) receptor activation.
Laser evoked potentials (LEPs) are electrical brain responses to nociceptive heat stimuli. In a recent study [Legrain, V., Gurit, J.M., Bruyer, R. and Plaghki, L., Pain, 99 (2002) 21-39.], we found that amplitude at approximately 400 ms was increased by rare intensity deviant nociceptive stimuli (P400 effect). In that study, laser stimuli were randomly delivered on both hands, and subjects were focusing attention on one hand in order to detect rare stimuli. As the P400 effect was found for rare stimuli when spatial attention was directed both towards and away from the stimulated hand, it was postulated to represent a P3a component reflecting an involuntary orientation of attention to unexpected deviant stimuli. However LEPs to strong and weak intensity stimuli were averaged together and some effects could have been underestimated. So, we present a new interpretation of the P400 effect based on separate analyses of strong and weak intensity deviant stimuli. Indeed, the P400 effect was only observed for strong stimuli, and again on both attended and unattended hands. Thus, if the P400 effect reflects P3a, only strong deviant stimuli provided enough signals to induce attentional switching even when they were delivered outside the focus of spatial attention. It is suggested that attentional switching could have been triggered by neural systems having detected sharp increase of intensity. Weak deviant stimuli were not salient enough to induce attentional switching.
Biomarkers to monitor the degenerative process in Alzheimer's disease would be of great value. We examined the relation between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) total tau (T-tau), phospho-tau (P-tau) and Abeta42 and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of brain atrophy. CSF was taken at baseline and MRI at baseline and at 16 months follow-up. At baseline, statistically significantly lower Abeta42 were found with lower brain volume (r=0.55; P&lt;0.0001) and larger ventricular volume (r=-0.53; P&lt;0.001). In contrast, statistically significantly higher T-tau (r=0.47; P&lt;0.001) and P-tau (r=0.41; P=0.005) were found with more marked ventricular widening during the follow-up period. These results suggest that Abeta42 in CSF reflects the stage of the disease, with lower CSF levels as the disease progresses, while T-tau and P-tau reflect the intensity of the disease process, with higher CSF-levels with a more rapid progression.
Electrical brain stimulation may be a therapeutic alternative for irreversible lesions in treatment-resistant patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We compared the effects of electrical stimulation and lesion in the nucleus accumbens (n acc) on the behaviour of rats in a model for OCD. Rats were tested for spontaneous alternation behaviour (AB) in a T-maze and assigned to four groups: an electrode implant group with stimulation 'ON' (stimON) or 'OFF' (stimOFF), a lesion or a sham group. Postoperatively, the number of arm visits and AB were tested after 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT; 2 mg/kg) or saline administration. After 8-OH-DPAT administration, more arm visits were counted in the stimON (92.2%) and lesion groups (79.3%) than in both control groups (stimOFF 54.2; sham 61.2%). AB was significantly decreased in the stimON (10.5%) and lesion groups (10.2%) relative to the sham (22.0%) but not to the stimOFF group (14.7%). After saline administration, rats performed more arm visits in the stimON (81.5% non-significant) and lesion groups (93.6% significant) relative to the stimOFF (70.8%) and the sham groups (74.5%). No significant differences, however, were observed for AB. In conclusion, both treatments resulted in a decreased AB after 8-OH-DPAT administration (modelling an increase in compulsions) and more arm visits.
One of the most profound behavioural deficits in lupus-prone MRL-lpr mice is blunted responsiveness to sweet solutions. Given the systemic nature of autoimmune/inflammatory disease, it was not clear whether impaired taste sensitivity or motivated response to palatable food underlie this deficit. The present study compares response rates of MRL-lpr mice (which develop disease early), congenic MRL +/+ mice (which develop disease later in life) and non-autoimmune Swiss Webster (SW) mice to different tastes and diets. Healthy SW mice showed the highest responsiveness to palatable stimulation throughout the study. Conversely, the preference for palatable solutions progressively declined in MRL-lpr mice as the disease developed. No differences between the two MRL substrains were seen in responsiveness to quinine or saline, suggesting that blunted responsiveness to palatable solutions cannot be accounted for by reduced taste sensory function (hypogeusia). In addition, changes in response rates to palatable solutions were associated with systemic upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. With a new cohort of mice fed on carbohydrate-rich and fat-rich diets, we also examined whether reduced sucrose intake in MRL-lpr mice can be accounted for by a reduced craving for carbohydrates. Contrary to this expectation, diseased MRL-lpr mice preferred carbohydrate-rich food while consuming a food mass comparable to controls. These results further support the hypothesis that the onset of lupus-like disease alters motivated behaviour, independent of changes in neurologic function and food metabolism.
Drosophila melanogaster display overt circadian rhythms in rest:activity behavior and eclosion. These rhythms have an endogenous period of approximately 24 hr and can adjust or &quot;entrain&quot; to environmental inputs such as light. Circadian rhythms depend upon a functioning molecular clock that includes the core clock genes period and timeless (reviewed in and ). Although we know that a clock in the lateral neurons (LNs) of the brain controls rest:activity rhythms, the cellular basis of eclosion rhythms is less well understood. We show that the LN clock is insufficient to drive eclosion rhythms. We establish that the prothoracic gland (PG), a tissue required for fly development, contains a functional clock at the time of eclosion. This clock is required for normal eclosion rhythms. However, both the PG clock function and eclosion rhythms require the presence of LNs. In addition, we demonstrate that pigment-dispersing factor (PDF), a neuropeptide secreted from LNs, is necessary for the PG clock and eclosion rhythms. Unlike other clocks in the fly periphery, the PG is similar to mammalian peripheral oscillators because it depends upon input, including PDF, from central pacemaker cells. This is the first report of a peripheral clock necessary for a circadian event.
The dynamins comprise a large family of mechanoenzymes known to participate in membrane modeling events. All three conventional dynamin genes (Dyn1, Dyn2, Dyn3) are expressed in mammalian brain and produce more than 27 different dynamin proteins as a result of alternative splicing. Past studies have suggested that Dyn1 participates in specialized neuronal functions such as rapid synaptic vesicle recycling, while Dyn2 may mediate the conventional clathrin-mediated uptake of surface receptors. Currently, the distribution, expression, and function of Dyn3 in neurons, or in any other cell type, are completely undefined. Here, we demonstrate that Dyn1 and Dyn3 localize differentially in the synapse. Dyn1 concentrates within the presynaptic compartment, while Dyn3 localizes to dendritic spine tips. Within the postsynaptic density (PSD), we found Dyn3, but not Dyn1, to be part of a biochemically isolated complex comprised of Homer and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Finally, although dominant-negative Dyn3 did not seem to inhibit receptor endocytosis, overexpression of a specific Dyn3 spliced variant in mature neurons caused a marked remodeling of dendritic spines. These data suggest that Dyn3 is a postsynaptic dynamin and, like its binding partner Homer, plays a significant role in dendritic spine morphogenesis and remodeling.
The vomeronasal organ (VNO) detects pheromones in many vertebrate species but is likely to be vestigial in humans. TRPC2(TRP2), a gene that is essential for VNO function in the mouse, is a pseudogene in humans. Because TRPC2 is expressed only in the VNO, the loss of selective pressure on this gene can serve as a molecular marker for the time at which the VNO became vestigial. By analyzing sequence data from the TRPC2 gene of 15 extant primate species, we provide evidence that the VNO was most likely functional in the common ancestor of New World monkeys and Old World monkeys and apes, but then became vestigial in the common ancestor of Old World monkeys and apes. We propose that, at this point in evolution, other modalities, notably the development of color vision, may have largely replaced signaling by pheromones.
We describe a computational model of DNA shuffling based on the thermodynamics and kinetics of this process. The model independently tracks a representative ensemble of DNA molecules and records their states at every stage of a shuffling reaction. These data can subsequently be analyzed to yield information on any relevant metric, including reassembly efficiency, crossover number, type and distribution, and DNA sequence length distributions. The predictive ability of the model was validated by comparison to three independent sets of experimental data, and analysis of the simulation results led to several unique insights into the DNA shuffling process. We examine a tradeoff between crossover frequency and reassembly efficiency and illustrate the effects of experimental parameters on this relationship. Furthermore, we discuss conditions that promote the formation of useless &quot;junk&quot; DNA sequences or multimeric sequences containing multiple copies of the reassembled product. This model will therefore aid in the design of optimal shuffling reaction conditions.
This paper presents evidence indicating that the signals generated by neural responses to visual input can be either enhanced by increasing or suppressed by decreasing the area of the stimuli to which attention is directed. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to measure the frequency-tagged steady-state visual evoked responses of 11 subjects presented with two superimposed images flickering at different frequencies. Each image consisted of seven parallel bars of equal length; in any image, all bars were either red or green and either horizontal or vertical. At randomly chosen times during the experiments, any one of the three middle bars in either image transiently increased or decreased in width. Subjects were asked to attend to one image and ignore the other and to respond to changes in bar width in the attended image with a key press. In one condition, subject responses were required for changes in any of the three central bars of the attended image. We found that visual steady-state evoked responses to the attended image were enhanced relative to those evoked by the unattended image in this condition. In a second condition, subject responses were required for changes only in the middle bar. In this condition, the responses to the attended image were suppressed relative to those of the unattended image. These results may reflect relative differences in the synchronization and desynchronization of responding neuronal populations.
Various genetically encoded fluorescent sensors that monitor changes in intracellular calcium concentration have been developed over the last few years. The ability to target these calcium indicators to cells and structures of interest makes them valuable tools for diverse applications and gives them distinct advantages over conventional fluorescent dyes in transgenically tractable organisms. In particular, the cameleon calcium sensors have been used successfully in a number of applications. For example, we use cameleon-2.1 to monitor in vivo brain activity in Drosophila. However, using cameleons to image intracellular calcium concentration changes in vivo is still evolving and is by no means a standard technique. Experimental details and &quot;tricks&quot; for dealing with equipment, techniques, and data evaluation are still restricted to a few laboratories. In this protocol for calcium imaging in Drosophila brain using cameleon-2.1, we provide guidelines to the basic principles of this novel technique in Drosophila neuroscience and, more generally, to the broad field of signal transduction research.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes the function and survival of the major neuronal types affected in Alzheimer disease, such as hippocampal, cortical and basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. We and others have demonstrated a reduction in BDNF mRNA expression in Alzheimer's disease hippocampus and cortex, which may help to explain the selective vulnerability of these neurons. Several studies have also shown decreased BDNF protein in Alzheimer's disease. BDNF protein is synthesized as a precursor, proBDNF, which is cleaved to the mature 14-kDa form. We demonstrate here that BDNF exists as a mixture of proBDNF and mature BDNF in all regions tested of human brain. Using Western blotting, we observe a 40% reduction in proBDNF levels in Alzheimer's disease parietal cortex compared to controls. Thus, decreased BDNF protein measured by ELISA and immunohistochemistry likely represents a mixture of the two BDNF forms, and previously reported decreases in BDNF protein may be due, at least in part, to a significant reduction in proBDNF levels. Although the biological activity of proBDNF is unknown, reduced proBDNF may have functional consequences for the selective neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease brain.
As opiates increase dopamine transmission, we measured the effects of morphine on dopamine-related genes using a real-time optic PCR assay that reliably detects small differences in mRNA in discrete brain regions. Tissue from dopaminoceptive and dopaminergic brain regions was collected from rats injected twice daily for 7 days with saline or increasing doses of morphine. Tissues were assayed for D1, D2 and D3 dopamine receptor mRNAs (D1R, D2R and D3R), as well as for mRNAs for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the dopamine transporter (DAT). The neuron-associated mRNAs for SNAP-25 and synaptophysin, as well as the glial-associated mRNA for S100-beta and three 'housekeeping' mRNAs, were also measured. As reported previously by others, there was no alteration in D1R mRNA and a 25% decrease in D2R mRNA in the caudate-putamen, 2 h after the final morphine injection. Importantly, in the same RNA extracts, D3R mRNA showed significant increases of 85% in the caudate-putamen and 165% in the ventral midbrain, including the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. There were no other significant morphine effects. Mapping of brain regions in saline control rats agreed with previous studies, including showing the presence of low abundance TH mRNA and the absence of DAT mRNA in the caudate-putamen. The finding that chronic, intermittent injections of morphine caused an increase in D3R mRNA extends our understanding of the ability of D3R agonists to reduce the effects of morphine.
Peripherin, a neuronal intermediate filament (nIF) protein found associated with pathological aggregates in motor neurons of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and of transgenic mice overexpressing mutant superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1G37R), induces the selective degeneration of motor neurons when overexpressed in transgenic mice. Mouse peripherin is unique compared with other nIF proteins in that three peripherin isoforms are generated by alternative splicing. Here, the properties of the peripherin splice variants Per 58, Per 56, and Per 61 have been investigated in transfected cell lines, in primary motor neurons, and in transgenic mice overexpressing peripherin or overexpressing SOD1G37R. Of the three isoforms, Per 61 proved to be distinctly neurotoxic, being assembly incompetent and inducing degeneration of motor neurons in culture. Using isoform-specific antibodies, Per 61 expression was detected in motor neurons of SOD1G37R transgenic mice but not of control or peripherin transgenic mice. The Per 61 antibody also selectively labeled motor neurons and axonal spheroids in two cases of familial ALS and immunoprecipitated a higher molecular mass peripherin species from disease tissue. This evidence suggests that expression of neurotoxic splice variants of peripherin may contribute to the neurodegenerative mechanism in ALS.
Ordered differential display identified a novel sequence induced in neurons by the neurite-promoting protein amphoterin. We named this gene amphoterin-induced gene and ORF (AMIGO), and also cloned two other novel genes homologous to AMIGO (AMIGO2 and AMIGO3). Together, these three AMIGOs form a novel family of genes coding for type I transmembrane proteins which contain a signal sequence for secretion and a transmembrane domain. The deduced extracellular parts of the AMIGOs contain six leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) flanked by cysteine-rich LRR NH2- and COOH-terminal domains and by one immunoglobulin domain close to the transmembrane region. A substrate-bound form of the recombinant AMIGO ectodomain promoted prominent neurite extension in hippocampal neurons, and in solution, the same AMIGO ectodomain inhibited fasciculation of neurites. A homophilic and heterophilic binding mechanism is shown between the members of the AMIGO family. Our results suggest that the members of the AMIGO protein family are novel cell adhesion molecules among which AMIGO is specifically expressed on fiber tracts of neuronal tissues and participates in their formation.
Neuronal death occurs during normal development and disease and can be regulated by steroid hormones. In the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, individual accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons undergo a segment-specific pattern of programmed cell death (PCD) at pupation that is triggered directly and cell autonomously by the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E). APRs from abdominal segment six [APR(6)s] die by 48 hours after pupal ecdysis (PE; entry into the pupal stage), whereas APR(4)s survive until adulthood. Cell culture experiments showed previously that 20E acts directly on APRs to trigger PCD, with intrinsic segmental identity determining which APRs die. The APR(6) death pathway includes caspase activation and loss of mitochondrial function. We used transmission electron microscopy to investigate the ultrastructure of APR somata before and during PCD. APR(4)s showed normal ultrastructure at all stages examined, as did APR(6)s until approximately stage PE. During APR(6) death, there was massive accumulation of autophagic bodies and vacuoles, mitochondria became ultracondensed and aggregated into compact clusters, and ribosomes aggregated in large blocks. Nuclear ultrastructure remained normal, without chromatin condensation, until the nuclear envelope fragmented late in the death process. Light microscopic immunocytochemistry showed that dying APR(6)s were TUNEL-positive, which is diagnostic of fragmented DNA. These observations indicate that the steroid-induced, caspase-dependent, cell-autonomous PCD of APR(6)s is autophagic, not apoptotic, and support an early role for mitochondrial alterations during PCD. This system permits the study of neuronal death in response to its bona fide developmental signal, the rise in a steroid hormone.
Statins, known as inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, exhibit numerous functions related to inflammation, such as MHC class II down-regulation, interference with T cell adhesion, and induction of apoptosis. Here we demonstrate that both subcutaneous and oral administration of atorvastatin inhibit the development of actively induced chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in SJL/J mice and significantly reduce the inflammatory infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS). When treatment was started after disease onset, atorvastatin reduced the incidence of relapses and protected from the development of further disability. Both the reduced autoreactive T cell response measured by proliferation toward the encephalitogenic peptide PLP139-151 and the cytokine profile indicate a potent blockade of T helper cell type 1 immune response. In in vitro assays atorvastatin not only inhibited antigen-specific responses, but also decreased T cell proliferation mediated by direct TCR engagement independently of MHC class II and LFA-1. Inhibition of proliferation was not due to apoptosis induction, but linked to a negative regulation on cell cycle progression. However, early T cell activation was unaffected, as reflected by unaltered calcium fluxes. Thus, our results provide evidence for a beneficial role of statins in the treatment of autoimmune attack on the CNS.

Of the different aspects of a series of neurobiological changes that take place throughout the life cycle of an individual, in this paper we examine those involved in the aging process. These changes have been associated on different scales, including on a macroscopic level, that take into account variations in the shape, weight and volume of the brain and other encephalic structures. A part of the information about the weight seems to be incompatible and hence its incompatibility has been questioned and argued from a quantitative perspective. The functional option has been proposed as an alternative in the maintenance of normal brain functioning, as have changes on the microscopic scale in neuronal processes, the reduction in number of neurons in certain parts of the brain, which has also been questioned for the case of olfactory nerve fibres, and finally changes that take place on the molecular scale in the alteration of some neurotransmitters in certain parts, modifications suffered by mitochondrial enzymes and others that depend on the genome. These aspects have all been taken into consideration along with a resulting physiological relation in an attempt to gain a slightly more holistic, although still fragmented, view of the process, and to consider neoteny as an evolutionary strategy in the human species that serves to maintain brain functioning.
We have developed a novel cDNA microarray encompassing 3500 genes expressed in skeletal muscle. With this system, we have performed the first study of gene expression in samples from individual patients. We analyzed muscle specimen from individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy to identify differences among patients. Among the variably expressed genes, we focused on the expression of the genes encoding HLA-related proteins, myosin light chains and troponin Ts as markers of muscle necrosis and regeneration. The expression patterns of these genes correlated with the severity of dystrophic changes on histological examination. Our cDNA microarray provides a new tool to investigate molecular muscle pathology.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Increased expression of MMP-9 and TIMPs has been reported in postmortem AD and ALS brain tissue, as well as in ALS cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma. Although individual studies of MMP and TIMP expression in CSF have included AD and ALS samples, there are no studies comparing the expression of these proteins between neurodegenerative diseases. We measured the levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)-2 and -9 and the tissue inhibitor of MMPs (e.g. TIMP-1 and TIMP-2) in CSF samples from patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD), Huntington's Disease (HD), AD and ALS as compared to age-matched control patients. There was constitutive expression of the proform of gelatinase A (proMMP-2) on zymography gels in all CSF samples. Unexpectedly, there was an additional gelatinolytic band at 130 kDa of unknown etiology in the CSF samples of patients with PD (61% of patients studied), AD (61%), HD (25%) and ALS (39%). Levels of TIMP-1 were significantly elevated in CSF samples from all disease groups. TIMP-2 was significantly increased in CSF of AD and HD patients. MMP-2 levels did not differ significantly between groups. These findings show that TIMPs are elevated in the CSF of patients with neurodegenerative diseases suggesting a potential role of these endogenous inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases in neurodegenerative diseases.
Identifying and characterizing brain regions regulating alcohol consumption is beneficial for understanding the mechanisms of alcoholism. To this aim, we first identified brain regions changing in expression of the inducible transcription factor c-Fos in the alcohol-preferring C57BL/6J (B6) and alcohol-avoiding DBA/2J (D2) mice after ethanol consumption. Drinking a 5% ethanol/10% sucrose solution in a 30 min limited access procedure led to induction of c-Fos immunoreactivity in urocortin (Ucn)-positive cells of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW), suppression of c-Fos immunoreactivity in the dorsal portion of the lateral septum (LS) of both strains of mice, and strain-specific suppression in the intermediate portion of the LS and the CA3 hippocampal region. Because the EW sends Ucn projections to the LS, and B6 and D2 mice differ dramatically in EW Ucn expression, we further analyzed the Ucn EW-LS pathway using several genetic approaches. We find that D2 mice have higher numbers of Ucn-immunoreactive processes than B6 mice in the LS and that consumption of ethanol/sucrose in the F2 offspring of a B6D2 intercross positively correlates with Ucn immunoreactivity in the EW and negatively correlates with Ucn immunoreactivity in the LS. In agreement with these findings, we find that alcohol-avoiding male B6.D2 Alcp1 line 2.2 congenic mice have lower Ucn immunoreactivity in the EW than male B6.B6 mice. Finally, we also find that HAP mice, selectively bred for high alcohol preference, have higher Ucn immunoreactivity in EW, than LAP mice, selectively bred for low alcohol preference. Taken together, these studies provide substantial evidence for involvement of the EW-LS Ucn pathway in alcohol consumption.
During activated states, neocortical neurons receive intense synaptic background activity that induces large-amplitude membrane potential fluctuations and a strong conductance in the membrane. However, little is known about the integrative properties of neurons during such high-conductance states. Here we investigated the integrative properties of neocortical pyramidal neurons under in vivo conditions simulated by computational models. We show that the presence of high-conductance fluctuations induces a stochastic state in which active dendrites are fast conducting and have a different dynamics of initiation and forward-propagation of Na+-dependent spikes. Synaptic efficacy, quantified as the probability that a synaptic input specifically evokes a somatic spike, was approximately independent of the dendritic location of the synapse. Synaptic inputs evoked precisely timed responses (milliseconds), which also showed a reduced location dependence. This scheme was found to apply to a broad range of kinetics and density distributions of voltage-dependent conductances, as well as to different dendritic morphologies. Synaptic efficacies were, however, modulable by the balance of excitation and inhibition in background activity, for all synapses at once. Thus, models predict that the intense synaptic activity in vivo can confer advantageous computational properties to neocortical neurons: they can be set to an integrative mode that is stochastic, fast conducting, and optimized to process synaptic inputs at high temporal resolution independently of their position in the dendrites. Some of these predictions can be tested experimentally.
In speech, the phenomenon of coarticulation (differentiation of phoneme production depending on the preceding or following phonemes) suggests an organization of movement sequences that is not strictly serial. In the skeletal motor system, however, evidence for comparable fluency has been lacking. Thus the present study was designed to quantify coarticulation in the hand movement sequences of sign language interpreters engaged in fingerspelling. Records of 17 measured joint angles were subjected to discriminant and correlation analyses to determine to what extent and in what manner the hand shape for a particular letter was influenced by the hand shapes for the preceding or the following letters. Substantial evidence of coarticulation was found, revealing both forward and reverse influences across letters. These influences could be further categorized as assimilation (tending to reduce the differences between sequential hand shapes) or dissimilation (tending to emphasize the differences between sequential hand shapes). The proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints of the index and middle fingers tended to show dissimilation, whereas at the same time (i.e., during the spelling of the same letters) the joints of the wrist and thumb tended to show assimilation. The index and middle finger PIP joints have been shown previously to be among the most important joints for computer recognition of the 26 letter shapes, and therefore the dissimilation may have served to enhance visual discrimination. The simultaneous occurrence of dissimilation in some joints and assimilation in others demonstrates an unprecedented level of parallel control of individual joint rotations in an essentially serial task.
In the adult cerebellum, the glutamate receptor delta2 subunit (GluRdelta2) is selectively targeted to the spines of the distal Purkinje cell dendrites, the spiny branchlets, that are innervated by the parallel fibers. Although GluRdelta2 has no known channel function, it is presumed to be involved in the formation and stabilization of these synapses. After block of electrical activity by tetrodotoxin, GluRdelta2s appear in the postsynaptic densities of the proximal dendritic spines, which then lose their contact with climbing fibers and become ectopically innervated by parallel fibers. This phenomenon suggests that climbing fiber activity prevents GluRdelta2 targeting to proximal dendrites and that GluRdelta2s admitted to the postsynaptic density of the spine cause withdrawal of the silent climbing fiber. To test this hypothesis, we studied the distribution of GluRdelta2s in the rat cerebellum by immunoelectron microscopy during the recovery period that follows removal of the electrical block, and during the sprouting of climbing fibers that follows subtotal deletion of the parent inferior olivary neurons by administration of the drug 3-acetylpyridine. We found that after removal of the electrical block, the climbing fibers reinnervate proximal spines that bear GluRdelta2s and these subunits are successively repressed. Similarly, after subtotal lesion of the inferior olive, reinnervation of denervated Purkinje cells occurs on spines bearing GluRdelta2s. Thus, GluRdelta2s are not responsible for displacing silent climbing fibers. We propose instead that GluRdelta2s are associated with climbing fiber-to-Purkinje cell synapses, during development or at early stages of climbing fiber regeneration or sprouting, and are downregulated during the process of synapse maturation.
In addition to genomic pathways, estrogens may regulate gene expression by activating specific signal transduction pathways, such as that involving phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) and the subsequent phosphorylation of Akt (protein kinase B). The Akt pathway regulates various cellular events, including the initiation of protein synthesis. Our previous studies showed that synaptogenesis in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell dendritic spines is highest when brain estrogen levels are highest. To address the role of Akt in this process, the subcellular distribution of phosphorylated Akt immunoreactivity (pAkt-I) in the hippocampus of female rats across the estrous cycle and male rats was analyzed by light microscopy (LM) and electron microscopy (EM). By LM, the density of pAkt-I in stratum radiatum of CA1 was significantly higher in proestrus rats (or in estrogen-supplemented ovariectomized females) compared with diestrus, estrus, or male rats. By EM, pAkt-I was found throughout the shafts and in select spines of stratum radiatum dendrites. Quantitative ultrastructural analysis identifying pAkt-I with immunogold particles revealed that proestrus rats compared with diestrus, estrus, and male rats contained significantly higher pAkt-I associated with (1) dendritic spines (both cytoplasm and plasmalemma), (2) spine apparati located within 0.1 microm of dendritic spine bases, (3) endoplasmic reticula and polyribosomes in the cytoplasm of dendritic shafts, and (4) the plasmalemma of dendritic shafts. These findings suggest that estrogens may regulate spine formation in CA1 pyramidal neurons via Akt-mediated signaling events.
After optic nerve injury in mature mammals, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are normally unable to regenerate their axons and undergo delayed apoptosis. However, if the lens is damaged at the time of nerve injury, many RGCs survive axotomy and regenerate their axons into the distal optic nerve. Lens injury induces macrophage activation, and we show here that factors secreted by macrophages stimulate RGCs to regenerate their axons. When macrophages were activated by intravitreal injections of Zymosan, a yeast cell wall preparation, the number of RGC axons regenerating into the distal optic nerve was even greater than after lens injury. These effects were further enhanced if Zymosan was injected 3 d after nerve crush. In a grafting paradigm, intravitreal Zymosan increased the number of RGCs that regenerated their axons through a 1.5 cm peripheral nerve graft twofold relative to uninjected controls and threefold if injections were delayed 3 d. In cell culture, media conditioned by activated macrophages stimulated adult rat RGCs to regenerate their axons; this effect was potentiated by a low molecular weight factor that is constitutively present in the vitreous humor. After gel-filtration chromatography, macrophage-derived proteins &gt; or =30 kDa were found to be toxic to RGCs, whereas proteins &lt;30 kDa reversed this toxicity and promoted axon regeneration. The protein(s) that stimulated axon growth is distinct from identified polypeptide trophic factors that were tested. Thus, macrophages produce proteins with both positive and negative effects on RGCs, and the effects of macrophages can be optimized by the timing of their activation.
Developing axons are guided to their appropriate targets by environmental cues through the activation of specific receptors and intracellular signaling pathways. Here we report that gradients of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a neuropeptide widely expressed in the developing nervous system, induce marked attraction of Xenopus growth cones in vitro. PACAP exerted its chemoattractive effects through PAC1, a PACAP-selective G-protein-coupled receptor (GPRC) expressed at the growth cone. Furthermore, the attraction depended on localized cAMP signaling because it was completely blocked either by global elevation of intracellular cAMP levels using forskolin or by inhibition of protein kinase A using specific inhibitors. Moreover, local direct elevation of intracellular cAMP by focal photolysis of caged cAMP compounds was sufficient to induce growth cone attraction. On the other hand, blockade of Ca2+, phospholipase C, or phosphatidyl inositol-3 kinase signaling pathways did not affect PACAP-induced growth cone attraction. Finally, PACAP-induced attraction also involved the Rho family of small GTPases and required local protein synthesis. Taken together, our results establish cAMP signaling as an independent pathway capable of mediating growth cone attraction induced by a physiologically relevant peptide acting through GPCRs. Such a direct cAMP pathway could potentially operate in other guidance systems for the accurate wiring of the nervous system.
To explore mechanisms governing the formation and remodeling of postsynaptic density (PSD), we used dissociated cultures of hippocampal neurons isolated from transgenic embryos expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged PSD proteins PSD-Zip45 (Homer 1c) and PSD-95. Expression of GFP-tagged PSD molecules was stable, and the remodeling process of PSDs could be followed for &gt;1 week. A higher expression level of GFP-PSD-Zip45 enabled us to quantitatively analyze the amount of PSD-Zip45 clusters during development. Repetitive imaging of the same cell populations between 11 and 17 d in culture revealed an increase of the average PSD-Zip45 cluster density from 0.32 to 0.73/microm. Newly generated dendrites rapidly acquired GFP-PSD-Zip45 clusters, and their density reached the level of parental dendrites within a few days. Temporal profiles of GFP-PSD-Zip45 cluster density showed a variety of patterns. Some dendrites showed a monotonous increase of clusters, whereas others showed complex patterns, including short decremental stages. Analysis of long-term remodeling of PSD-95-GFP clusters confirmed that the decremental stages were not specific to the PSD-Zip45 clusters. Comparison of the temporal profiles of the cluster density among neurons indicated synchronization of both GFP-PSD-Zip45 and PSD-95 clustering within individual cells. Furthermore, activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase suppressed the decremental stages of cluster remodeling. These observations suggest the presence of signaling mechanisms that can induce synchronized addition or elimination of PSD proteins throughout dendritic arborization of a single neuron.
Phospholemman (FXYD1) is a homolog of the Na,K-ATPase gamma subunit (FXYD2), a small accessory protein that modulates ATPase activity. Here we show that phospholemman is highly expressed in selected structures in the CNS. It is most abundant in cerebellum, where it was detected in the molecular layer, in Purkinje neurons, and in axons traversing the granule cell layer. Phospholemman was particularly enriched in choroid plexus, the organ that secretes CSF in the ventricles, where it colocalized with Na,K-ATPase in the apical membrane. It was also enriched, with Na,K-ATPase, in certain tanycytes or ependymal cells of the ventricle wall. Two different experimental approaches demonstrated that phospholemman physically associated with the Na,K-ATPase in cerebellum and choroid plexus: the proteins copurified after detergent treatment and co-immunoprecipitated from solubilized crude membranes using either anti-phospholemman or anti-Na,K-ATPase antibodies. Phospholemman antibodies precipitated all three Na,K-ATPase alpha subunit isoforms (alpha1-alpha3) from cerebellum, indicating that the interaction is not specific to a particular alpha isoform and consistent with the presence of phospholemman in both neurons and glia. Antibodies against the C-terminal domain of phospholemman reduced Na,K-ATPase activity in vitro without effect on Na+ affinity. At least two other FXYD family members have been detected in the CNS, suggesting that additional complexity of sodium pump regulation will be found.
There is growing evidence for involvement of members of the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) family in neurodegenerative disorders and in apoptotic death of neurons subjected to various insults. After our recent report that a deregulation of Cdk5 activity by p25 may contribute to pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we further examined the possible involvement of other Cdks in mice expressing a mutant form of superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G37R)) linked to ALS. No substantial changes in Cdk2 or Cdk6 distribution and kinase activities were detected in spinal motor neurons from SOD1(G37R) mice when compared with normal mice. Of particular interest was the upregulation and mislocalization of Cdk4, a regulator of the G1-S checkpoint of the cell cycle, in motor neurons of SOD1(G37R) mice. The increase of Cdk4 activity in SOD1(G37R) mice was associated with an increase in nuclear Cdk4, cyclin D1, its coactivator, and with the abnormal phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein at Cdk phosphorylation sites. Pharmacological treatment of SOD1(G37R) mice with minocycline, a compound that attenuates microgliosis and slows down disease, lessened the dysregulation of Cdk5/Cdk4 and the phosphorylation of Rb. Interestingly, phospho-Rb was immunoprecipitated with anti-Cdk4 but not with anti-Cdk5 antibodies, suggesting a key role for Cdk4 in the phosphorylation of Rb. Remarkably, the overexpression of a transgene coding for human neurofilament H, a phosphorylation sink for deregulated Cdk5 activity by p25, resulted in a reduction in levels of nuclear Cdk4 and Rb phosphorylation. These results indicate that a cell cycle signaling at the neuronal G1-S checkpoint subsequent to Cdk5 deregulation may constitute a critical step of the neuronal death pathway in ALS caused by mutant SOD1.
A subset of genes implicated in genetic and acquired neurological disorders encode proteins essential to neural patterning and neurogenesis. The gene silencing transcription factor neuronal repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST)/neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF) plays a critical role in elaboration of the neuronal phenotype. In neural progenitor and non-neural cells, REST acts by repression of a subset of neural genes important to synaptic plasticity and synaptic remodeling, including the AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunit GluR2. Here we show that global ischemia triggers REST mRNA and protein expression. REST suppresses GluR2 promoter activity and gene expression in neurons destined to die. Because the GluR2 subunit governs AMPAR Ca2+ permeability, these changes are expected to have profound effects on neuronal survival. In keeping with this concept, acute knockdown of the REST gene by antisense administration prevents GluR2 suppression and rescues post-ischemic neurons from ischemia-induced cell death in an in vitro model. To our knowledge, our study represents the first example of ischemia-induced induction of a master transcriptional regulator gene and its protein expression critical to neural differentiation and patterning in adult neurons. Derepression of REST is likely to be an important mechanism of insult-induced neuronal death.
Elevation of extracellular Ca2+ (increase[Ca2+]e) stimulates the Ca2+ receptor (CaR) to induce secretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) from the calcium-sensing parafollicular (PF) cells. The CaR has been reported to couple to Galpha(q) with subsequent activation of protein kinase C-gamma (PKCgamma). We have identified a parallel transduction pathway in primary cultures of sheep PF cells by using a combinatorial approach in which we expressed adenoviral-encoded dominant-negative signaling proteins and performed in vitro kinase assays. The role of the CaR was established by expression of a dominant-negative CaR that eliminated calcium-induced 5-HT secretion but not secretion in response to KCl or phorbol esters. The calcium-induced secretion was inhibited by a dominant-negative p85 regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). PI3-K activity was also assayed using isoform-specific antibodies. The activity of p85/p110beta (PI3-Kbeta) immunocomplexes was elevated by increase[Ca2+]e and activated by Gbetagamma subunits. In addition, secretion of 5-HT was antagonized by the expression of a minigene encoding a peptide scavenger of Gbetagamma subunits (C-terminal fragment peptide of bovine beta-adrenergic receptor kinase). One target of PI3-K activity is phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1), which in turn activated PKCzeta. Expression of a dominant-negative PKCzeta in PF cells reduced 5-HT secretion. Together, these observations establish that increase[Ca2+]e evokes 5-HT secretion from PF cells by stimulating both Galpha(q)- and Gbetagamma-signaling pathways downstream of the CaR. The betagamma cascade subsequently activates PI3-Kbeta-dependent signaling that is coupled to PDK1 and the downstream effector PKCzeta, and results in an increase in 5-HT release.
In the mammalian olfactory bulb, mitral cell dendrites release glutamate onto the dendritic spines of granule cells, which in turn release GABA back onto mitral dendrites. This local synaptic circuit forms the basis for reciprocal dendrodendritic inhibition mediated by ionotropic GABA(A) receptors in mitral cells. Surprisingly little is known about neurotransmitter modulation of dendrodendritic signaling in the olfactory bulb. In this study, we examine whether metabotropic GABA(B) receptors modulate dendrodendritic signaling between mitral and granule cells. We find that the selective GABA(B) agonist baclofen reduces mitral cell recurrent inhibition mediated by dendrodendritic synapses. GABA(B) receptor activation causes only a weak inhibition of field EPSCs in the external plexiform layer and only slightly reduces glutamate-mediated mitral cell self-excitation. Although GABA(B) receptors depress mitral cell glutamate release only weakly, baclofen causes a marked reduction in the amplitude of granule-cell-evoked, GABA(A)-mediated IPSCs in mitral cells. In addition to reducing the amplitude of granule-cell-evoked IPSCs, baclofen causes a change from paired-pulse depression to paired-pulse facilitation, suggesting that GABA(B) receptors modulate GABA release from granule cells. To explore the mechanism of action of GABA(B) receptors further, we show that baclofen inhibits high-voltage-activated calcium currents in granule cells. Together, these findings suggest that GABA(B) receptors modulate dendrodendritic inhibition primarily by inhibiting granule cell calcium channels and reducing the release of GABA. Furthermore, we show that endogenous GABA regulates the strength of dendrodendritic inhibition via the activation of GABA(B) autoreceptors.
Previous studies have demonstrated the utility of the gold chloride method for en bloc staining of a bisected brain in mice and rats. The present study explores several variations in the method, assesses its reliability, and extends the limits of its application. We conclude that the method is very efficient, highly robust, sufficiently accurate for most purposes, and adaptable to many morphometric measures. We obtained acceptable staining of commissures in every brain, despite a wide variety of fixation methods. One-half could be stained 24 h after the brain was extracted and the other half could be stained months later. When staining failed because of an exhausted solution, the brain could be stained successfully in fresh solution. Relatively small changes were found in the sizes of commissures several weeks after initial fixation or staining. A half brain stained to reveal the mid-sagittal section could then be sectioned coronally and stained again in either gold chloride for myelin or cresyl violet for Nissl substance. Uncertainty, arising from pixelation of digitized images was far less than errors arising from human judgments about the histological limits of major commissures. Useful data for morphometric analysis were obtained by scanning the surface of a gold chloride stained block of brain with an inexpensive flatbed scanner.
Behavioral impairments in mice following administration of the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) require large depletions in striatal dopamine content and are often transient. In this paper, we describe a simple and inexpensive test that measures long-term behavioral deficits in mice treated with moderate doses of MPTP. These measures are significantly correlated with the loss of striatal dopamine and immunoreactivity of the dopamine transporter, vesicular monoamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase. In addition, behavioral impairments on the measures were reversed following L-DOPA administration. Employment of this test will allow for more efficacious use of mice in PD research, as well as provide more sensitive measures of behavioral improvement following potential therapeutic or neuroprotective interventions.
This paper introduces a simple but systematic method to estimate correlations between the spectral energy of two continuous electrophysiological signals in such a way that it can detect relationships between different frequencies and different latencies. From two series of signals (e.g. electroencephalogram, magnetoencephalogram or local field potentials) recorded from two sites in response to repeated sensory stimulations, the method computes the time-frequency energy of each signal. Then, it computes the Spearman rank order correlation coefficient across all the trials between the energy of the first signal series in one time-frequency region and the energy of the second signal series in a second time-frequency region. The method was designed to analyze interactions between frequency bands, in an effort to describe how the main brain rhythms interact with each other across time and space. It was applied to two simulations and to intracranial electro-encephalogram (EEG) recordings obtained from an epileptic patient performing two verbal discrimination tests (a phonological and a semantic task). It led to the identification of different correlations patterns in the gamma band depending on the level of semantic analysis performed by the patient.
Proteolipid protein (PLP) is the primary protein component of CNS myelin, yet myelin from the PLP(null) mouse has only minor ultrastructural abnormalities. Might compensation for a potentially unstable structure involve increased myelin synthesis and turnover? This was not the case; neither accumulation nor in vivo synthesis rates for the myelin-specific lipid cerebroside was altered in PLP(null) mice relative to wild-type (wt) animals. However, the yield of myelin from PLP(null) mice, assayed as levels of cerebroside, was only about 55% of wt control levels. Loss of myelin occurred during initial centrifugation of brain homogenate at 20,000g for 20 min, which is sufficient to sediment almost all myelin from wt mice. Cerebroside-containing fragments from PLP(null) mice remaining in the supernatant could be sedimented by more stringent centrifugation, 100,000g for 60 min. Both the rapidly and the more slowly sedimenting cerebroside-containing membranes banded at the 0.85/0.32 M sucrose interface of a density gradient, as did myelin from wt mice. These results suggest at least some myelin from PLP(null) mice differs from wt myelin with respect to physical stability (fragmented into smaller particles during dispersion) and/or density. Alternatively, slowly sedimenting cerebroside-containing particles could be myelin precursor membranes that, lacking PLP, were retarded in their processing toward mature myelin and thus differ from mature myelin in physical properties. If this is so, recently synthesized cerebroside should be preferentially found in these &quot;slower-sedimenting&quot; myelin precursor fragments. Metabolic tracer experiments showed this was not the case. We conclude that PLP(null) myelin is physically less stable and/or less dense than wt myelin.
BRCA-1 is a tumor suppressor gene that plays a role in DNA repair and cellular growth control. Here we show that BRCA-1 mRNA is expressed by embryonic rat brain and is localized to the neuroepithelium containing neuronal precursor cells. The expression of BRCA-1 decreases during rat brain development, but BRCA-1 is expressed postnatally by proliferating neuronal precursor cells in the developing cerebellum. Neural stem cells (NSC) prepared from embryonic rat brain and cultured in the presence of epidermal growth factor were positive for BRCA-1. Induction of NSC differentiation resulted in down-regulation of BRCA-1 expression as shown by RNA and protein analyses. In addition to embryonic cells, BRCA-1 is also present in NSC prepared from adult rat brain. In adult rats, BRCA1 was expressed by cells in the walls of brain ventricles and in choroid plexus. The results show that BRCA-1 is present in embryonic and adult rat NSC and that the expression is linked to NSC proliferation.
Integrins are a class of intrinsic membrane receptors for extracellular matrix ligands. In the central nervous system, integrins and their ligands influence neuronal growth and synaptic function, but relatively little is known about their potential to regulate intrinsic excitability. To explore this area, we examined the effects of matrix components on potassium currents in developing mouse hippocampal neurones, using electrophysiological and immunochemical approaches. We tested the effects of three integrin ligands present in the hippocampus, fibronectin, laminin and vitronectin, on electrogenesis in late embryonic hippocampal pyramidal neurones. Explants cultured in serum-free medium were exposed to ligands (fibronectin at 3 microg ml-1, laminin at 5 microg ml-1, vitronectin at 10 microg ml-1) for 3-4 days, and voltage-gated potassium currents were recorded from presumptive CA3 pyramidal neurones. Of the three matrix components, only vitronectin affected potassium currents, selectively increasing the amplitude of the inactivating potassium current (IA, or A-current) by about 75 % over control levels, and its density (current per unit area) by about 40 % (measured after 3 day exposures from embryonic day 15.5). Other potassium currents were spared, except to the extent that membrane area was increased. The actions of vitronectin were sensitive to RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp)-sequence-containing peptide, indicating the involvement of integrins as vitronectin receptors. The kinetic properties of IA, including the voltage-dependence of activation and inactivation, inactivation rate and the rate of recovery from inactivation, were minimally affected by vitronectin and were consistent with enhanced functional expression of Kv4-family subunits. Analyses of Kv4.2 and Kv1.4 immunoreactivity also suggested a preferential increase in Kv4.2 levels, with lesser effects on Kv1.4 levels. These results indicate that vitronectin can selectively regulate IA, and together with other observations suggest that modulation of neuronal excitability by integrins and their ligands occurs commonly.


Defensive rage in the cat occurs naturally in response to a threat and is also elicited by electrical or chemical stimulation over the rostro-caudal extent of the medial hypothalamus and dorsolateral aspect of the periaqueductal gray (PAG). This behavior is mediated over a descending projection from the hypothalamus to the midbrain PAG. The underlying hypothesis for the present study was that medial hypothalamic defensive rage neurons are excited in two ways: by NK(1) receptors and by an ascending input from the PAG. The first aspect of this hypothesis was tested by eliciting defensive rage by electrical stimulation of the PAG and then microinjecting a selective NK(1) agonist and antagonist into the hypothalamus. Microinjections of 16 or 12 nmol/0.25 microl of the NK(1) agonist, GR 73632, resulted in facilitation of defensive rage. These facilitatory effects were then blocked by pretreatment with the NK(1) antagonist, GR 82334. However, microinjections of GR 82334 alone had no effect. The second aspect of the hypothesis was tested by stimulating defensive rage sites in the PAG and using immunohistochemical methods to test for the presence of c-Fos in the hypothalamus. The results revealed the presence of c-Fos immunoreactivity in the medial but not lateral hypothalamus. Overall, the findings indicate that NK(1) receptors in the medial hypothalamus facilitate defensive rage elicited from PAG neurons whose axons project back to the medial hypothalamus. The likely ethological significance of the ascending input is that it allows for potentiation and prolongation of defensive rage in response to a threatening stimulus.
The dentate gyrus continues to produce granule neurons throughout life. Mossy fibers, the axons of granule neurons, undergo atypical sprouting in both clinical and experimental mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) has been hypothesized to underlie the network reorganization that is thought to produce spontaneously recurring seizures, possibly via the formation of new recurrent excitatory circuits. Hippocampal neurogenesis may be a critical step in the development of MFS, given that it is enhanced by at least 2-fold in the aftermath of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Since it is known that serotonin (5-HT) 1A receptor activation also increases granule cell genesis in the dentate gyrus in rats, and reciprocally, that blockade of this receptor decreases it, we examined whether 5-HT(1A) receptor blockade would prevent the seizure-induced enhancement of neurogenesis. The ability to block seizure-induced neurogenesis would provide a test for its role in the network reorganization, especially in regards to MFS, which might underlie seizure development. In the present study, it was found that blockade of the 5-HT(1A) receptor before and after pilocarpine treatment prevented seizure-induced hippocampal cell proliferation and survival, and, its prevention by chronic treatment with a 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist (WAY-100,635) did not prevent the development of MFS or spontaneously recurring seizures. Taken together, these results suggest that 5-HT(1A) receptor activation is a critical step in the activation of seizure-induced cell proliferation and survival in the dentate gyrus, however, not for the onset of spontaneously recurrent seizures and MFS.
Growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15) is a novel member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily and has been shown to be induced in neurons subsequent to lesions. We have therefore begun to study its putative role in the regulation of neuron survival and apoptosis. Cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) survive when maintained in high K(+) (25 mm) but undergo apoptosis when switched to low K(+) (5 mm). GDF-15 prevented death of CGN in low K(+). This effect could be blocked by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway inhibitors LY294002 or wortmannin. In contrast, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK)/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway inhibitors U0126 and PD98059 potentiated GDF-15 mediated survival and prevented cell death in low K(+) even without factor treatment. Immunoblots revealed GDF-15-induced phosphorylation of Akt and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. This activation was suppressed by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors. Low K(+) induced delayed and persistent ERK activation, which was blocked by MEK inhibitors or GDF-15. ERK activation induced c-Jun, a member of the AP-1 transcription factor family. GDF-15 or U0126 prevented c-Jun activation. Furthermore, we show that GDF-15 prevented generation of reactive oxygen species, a known activator of ERK. Together, our data suggest that GDF-15 prevents apoptosis in CGN by activating Akt and inhibiting endogenously active ERK.
Monoamine transporters, the molecular targets for drugs of abuse and antidepressants, clear norepinephrine, dopamine, or serotonin from the synaptic cleft. Neurotransmitters, amphetamines, and neurotoxins bind before being transported, whereas cocaine and antidepressants bind to block transport. Although binding is crucial to transport, few assays separate binding from transport, nor do they provide adequate temporal or spatial resolution to describe real-time kinetics or localize sites of active uptake. Here, we report a new method that distinguishes substrate binding from substrate transport using single-cell, space-resolved, real-time fluorescence microscopy. For these studies we use a fluorescent analogue of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, a neurotoxic metabolite and known substrate of monoamine transporters, to assess binding and transport with 50-ms, sub-micron resolution. We show that ASP(+) (4-(4-(dimethylamino)styrl)-N-methylpyridinium) has micromolar potency for the human norepinephrine transporter, that ASP(+) accumulation is Na(+)-, Cl(-)-, cocaine-, and desipramine-sensitive and temperature-dependent, and that ASP(+) competes with norepinephrine uptake. Using this method we demonstrate that norepinephrine transporters are efficient buffers for substrate, with binding rates exceeding transport rates by 100-fold. Furthermore, substrates bind deep within the transporter, isolated from both the bath and the lipid bilayer. Although transport per se depends on Na(+) and Cl(-), binding is independent of Na(+) and actually increases in low Cl(-). We further demonstrate that ASP(+) interacts with transporters not only in transfected cells but in cultured neurons. ASP(+) is also a substrate for dopamine and serotonin transporters and therefore represents a powerful new technique for studying the biophysical properties of monoamine transporters, an approach also amenable to high throughput assays for drug discovery.
PDZ domain proteins play critical roles in binding, clustering and subcellular targeting of membrane receptors and ion channels. PDZ domains in multi-PDZ proteins often are arranged in groups with highly conserved spacing and intervening sequences; however, the functional significance of such tandem arrangements of PDZs is unclear. We have solved the three-dimensional structure of the first two PDZ domains of postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95 PDZ1 and PDZ2), which are closely linked to each other in the PSD-95 family of scaffold proteins. The two PDZs have limited freedom of rotation and their C-terminal peptide-binding grooves are aligned with each other with an orientation preference for binding to pairs of C termini extending in the same direction. Increasing the spacing between PDZ1 and PDZ2 resulted in decreased binding between PDZ12 and its dimeric targets. The same mutation impaired the functional ability of PSD-95 to cluster Kv1.4 potassium channels in heterologous cells. The data presented provide a molecular basis for preferential binding of PSD-95 to multimeric membrane proteins with appropriate C-terminal sequences.
Selective REM sleep deprivation was carried out under the conditions designed to minimize the adverse influence of environmental conditions and restricted movement, and the influence of REM sleep deprivation on adrenocortical steroid metabolism was investigated by measuring the steady-state levels of mRNAs encoding steroid metabolism-related genes, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme cytochrome P450 (P450scc) and steroid 5alpha-reductase (5alpha-R), in rat adrenal glands. Selective REM sleep deprivation caused a significant decrease in StAR mRNA and an increase in 5alpha-R mRNA levels without any notable change in P450scc mRNA levels in the adrenal gland. In contrast, non-selective sleep disturbance, resulting in the partial reductions of non-REM and REM sleep, tended to increase both StAR and P450scc mRNA levels without any statistical significance. These results indicate that REM sleep deprivation by itself may affect the expression of steroid metabolism-related genes in the adrenal gland, suggesting a possible relation between REM sleep and adrenocortical steroid metabolism.
Symptoms of urinary frequency and urgency secondary to benign prostatic obstruction are common in elderly men. In many patients, these symptoms correspond to the urodynamic finding of involuntary detrusor contractions during filling cystometry (i.e., detrusor instability). Spontaneous non-voiding contractions during filling can be modeled in animals by subchronic, partial urethral obstruction. However, many investigators remove the obstructive ligature a few days prior to cystometrical evaluation (which may not be an ideal representation of the clinical situation where obstruction is still present), and all perform cystometry within 3 days post-bladder catheterization surgery (i.e., while considerable wound healing is present). In the current study, we evaluated the effects, after oral dosing, of three structurally diverse ATP-sensitive potassium channel openers (KCOs) on spontaneous contractions secondary to obstruction in rats with an intact obstructive ligature at the time of testing and 2 weeks post-bladder catheterization. ZD6169, WAY-133537 and a novel dihydropyridine KCO, A-278637, all significantly decreased spontaneous bladder contractions at 30 min post-dosing (p.o.). However, only ZD6169 (10 micromol/kg) and A-278637 (3 micromol/kg) attenuated such bladder contractions at doses that did not concurrently, significantly affect mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate. These data confirm the efficacy of KCOs to inhibit unstable contractions in obstructed rats, and they further demonstrate the positive effect of a novel, bladder-selective KCO, A-278637, in an animal model with potentially less artifact than in previous such models.
Quantification of mRNAs using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) by monitoring the product formation with the fluorescent dye SYBR Green I is being extensively used in neurosciences, developmental biology, and medical diagnostics. Most PCR data analysis procedures assume that the PCR efficiency for the amplicon of interest is constant or even, in the case of the comparative C(t) method, equal to 2. The latter method already leads to a 4-fold error when the PCR efficiencies vary over just a 0.04 range. PCR efficiencies of amplicons are usually calculated from standard curves based on either known RNA inputs or on dilution series of a reference cDNA sample. In this paper we show that the first approach can lead to PCR efficiencies that vary over a 0.2 range, whereas the second approach may be off by 0.26. Therefore, we propose linear regression on the Log(fluorescence) per cycle number data as an assumption-free method to calculate starting concentrations of mRNAs and PCR efficiencies for each sample. A computer program to perform this calculation is available on request (e-mail: bioinfo@amc.uva.nl; subject: LinRegPCR).
In streptozotocin-induced diabetic (STZ-diabetic) rats, an animal model of diabetes mellitus, a reduced expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) and enhanced long-term depression (LTD) are observed. This study examined the role of protein kinase C (PKC) and protein phosphatase 2B in hippocampal synaptic transmission in STZ-diabetic rats. The phorbol ester 4beta-phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDB) induced a concentration-dependent potentiation of synaptic responses in area CA1 that could partially be inhibited by the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine. In slices from STZ-diabetic rats the effectivity of PDB to increase synaptic transmission was reduced compared to slices from control animals. In STZ-diabetic rats the protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B) inhibitor cyclosporin A inhibited LTD induction, but did not affect the induction of LTP. In conclusion, these data show a reduced response to PDB in STZ-diabetic rats, and indicate that the lack of LTP induction in these animals is not due to increased PP2B activity.



The melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4-R) plays a pivotal role in maintaining energy homeostasis in rodents and humans. For example, MC4-R deletion or mutation results in obesity, hyperphagia, and insulin resistance. Additionally, subsets of leptin-induced autonomic responses can be blocked by melanocortin receptor antagonism, suggesting that MC4-R-expressing neurons are downstream targets of leptin. However, the critical autonomic control sites expressing MC4-Rs are still unclear. In the present study, we systematically examined the distribution of MC4-R mRNA in the adult rat central nervous system, including the spinal cord, by using in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) with a novel cRNA probe. Autonomic control sites expressing MC4-R mRNA in the hypothalamus included the anteroventral periventricular, ventromedial preoptic, median preoptic, paraventricular, dorsomedial, and arcuate nuclei. The subfornical organ, dorsal hypothalamic, perifornical, and posterior hypothalamic areas were also observed to express MC4-R mRNA. Within extrahypothalamic autonomic control sites, MC4-R-specific hybridization was evident in the infralimbic and insular cortices, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, periaqueductal gray, lateral parabrachial nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV), and intermediolateral nucleus of the spinal cord (IML). By using dual-label ISHH, we confirmed that the cells expressing MC4-R mRNA in the IML and DMV were autonomic preganglionic neurons as cells in both sites coexpressed choline acetyltransferase mRNA. The distribution of MC4-R mRNA is consistent with the proposed roles of central melanocortin systems in feeding and autonomic regulation.
The neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) gene encodes an intracellular membrane-associated protein called merlin or schwannomin, which is known to be a tumor suppressor. Numerous studies have suggested that merlin is involved in the regulation of cell growth and proliferation. Previously, merlin/schwannomin was reported to block Ras-induced cell proliferation and anchorage-independent cell growth. Also, the N-terminus of merlin was found to suppress cell proliferation, although it appears to be less effective than full-length merlin. However, the inhibitory mechanism of merlin is unknown. In this report, merlin is shown to be effective at suppressing serum/Ras-induced and Elk-mediated SRE dependent transactivation, and serum-induced ERK phosphorylation in NIH3T3 cells. In addition, merlin inhibited serum-induced Elk phosphorylation, a downstream effector of ERKs. Also, the N-terminal deficient merlin mutant could not block serum-induced and Elk-mediated SRE dependent transactivation, although the C-terminal deficient merlin mutant could. These results suggest that merlin inhibits SRE dependent transactivation by repressing serum-induced ERK phosphorylation and its downstream effector, Elk phosphorylation. Also, the N-terminus of merlin may be important for its inhibitory effect. Our results show that merlin acts as a negative regulator of the SRE signaling pathway via the Ras-ERKs pathway.
Nocifensive behaviors induced by the intradermal injection of three different P2X receptor agonists, ATP, BzATP or alpha,beta-meATP, into a hindpaw were measured in rats that were injected intrathecally with either an NMDA (MK-801) or an NK-1 (L-703,606) receptor antagonist or were pretreated systemically with the VR1 agonist resiniferatoxin (RTX). The same procedures were performed in animals injected intradermally with either capsaicin or formalin. Spinal infusion of MK-801 (10-50 nmol/10 micro l) similarly reduced the number of nociceptive events triggered by each of the P2X agonists and was also effective against capsaicin and formalin induced behaviors. Intrathecal administration of L-703,606 (50-100 nmol/10 micro l) had its greatest antinociceptive effect against capsaicin-induced behaviors followed by ATP and BzATP. L-703,606 was completely ineffective against behaviors induced by formalin or the other P2X agonist, alpha,beta-meATP. Pretreatment with RTX 2 days prior to testing significantly decreased the number of nociceptive events caused by each of the P2X agonists as well as capsaicin and formalin (capsaicin&gt;BzATP&gt;ATP&gt;formalin&gt;alpha,beta-meATP). The remaining nociceptive events in RTX animals injected with alpha,beta-meATP were significantly higher than in animals injected with either ATP or BzATP. Intradermal administration of different P2X receptor agonists induced similar levels of nocifensive behaviors and activity at spinal NMDA receptors. Capsaicin-sensitive fibers were likely activated following injection of BzATP and ATP, but not alpha,beta-meATP, and appeared to trigger the spinal release of substance P. The differences in mechanisms employed by the different P2X agonists may be a function of respective selectivity for P2X receptor subtypes.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an important nonadrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) inhibitory neurotransmitter in the gastrointestinal tract. In previous studies, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the jejunal myenteric plexus, a key enzyme responsible for the release of NO, has been demonstrated to increase after splanchinic ganglionectomy (sympathetic nerve transection). The alpha2-adrenoceptor is known to be one of the most important receptors which controls intestinal motility. In the present study, we examined the effect of application of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine hydrochloride, on nNOS expression in the rat jejunal myenteric plexus after splanchinic ganglionectomy. Clonidine (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline was administered for 5 days after the splanchinic ganglionectomy. The nNOS expression and nNOS mRNA were detected by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization for nNOS mRNA, respectively. In the rats treated with vehicle after the splanchinic ganglionectomy, nNOS expression in the myenteric plexus significantly increased compared with sham-operated rats. The increases in nNOS protein and mRNA after splanchinic ganglionectomy were significantly reversed by clonidine treatment. Clonidine-treated naive rats showed no difference in nNOS expression compared with sham-operated rats. These data suggest that nNOS expression in the jejunal myenteric plexus after splanchinic ganglionectomy is regulated by the alpha2-adrenoceptor and that the alpha2-adrenoceptor may play an important role in abnormal intestinal motility following splanchinic ganglionectomy in rat jejunum.
Neurons are distinctive in that they are generally considered to be permanently post-mitotic cells. The oncoprotein p53 is a key regulator in neuronal development, notably in cell proliferation and neuronal death. We hypothesize that p53 maintains the post-mitotic characteristic of differentiated neurons. New lines of conditionally immortalized cortical cells were generated to test this hypothesis. Populations of cells were obtained from the neocortices of dual transgenic mice that were null for p53 and expressed a temperature-sensitive SV40 large T antigen. At a permissive temperature (32 degrees C), the cells continued to proliferate and most expressed nestin and proteins associated with glia. At a non-permissive temperature (39 degrees C), the cells expressed cytoskeletal proteins associated with differentiated neurons such as microtubule associated protein 2 and neurofilament 200. Under permissive conditions, both p53(+/-) and p53(-/-) cells exhibited similar cycling behaviors; the length of the cell cycle was 13-15 h and &gt;85% of the cells were actively cycling. In non-permissive conditions, most p53(+/-) cells stopped dividing, whereas the p53(-/-) cells continued to proliferate. The survival of the cells also differed. In the non-permissive conditions, many p53(+/-) cells died following treatment with a neurotoxin (ethanol, 400 mg/dl), whereas the p53(-/-) cells did not. After re-introduction to the permissive conditions, both cell lines expressed neuron-like characteristics, but only the p53(-/-) cells retained their ability to cycle. Therefore, p53-mediated activities appear to be involved in the proliferation, survival, and post-mitotic nature of neuron-like cells.
Gustatory processing within the medulla is modulated by a number of physiologic and experiential factors. Several neurotransmitters, including excitatory amino acids, GABA, and substance P, are involved in synaptic processing within the rostral portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST). Endogenous opiates have been implicated in the regulation of feeding behavior and in taste palatability and gustatory responses in the parabrachial nuclei are reduced by systemic morphine. In the present experiments, extracellular recording of neuronal activity within the NST in response to taste input was combined with local microinjection of met-enkephalin (Met-ENK) and naltrexone (NLTX) to determine the effect of these agents on gustatory activity. The anterior tongue was stimulated with anodal current pulses to determine the time course of drug action (n=85 cells) and with prototypical taste stimuli (0.032 M sucrose, NaCl, and quinine hydrochloride, and 0.0032 M citric acid) to investigate the effects of these opioid compounds on taste-evoked responses (n=80 cells). Among these 165 taste-responsive neurons in the NST, the activity of 39 (23.6%) was suppressed by Met-ENK. These effects were dose-dependent and blockable by NLTX, which alone was without effect, suggesting that opiates do not maintain a tonic inhibitory influence. Immunohistochemical experiments demonstrated both micro - and delta-opioid receptors within the gustatory portion of the NST; previous studies had shown numerous fiber terminals containing Met-ENK. These data suggest that endogenous opiates play an inhibitory role in gustatory processing within the medulla.
Using an identified synapse in the nervous system of the mollusc Hermissenda, the influence of somatic calcium accumulation on regulated synaptic transmission was investigated. Hair cells in Hermissenda project onto postsynaptic B photoreceptors where they mediate inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). Intracellular recordings in combination with bath perfusion of calcium channel modulators indicated that L-type channels were present on the hair cell soma but not on the terminal branches. In contrast, P/Q and an unidentified channel type (similar to N-type channels) contributed additively to transmitter release from the hair cell. Antibodies raised against rat brain channel proteins detected L- (alpha1(C)) and P/Q-type (alpha1(A)) channels in lysates of the Hermissenda nervous system, indicating a homology between the Hermissenda channels and their mammalian counterparts. To mimic somatic calcium channel 'leak', hair cells were exposed to the L-type channel agonist +/-BAY K 8644. Exposure to +/-BAY K 8644 resulted in a rapid (&lt;2 min) increase (40%) in the amplitude of the spike after-hyperpolarization in the hair cell, and was associated with a reduction in evoked firing frequency. This reduction in rate of discharge induced a proportional decrease in the amplitude of compound IPSPs recorded in the postsynaptic B photoreceptors. From Fura-2 emissions we determined that +/-BAY K 8644 induced a rapid (&lt;2 min) and persistent increase (70%) in somatic calcium concentration, followed by a slower elevation of calcium in the medial axon (&gt;30 min) and subsequently in the terminal branches (&gt;40 min), suggesting that excessive somatic calcium had diffused or induced a propagation along the axon. Corresponding with a 56% rise in terminal calcium (50-60 min post agonist), postsynaptic potentials declined to 70% of baseline amplitude. These results suggest that prolonged somatic L-channel 'leak' can interfere with regulated transmitter release, both by reducing the rate of presynaptic discharge and by promoting terminal calcium accumulation that may oppose transmitter release. Such effect may have implications for the age-related learning deficits that often accompany somatic calcium 'leak'.
Plasticity of the nervous system is dependent on mechanisms that regulate the strength of synaptic transmission. Excitatory synapses in the brain undergo long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), cellular models of learning and memory. Protein phosphorylation is required for the induction of many forms of synaptic plasticity, including LTP and LTD. However, the critical kinase substrates that mediate plasticity have not been identified. We previously reported that phosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors, which mediate rapid excitatory transmission in the brain, is modulated during LTP and LTD. To test if GluR1 phosphorylation is necessary for plasticity and learning and memory, we generated mice with knockin mutations in the GluR1 phosphorylation sites. The phosphomutant mice show deficits in LTD and LTP and have memory defects in spatial learning tasks. These results demonstrate that phosphorylation of GluR1 is critical for LTD and LTP expression and the retention of memories.
The effect of acute treatment with clozapine, risperidone and haloperidol on cardiovascular response to open field novelty stress was investigated in rats using radio-telemetry and video-tracking analysis. Pretreatment with clozapine dose-dependently inhibited the pressor response, tachycardia and increase in dP/dt and caused a marked reduction of exploratory locomotor activity. Similar effects were observed after risperidone treatment. Haloperidol treatment markedly reduced locomotor activity but its cardiovascular effects were limited to a more rapid return of heart rate towards baseline levels. These data suggest that particularly the atypical antipsychotic drugs, clozapine and risperidone, but not the typical antipsychotic, haloperidol, reduce cardiovascular stress responses, an effect that could reflect their anxiolytic action. Such anxiolytic effects could contribute to the beneficial clinical effects of atypical antipsychotic drugs in patients with schizophrenia.
Presenilin (PS, PS1/PS2) complexes are known to be responsible for the intramembranous gamma-secretase cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein and signaling receptor Notch. PS holoprotein undergoes endoproteolysis by an unknown enzymatic activity to generate NH(2)- and COOH-terminal fragments, a process that is required for the formation of the active and stable PS/-gamma-secretase complex. Biochemical and genetic studies have recently identified nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2 as essential cofactors that physically interact with PS1 and are necessary for the gamma-secretase activity. However, their precise function in regulating the PS complex and gamma-secretase activity remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that endogenous PEN-2 preferentially interacts with PS1 holoprotein. Down-regulation of PEN-2 expression by small interfering RNA (siRNA) abolishes the endoproteolysis of PS1, whereas overexpression of PEN-2 promotes the production of PS1 fragments, indicating a critical role for PEN-2 in PS1 endoproteolysis. Interestingly, accumulation of full-length PS1 resulting from down-regulation of PEN-2 is alleviated by additional siRNA down-regulation of APH-1. Furthermore, overexpression of APH-1 facilitates PEN-2-mediated PS1 proteolysis, resulting in a significant increase in PS1 fragments. Our data reveal a direct role of PEN-2 in proteolytic cleavage of PS1 and a regulatory function of APH-1, in coordination with PEN-2, in the biogenesis of the PS1 complex.
The second messenger cAMP exerts powerful stimulatory effects on Ca(2+) signaling and insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cells. Previous studies of beta-cells focused on protein kinase A (PKA) as a downstream effector of cAMP action. However, it is now apparent that cAMP also exerts its effects by binding to cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (Epac). Although one effector of Epac is the Ras-related G protein Rap1, it is not fully understood what the functional consequences of Epac-mediated signal transduction are at the cellular level. 8-(4-chloro-phenylthio)-2'-O-methyladenosine-3'-5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP) is a newly described cAMP analog, and it activates Epac but not PKA. Here we demonstrate that 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP acts in human pancreatic beta-cells and INS-1 insulin-secreting cells to mobilize Ca(2+) from intracellular Ca(2+) stores via Epac-mediated Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR). The cAMP-dependent increase of [Ca(2+)](i) that accompanies CICR is shown to be coupled to exocytosis. We propose that the interaction of cAMP and Epac to trigger CICR explains, at least in part, the blood glucose-lowering properties of an insulinotropic hormone (glucagon-like peptide-1, also known as GLP-1) now under investigation for use in the treatment of type-2 diabetes mellitus.
Despite great interest in the role of the amygdala in animal and human behaviour, its very existence as a structurally and functionally unified brain component has been questioned, on the grounds that cell groups within it display divergent pharmacological and connectional characteristics. We argue that the question of whether particular brain nuclei constitute a valid structural and functional unit is inherently an evolutionary question, and we present a method for answering it. The method involves phylogenetic analysis of comparative data to determine whether or not separate regions of the putative brain structure show statistically correlated evolution. We find that, in three separate groups of mammals (primates and two groups of insectivores), evolutionary changes in the volumes of amygdala components are strongly correlated, even after controlling for volumetric change in a wide range of limbic and other brain structures. This allows us to reject the strong claim that the amygdala is neither a structural nor a functional unit, and demonstrates the importance of evolutionary analysis in resolving such issues in systems neuroscience.
Prion diseases such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) are fatal, neuro-degenerative disorders with no known therapy. A proportion of the UK population has been exposed to a bovine spongiform encephalopathy-like prion strain and are at risk of developing variant CJD. A hallmark of prion disease is the transformation of normal cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into an infectious disease-associated isoform, PrP(Sc). Recent in vitro studies indicate that anti-PrP monoclonal antibodies with little or no affinity for PrP(Sc) can prevent the incorporation of PrP(C) into propagating prions. We therefore investigated in a murine scrapie model whether anti-PrP monoclonal antibodies show similar inhibitory effects on prion replication in vivo. We found that peripheral PrP(Sc) levels and prion infectivity were markedly reduced, even when the antibodies were first administered at the point of near maximal accumulation of PrP(Sc) in the spleen. Furthermore, animals in which the treatment was continued remained healthy for over 300 days after equivalent untreated animals had succumbed to the disease. These findings indicate that immunotherapeutic strategies for human prion diseases are worth pursuing.
Finding one's way in a large-scale environment may engage different cognitive processes than following a familiar route. The neural bases of these processes were investigated using functional MRI (fMRI). Subjects found their way in one virtual-reality town and followed a well-learned route in another. In a control condition, subjects followed a visible trail. Within subjects, accurate wayfinding activated the right posterior hippocampus. Between-subjects correlations with performance showed that good navigators (i.e., accurate wayfinders) activated the anterior hippocampus during wayfinding and head of caudate during route following. These results coincide with neurophysiological evidence for distinct response (caudate) and place (hippocampal) representations supporting navigation. We argue that the type of representation used influences both performance and concomitant fMRI activation patterns.
The &quot;parahippocampal place area&quot; (PPA) responds more strongly in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scenes than to faces, objects, or other visual stimuli. We used an event-related fMRI adaptation paradigm to test whether the PPA represents scenes in a viewpoint-specific or viewpoint-invariant manner. The PPA responded just as strongly to viewpoint changes that preserved intrinsic scene geometry as it did to complete scene changes, but less strongly to object changes within the scene. In contrast, lateral occipital cortex responded more strongly to object changes than to spatial changes. These results demonstrate that scene processing in the PPA is viewpoint specific and suggest that the PPA represents the relationship between the observer and the surfaces that define local space.

This paper describes and characterizes a novel microfabricated neuronal culture device. This device combines microfabrication, microfluidic, and surface micropatterning techniques to create a multicompartment neuronal culturing device that can be used in a number of neuroscience research applications. The device is fabricated in poly(dimethylsiloxane), PDMS, using soft lithography techniques. The PDMS device is placed on a tissue culture dish (polystyrene) or glass substrate, forming two compartments with volumes of less than 2 L each. These two compartments are separated by a physical barrier in which a number of micron-size grooves are embedded to allow growth of neurites across the compartments while maintaining fluidic isolation. Cells are plated into the somal (cell body) compartment, and after 3-4 days, neurites extend into the neuritic compartment via the grooves. Viability of the neurons in the devices is between 50 and 70% after 7 days in culture; this is slightly lower than but comparable to values for a control grown on tissue culture dishes. Healthy neuron morphology is evident in both the devices and controls. We demonstrate the ability to use hydrostatic pressure to isolate insults to one compartment and, thus, expose localized areas of neurons to insults applied in soluble form. Due to the high resistance of the microgrooves for fluid transport, insults are contained in the neuritic compartment without appreciable leakage into the somal compartment for over 15 h. Finally, we demonstrate the use of polylysine patterning in combination with the microfabricated device to facilitate identification and visualization of neurons. The ability to direct sites of neuronal attachment and orientation of neurite outgrowth by micropatterning techniques, combined with fluidically isolated compartments within the culture area, offers significant advantages over standard open culture methods and other conventional methods for manipulating distinct neuronal microenvironments.
Developmental dyslexia, characterized by unexplained difficulty in reading, is associated with behavioral deficits in phonological processing. Functional neuroimaging studies have shown a deficit in the neural mechanisms underlying phonological processing in children and adults with dyslexia. The present study examined whether behavioral remediation ameliorates these dysfunctional neural mechanisms in children with dyslexia. Functional MRI was performed on 20 children with dyslexia (8-12 years old) during phonological processing before and after a remediation program focused on auditory processing and oral language training. Behaviorally, training improved oral language and reading performance. Physiologically, children with dyslexia showed increased activity in multiple brain areas. Increases occurred in left temporo-parietal cortex and left inferior frontal gyrus, bringing brain activation in these regions closer to that seen in normal-reading children. Increased activity was observed also in right-hemisphere frontal and temporal regions and in the anterior cingulate gyrus. Children with dyslexia showed a correlation between the magnitude of increased activation in left temporo-parietal cortex and improvement in oral language ability. These results suggest that a partial remediation of language-processing deficits, resulting in improved reading, ameliorates disrupted function in brain regions associated with phonological processing and produces additional compensatory activation in other brain regions.
Estrogens are neuroprotective against glutamate excitotoxicity caused by an excessive rise in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)). In this study, we demonstrate that 17 beta-estradiol (E(2)) treatment of hippocampal neurons attenuated the excitotoxic glutamate-induced rise in bulk-free [Ca(2+)](i) despite potentiating the influx of Ca(2+) induced by glutamate. E(2)-induced attenuation of bulk-free [Ca(2+)](i) depends on mitochondrial sequestration of Ca(2+), which is blocked in the presence of the combination of rotenone and oligomycin or in the presence of antimycin, which collapse the mitochondrial membrane potential, thereby preventing mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport. Release of mitochondrial Ca(2+) by carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP) after excitotoxic glutamate treatment resulted in a greater [Ca(2+)](i) in E(2)-treated cells, indicating an E(2)-induced increase in the mitochondrial calcium ([Ca(2+)](m)) load. The increased [Ca(2+)](m) load was accompanied by increased expression of Bcl-2, which can promote mitochondrial Ca(2+) load tolerance. These findings provide a mechanism of E(2)-induced neuronal survival by attenuation of excitotoxic glutamate [Ca(2+)](i) rise via increased mitochondrial sequestration of cytosolic Ca(2+) coupled with an increase in Bcl-2 expression to sustain mitochondrial Ca(2+) load tolerance and function.
Understanding the relationship between the structural and functional organization of the human brain is one of the most important goals of neuroscience. Individual variability in brain structure means that it is essential to obtain this information from the same subject. To date, this has been almost impossible. Even though noninvasive functional imaging techniques such as functional MRI (fMRI) are now commonplace, there is no complementary noninvasive structural technique. We present an in vivo method of examining the detailed neuroanatomy of any individual, which can then be correlated with that individual's own functional results. This method utilizes high-resolution structural MRI to identify distinct cortical regions based on cortical lamination structure. We demonstrate that the observed MR lamination patterns relate to myeloarchitecture through a correlation of histology with MRI. In vivo high-resolution MRI studies identify striate cortex, as well as visual area V5, in four individuals, as defined by using fMRI. The anatomical identification of a cortical area (V5MT) outside of striate cortex is a significant advance, proving it possible to identify extra-striate cortical areas and demonstrating that in vivo structural mapping of the human cerebral cortex is possible.
In recent years much has been learned about the molecular requirements for inducing long-term synaptic depression (LTD) in various brain regions. However, very little is known about the consequences of LTD induction for subsequent signaling events in postsynaptic neurons. We have addressed this issue by examining homosynaptic LTD at the cerebellar climbing fiber (CF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapse. This synapse is built for reliable and massive excitation: Activation of a single axon produces an unusually large alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor-mediated synaptic current, the depolarization of which drives a regenerative complex spike producing a large, widespread Ca(2+) transient in PC dendrites. Here we test whether CF LTD has an impact on dendritic, complex spike-evoked Ca(2+) signals by simultaneously performing long-term recordings of complex spikes and microfluorimetric Ca(2+) measurements in PC dendrites in rat cerebellar slices. Our data show that LTD of the CF excitatory postsynaptic current produces a reduction in both slow components of the complex spike waveform and complex spike-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) transients. This LTD of dendritic Ca(2+) signals may provide a neuroprotective mechanism and/or constitute &quot;heterosynaptic metaplasticity&quot; by reducing the probability for subsequent induction of those forms of use-dependent plasticity, which require CF-evoked Ca(2+) signals such as parallel fiber-PC LTD and interneuron-PC LTP.
We used a high-titer recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector to express WT or mutant human alpha-synuclein in the substantia nigra of adult marmosets. The alpha-synuclein protein was expressed in 90-95% of all nigral dopamine neurons and distributed by anterograde transport throughout their axonal and dendritic projections. The transduced neurons developed severe neuronal pathology, including alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions and granular deposits; swollen, dystrophic, and fragmented neuritis; and shrunken and pyknotic, densely alpha-synuclein-positive perikarya. By 16 wk posttransduction, 30-60% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were lost, and the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive innervation of the caudate nucleus and putamen was reduced to a similar extent. The rAAV-alpha-synuclein-treated monkeys developed a type of motor impairment, i.e., head position bias, compatible with this magnitude of nigrostriatal damage. rAAV vector-mediated alpha-synuclein gene transfer provides a transgenic primate model of nigrostriatal alpha-synucleinopathy that is of particular interest because it develops slowly over time, like human Parkinson's disease (PD), and expresses neuropathological features (alpha-synuclein-positive inclusions and dystrophic neurites, in particular) that are similar to those seen in idiopathic PD. This model offers new opportunities for the study of pathogenetic mechanisms and exploration of new therapeutic targets of particular relevance to human PD.
In addition to neurological deficits, Huntington's disease (HD) patients and transgenic mice expressing mutant human huntingtin exhibit reduced levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, hyperglycemia, and tissue wasting. We show that the progression of neuropathological (formation of huntingtin inclusions and apoptotic protease activation), behavioral (motor dysfunction), and metabolic (glucose intolerance and tissue wasting) abnormalities in huntingtin mutant mice, an animal model of HD, are retarded when the mice are maintained on a dietary restriction (DR) feeding regimen resulting in an extension of their life span. DR increases levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the protein chaperone heat-shock protein-70 in the striatum and cortex, which are depleted in HD mice fed a normal diet. The suppression of the pathogenic processes by DR in HD mice suggests that mutant huntingtin promotes neuronal degeneration by impairing cellular stress resistance, and that the body wasting in HD is driven by the neurodegenerative process. Our findings suggest a dietary intervention that may suppress the disease process and increase the life span of humans that carry the mutant huntingtin gene.
Increased use of gene manipulation in mice (e.g., targeted or random mutagenesis) has been accompanied by increased reliance on a very few rapid and simple behavioral assays, each of which aspires to model a human behavioral domain. Yet, each assay comprises multiple traits, influenced by multiple genetic factors. Motor incoordination (ataxia), a common characteristic of many neurological disorders, may reflect disordered balance, muscle strength, proprioception, and/or patterned gait. Impaired motor performance can confound interpretation of behavioral assays of learning and memory, exploration, motivation, and sensory competence. The rotarod is one of the most commonly used tests to measure coordination in mice. We show here that exactly how the rotarod test is performed can markedly alter the apparent patterns of genetic influence both in undrugged performance and sensitivity to ethanol intoxication. However, when tested with well chosen parameters, the accelerating rotarod test showed very high inter- and intralaboratory reliability. Depending on test conditions, ethanol can either disrupt or enhance performance in some strains. Genetic contribution to performance on the accelerating versus the fixed-speed rotarod assay can be completely dissociated under some test conditions, and multiple test parameters are needed to assess the range of genetic influence adequately.
The FOXO family of transcription factors constitute an evolutionarily conserved subgroup within the larger family known as winged helix or Forkhead transcriptional regulators. Building upon work in the nematode, researchers have uncovered a role for these proteins in a diverse set of cellular responses that include glucose metabolism, stress response, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis. At the organismal level, FOXO transcription factors are believed to function in various pathological processes ranging from cancer and diabetes to organismal aging. A number of studies have also shed light on the signaling pathways that regulate FOXO activity in response to external stimuli and have identified multiple FOXO target genes that mediate this varied set of biological responses.
Intramembranous proteolysis (IP) is a recently recognized mechanism for transmembrane signal transduction that involves proteolysis of transmembrane proteins within their membrane-spanning domains. Juxtamembranous proteolysis (JP) is similar, but proteolytic cleavage of a transmembrane protein occurs at a site close to, but not within, the transmembrane domain of the target protein. In both IP and JP, a soluble domain of a transmembrane protein is released from its membrane tether. This domain can then transmit a signal either locally or at some distance from the site of cleavage. In certain signaling pathways, JP and IP are linked. JP on one side of the membrane results in secondary IP, which then releases a signaling domain from the membrane. Whereas well-characterized proteases such as caspases, the proteasome, and metalloprotease disintegrins, have been implicated in JP, three families of multipass membrane proteases (MpMPs) have now been shown to carry out IP. Recent studies of events mediated by IP and JP indicate that they regulate key cellular signaling events including pathways involved in sterol regulation, cell fate selection, and growth regulation. Moreover, IP and JP have important roles in certain diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Because some of the proteases mediating IP and JP can be selectivity inhibited, inhibitors targeting these proteases are likely to alter both physiologic and pathologic events triggered by IP and JP.
Postmortem and in vivo vibration responses to sound of the stapes and the umbo of human ears are surveyed. The magnitudes of umbo velocity responses recorded postmortem decay between 1 and 5 or 10 kHz at rates between 0 and -3 dB/octave. In contrast, the magnitudes of in vivo umbo vibration are relatively invariant over a wide frequency range, amply exceeding the bandwidth of the audiogram according to one report. Similarly, most studies of postmortem stapes vibration report velocities tuned to about 1 kHz, with magnitudes that decay at a rate of about -6 dB/octave at higher frequencies. In contrast, in vivo stapes responses are apparently only mildly tuned. We conjecture that the bandwidth of stapes vibration velocity in humans will eventually be shown to exceed the bandwidth of the audiogram, in line with findings in other amniotic vertebrates.
The purpose of this study was to disentangle the contribution of episodic-perceptual from pre-existing memory representations of faces to repetition effects. ERPs were recorded to first and second presentations of same and different photos of famous and unfamiliar faces, in an incidental task where occasional non-targets had to be detected. Repetition of same and different photos of famous faces resulted in an N400 amplitude decrement. No such N400 repetition-induced attenuation was observed for unfamiliar faces. In addition, repetition of same photos of faces, and not different ones, gave rise to an early ERP repetition effect (starting at approximately 350 ms) with an occipito-temporal scalp distribution. Together, these results suggest that repetition effects depend on two temporally and may be neuro-functionally distinct loci, episode-based representation and face recognition units stored in long-term memory.
The ability of Sipatrigine (BW619c89), a sodium and calcium channel blocker to protect neuronal perikarya, axons and oligodendrocytes from ischaemia has been evaluated in the rat. Sipatrigine (30 mg/kg) was administered 15 min prior to transient (2 h) occlusion of the middle cerebral artery with animals being sacrificed 24 h after induction of ischaemia. Sipatrigine significantly reduced the volumes of neuronal perikarya damage (by 35%) and oligodendrocyte damage (by 54%). Sipatrigine minimally altered axonal damage (median scores: vehicle approximately 30, Sipatrigine approximately 26). The present report provides evidence that neuronal perikarya, axons and oligodendrocytes may be differentially protected by pharmacological intervention in focal cerebral ischaemia.
The current study aimed at determining whether the deviance of hemispheric asymmetry in the auditory cortex of children with dyslexia is also evident in dyslexic adults. Ten adult dyslexic subjects and 10 normally literate controls were presented with the syllable [ba:] while event-related brain activity was recorded from both hemispheres using whole-head magnetoencephalography. In control subjects, the auditory N100m source was found to be asymmetrical with a more anterior localization in the right than in the left perisylvian cortex (difference = 0.78 cm). The N100 m dipoles in dyslexic adults did not exhibit the same interhemispheric asymmetry (difference = -0.06 cm). The results indicate that reduced hemispheric laterality of perisylvian regions in dyslexia persists into adulthood.
A major open question in cognitive neuroscience concerns the modularity of language: does human language rely, in part, on neural processes that are not language specific? Such reliance would predict that learning should transfer between non-linguistic and linguistic domains via this common neural basis. To test this prediction, we studied effects of non-linguistic cognitive sequence training on syntactic comprehension of six left-hemisphere damaged aphasic patients. Syntactic comprehension impairment was quantified before and after 10 weeks of training on a non-linguistic sequence processing task. This task used a transformational rule specifically corresponding to the transformation required for understanding a particular type of sentence referred to as relativised. Non-linguistic sequencing improved significantly with training (day effect: F(9,45)=3.7, &lt;0.005). Moreover, a significant transfer of this improvement was observed for relativised, but not active nor passive sentences (pre-post x type interaction: F(2,10)=4.72, &lt;0.05). The specificity of this transfer indicates that language relies partially on functional and neural processes that are not language specific.
The effect of the novel antiepileptic drug levetiracetam on caffeine (10 mM)-induced intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) response was investigated in rat hippocampal neurons in culture, with the aim of exploring the cellular mechanisms of this new drug. Levetiracetam significantly reduced caffeine-induced [Ca2+]i) response, with maximum inhibition at 32 microM. The R-enantiomer of levetiracetam, ucb L060, which is devoid of anticonvulsant activity, at 32 microM had no effect on caffeine-induced [Ca2+]i) response. Caffeine 10 mM also induced epileptiform field potentials in rat hippocampal slices : single stimuli evoked repetitive population spikes and spontaneous field bursts regularly occurred. Levetiracetam (32 microM) significantly inhibited the amplitudes and the number of caffeine-induced repeated population spikes and delayed the appearance of spontaneous bursts, while ucb L060 (32 microM) completely lacked anti-caffeine activity. These results suggest that the inhibition of caffeine-induced Ca release from intra-neuronal stores might be an excitability-reducing effect of levetiracetam, contributing to its antiepileptic activity.
Cyclosporin A has emerged as a promising therapeutic agent in traumatic brain injury (TBI), although its precise neuroprotective mechanism is unclear. Cyclosporin A, given as a single-dose intrathecal bolus, has previously been shown to attenuate mitochondrial damage and reduce axonal injury in experimental TBI. We assessed the effect of a range of intravenous cyclosporin A doses upon axonal injury attenuation to determine the ideal dose. Rats were subjected to experimental TBI and given one of five intravenous doses of cyclosporin A. At 3 h post-injury, brains were processed for brain tissue cyclosporin A concentration. In a second set of animals, at 24 h postinjury, brains were processed for amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity, a widely used marker of axonal injury. Intravenous administration produced therapeutic levels of cyclosporin A in brain parenchyma. Higher concentrations were achieved with equivalent doses given intrathecally; this is consistent with the reported poor blood-brain barrier permeability of cyclosporin A. Cyclosporin A 10 mg/kg i.v. produced the greatest degree of neuroprotection against diffuse axonal injury; cyclosporin A 50 mg/kg i.v. was toxic. Intravenous cyclosporin A administration achieves therapeutic levels in brain parenchyma and 10 mg/kg is the most effective dose in attenuating axonal damage after traumatic brain injury.
The mammalian dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is composed of sub-divisions with different anatomical and functional properties. Using cholera toxin subunit B as a retrograde tracer, DRN subdivisions projecting to the lateral geniculate nucleus and to the primary visual cortex were examined in the Mongolian gerbil. DRN neurons projecting to the lateral geniculate nucleus were observed in the lateral DRN (rostrally) and in the ventromedial DRN (caudally), while DRN cells projecting to the primary visual cortex were observed at all rostral-caudal levels in the ventromedial DRN. These results demonstrate a significant overlap between the DRN projections to the lateral geniculate and superior colliculus, and show that only the caudal ventromedial DRN projects to all three major visual targets: the lateral geniculate nucleus, primary visual cortex, and superior colliculus. Since the DRN is involved in depression and other neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as is affected by many psychotropic substances, these data may help to develop new treatments and therapies targeting specific DRN subdivisions.
Neural coding for texture features of visual objects was investigated in monkey inferior temporal cortex by inactivating intrinsic GABAergic inhibition. The inactivation enabled a substantial number of cells to respond to originally ineffective texture pattern that had a particular feature distinct from the originally effective pattern, or to ineffective texture and non-texture stimuli that possessed a component feature of the originally effective texture. Cells that showed selectivity changes related to a texture feature were often met along a vertical recording track. We suggest that a texture feature is coded by a group of cells which signal different aspects of the texture. The coding occurs at different processing levels, from extracting a particular feature within patterns to detecting complex texture features combined with color and shape of natural objects.
A cDNA encoding P2Y(1) receptor was isolated by cross-hybridization with chicken homolog. The deduced amino acid sequence of P2Y(1) receptor with 361 amino residues is 80-85% identical to human, rodent and avian homologs. When the cDNA was expressed in mammalian cells, the activation of P2Y(1) receptor by adenine nucleotides stimulated the accumulation of inositol phosphate, and adenosine 3',5'-bismonophosphate (A3P5P) or other antagonists blocked its action; these pharmacological properties showed resemblance of P2Y(1) receptor family in higher vertebrate. A transcript encoding P2Y(1) receptor at approximately 3.2 kb was revealed in the brain, spinal cord and muscle of adult, and it is strongly expressed in developing brain, spinal cord and myotomal muscles of the embryos by hybridization. P2Y(1) receptor was shown to be restricted to the neuromuscular junctions and co-localized with AChRs in adult muscle. These results support the notion that ATP and its P2Y(1) receptor subtype are effectors in organizing the post-synaptic apparatus.
Morality has been at the center of informal talks and metaphysical discussions since the beginning of history. Recently, converging lines of evidence from evolutionary biology, neuroscience and experimental psychology have shown that morality is grounded in the brain. This article reviews the main lines of investigation indicating that moral behavior is a product of evolutionary pressures that shaped the neurobehavioral processes related to the selective perception of social cues, the experience of moral emotions and the adaptation of behavioral responses to the social milieu. These processes draw upon specific cortical-subcortical loops that organize social cognition, emotion and motivation into uniquely human forms of experience and behavior. We put forth a model of brain-behavior relationships underlying moral reasoning and emotion that accommodates the impairments of moral behavior observed in neuropsychiatric disorders. This model provides a framework for empirical testing with current methods of neurobehavioral analysis.


This study was undertaken to fulfill the need for additional data on the dynamics of Bax and Bcl-2 expression in conjunction to the cell death that ensues following experimental brain contusion. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a unilateral experimental controlled cortical contusion and killed at 1, 2, 4, 6 and 10 days post injury (dpi). Cell death was examined by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL) method together with immunohistochemistry for cellular markers. Expression of Bax and Bcl-2 were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The number of TUNEL-positive cells was highest at 1 dpi and decreased with time. At all time points, 10-16% of the TUNEL-positive cells showed an apoptotic nuclear morphology. The apoptotic features were restricted to neurons and some inflammatory cells. Immunohistochemistry for Bax revealed a translocation of Bax from a diffuse to a granular distribution in neurons. An up-regulation of Bax mRNA at 6 dpi was discernible. This increase was associated with a statistically significant increase in number of cells with up-regulated and translocated Bax protein. Moreover, a statistically significant increase of Bcl-2 mRNA was detected at 10 dpi. The potential window for anti-apoptotic treatment to salvage neurons is wide. The susceptibility of neurons to necrosis and apoptosis through different pathways during a prolonged post-traumatic period indicate that different pharmacological strategies may be required at different time points after trauma.
During influenza epidemics in Japan, the number of children with acute encephalopathies and encephalitis has recently increased. Although the pathophysiologies remain unclear, there is usually brain edema with evidence of damage to the blood-brain-barrier (BBB). We investigated the glial reaction and apoptosis in brains of eight such cases comprising two of acute necrotizing encephalopathy and six of influenza encephalopathy, and compared the results with those in five control brains. Apoptosis, evidenced by chromatin condensation and fragmentation in hematoxylin sections, in situ end labeling of fragmented DNA (TUNEL) and DNA laddering, was observed in neurons and glial cells in four brains with influenza encephalopathy. In the TUNEL-positive brains, the increase in microglia was greater than in the TUNEL-negative brains. Immunoreactivity for active-caspase 3, demonstrated by immunohistochemistry, and the overexpression of a caspase-cleaved fragment of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, demonstrated by Western blotting, indicated that activation of caspase 3 is involved in the apoptotic pathway in the brains of influenza encephalopathy cases. Apoptosis or specific pathological processes that cause apoptosis may give rise to aggravated encephalopathy.







Summary: We report a case of solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) causing isolated hypoglossal nerve palsy. The neuroimaging appearance of the tumor was indistinguishable from that of schwannoma or meningioma. Immunohistochemical tests demonstrated strong reactivity for CD34 but an absence of staining for S100 and epithelial membrane antigen; this profile is indicative of an SFT. SFTs are mesenchymal tumors that can affect the dura-covered segments of cranial nerves. They may be considered in the differential diagnosis of an isolated cranial nerve palsy.
Normally, human erythrocytes display several responses to elevated intracellular calcium levels. These include a shape transition from discocyte to spherocyte, shedding of microvesicles into the extracellular fluid, and enhanced susceptibility to the hydrolytic action of secretory phospholipase A(2). These responses to elevated intracellular calcium were all blunted in erythrocytes containing hemoglobin S. The reduction of both the shape transition and the shedding of microvesicles were greater than the impairment of phospholipase susceptibility, and both correlated strongly with the intracellular content of hemoglobin S. In contrast to the response to elevated intracellular calcium, erythrocytes containing hemoglobin S displayed a 2.5-fold increase in basal susceptibility to phospholipase A(2) compared to control erythrocytes in the absence of ionophore. The effect was more prominent among samples from patients heterozygous for hemoglobin S than in samples from homozygous individuals. These results reveal additional abnormalities in the membranes of sickle cell erythrocytes beyond those described previously and demonstrate that red blood cells from both heterozygous and homozygous are affected. Furthermore, they suggest a possible means by which sickle cell disease and trait patients may display enhanced vulnerability to inflammatory stimuli.
Gaucher disease results from an autosomal recessive deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase. The glucocerebrosidase gene is located in a gene-rich region of 1q21 that contains six genes and two pseudogenes within 75 kb. The presence of contiguous, highly homologous pseudogenes for both glucocerebrosidase and metaxin at the locus increases the likelihood of DNA rearrangements in this region. These recombinations can complicate genotyping in patients with Gaucher disease and contribute to the difficulty in interpreting genotype-phenotype correlations in this disorder. In the present study, DNA samples from 240 patients with Gaucher disease were examined using several complementary approaches to identify and characterize recombinant alleles, including direct sequencing, long-template polymerase chain reaction, polymorphic microsatellite repeats, and Southern blots. Among the 480 alleles studied, 59 recombinant alleles were identified, including 34 gene conversions, 18 fusions, and 7 downstream duplications. Twenty-two percent of the patients evaluated had at least one recombinant allele. Twenty-six recombinant alleles were found among 310 alleles from patients with type 1 disease, 18 among 74 alleles from patients with type 2 disease, and 15 among 96 alleles from patients with type 3 disease. Several patients carried two recombinations or mutations on the same allele. Generally, alleles resulting from nonreciprocal recombination (gene conversion) could be distinguished from those arising by reciprocal recombination (crossover and exchange), and the length of the converted sequence was determined. Homozygosity for a recombinant allele was associated with early lethality. Ten different sites of crossover and a shared pentamer motif sequence (CACCA) that could be a hotspot for recombination were identified. These findings contribute to a better understanding of genotype-phenotype relationships in Gaucher disease and may provide insights into the mechanisms of DNA rearrangement in other disorders.
We analyzed the SCA8 CTA/CTG repeat in a large group of Japanese subjects. The frequency of large alleles (85-399 CTA/CTG repeats) was 1.9% in spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), 0.4% in Parkinson disease, 0.3% in Alzheimer disease, and 0% in a healthy control group; the frequency was significantly higher in the group with SCA than in the control group. Homozygotes for large alleles were observed only in the group with SCA. In five patients with SCA from two families, a large SCA8 CTA/CTG repeat and a large SCA6 CAG repeat coexisted. Age at onset was correlated with SCA8 repeats rather than SCA6 repeats in these five patients. In one of these families, at least one patient showed only a large SCA8 CTA/CTG repeat allele, with no large SCA6 CAG repeat allele. We speculate that the presence of a large SCA8 CTA/CTG repeat allele influences the function of channels such as alpha(1A)-voltage-dependent calcium channel through changing or aberrant splicing, resulting in the development of cerebellar ataxia, especially in homozygous patients.
Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) cone horizontal cells contain N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, the function of which has yet to be determined. In the present study, we have examined the effect of NMDA receptor activation on voltage-gated ion channel activity. NMDA receptor activation produced a long-term downregulation of voltage-gated sodium and calcium currents but had no effect on the delayed rectifying potassium current. NMDA's effect was eliminated in the presence of AP-7. To determine whether NMDA receptor activation had functional implications, isolated catfish cone horizontal cells were current clamped to mimic the cell's physiological response. When horizontal cells were depolarized, they elicited a single depolarizing overshoot and maintained a depolarized steady state membrane potential. NMDA reduced the amplitude of the depolarizing overshoot and increased the depolarized steady-state membrane potential. Both effects of NMDA were eliminated in the presence of AP-7. These results support the hypothesis that activation of NMDA receptors in catfish horizontal cells may affect the type of visual information conveyed through the distal retina.
Diacylglycerol (DAG) and ceramide are important second messengers affecting cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. Balb/c-3T3 fibroblast cells expressing dopamine-D2S (short) receptors (Balb-D2S cells) provide a model of G protein-mediated cell growth and transformation. In Balb-D2S cells, apomorphine (EC(50) = 10 nM) stimulated DAG and ceramide formation by 5.6- and 4.3-fold, respectively, maximal at 1 h and persisting over 6 h. These actions were blocked by pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX), implicating G(i)/G(o) proteins. To address which G proteins are involved, Balb-D2S clones expressing individual PTX-insensitive Galpha(i) proteins were treated with PTX and tested for apomorphine-induced responses. Neither PTX-insensitive Galpha(i2) nor Galpha(i3) rescued D2S-induced DAG or ceramide formation. Both D2S-induced DAG and ceramide signals required Gbetagamma-subunits and were blocked by inhibitors of phospholipase C [1-(6-[([17beta]-3-methoxyestra-1,2,3[10]-trien- 17yl)amino]hexyl)-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122) and partially by D609]. The similar G protein specificity of D2S-induced calcium mobilization, DAG, and ceramide formation indicates a common Gbetagamma-dependent phospholipase C-mediated pathway. Both D2 agonists and ceramide specifically induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2), suggesting that ceramide mediates a novel pathway of D2S-induced ERK1/2 activation, leading to cell growth.



Opioid ligands may exert antinociception through receptors expressed on peripheral afferent axons. Whether local opioid receptors might attenuate neuropathic pain is uncertain. In this work, we examined the function and expression of local mu opioid receptors (MORs) associated with the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of sciatic neuropathic pain in rats. Low-dose morphine or its carrier were percutaneously superfused over the CCI site with the injector blinded to the identity of the injectate. Morphine, but not its carrier, and not equimolar systemic doses of morphine reversed thermal hyperalgesia in a dose-related, naloxone-sensitive fashion. Moreover, analgesia was conferred at both 48 hours and 14 days after CCI, times associated with very different stages of nerve repair. Equimolar local DAGO ([D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-(ol)] enkephalin), a selective MOR ligand, provided similar analgesia. Local morphine also attenuated mechanical allodynia. MOR protein was expressed in axonal endbulbs of Cajal just proximal to the injury site, in aberrantly regenerating small axons in the epineurial sheath around the CCI site and in residual small axons distal to the CCI lesion. Sensory neurons ipsilateral to CCI had an increase in the proportion of neurons expressing MOR. We suggest that local MOR expressed in axons may be exploited to modulate some forms of neuropathic pain.
Patients with Hodgkin's disease can develop paraneoplastic cerebellar ataxia because of the generation of autoantibodies against mGluR1 (mGluR1-Abs). Yet, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying their motor coordination deficits remain to be elucidated. Here, we show that application of IgG purified from the patients' serum to cerebellar slices of mice acutely reduces the basal activity of Purkinje cells, whereas application to the flocculus of mice in vivo evokes acute disturbances in the performance of their compensatory eye movements. In addition, the mGluR1-Abs block induction of long-term depression in cultured mouse Purkinje cells, whereas the cerebellar motor learning behavior of the patients is affected in that they show impaired adaptation of their saccadic eye movements. Finally, postmortem analysis of the cerebellum of a paraneoplastic cerebellar ataxia patient showed that the number of Purkinje cells was significantly reduced by approximately two thirds compared with three controls. We conclude that autoantibodies against mGluR1 can cause cerebellar motor coordination deficits caused by a combination of rapid effects on both acute and plastic responses of Purkinje cells and chronic degenerative effects.
Five cases of ischaemic stroke preceded by minor head trauma in children are described. All patients had striatocapsular infarction. Three had no cerebrovascular abnormality; two had turbulent flow in the proximal middle cerebral artery. None of the patients had evidence of arterial dissection or any other risk factors for stroke. All made an excellent neurological recovery. Possible mechanisms include mechanical disruption to the flow in the perforating branches of the middle cerebral artery, intimal trauma and subsequent thrombosis, or arterial spasm induced by trauma. The specific susceptibility in affected children remains unexplained; both genetic and environmental factors (for example, previous chickenpox) may be implicated.
Gangliosides, a family of glycosphingolipids that contain sialic acid, are abundant on the neuronal cell membranes, but their precise functions in the central nervous system remain largely undefined. In a previous study of GalNAc-T(-/-) mice engineered to lack beta1,4-N-acetylgalactos-aminyltransferase (GM2/GD2 synthase) to abolish any, complex gangliosides, we observed the reduction of nerve conduction velocity but did not find any obvious morphological change in the brain. In the present study, we observed morphological changes in the nerve fiber tracts of the spinal cord in these mice. In GalNAc-T(-/-) mice, the number of degenerated axons was markedly increased in the dorsal funiculus, tract of Lissauer, and dorsolateral funiculus of the cervical segment of the spinal cord as well as the dorsal funiculus and tract of Lissauer of the lumbar segment of the spinal cord. There were also increased numbers of unmyelinated fibers in GalNAc-T(-/-) mice. Loosened myelin sheaths and myelin sheaths separated from axons by wide spaces were also observed in GalNAc-T(-/-) mice. These results provide a morphological basis for the previously observed reduction in the nerve conduction velocity and suggest that complex gangliosides are essential for the maintenance of myelin and the integrity of nerve fibers of the spinal cord.



During the last part of the 19th century and through the middle of the 20th century, surgeons sometimes extirpated parts of the human motor cortex to control abnormal involuntary movements. This procedure can be traced directly to Victor Horsley, who pioneered the first successful surgery of this type in 1886. Although many neurosurgeons followed Horsley's lead in performing this procedure, few used their results, as he did, to formulate concepts on the role of the motor cortex in movement control. Otfrid Foerster and Paul Bucy were the principal exceptions. We reviewed the surgical procedures these 3 notable neurosurgeons performed on the motor cortex and the hypotheses they subsequently developed on the functions of the motor cortex. We also evaluated these writings relative to contemporary views of motor cortex function.



Autoantibodies directed against voltage- or ligand-gated ion channels and their associated proteins at the neuromuscular junction give rise to a family of neurological autoimmune diseases. Antibodies to acetylcholine receptors or muscle-specific kinase present on the postsynaptic muscle membrane are associated with different forms of myasthenia gravis (MG). Antibodies to the presynaptic voltage-gated potassium and calcium channels are responsible for acquired neuromyotonia and Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), respectively. The patients respond to immunotherapies and their plasma can transfer defects in neuromuscular transmission to mice, indicating that these are antibody-mediated conditions. In a small proportion of cases, ion channel antibodies have also been implicated in neurological dysfunction in the central nervous system. In these conditions, a proportion of the patients have an underlying tumour, thymoma in both MG and neuromyotonia and small cell lung carcinoma in LEMS, emphasising the putative role of autoimmunity to tumour antigens as a cause of neurological disease.
A key goal of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience is to link brain mechanisms to behavioral functions. The present article describes recent progress toward explaining how the visual cortex sees. Visual cortex, like many parts of perceptual and cognitive neocortex, is organized into six main layers of cells, as well as characteristic sublamina. Here it is proposed how these layered circuits help to realize processes of development, learning, perceptual grouping, attention, and 3-D vision through a combination of bottom-up, horizontal, and top-down interactions. A main theme is that the mechanisms which enable development and learning to occur in a stable way imply properties of adult behavior. These results thus begin to unify three fields: infant cortical development, adult cortical neurophysiology and anatomy, and adult visual perception. The identified cortical mechanisms promise to generalize to explain how other perceptual and cognitive processes work.
We assessed the ability of two algorithms to predict hand kinematics from neural activity as a function of the amount of data used to determine the algorithm parameters. Using chronically implanted intracortical arrays, single- and multineuron discharge was recorded during trained step tracking and slow continuous tracking tasks in macaque monkeys. The effect of increasing the amount of data used to build a neural decoding model on the ability of that model to predict hand kinematics accurately was examined. We evaluated how well a maximum-likelihood model classified discrete reaching directions and how well a linear filter model reconstructed continuous hand positions over time within and across days. For each of these two models we asked two questions: (1) How does classification performance change as the amount of data the model is built upon increases? (2) How does varying the time interval between the data used to build the model and the data used to test the model affect reconstruction? Less than 1 min of data for the discrete task (8 to 13 neurons) and less than 3 min (8 to 18 neurons) for the continuous task were required to build optimal models. Optimal performance was defined by a cost function we derived that reflects both the ability of the model to predict kinematics accurately and the cost of taking more time to build such models. For both the maximum-likelihood classifier and the linear filter model, increasing the duration between the time of building and testing the model within a day did not cause any significant trend of degradation or improvement in performance. Linear filters built on one day and tested on neural data on a subsequent day generated error-measure distributions that were not significantly different from those generated when the linear filters were tested on neural data from the initial day (p&lt;0.05, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). These data show that only a small amount of data from a limited number of cortical neurons appears to be necessary to construct robust models to predict kinematic parameters for the subsequent hours. Motor-control signals derived from neurons in motor cortex can be reliably acquired for use in neural prosthetic devices. Adequate decoding models can be built rapidly from small numbers of cells and maintained with daily calibration sessions.
We propose a new method of studying the correlation between neuronal spike trains. This technique is based on the analysis of relative phase between two point processes. Relative phase here is defined as the relative timing difference between two spike trains normalized by the associated interspike interval of one cell. This phase measurement is intended to reveal the relative timing relationship between spike trains at different firing rates. We apply this method to a numerical example and an example from two cerebellar neuronal spike trains of a behaving rat. The results are compared with classical cross-correlation analysis. We show that the technique can avoid some of the limitations of cross-correlation methods, reveal certain statistical dependencies that cannot be shown by cross correlation, and provide information as to the direction of influence between two spike trains.

Timely and adequate iron acquisition by the brain is essential to normal neurological function. Despite the numerous cognitive and neurological impairments that are associated with disruptions in brain iron acquisition, including both too much and too little iron, the mechanism and regulation of the mechanisms by which the brain acquires iron are poorly understood. In this article, we review the current state of knowledge regarding expression of iron transport proteins in the brain, brain iron uptake and discuss why a model for brain iron uptake must take into consideration the potentially competing influences on the endothelial cell between the status of iron in the brain versus the systemic iron status.
Voltage-gated L-type Ca(2+) channels from cardiac (alpha(1C)) and skeletal (alpha(1S)) muscle differ from one another in ion selectivity and permeation properties, including unitary conductance. In 110 mM Ba(2+), unitary conductance of alpha(1S) is approximately half that of alpha(1C). As a step toward understanding the mechanism of rapid ion flux through these highly selective ion channels, we used chimeras constructed between alpha(1C) and alpha(1S) to identify structural features responsible for the difference in conductance. Combined replacement of the four pore-lining P-loops in alpha(1C) with P-loops from alpha(1S) reduced unitary conductance to a value intermediate between those of the two parent channels. Combined replacement of four larger regions that include sequences flanking the P-loops (S5 and S6 segments along with the P-loop-containing linker between these segments (S5-6)) conferred alpha(1S)-like conductance on alpha(1C). Likewise, substitution of the four S5-6 regions of alpha(1C) into alpha(1S) conferred alpha(1C)-like conductance on alpha(1S). These results indicate that, comparing alpha(1C) with alpha(1S), the differences in structure that are responsible for the difference in ion conduction are housed within the S5-6 regions. Moreover, the pattern of unitary conductance values obtained for chimeras in which a single P-loop or single S5-6 region was replaced suggest a concerted action of pore-lining regions in the control of ion conduction.
1. The ability of ascorbate to inhibit endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated vasodilatation was compared in the bovine perfused ciliary vascular bed and isolated rings of coronary artery. 2. Acetylcholine-induced, EDHF-mediated vasodilatation of the ciliary circulation was blocked following inclusion of ascorbate (50 micro M, 120 min) in the perfusion fluid. The blockade was highly selective since ascorbate had no effect on the vasodilator actions of the K(ATP) channel opener, levcromakalim, nor on the tonic vasodepressor action of basally released nitric oxide. 3. The possibility that concentration of ascorbate by the ciliary body was a prerequisite for blockade to occur was ruled out, since EDHF was still blocked when the anterior and posterior chambers were continuously flushed with Krebs solution or when both the aqueous and vitreous humour were drained. 4. Ascorbate at 50 micro M failed to affect bradykinin- or acetylcholine-induced, EDHF-mediated vasodilatation in rings of bovine coronary artery. Raising the concentration to 3 mM did produce blockade of EDHF, but this was nonselective, since vasodilator responses to endothelium-derived nitric oxide were also inhibited. 5. Thus, ascorbate (50 micro M) is not a universal blocker of EDHF. Whether its ability to block in the bovine ciliary circulation, but not in the coronary artery, is due to differences in the nature of EDHF at the two sites, differences in vessel size (resistance arterioles versus conduit artery), the presence or absence of flow, or to some other factor remains to be determined.
(1) 5-HT moduline (5-HTm) is tetrapeptide (Leu-Ser-Ala-Leu) previously shown to act as a specific endogenous antagonist to central 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors. Its effects were investigated in rat and rabbit pulmonary arteries (PAs). (2) In rabbit PAs, contractile responses to the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) were inhibited by 1 and 10 micro M 5-HTm in a non-competitive fashion with the maximum contractile response (E(max), per cent of response to 50 mM KCl) being reduced from 65.6+/-7% (n=6) to 39.7+/-6.5% (n=6) and 25.2+/-7.9 (n=4), respectively. The ability of 5-HTm to inhibit responses to 5-CT was increased by the aminopeptidase inhibitor bestatin (10 micro M). (3) In the rabbit PAs, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME) potentiated responses to 5-CT (E(max): 106+/-22.5 (n=4)) and this response was also inhibited by 10 micro M 5-HTm (E(max): 38+/-13% (n=8)). (4) 5-HTm (10 micro M) inhibited responses to 5-CT in rat PAs, the E(max) being reduced from 24.8+/-4.1% (n=7) to 15.5+/-3.7% (n=9). 5-HTm induced relaxation of 5-CT-pre-constricted rat PAs with a pIC(50) of 9.0+/-0.6 (n=9). (5) In PAs from chronic hypoxic, pulmonary hypertensive rats, the maximum response to 5-CT was increased to 80+/-8.5% (n=11). 5-HTm reduced this response to 34.4+/-6.3% (n=12). L-NAME markedly inhibited the ability of 5-HTm to inhibit responses to 5-CT (E(max) before 5-HTm: 100.5+/-16% (n=5), E(max) after 5-HTm: 107+/-11.3% (n=4)). (6) In conclusion we show here for the first time that 5-HTm is a non-competitive inhibitor of 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor-mediated constriction in PAs. In rat PAs, L-NAME can inhibit this effect of 5-HTm.


Hemispherectomy has been performed in the treatment of epilepsy in association with hemiplegia for over 50 years. However, the optimal timing of surgery with respect to age at presentation and the influence of underlying pathology on outcome is only slowly emerging. This study reports on the clinical course and outcomes of 33 children who underwent hemispherectomy at Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, between 1991 and 1997. Age at surgery was 0.33-17 years (median 4.25) with 1-8 years follow-up (median 3.4). The underlying pathology was developmental in 16 (10 hemimegalencephaly, two polymicrogyria, two focal cortical dysplasia, one diffuse cortical dysplasia and one microdysgenesis), acquired in 11 (six middle cerebral artery infarct, three post encephalitis/trauma, and one each of hemiconvulsion-hemiplegia epilepsy and perinatal ischaemic insult) and progressive in six children (four Rasmussen encephalitis, two Sturge-Weber syndrome). At follow-up, 52% were seizure free, 9% experienced rare seizures, 30% showed &gt;75% reduction in seizures and 9% showed &lt;75% seizure reduction or no improvement. Seizure freedom was highest in those with acquired pathology (82%), followed by those with progressive pathology (50%) and those with developmental pathology (31%). However, seizure freedom, rare seizures or &gt;75% reduction in seizures occurred in 100% of those with progressive pathology, 91% of those with acquired and 88% of those with developmental pathology, indicating a worthwhile seizure outcome in all groups. Hemiplegia remained unchanged following surgery in 22 out of 33 children, improved in five and was worse in six. No significant cognitive deterioration or loss of language occurred, and four children showed significant cognitive improvement. Behavioural improvement was reported in 92% of those who had behaviour problems pre-operatively.
Since the first report by Brenner et al. of mutations in the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene in patients with Alexander disease, several molecular genetic studies have been performed in different ethnic groups. We previously reported a Japanese patient with a mutation, R239C, which is identical to one commonly found in American patients. Here we have analyzed four additional Japanese patients by screening for known mutations or, if no known mutation was found, by sequencing of all exons of the GFAP gene. We detected three missense mutations; one was a novel mutation, R79L, and two were previously reported mutations, R239C and R79C. All of our patients were heterozygous for their mutations. Together with the novel mutation, R79L, four different nucleotide changes altering the R79 residue have been reported, implying that any alternation of this arginine residue can give the GFAP protein a dominant negative effect, leading to accumulation of GFAP as Rosenthal fibers. We conclude that molecular genetic analysis of the GFAP gene is feasible for antemortem diagnosis of Alexander disease in Japanese patients.
We have developed a competitive RT-PCR assay, adapted from Lewohl et al. [Brain Res. Brain Res. Protoc. 1 (1997) 347], for the quantitation of GABA(A) receptor beta isoforms in human brain using an internal standard that shares high sequence homology to the targets. The internal standard is identical to the beta(1) sequence except for a 61 bp deletion and the incorporation of a Hind III restriction enzyme site. Unlike traditional competitive RT-PCR, which requires a range of internal standard concentrations to be titrated against a constant amount of unknown, this method relies on a standard curve for quantitation of each sample and thus permits increased sample throughput. This method is suitable for the quantitation of beta(1), beta(2) and beta(3) isoforms of the GABA(A) receptor in human alcoholic and control brain.
Neuronal cell death and microglial changes are both hallmarks of neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, analysis of degenerating neurons related to microglial changes are addressed in many studies of neurosciences. Here we compared different lesion models and two markers for neurodegeneration (Fluoro-Jade and propidium iodide) in an in vivo as well as an in vitro approach. Fluoro-Jade is a specific and selective marker to identify neurons undergoing degeneration. We also tested this marker to analyze neurodegeneration in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. We could show that activation of microglia is followed by neuronal cell death. Most degeneration markers, such as propidium iodide, only stain the neuronal cell body excluding the axonal and dendritic processes. Fluoro-Jade is able to stain the distal portion as well as the proximal portion of the dissected axon including the axotomized neuron, as so called anterograde and retrograde degeneration after axotomy. To analyze the specificity of Fluoro-Jade, we used primary microglial and BV-2 cells, a well-described murine microglial cell line. Treatment of microglial and BV-2 cells with an excess of L-glutamate induces cell death which could be detected by propidium iodide staining, but not by Fluoro-Jade, demonstrating its specificity to monitor neuronal cell death.
The relation between individual neurons and neuronal networks in performing brain functions is one of the central questions in modern neuroscience. Most of the current literature suggests that the role of individual neurons is negligible and neural networks play a dominant role in the functioning of the nervous system. Individual neurons are usually viewed as network elements whose functions are limited to generating electrical signals and releasing neurotransmitters. Here I summarize experimental evidence that challenges this concept and argue that the unique, intrinsic properties of highly specialized individual neurons are as important for the functioning of the brain as the network properties. I first discuss the studies of relatively 'simple' functions of the nervous system, such as the control of rhythmic 'automatic' movements and generation of circadian rhythm, which indicate that individual neurons may continue performing their functions after being separated from corresponding networks. I then argue that the complex cognitive functions, such as declarative memory, language processing, and face recognition, are likely to be underlain by the properties of groups of highly specialized neurons. These neurons appear to be genetically predisposed to perform cognitive functions and their dysfunctions cannot be compensated by other elements of the nervous system. Under this concept, the electrical signals circulating within and between neural networks are considered to be a means of forming coordinated dynamic ensembles of neurons involved in performing specific functions. While still speculative, this hypothesis may provoke new approaches to studies of neural mechanisms underpinning cognitive functions of the brain.
A common finding in event-related potential (ERP) studies of recognition memory is that recognised items elicit greater positivity at parietal electrode sites than new items (the 'left parietal old/new effect'). Parietal positivity (the P300 or P3b) is also elicited in detection tasks with no memory demands by items of low probability of occurrence and high 'target value'. It has been argued that correctly recognised items are typically associated with lower probability and higher target value than new items, raising the question of the extent to which the old/new effect receives a contribution from, or interacts with, P300 activity. The present study explored this issue by comparing ERPs associated with correctly classified old and new items across three different ratios of old to new items: 25:75, 50:50 and 75:25. The left parietal old/new effect was not influenced by this manipulation in the latency range in which it is conventionally measured. Probability did influence the parietal ERPs to correctly recognised items post-800 ms; the scalp distribution of this probability effect was however qualitatively distinct from that of the preceding old/new effect. The left parietal old/new effect appears to be a relatively pure reflection of episodic retrieval, uncontaminated by the non-mnemonic factors of probability and target value.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by abnormalities of movement and dementia. No curative treatment is available and HD results in gradually increasing disability. Characterization of the genetic abnormality has dramatically increased our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of the disease process, and has resulted in the development of a number of genetic models. These research tools are forming the basis of advanced work into the diagnosis, pathophysiology, and potential treatment of the disease. Clinically, the availability of genetic testing has eased confirmation of diagnosis in symptomatic individuals. Presymptomatic testing allows at-risk individuals to make informed choices but requires supportive care from physicians. Current clinical treatment is focused on symptom control. Advances in research have resulted in the development of potential neuroprotective strategies which are undergoing clinical testing.
The adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour suppressor protein is a component of the Wnt signalling pathway in which it plays a major role in controlling nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin and hence in the modulation of beta-catenin-regulated gene transcription. APC also associates with microtubules at the ends of cytoplasmic extensions in epithelial cells, a distribution that can be reproduced in COS cells ectopically expressing APC. To examine the effect of APC on microtubule properties, we monitored directly the behaviour of APC and of APC-decorated microtubules by time-lapse imaging of cytoplasmic extensions in live COS cells expressing APC tagged with a green fluorescent protein. On the proximal part of microtubules, APC was visualised as particulate material moving unidirectionally towards the plus end of microtubules. The distal parts of microtubules were uniformly decorated by APC and were animated by a motile behaviour in the form of aperiodic bending. This behaviour is likely to be the consequence of compression forces acting on microtubules encountering obstacles while elongating. The majority of APC-decorated microtubules in transfected COS cells was sensitive to depolymerisation by nocodazole, but they contained detyrosinated and acetylated alpha-tubulin, suggesting a reduction in the rate of subunit exchange at their growing end. Taken together, these results demonstrate that microtubule domains uniformly decorated by APC display dynamic and motile properties that may be significant for the postulated role of APC in targeting microtubules to specialised membrane sites.
The many specific, yet overlapping and redundant activities of individual cytokines have been the basis for current concepts of therapeutical intervention. Cytokines are powerful two-edged weapons that can trigger a cascade of reactions and may show activities that often go beyond the single highly specific property that it is hoped they possess. Nevertheless, it can be stated that our new, though burgeoning, understanding of the biological mechanisms governing cytokine actions is an important contribution to medical knowledge. The crucial role of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin (IL)-10, in regulating potential molecular pathway mediating injury and cell death has attracted paramount attention in recent years. In this respect, the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) components have emerged as potential signalling cascades that regulate a plethora of cell functions, including inflammation and cell death. The biochemistry and molecular biology of cytokine actions, particularly IL-10, explain some well known and sometimes also some of the more obscure clinical aspects of the evolution of diseases.
The three axon growth inhibitory proteins, myelin associated glycoprotein, oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein and Nogo-A, can all bind to the Nogo-66 receptor (NgR). This receptor is expressed by neurons with high amounts in regions of high plasticity where Nogo expression is also high. We hypothesized that simultaneous presence of high levels of Nogo and its receptor in neurons confers a locked state to hippocampal and cortical microcircuitry and that one or both of these proteins must be effectively and temporarily downregulated to permit plastic structural changes underlying formation of long-term memory. Hence, we subjected rats to kainic acid treatment and exposed rats to running wheels and measured NgR mRNA levels by quantitative in situ hybridization at different time points. We also studied spinal cord injuries and quantified NgR mRNA levels in spinal cord and ganglia during a critical postnatal period using real-time PCR. Strikingly, kainic acid led to a strong transient downregulation of NgR mRNA levels in gyrus dentatus, hippocampus, and neocortex during a time when BDNF mRNA was upregulated instead. Animals exposed to running wheels for 3 and 7, but not 1 or 21, days showed a significant downregulation of NgR mRNA in cortex, hippocampus and the dentate gyrus. NgR mRNA levels decreased from high to low expression in spinal cord and ganglia during the first week of life. No robust regulation of NgR was observed in the spinal cord following spinal cord injury. Together, our data show that NgR levels in developing and adult neurons are regulated in vivo under different conditions. Strong, rapid and transient downregulation of NgR mRNA in response to kainic acid and after wheel running in cortex and hippocampus suggests a role for NgR and Nogo-A in plasticity, learning and memory.
We describe the polysomnographic data of two patients with nocturnal headache attacks fulfilling the clinical criteria for hypnic headache syndrome. Two overnight polysomnographic studies were performed in each patient. Four nocturnal headache attacks were captured, all emerging from the REM phase of sleep. Our findings suggest a close relationship between the REM phase of sleep and the appearance of hypnic headache attacks.
The compound m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), which is known to trigger migraine-like head pain in some subjects, was evaluated for its ability to induce dural plasma protein extravasation (PPE) in guinea pigs. Intravenous mCPP dose-dependently increased PPE. This effect was inhibited by non-selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonists (methysergide, LY53857, LY215840), by a peripherally restricted 5-HT2 receptor antagonist (xylamidine) and by a 5-HT2B selective receptor antagonist (LY202146). These data suggests that peripheral 5-HT2B receptors mediate mCPP-induced PPE. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME and 5-HT1 agonist sumatriptan also blocked mCPP-induced PPE, suggesting a role for nitric oxide (NO) and the trigeminal system, respectively. NO release has been linked to activation of the 5-HT2B receptor on the vascular endothelium. However, LY202146 did not block PPE induced by electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion. These data are consistent with activation of peripheral 5-HT2B receptors initiating PPE and the theory that selective 5-HT2B antagonists might be effective prophylactic therapies for migraine.
The receptor tyrosine kinases represent an important class of signal transduction molecules that have been shown to play critical roles in neural development. We report in the present study that the neuregulin receptor ErbB4 is preferentially expressed by interneurons that are migrating tangentially from the ventral to the dorsal rat telencephalon. ErbB4 immunoreactivity was detected in the medial ganglionic eminence as early as embryonic day (E) 13 at the inception of tangential migration. Prominent ErbB4-positive migratory streams consisting of cells double-labeled with ErbB4 and Dlx, a marker of tangentially migrating cells, were found to advance along the lower intermediate zone and the marginal zone from the ventrolateral to the dorsomedial cortex at E16-E18. After E20, the ErbB4-positive stream in the lower intermediate zone shifted towards the germinal zone and further extended via the cortex into the hippocampal primordium. ErbB4 was not expressed by Tbr1-positive glutamatergic projection neurons during development. ErbB4 was preferentially expressed by the majority of parvalbumin-positive interneurons and subsets of other GABAergic interneurons in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus in adulthood. The early onset and preferential expression of ErbB4 in tangentially migrating interneurons suggests that neuregulin/ErbB4 signaling may regulate the development and function of telencephalic interneurons.
Spatial and temporal changes in expression and function of integrin receptors in the developing cerebral wall parallel neurogenesis, radial glial differentiation, neuronal migration and the emergence of neuronal layers in the cerebral cortex. The distinct outcomes of integrin and extracellular matrix ligand mutations underscore the dynamic role they play in these processes during corticogenesis. The changing patterns of adhesive interactions mediated by integrins and their ligands across the cerebral wall during embryogenesis may set in motion developmental programs needed for progressive acquisition of different neuronal or glial phenotypes in the cerebral cortex. Here we discuss the role of integrins during cortical layer formation.
Chemosensory input is essential for mating in male hamsters and the vomeronasal organ is critical to mating in naive males. In studies to investigate the convergence of vomeronasal chemosensory input and the neurohormone gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH), we have unexpectedly found that pre-exposure to pheromone-containing chemosignals from female hamsters will also eliminate mating deficits normally seen in naive male hamsters with vomeronasal organs removed (VNX). In the present studies, naive-intact and naive-VNX male hamsters were given intracerebroventricular injections of GnRH or saline and exposed to female pheromones found in hamster vaginal fluid (HVF) or to water 40 min prior to a 5 min mating test. VNX males given saline injections and exposed to water had severe mating deficits, but VNX males given saline injections and exposed to HVF mated normally. As shown previously, males given GnRH injections and exposed to water also mated normally. HVF exposure prior to a mating test apparently acted to compensate for the lack of vomeronasal input in these males.


Locomotor activity recordings of Syrian hamsters were systematically analyzed to estimate the precision of the overt circadian activity rhythm in constant darkness. Phase variation, i.e., the standard deviation of phase markers around the regression line, varied with the definition of phase. Smallest phase variation was found in the onset of wheel running activity defined by 1h running means of the raw data. Both lower and higher degrees of smoothing lead to decreased precision measured in the overt rhythm. With passive infrared recordings, the midpoint of activity defined by 3h running means was the least variable. This demonstrates that the choice of phase marker should vary between recording methods. Phase variation decreased with increasing activity and was larger in females than in males. By calculating the average cycle variation and serial covariance of consecutive cycles, we estimated the contribution of 'clock' and 'non-clock' related processes to the overt rhythm variability. Variance in precision between phase markers could be shown to be attributable mainly to nonclock processes. Variance in pacemaker cycle length appeared reduced in wheel running activity records compared with passive infrared sensing records, suggesting feedback from running activity onto pacemaker function.
1. In earlier studies, it has been reported that under in vitro conditions transmitter release at the rat neuromuscular junction is normally suppressed due to the effect of adenosine release from the isolated tissue. In the present study we wanted to determine whether this action may involve the inhibition of calcium influx through adenosine-sensitive calcium channels. 2. In order to test this hypothesis, we examined the role of N-type calcium channels in regulating nerve-evoked transmitter release by using the N-type calcium channel-specific blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (CTX). In order to control the inhibitory action of adenosine, we also used the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX). We tested the effect of blocking N-type calcium channels with CTX in the presence and absence of DPCPX. We examined the effects of these drugs on quantal transmitter release in the transected preparation of the phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm of the rat using intracellular recording techniques. 3. At 10 nmol/L, CTX alone had no effect on nerve-evoked transmitter release; however, in the presence of 0.1 micro mol/L DPCPX, CTX significantly depressed nerve-evoked transmitter release. 4. These data support the view that adenosine inhibits nerve-evoked transmitter release by inhibiting N-type calcium channels on nerve terminals.




There is evidence that the positive and the negative word lists of the Affective Auditory Verbal Learning Test (AAVL) are useful with regard to mood induction. To date, however, changes in brain activation, as indicated by quantitative electroencephalographic recording, have not been examined. Thus, changes in low alpha power (7.5-9.5 Hz) were examined during and after completion of the positive or the negative learning list of the AAVL among 37 undergraduate men and women. Three primary findings from the study include the following: (1) Previously reported recall patterns were replicated; (2) participants who completed the negative list reported a significant decline in mood state at the end of the session; and (3) participants who completed the negative word list evidenced a significant reduction in low alpha power (in comparison with baseline) within the parietal regions. The findings noted above are seemingly counter to contemporary theories of mood regulation (i.e., asymmetrical changes in anterior activity, rather than changes in parietal regions). Although the AAVL may have limited utility as a tool for mood induction, it may serve as a functional tool for examination of the cerebral processes associated with affective verbal memory.

The presence and function of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels were examined in individual muscle fibers freshly dispersed from the triclad turbellarian Dugesia tigrina. Individual muscle fibers contracted in response to elevated extracellular K(+) in a concentration-dependent fashion. These depolarization-induced contractions were blocked by extracellular Co(2+) (2.5 mM), suggesting that they were dependent on depolarization-induced Ca(2+) influx across the sarcolemma. A voltage-gated inward current was apparent in whole cell recordings when the outward K(+) current was abolished by replacement of intracellular K(+) by Cs(+). This inward current was amplified with increasing concentration (&lt;/=10 mM) of extracellular Ba(2+) and was independent of extracellular Na(+) concentration suggesting the current was mediated by voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Further, and supporting the hypothesis that the inward current was mediated by these Ca(2+) channels, the Ba(2+) current was blocked by extracellular Co(2+) (2.5 mM) but not by tetrodotoxin (5 microM). Action potentials were generated by the muscle fibers in the presence of, but not in the absence of, extracellular Ba(2+) (5 mM). These data are the first clear demonstration of a voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel current in platyhelminth muscle, and they demonstrate a role for Ca(2+) influx in depolarization-induced contractions of muscle in these organisms.
Prior studies of the Iowa Adoption cohorts have demonstrated that the degree of adoptee aggressiveness and conduct disorder has a significant genetic component. Other studies have implicated the neurotransmitter serotonin or polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter gene (5HTT) as an important source of variability in &quot;externalizing&quot; behaviors such as aggressivity, conduct disorder, and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorders (ADHD). Following this lead, we genotyped a subgroup of adoptees (n = 87) at high risk for these kinds of disorders with respect to the serotonin-transporter-linked promoter region (5HTTLPR) polymorphism, and used ordinal logistic regression to conduct an association study. Primary analysis failed to detect a main effect between 5HTTLPR status and subscales of aggressivity, conduct disorder, or attention deficit. However, when biologic parent status and sex of proband were considered, certain interactions between 5HTTLPR and other genetic risk factors were evident. One type of interaction with the LL variant of 5HTTLPR increased externalizing behavior in individuals with antisocial biologic parentage; a second interaction with one or more 5HTTLPR short variants (SS or SL) appeared to increase externalizing behaviors in conjunction with a genetic diathesis for alcoholism. Gender of adoptee also appeared to interact with 5HTTLPR. Male individuals with the short variant were more likely to have higher symptom counts for conduct disorder, aggressivity, and ADHD. In contrast, among females, the short variant (SS, SL) was associated with lower levels of such behavior. The results support the hypothesis that gene-biological family history interactions are involved in the externalizing behaviors studied and constitute interesting findings for future replication.
Purpose: To illustrate the environmental impact of three contact lens replacement modalities, and to place this into a broader environmental context. Methods: Environmental impact was calculated by sorting the packaging used in the supply of three representative contact lens systems into their constituent materials (liquid, plastic, paper, metal and glass), determining their mass, calculating the annualised consumption by a typical contact lens wearer, and factoring the data against published indices of the environmental impact of the constituent materials. Results: Conventional lens wear had the highest impact and planned replacement lens wear (monthly disposable) had the lowest impact. Conclusions: The overall environmental impact of waste generated thorough the use of contact lens products by the end consumer is insignificant (0.5%) compared with the amount of waste generated in our everyday life.


Neurologic complications from cerebral ischemia occur frequently following cardiac arrest, as well as in the perioperative period in cardiac surgery. The cellular and molecular mechanisms of cerebral ischemia are complex. This article discusses several important cell death and salvage pathways that are important in experimental cerebral ischemia that may be critical to outcome in clinical brain injury.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) promote astrocytic differentiation of cultured subventricular zone stem cells. To determine whether BMPs regulate the astrocytic lineage in vivo, transgenic mice were constructed that overexpress BMP4 under control of the neuron-specific enolase (NSE) promoter. Overexpression of BMP4 was first detectable by Western analysis on embryonic day 16 and persisted into the adult. The overexpression of BMP4 resulted in a remarkable 40% increase in the density of astrocytes in multiple brain regions accompanied by a decrease in the density of oligodendrocytes ranging between 11 and 26%, depending on the brain region and the developmental stage. No changes in neuron numbers or the pattern of myelination were detected, and there were no gross structural abnormalities. Similar phenotypes were observed in three independently derived transgenic lines. Coculture of transgenic neurons with neural progenitor cells significantly enhanced astrocytic lineage commitment by the progenitors; this effect was blocked by the BMP inhibitor Noggin, indicating that the stimulation of astrogliogenesis was due to BMP4 release by the transgenic neurons. These observations suggest that BMP4 directs progenitor cells in vivo to commit to the astrocytic rather than the oligodendroglial lineage. Further, differentiation of radial glial cells into astrocytes was accelerated, suggesting that radial glia were a source of at least some of the supernumerary astrocytes. Therefore, BMPs are likely important mediators of astrocyte development in vivo.
Protocadherins are members of the cadherin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules proposed to play important roles in early development, but whose mechanisms of action are largely unknown. We examined the function of NF-protocadherin (NFPC), a novel cell adhesion molecule essential for the histogenesis of the embryonic ectoderm in Xenopus, and demonstrate that the cellular protein TAF1, previously identified as a histone-associated protein, binds the NFPC cytoplasmic domain. NFPC and TAF1 coprecipitate from embryo extracts when ectopically expressed, and TAF1 can rescue the ectodermal disruptions caused by a dominant-negative NFPC construct lacking the extracellular domain. Furthermore, disruptions in either NFPC or TAF1 expression, using NFPC- or TAF1-specific antisense morpholinos, result in essentially identical ectodermal defects. These results indicate a role for TAF1 in the differentiation of the embryonic ectoderm, as a cytosolic cofactor of NFPC.
Hemispatial neglect is commonly observed in adults following right-hemisphere brain lesions. Given the potential for reorganization in the developing brain, spatial neglect may not be apparent following early unilateral damage. This study aimed to determine whether infants who experienced pre- or perinatal focal brain lesions showed evidence of spatial neglect. Study participants were 33 infants/toddlers (22 males, 11 females; age range 6 to 48 months); 27 preschool children (14 males, 13 females; age range 28 to 75 months) with either left hemisphere (LH) or right hemisphere (RH) damage of pre- or perinatal onset (total 60), and 36 control individuals (15 females, 21 males; age range 28 to 75 months). Participants were assessed using two object-removal preference tasks. Control children showed no lateralized preference for object removal. Those with LH or RH damage preferentially removed objects from the side of the board ipsilateral to the lesion first and the contralateral side last. These results suggest that spatial neglect may be found in young children even after very early unilateral brain damage. Further, in contrast to the adult pattern, contralateral neglect is present for up to 6 years after either LH or RH damage. This pattern suggests that there may be a different distribution of attention to space in the developing brain as compared with the mature brain. The persistence of spatial neglect suggests that there are some limitations on plasticity in the developing human brain.
Chemokines, small proinflammatory cytokines, are involved in migration of inflammatory cells, but also have a role in normal central nervous system development. One chemokine, growth-related oncogene-alpha (GRO-alpha) and its receptor CXCR2, are involved in proliferation and migration of oligodendrocyte progenitors in rats. Here we studied the regional and cell type-specific expression of GRO-alpha and CXCR2 in the human telencephalon at midgestation, the time that oligodendrocytes are being generated in the human brain. Our results showed that both GRO-alpha and CXCR2 are predominately expressed by oligodendrocyte progenitors and activated microglial cells in the highly proliferative subventricular zone. This cellular and regional localization suggests that GRO-alpha/CXCR2 may play a role in human oligodendrocyte proliferation and subsequent migration. We also studied the expression of GRO-alpha and CXCR2 in brain sections of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Consistent with their role in the inflammatory process of MS, both GRO-alpha and CXCR2 were expressed in activated microglia localized on the border of MS lesions. However, neither GRO-alpha nor CXCR2 were present in early oligodendrocyte progenitors, a finding that may partially explain why remyelination is not more efficient in MS.
Adult neurogenesis occurs within the subgranular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In this study, we examined dividing cells in the late embryonic and adult rat hippocampus to identify distinguishing characteristics and potential neural stem cell population(s), as identified by the putative neural stem cell markers FGFR4 and Sox1. In embryonic hippocampal cells in primary culture, basic fibroblast factor caused cell proliferation, increased telomerase activity and upregulation of FGFR4 mRNA. In both the embryonic and adult brains, proliferating cells express Sox1, as well as markers for neuronal- and glial-restricted precursors. However, the cell markers associated with cells expressing proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Sox1 differed between late embryonic and adult hippocampus, suggesting that there are important differences between adult and embryonic neurogenesis.
The developmental origin of microglia remains a controversial subject. While it is generally accepted that primitive fetal macrophages that migrate from the yolk sac to the brain become microglia, it also has been argued that there is a second source of microglia that are of neuroectodermal lineage. To determine whether progenitors in the dorsolateral subventricular zone (SVZDL) are capable of producing microglia as well as macroglia, we infected perinatal rat SVZDL cells with a mixture of two replication-deficient retroviruses, placed these progenitors in vitro and then varied the media formulations to promote microglial differentiation. Mixed macroglial clones were obtained, but no heterogeneous clones containing microglia were observed, regardless of the media components. Among the macroglial clones, we observed every possible combination of type 1 astrocyte and O-2A lineage cells. Some clones were homogeneous and contained cells belonging to a single macroglial lineage. Other clonal clusters were heterogeneous and were comprised of type 1 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, type 1 and type 2 astrocytes, or type 2 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Of 130 clones examined, where we used triple immunofluorescence with antibodies that recognize microglia, 2 clonal clusters contained OX-42+ microglia that were retrovirally labeled, but all of the cells in those clones expressed the microglial marker and none expressed either GFAP or O4. In addition, we isolated neural stem cells from the perinatal SVZDL and assessed their capacity to generate macroglia and microglia. Confirming and extending our previous analyses, neural stem cells generated homogeneous and heterogeneous macroglial clones, but they did not generate microglia. We conclude that brain macroglia and microglia do not share a common precursor, even though the neural stem cells in the SVZDL cells can produce neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Therefore, the microglia that reside in the SVZDL are immigrants from nonneural precursors.
Developmental patterns of expression and localization of tachykinins in feline neocortex were determined by qualitative immunohistochemical means. Three observations were obtained. (1) By midgestation, tachykinins were progressively accumulated in an infrequent (&lt;1%) population of interneurons (sparse dendritic spines) settled mainly in superficial and deep sites. (2) Tachykinins were in a sparse axonal innervation showing horizontal elaboration in layers I and VI and vertical elaboration within the intervening layers (II-V) of true cortical plate. (3) Tachykinin innervation of the capillary beds arose in conjunction with tachykinin interneurons instead of extending from basal cerebral or meningeal vasculature. These patterns indicate that tachykinin local circuit neurons of feline neocortex are derived, at least in part, from early-generated neocortical preplate neurons that initiate tachykinin expression after they settle into the marginal zone of primitive neocortex. In addition to their roles in peptidergic modulation of synaptic connectivity in neocortex, this innervation may participate in trophic developmental interactions leading to the establishment of neocortical vasculature.
To define the effects of neurotrophins on oligodendrocytes, we monitored NGF, BDNF and NT-3 actions on basal forebrain (BF) and cortical populations. NGF, BDNF and NT-3 applied to BF oligodendrocytes elicited increases in expression of myelin basic protein (MBP) and enhanced the numbers of MBP+ cells, without affecting total cell numbers. In the cortex, however, while NGF and NT-3 influenced MBP expression, BDNF was without effect. To explore this apparent regional difference in BDNF action, we compared expression of the neurotrophin receptors trkA, trkB and trkC. While BF cells expressed all three trks, cortical cells did not express the full-length BDNF receptor, trkB. Interestingly, in no case was any receptor expressed by all oligodendrocytes, indicating that oligodendrocytes may be heterogeneous within a brain region. The data suggest that BF oligodendrocytes are influenced by BDNF to express MBP and are distinct in this ability from cortical cells.
The myelin proteolipid gene encodes two sets of proteins, the classic PLP and DM20 and the sr (soma-restricted)-PLP and sr-DM20. Unlike the classic proteolipids, the sr-products are expressed in both neurons and oligodendrocytes (OLs) and are not components of the myelin sheath. In OLs, the sr-isoforms are associated with endosomes and recycling vesicles indicating a possible nonmyelin function for these proteins. In this study, a purified antibody specific for the sr-products was used to examine the expression of these proteins during the development of the mouse brain. We found that while sr-PLP and sr-DM20 are expressed in OLs, the highest levels of immunoreactivity were found in neuronal populations. During early embryonic development (E13-E15), sr-proteolipids were detected in the dorsal root ganglion and motor neurons in the spinal cord. By E17, immunostaining for sr-PLP and sr-DM20 in the brain increased dramatically. The highest levels of immunoreactivity were found during the first and second weeks postnatal after which staining intensity declined to adult levels and the pattern of expression was more restricted. Robust staining persisted in many neuronal populations including nuclei in the hindbrain, Purkinje and granule neurons in the cerebellum, pyramidal cells in the cortex and mitral cells in the olfactory bulb. The spatial and temporal pattern of sr-PLP and sr-DM20 expression is very similar to that of the endosomal protein, syntaxin 13, consistent with the finding that the sr-PLPs may play a role in vesicular transport in neurons.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGF) receptors FgfR1, FgfR2 and FgfR3 are differentially regulated during oligodendrocyte (OL) maturation in vitro: FgfR3 is expressed by OL progenitors whereas FgfR2 is expressed by differentiated OLs [Mol Cell Neurosci 1996;7:263-275], and we have recently shown that FgfR3 is required for the timely differentiation of OLs in vivo [J Neurosci 2003;23:883-894]. Here we have used in situ hybridization to investigate the expression patterns of FgfR1-3 and compare them to the putative OL progenitor markers Olig2, Pdgfralpha and Plp/dm20 as a function of development in vivo, in particular at sites of OL specification, migration or differentiation in the mouse forebrain and cerebellum. We show that at early stages FgfR1-3 expression overlaps with that of Olig2 in the embryonic ventricular zone of the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences. Further, a scattered population of cells expressing FgfR3 (but not FgfR1 or FgfR2) in the ventral telencephalon appear to arise from the ventricular zone, and at later stages are found more dorsally in the cortex, in an overall pattern similar to Olig2 and/or Pdgfralpha. Postnatal expression of FgfR2 increases with age, more prominently in specific regions, including the cortical and cerebellar white matter and optic nerve. Thus, the differential expression pattern of FgfR2 and FgfR3 observed in vivo suggests that their expression is developmentally regulated in a manner consistent with the pattern of their expression in culture. These data provide further insights into role of FgfRs in OL development, and they emphasize that these receptors are positioned both spatially and temporally to impact OL generation in vivo.
Promptly after the notochord domain is specified in the vertebrate dorsal mesoderm, it undergoes dramatic morphogenesis. Beginning during gastrulation, convergence and extension movements change a squat cellular array into a narrow, elongated one that defines the primary axis of the embryo. Convergence and extension might be coupled by a highly organized cellular intermixing known as mediolateral intercalation behavior (MIB). To learn whether MIB drives early morphogenesis of the zebrafish notochord, we made 4D recordings and quantitatively analyzed both local cellular interactions and global changes in the shape of the dorsal mesodermal field. We show that MIB appears to mediate convergence and can account for extension throughout the dorsal mesoderm. Comparing the notochord and adjacent somitic mesoderm reveals that extension can be regulated separately from convergence. Moreover, mutational analysis shows that extension does not require convergence. Hence, a cellular machine separate from MIB that can drive dorsal mesodermal extension exists in the zebrafish gastrula. The likely redundant control of morphogenesis may provide for plasticity at this critical stage of early development.
Impairment of cognitive function is the central feature of dementia. Although, clinically, the cognitive deficit most often manifests itself as memory problems, a number of other areas of cognition are affected, and memory is but one of the cognitive skills compromised in dementia. Dementia with Lewy bodies, for example, accounts for 15% to 25% of all dementias and does not have memory deficits as a core feature. Our cognitive facilities underlie our abilities to engage successfully in the activities of daily living (ADL) and it follows thai enhancement of cognitive function will facilitate performance of ADL The assessment and understanding of these impairments are crucial to any treatment of the disorder. Unfortunately, the principal instrument used to assess cognitive function in most of the major clinical trials of Alzheimer's disease in recent years, the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subsection (ADAS-COG), primarily assesses aspects of memory, which has resulted in other important cognitive deficits in dementia being overlooked. Automated cognitive tests are now available that can identify an earlier onset of improvements in dementia in smaller samples than the ADAS, Regulatory authorities should encourage - or even require - the use of automated procedures alongside the ADAS in pivotal trials to help determine the relative utility of the instruments in the fairest way possible. Whatever the outcome, this will be of long-term benefit to patients, carers, drug developers, clinicians, and regulators in this important area.
The abuse liability of medications is a growing concern as the number of newly approved psychoactive medications increases. Postmarketing surveillance can assist in determining abuse liability, but strategies are not well-defined for medications believed to be at low abuse risk. Using a newly approved medication (sibutramine--an anorectic drug), a novel approach to postmarketing abuse surveillance was introduced. A one-page anonymous questionnaire covering sibutramine, a scheduled anorectic drug (phentermine), and a fabricated name was added to the intake process of 58 treatment programs. From the 8780 completed questionnaires, 8.8% had heard of sibutramine and phentermine. For continued use to get high (a proxy for abuse), the rate for sibutramine was lower than for phentermine (0.6 vs. 2.2%, McNemar's chi(2) = 110.45, P &lt; 0.001) but was higher than for the fabricated name (0.6 vs. 0.3%, McNemar's chi(2) = 11.86, P &lt; 0.001). These results suggest the risk of abuse associated with sibutramine was lower than that associated with a known abused drug, one that itself is considered low risk despite decades of population exposure. The relatively high rate of hearing of sibutramine may be due to the direct-to-consumer advertisement. This approach is only one indicator in a surveillance framework but appears promising and validates findings from laboratory-based abuse liability studies that also indicate low abuse liability for sibutramine.
This study investigates criminality among 331 opiate abusers admitted to Stockholm's methadone maintenance programme (SMMP) between 1988 and 1992, and a comparison group of 1483 untreated opiate abusers. Information on arrests, criminal convictions, and intravenous drug abuse was obtained from official records. For both genders the annual rate of convictions decreased from 2.2 convictions per year during the 4 years prior to the first treatment, to 0.5 convictions during treatment, compared to 2.0 convictions for the comparison group. There was an even greater decrease in the rate of arrests for patients on methadone treatment. The decline was observed for both genders and in both HIV-positive and HIV-negative patients. Rates of convictions among patients who had more than one treatment period were clearly reduced during each treatment period, and while the rate increased after they were expelled from treatment it remained at a lower level than during the 4 years prior to treatment. Thus, the methadone treatment is shown to have a profound positive effect on arrests and convictions, not only for patients remaining in treatment but also for those patients who were expelled from treatment involuntarily.
Adenosine is released from most cells, including neurons and glial cells. Once in the extracellular space, adenosine modifies cell functioning by operating G-protein-coupled receptors. Interaction between adenosine receptors and other receptors for neuromodulators might contribute to a fine tuning of neuronal function, and therefore, to neuroprotection. Manipulation of adenosine receptors may influence sleep and arousal, cognition and memory, neuronal damage and degeneration and neuronal maturation. The therapeutic implications for neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy and multiple sclerosis are discussed.
The orexins/hypocretins are novel peptide neurotransmitters first characterized in 1998. The cell bodies of the neurons releasing them are localized exclusively in the posterior and lateral hypothalamus although they send out projections which innervate the whole central nervous system. They have recently attracted a great deal of interest in the neuroscience and medical community due to the finding that a reduction of orexin/hypocretins levels occurs in most human cases of the sleep disorder narcolepsy. A flurry of recent experimental data has begun to shed light on the normal physiological functioning of this system and how its loss leads to narcolepsy. Preliminary findings also indicate that it may malfunction in a variety of other conditions where the normal sleep-wake cycle is compromised.
To induce a seizure for electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), an electrical charge is delivered above seizure threshold. The means and criteria used to determine the electrical dosage are subject to debate. Nonetheless this is an important issue because effectiveness and side effects have been shown to be influenced by the electrical charge used. The objective is to review data available in the literature on seizure threshold and ECT and determine the eventual consequences for practical determination of stimulus dosing. A comprehensive review of the literature is based on the search of electronic databases (Medline, INSIT) and a manual search; 72 references out of a total of 96 selected were used for this review. Seizure threshold varies widely between subjects receiving ECT (600% mean variation), however a majority of subjects of all ages have a threshold below 150 mC. Only a few individuals have very high thresholds (400 to 800 mC). ECT has an anticonvulsive effect as threshold increases during a course of ECT. Many factors influence threshold and all are not known. Among those that have been documented are: the characteristics of the current used (longer stimulus duration with same dosage gives lower thresholds); electrode placement (bilateral gives higher thresholds than unilateral placement); age (explains 12 to 26% of threshold variance); gender (which inconsistently gives higher thresholds for males); and other factors such as anesthetic drugs, concurrent psychotropics, and some morphological characteristics. Different methods are used to determine an individually adapted dosage. Two are recommended: titration and age. The age method is based on the fact that age is an important factor influencing threshold. The titration method is based on the observation of a very important variation in threshold between individuals that is not explained by age. We discuss the pros and cons of each method.
Recently, historians have focused on Warren S. McCulloch's role in the cybernetics movement during the 1940s and 1950s, and his contributions to the development of computer science and communication theory. What has received less attention is McCulloch's early work in neurophysiology, and its relationship to his philosophical quest for an 'experimental epistemology' - a physiological theory of knowledge. McCulloch's early laboratory work during the 1930s addressed the problem of cerebral localization: localizing aspects of behaviour in the cerebral cortex of the brain. Most of this research was done with the Dutch neurophysiologist J.G. Dusser de Barenne at Yale University. The connection between McCulloch's philosophical interests and his experimental work can be expressed as a search for a physiological a priori, an integrated mechanism of sensation.



The Wechsler Memory Scale-Third Edition (WMS-III) was developed to overcome the limitations of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised and is now routinely used for pre-surgical assessment of memory for patients considering elective surgery for the relief of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). We investigated the validity of this relatively new measure in a population of people with resistant TLE. The sample consisted of 99 patients with a diagnosis if TLE in which the epileptogenic focus was clearly identified and localised to either the right or left hemisphere. Patients underwent a full neuropsychological assessment as part of their pre-surgical investigation, including the WMS-III. Patients with right temporal focus had significantly lower scores on the visual immediate and delayed indices of the WMS-III than they did on the corresponding auditory indices. The left temporal focal epilepsy group, however, showed no significant disparity between auditory and visual scores. The overall scores of the WMS-III were significantly lower than the normative data from the WMS-III standardisation samples. Like its predecessor the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised, the WMS-III has limited value in identifying particular memory deficits associated with either left and right temporal lobe focus. The results of the WMS-III show that it is capable of lateralising to right hemispheric impairment but is more problematic in the assessment of left hemispheric impairment. The visual verbal discrepancy has questionable validity. The search for reliable and valid measures to distinguish between left and right temporal epileptic focus continues.
The localization of different classes of alcohol dehydrogenases (ADH) in the brain is of great interest because of their role in both ethanol and retinoic acid metabolism. Conflicting data have been reported in the literature. By Northern blot and enzyme activity analyses only class III ADH has been detected in adult brain specimens, while results from riboprobe in situ hybridization indicate class I as well as class IV ADH expression in different regions of the rat brain. Here we have studied the expression patterns of three ADH classes in adult rat, mouse and human tissues using radioactive oligonucleotide in situ hybridization. Specificity of probes was tested on liver and stomach control tissue, as well as tissue from class IV ADH knock-out mice. Only class III ADH mRNA was found to be expressed in brain tissue of all three investigated species. Particularly high expression levels were found in neurons of the red nucleus in human tissue, while cortical neurons, pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus and dopamine neurons of substantia nigra showed moderate expression levels. Purkinje cells of cerebellum were positive for class III ADH mRNA in all species investigated, whereas granular layer neurons were positive only in rodents. The choroid plexus was highly positive for class III ADH, while no specific signal for class I or class IV ADH was detected. Our results thus support the notion that the only ADH expressed in adult mouse, rat and human brain is class III ADH.
Mice with a heterozygous null mutation in myelin protein zero (P0(+/-)) develop late-onset clinical paralysis associated with inflammatory pathology in the peripheral nerves. Although the development of this illness is known to require T cells and macrophages, little is understood regarding the immunological defect in the mice. Here we report that young P0(+/-) mice, free from clinical manifestations, have a defect in central tolerance to P0, and are more prone to induction of experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) by sensitization against P0(180-199 )peptide. Notably, we found that the P0 gene is transcribed in the thymus of wild-type and the P0(+/-) mice in an amount proportional to the gene dosage. We then replaced the thymus of wild-type mice with that of the P0-deficient mice and vice versa. Immunization of these mice with P0(180-199 )revealed that a lower thymic P0 transcript would be associated with the higher recall T cell response to P0(180-199), thus accounting for the higher susceptibility of the P0(+/-) mice to P0-induced EAN. These results imply that a heterozygous mutation in an autoantigen could cause defective central tolerance to the autoantigen. As such, autoimmune T cells may play some role in &quot;genetic&quot; diseases caused by a heterozygous gene defect.
Under stressful conditions, many cells release adenosine to minimize tissue damage. Inhibition of intracellular adenosine kinase (AK) increases the local extracellular concentration of adenosine and its effect on traumatized tissue. The synthesis and SAR of a new series of pyridopyrimidines for the inhibition of AK are described. It was found that a range of analogs with position five substituted by an amine or ether functionality increased aqueous solubility while retaining the in vitro potency of initial leads. A narrower range of analogs was active in vivo in a rat inflammatory hyperalgesia model.
The aim of this large cross-sectional population-based study was to examine the association between migraine, non-migrainous headache and headache frequency with depression, and anxiety disorders. From 1995 to 1997, all 92 566 inhabitants aged 20 years and above in Nord-Trndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in the Nord-Trndelag Health Study ('Helseunderskelsen i Nord-Trndelag' = HUNT-2). A total of 64 560 participated, whereof 51 383 subjects (80%) completed a headache questionnaire that was included. Of these 51 383 individuals, 47 257 (92%) completed the depression subscale items and 43 478 (85%), the anxiety subscale items of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Associations were assessed in multivariate analyses, estimating prevalence odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Depression and anxiety disorders as measured by HADS, were significantly associated with migraine (OR = 2.7, 95% CI 2.3-3.2; OR = 3.2, 95% CI 2.8-3.6) and non-migrainous headache (OR = 2.2, 95% CI 2.0-2.5; OR = 2.7, 95% CI 2.4-3.0) when compared with headache-free individuals. The association was stronger for anxiety disorders than for depression. The ORs for depression and anxiety disorders amongst both migraine and non-migrainous sufferers increased with increasing headache frequency. Depression and anxiety disorders are associated with both migraine and non-migrainous headache, and this association seems more dependent on headache frequency than diagnostic category.
Neurotensin has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The neonatal amygdala lesion in rat has been proposed to be a neurodevelopmental model for some aspects of schizophrenia. [125I] Neurotensin binding was assessed in adult rats using in vitro autoradiography following a lesion of the basolateral amygdala at postnatal day 7 (Pd 7) or postnatal day 21 (Pd 21). The Pd 7 and Pd 21 lesions differentially affected neurotensin receptor densities in the hippocampal complex and (less pronounced) in the dopaminergic cell regions, implying a neurodevelopmental cause. These results may be of relevance for the involvement of neurotensin in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Astrocytes actively participate in synaptic plasticity and respond to insult or metabotropic glutamate receptor activation with increased expression of the intermediate filament glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Extended withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration induces many forms of neuroplasticity. The present study with rats utilized a 3-week withdrawal period from daily cocaine administration (i.p.; 7 days) to investigate whether astrocytes participate in cocaine-mediated plasticity observed in brain nuclei associated with addiction. Following the 3-week withdrawal period, immunoblotting revealed increased GFAP expression in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and in the shell and core compartments of the nucleus accumbens (NAshell and NAcore). Upregulation of GFAP did not occur in the striatum or in any brain region tested following shorter withdrawal times from repeated cocaine (24 h or 1 week) or following 2-h withdrawal from an acute cocaine injection (30 mg/kg i.p.). However, GFAP expression increased following a 3-week withdrawal from a single cocaine injection selectively in the NAshell. Cell counts revealed that astrocyte cell number increased only in the NAcore while immunoblots of a marker for immature or reactive astrocytes, vimentin, showed an increase only in the PFC following the 3-week withdrawal. Taken together, these results suggest that altered intermediate filament expression within forebrain astrocytes may be a significant part of the plasticity occurring during withdrawal from repeated cocaine. Furthermore, the increase in GFAP may arise from regionally distinct mechanisms, with the NAcore relying more on cell proliferation while the PFC relies on a larger reactive astrocyte population.
Dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) concentrations were measured in the dialysate obtained with vertical microdialysis probes implanted into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of sexually potent male rats. Animals showed noncontact erections when put in the presence of, and copulated with a receptive (ovarietomized oestrogen and progesterone primed) female rat. Dopamine and DOPAC concentrations in the paraventricular dialysate increased 140% and 19%, respectively, above baseline values during exposure to the receptive female and 280% and 31%, respectively, during copulation. No changes in dopamine and DOPAC concentrations were detected in the paraventricular dialysate when sexually potent male rats were exposed to nonreceptive (ovariectomized not oestrogen plus progesterone primed) female rats. These results confirm the involvement of the paraventricular nucleus in control of erectile function and copulatory behaviour and show for the first time that dopamine neurotransmission is increased in this hypothalamic nucleus when erection occurs in physiological contexts.
The effect of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) on regulation of extracellular adenosine was investigated in rat forebrain neurons in culture. NMDA evoked accumulation of extracellular adenosine with an EC50 value of 4.8 +/- 1.2 microM. The effect of NMDA was blocked by (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a, d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate indicating that NMDA receptor activation was involved. The NMDA effect was also blocked by chelation of extracellular Ca2+ indicating that influx of calcium was required. The nitric oxide-cyclic GMP signalling pathway was not involved, as nitric oxide synthase inhibitors were unable to block, and cGMP analogs were unable to mimic, the effect of NMDA. The source for extracellular adenosine was likely to be intracellular adenosine as the ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor alpha beta-methylene-ADP was unable to block the effect of NMDA. One possible cause of intracellular adenosine accumulation might be NMDA receptor-mediated inhibition of mitochondrial function and ATP hydrolysis. We found that NMDA caused a concentration dependent depletion of intracellular ATP with an EC50 value of 21 +/- 8 microM. NMDA also caused a significant decrease in adenosine kinase activity, assayed by two different methods. Consistent with the hypothesis that inhibition of adenosine kinase is sufficient to cause an increase in extracellular adenosine, inhibition of adenosine kinase by 5'-iodotubercidin resulted in elevation of extracellular adenosine. However, in the presence of a concentration of 5'-iodotubercidin that inhibited over 90% of adenosine kinase activity, exposure to NMDA still caused adenosine accumulation. These studies suggest that several possible mechanisms are likely to be involved in NMDA-evoked extracellular adenosine accumulation.
It is usually accepted that prion and amyloid-beta (A beta) peptides induce apoptotic cell death. However, the mechanisms that trigger neuronal death, induced by these amyloidogenic peptides, remain to be clarified. In the present study we analysed the neurotoxic effects of the synthetic prion and A beta peptides, PrP106-126 and A beta 25-35, in primary cultures of rat brain cortical cells. PrP106-126 and A beta 25-35 incubated at a concentration of 25 micro m for 24 h, did not affect cell membrane integrity, but decreased the metabolic capacity of the cells. The intracellular free Ca2+ concentration and reactive oxygen species levels increased significantly after 24 h treatment with PrP106-126 and A beta 25-35. Furthermore, these peptides (after 24 h exposure) also induced cytochrome c release from mitochondria and increased caspase-3-like activity. FK506, an inhibitor of the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase, calcineurin, was able to prevent cytochrome c release, caspase-3 activation and cell death induced by A beta 25-35 or PrP106-126 peptides. Taken together these data suggest that calcineurin is involved in A beta 25-35 and PrP106-126 neurotoxicity.
Opioids have previously been shown to affect proliferation and differentiation in various neural cell types. In the present study, cultured rat adult hippocampal progenitors (AHPs) were shown to release beta-endorphin. Membrane preparations of AHPs were found to bind [125I]beta-endorphin, and immunoreactivity for mu- and delta-opioid receptors (MORs and DORs), but not for kappa-opioid receptors (KORs), was found on cells in culture. Both DNA content and [3H]thymidine incorporation were reduced after a 48-h incubation with 100 microM naloxone, 10 micro m naltrindole or 10 microM beta-funaltrexamine, but not nor-binaltorphimine, suggesting proliferative actions of endogenous opioids against MORs and DORs on AHPs. Furthermore, analysis of gene and protein expression after incubation with MOR and DOR antagonists for 48 h using RT-PCR and Western blotting suggested decreased signalling through the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and lowered levels of genes and proteins that are important in cell cycling. Cultures were incubated with naloxone (10 or 100 microM) for 10 days to study the effects on differentiation. This resulted in an approximately threefold increase in neurogenesis, a threefold decrease in astrogliogenesis and a 50% decrease in oligodendrogenesis. In conclusion, this study suggests that reduced signalling through MORs and DORs decreases proliferation in rat AHPs, increases the number of in vitro-generated neurons and reduces the number of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in culture.
In the monkey the lateral bank of the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus (area AIP), contains neurons that are involved in visually guided, object-related hand movements. It has also been shown that neurons in the caudal part of the intraparietal sulcus (area CIP) preferentially respond to 3D surface orientation. According to these results, it has been hypothesized that neurons in area CIP primarily encode the 3D features of an object and forwards this information to area AIP. AIP then utilizes this information for appropriate hand actions towards the object. Based on analogies to these primate studies, recent neuroimaging studies have suggested human homologues of areas AIP and CIP, however, the functional interaction between these areas remains unclear. Our event related fMRI study was designed to address specifically the question, how CIP and AIP interact in the process of adjustment of hand orientation towards objects. Volunteers were asked to perform three tasks: discrimination of surface orientation, imaging of visually guided hand movements and execution of visually guided hand movements. Our data show that the human AIP was activated both during discrimination of surface orientation and during the subsequent spatial adjustment of the thumb and index finger position towards the surface orientation. In contrast, human CIP was activated by the surface orientation but not by spatial adjustment of finger position. These data clearly indicate that the function of human CIP is more involved in coding 3D features of the objects, whereas human AIP is more involved in visually guided hand movements, similar to its role in the monkey.
Here we test the hypothesis that frequency and topographically specific changes in the strength of functional cortico-cortical coupling occur during the acquisition of a completely new task. To this end we studied the behavioural and cortical dynamics of a bimanual multifrequency coordination pattern during which one hand moved at twice the frequency of the other hand. This pattern represents a noninherent assignment and necessitates training before appropriate interlimb decoupling takes place. Results showed that acquisition of the multifrequency task was associated with an improved behavioural output that matched specific changes in the electroencephalogram dynamics. In particular, practice of the coordination pattern was accompanied by a decrease in coherence between the primary sensorimotor regions, and over the midline area in the alpha and beta bands, respectively, along with an increase in functional interhemispheric coupling between the prefrontal areas in the gamma band. These data suggest that the strength of cortico-cortical connectivity is adaptively modified across regions and across frequencies during early learning as the functional couplings are created and optimized for the purpose of movement execution.
Beta-endorphin is an endogenous opioid peptide implicated in reward processes, but the brain sites directly involved in its putative role in reward have not been identified. Here we used in vivo microdialysis in rats to study the effect of a potent reinforcer, lateral hypothalamus self-stimulation (LHSS), on the extracellular levels of beta-endorphin in the nucleus accumbens (NAS). The NAS is involved in the reinforcing effects of natural and artificial rewards, has high density of opioid receptors and is innervated by arcuate nucleus beta-endorphin neurons. LHSS had no effect on extracellular levels of beta-endorphin in the NAS. Surprisingly, extinction of the self-stimulation behaviour induced a rapid increase in NAS beta-endorphin levels. In a subsequent experiment in rats previously trained to self-administer heroin for 10 days, beta-endorphin levels also were increased during a test for extinction of the heroin-reinforced behaviour. Finally, the increase in extracellular beta-endorphin levels in the NAS was also observed during exposure to an aversive stimulus, intermittent footshock (20 min). These results indicate a possible role for increased levels of NAS beta-endorphin in the organism's adaptive response to stress and frustration.
Recently it was demonstrated that sprouting of dopaminergic neurons and a microglial and astrocyte response follows both partial lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta and blockade of the D2 dopamine receptor. We therefore studied the effects of the combination of these two treatments (lesioning and D2 dopamine receptor blockade). Haloperidol administration caused a 57% increase in dopaminergic terminal tree size (measured as terminal density per substantia nigra pars compacta neuron) and an increase of glia in the striatum. Following small to medium nigral lesions (less than 60%), terminal tree size increased by 51% on average and returned density of dopaminergic terminals to normal. In contrast, administration of haloperidol for 16 weeks following lesioning resulted in reduced dopaminergic terminal density and terminal tree size (13%), consistent with absent or impaired sprouting. Glial cell numbers increased but were less than with lesions alone. When haloperidol was administered after the striatum had been reinnervated through sprouting (16-32 weeks after lesioning), terminal tree size increased up to 150%, similar to the effect of haloperidol in normal animals. By examining the effect of administering haloperidol at varying times following a lesion, we concluded that a switch in the effect of D2 dopamine receptor blockade occurred after dopaminergic synapses began to form in the striatum. We postulate that when synapses are present, D2 dopamine receptor blockade results in increased terminal density, whereas prior to synapse formation D2 dopamine receptor blockade causes attenuation of a sprouting response. We speculate that D2 dopamine receptors located on growth cones 'push' neurites toward their targets, and blockade of these receptors could lead to attenuation of sprouting.
Chronic treatment with the opioid antagonist naltrexone induces functional supersensitivity to opioid agonists, which may be explained by receptor up-regulation induced by opioid receptor blockade. In the present study, the levels of opioid receptor subtypes through the brain of mice were determined after chronic naltrexone treatment using quantitative in vitro autoradiography. This is the first complete mapping study in mice for micro-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors after chronic naltrexone exposure. Treatment with naltrexone clearly induced up-regulation of micro- (mean 80%) and, to a lesser extent, delta-opioid receptors (mean 39%). The up-regulation of micro- and delta-opioid receptors was evident throughout the brain, although there was variation in the percentage change across brain regions. In contrast, consistent up-regulation of kappa-opioid receptors was observed in cortical structures only and was not so marked as for micro- and delta-opioid receptors. In noncortical regions kappa-opioid receptor expression was unchanged. Taken together, the present findings suggest opioid receptor subtype-selective regulation by chronic naltrexone treatment in mice.
The honeybee, Apis mellifera, has been used as a model to study the development of the visual system and adult bee behaviour. However, the regulation of the levels of visual component genes has never been addressed in this organism. We isolated honeybee cDNAs encoding green-sensitive opsin and visual arrestin and then measured their mRNA levels in honeybee workers. Both mRNAs fluctuate on a daily cycle that depends on a pacemaker that functions separately from the pacemaker which controls rhythmic locomotor activity. The cycling-patterns of opsin and arrestin mRNAs are different from each other and are modified by light. Furthermore, light exposure can increase the absolute levels of both mRNAs and the arrestin mRNA level is also dependent on age. Consistent with these results, both mRNA levels are higher in foragers than in in-hive bees under natural conditions. This study thus shows that the expression of genes encoding visual components is regulated by multiple factors and is adjusted to the honeybees' need for vision during the day, and throughout their lives. Comparison of data obtained with honeybees and other organisms indicates that there is a link between the regulation of phototransduction components and vision-related animal behaviour.


Several studies have shown a relationship between high testosterone and violent aggressive behaviour. The general aim of this study was to gain knowledge of the importance of testosterone in suicide attempters. Testosterone in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was analysed in men with a recent suicide attempt, diagnostically subdivided into groups according to DSM-III-R axis I and II diagnosis and mode of suicidal behaviour. In general, our patients had lower CSF testosterone levels than aggressive violent patients in other studies. Patients with depression NOS or dysthymia showed higher CSF testosterone levels than the rest. Significant positive correlation between testosterone and irritability or a negative correlation with social desirability was found in diagnostic subgroup of patients, specifically axis II, cluster B personality disorders. The results suggest that suicide attempts may be mediated by different biological variables than aggression.
The aim of this study was to evaluate diagnostic accuracy of contrast-enhanced MRA (CEMRA) compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in studying neck vessels of 48 patients. In three groups of patients, we used three MRA protocols differing for voxel size to assess if intravoxel dephasing effects could modify accuracy of CEMRA. Accuracy and correlation with DSA results were calculated in all patients and separately in the three groups. A qualitative analysis of the likeness between morphology of the stenosis in CEMRA and DSA images was also assessed. In all patients accuracy and agreement with DSA were 96% and k=0.85 in subclavian arteries, 96% and k=0.84 in vertebral artery, 97% and k=0.88 in common carotid arteries, and 94% and k=0.86 in internal carotid arteries. In the three groups accuracy and agreement with DSA did not show any significant difference. Qualitative analysis of CEMRA and DSA images revealed a better agreement in depicting the morphology of stenosis using a smaller voxel size. The CEMRA represents a powerful tool for the non-invasive evaluation of neck vessels. Overestimation trend of CEMRA is confirmed and the reduction of voxel size, decreasing the dephasing intravoxel effect, allows to have a better overlapping of stenosis morphology on CEMRA compared with DSA, but it does not yield diagnostic gain in the stenosis grading.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in abnormal pain syndromes in humans. In a rodent model of SCI, T13 spinal hemisection results in allodynia and hyperalgesia due in part to interruption of descending pathways, including serotonergic (5-HT) systems, that leads to hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons. To characterize further the role of 5-HT and 5-HT receptor subtypes 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) in neuronal activation after hemisection, we have examined the responsiveness of dorsal horn neurons to a variety of innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, 150-175 g, were spinally hemisected (n=40) at T13 and allowed 4 weeks for development of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Animals then underwent electrophysiologic recording and the results were compared with those from sham controls (n=15). Evoked responses of convergent dorsal horn neurons (n=224 total) at L3-L5 to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli were characterized after administration of vehicle, 5-HT (25, 50, 100, and 200 microg), 5-HT (100 microg) in conjunction with the selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100135 (100 microg), the 5-HT(3) antagonist MDL 72222 (100 microg), the selective 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 150 microg), or the 5-HT(3) agonist 2-Me-5HT (75 microg), with or without pretreatment with antagonists; all treatments were delivered topically onto the cord adjacent to the recording electrode. In hemisected animals, increased responsiveness of convergent cells to all peripheral stimuli was observed bilaterally when compared to controls. No changes in ongoing background activity were present. In control animals, only the highest dose of 5-HT (200 microg) was sufficient to reduce evoked activity, whereas in hemisected animals a concentration-dependent decrease in response was observed. In hemisected animals, both 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) receptor antagonism reduced the effectiveness of 5-HT, restoring elevated evoked activity by up to 70% at the doses tested. Administration of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) receptor agonists also decreased hyperexcitability, effects prevented by pretreatment with corresponding antagonists. These results demonstrate the development of denervation supersensitivity to 5-HT following SCI, corroborate behavioral studies showing the effectiveness of 5-HT in reducing allodynia and hyperalgesia after SCI, and contribute to a mechanistic understanding of the role of 5-HT receptor subtypes in chronic central pain.
We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the neural correlates of endogenous spatial attention for vision and touch. We examined activity associated with attention-directing cues (central auditory pure tones), symbolically instructing subjects to attend to one hemifield or the other prior to upcoming stimuli, for a visual or tactile task. In different sessions, subjects discriminated either visual or tactile stimuli at the covertly attended side, during bilateral visuotactile stimulation. To distinguish cue-related preparatory activity from any modulation of stimulus processing, unpredictably on some trials only the auditory cue was presented. The use of attend-vision and attend-touch blocks revealed whether preparatory attentional effects were modality-specific or multimodal. Unimodal effects of spatial attention were found in somatosensory cortex for attention to touch, and in occipital areas for attention to vision, both contralateral to the attended side. Multimodal spatial effects (i.e. effects of attended side irrespective of task-relevant modality) were detected in contralateral intraparietal sulcus, traditionally considered a multimodal brain region; and also in the middle occipital gyrus, an area traditionally considered purely visual. Critically, all these activations were observed even on cue-only trials, when no visual or tactile stimuli were subsequently presented. Endogenous shifts of spatial attention result in changes of brain activity prior to the presentation of target stimulation (baseline shifts). Here, we show for the first time the separable multimodal and unimodal components of such preparatory activations. Additionally, irrespective of the attended side and modality, attention-directing auditory cues activated a network of superior frontal and parietal association areas that may play a role in voluntary control of spatial attention for both vision and touch.
The influence of proprioception on motorcortical excitability was assessed by muscle vibration (MV; 80 Hz, 0.5 mm amplitude) of the flexor carpi radialis muscle (FCR) and compared to voluntary contraction and relaxation conditions. Motor thresholds, motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in response to single pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and the intracortical inhibition (ICI) and facilitation (ICF) after paired magnetic stimuli were studied. A control experiment using TMS inducing posteriorly directed current was performed. MEPs were recorded simultaneously from the FCR, the extensor carpi radialis, the abductor pollicis brevis and the first dorsal interosseus. In the FCR, MV led to an increase of excitability shown by a decrease of motor threshold, a facilitation of MEPs in response to single-pulse TMS, a reduction of ICI and an increase of ICF. Since especially the ICI and ICF remain unchanged in other recorded muscles, this increase of excitability is specific for the vibrated muscle. With posteriorly directed current the ICI in the FCR was reduced as well, showing an involvement of later I-waves. We suggest that MV induces a focused motorcortical activation which relies on a reduced activity of intracortical inhibitory interneuronal circuits targeting selectively the motorcortical representation of the vibrated muscle.
We have compared the onsets of expression of the classical visual opsins with those of the non-rod, non-cone opsins in foetal and post-natal eye tissue from mice and humans. Mouse Rgr-opsin, peropsin, encephalopsin and melanopsin are all expressed in foetal development by E11.5, unlike the murine rod and cone opsins that exhibit post-natal expression, e.g. P1 for ultraviolet cone opsin and P5 for rod opsin. Human non-rod, non-cone opsins are also all expressed early, by 8.6 weeks post-conception. The implications of these observations are discussed with regard to the possible functions of these opsins at early stages of ocular development.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) lowers intraocular pressure (IOP) in animal models by regulating aqueous humour dynamics through both inflow and outflow mechanisms. Moreover, ET's concentration is elevated in glaucoma patients and in animal models of glaucoma. Glucocorticoid therapy often can lead to increase IOP in susceptible individuals including patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). In this study, we examined the effects of dexamethasone (Dex), a frequently used anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid, on the synthesis and release of endothelin-1 and on the expression of endothelin receptors in human non-pigmented ciliary epithelial (HNPE) cells, an established source for ET-1 in the anterior chamber. As measured by ET-1 immunoreactivity, ET-1 was concentration-dependently increased following 24hr Dex treatment, with a maximum concentration (100 nM) causing a threefold increase of ET-1 release. Western blot analysis of HNPE cells showed the expression of endothelin receptor A (ET(A)) and endothelin receptor B (ET(B)) with approximate molecular weights of 40 kDa. Dex treatment decreased ET(A) receptor expression at all Dex doses, but up-regulated ET(B) receptors with 10nM Dex having the greatest effect. Quantitative PCR demonstrated that Dex also increased the mRNA of pre-pro-ET-1 (ppET-1) and ET(B) but decreased the mRNA of ET(A). RU486, a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, was able to block Dex's actions on ET release and ET(B) receptor expression, but did not block its action on ET(A) receptor expression. Endothelin receptors were minimally expressed in HNPE cells as determined in binding experiments (B(max): ET(A) 17, ET(B) 25 fmolmg(-1) membrane protein). However Dex treatment stimulated a dramatic increase in ET(B) receptor density while decreasing ET(A) receptors (B(max): ET(A) 11, ET(B) 116 fmolmg(-1) membrane protein). The regulation of endothelin and its receptors could be a novel mechanism associated with glucocorticoid's effects on intraocular pressure. The increase in ET-1 and disproportionate regulation in ET receptor expression by Dex could promote dysregulation in ET's mechanism on both inflow and outflow, thus affecting aqueous humour dynamics in the anterior chamber of the eye.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder, and it has been suggested that treatments promoting survival and functional recovery of affected dopaminergic neurons could have a significant and long-term therapeutic value. In the present study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of acupuncture on the nigrostriatal system in rat unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA, 4 microg/microl, intrastriatal injection) using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, trkB, immunohistochemistries. Two weeks after the lesions were made, rats presented with asymmetry in rotational behavior (118.3 +/- 17.5 turns/h) following injection with apomorphine, a dopamine receptor agonist (0.5 mg/kg, sc). In contrast, acupunctural treatment at acupoints GB34 and LI3 was shown to significantly reduce this motor deficit (14.6 +/- 13.4 turns/h). Analysis via TH immunohistochemistry revealed a substantial loss of cell bodies in the substantia nigra (SN) (45.7% loss) and their terminals in the dorsolateral striatum ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA-induced lesion. However, acupunctural treatment resulted in the enhanced survival of dopaminergic neurons in the SN (21.4% loss) and their terminals in the dorsolateral striatum. Acupuncture also increased the expression of trkB significantly (35.6% increase) in the ipsilateral SN. In conclusion, we observed that only acupuncturing without the use of any drug has the neuroprotective effects against neuronal death in the rat PD model and these protective properties of acupuncture could be mediated by trkB.
We previously reported that 1 month following unilateral loss (&gt;95%) of striatal dopamine, there is an increase in striatal glutamate function as measured by in vivo microdialysis and quantitative immuno-gold electron microscopy, Neuroscience 88, 1-16). The goal of this study was to determine the effect of bilateral loss of striatal dopamine on striatal glutamate function following acute or subchronic administration of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to C57/B6J mice. Animals were administered either single injections (ip) of 30 mg/kg/day for 7 days (subchronically treated group) or 20 mg/kg x 4 doses every 2 h (acutely treated group) of the toxin or saline. One month following the first injection, there was a 44 and 65% loss in the relative density of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunolabeling within the dorsolateral striatum in the subchronically and acutely MPTP-treated groups compared to the saline group, respectively. There was a decrease in the basal level of extracellular glutamate within the striatum in the subchronically MPTP-treated animals compared to an increase in the acutely treated group in relationship to the saline group. Ultrastructurally, only in the acutely MPTP-treated group was there a decrease in the density of glutamate immunolabeling within nerve terminals associated with an asymmetrical synaptic contact in the dorsolateral striatum compared to either the subchronic or saline groups. In addition, there was a decrease in the relative density of GluR-2/3 subunit immunolabeling within the dorsolateral striatum in the acute MPTP compared to the saline group. These data indicate that differences in striatal glutamate function appear to be associated with the dosing interval of MPTP administration and the variable loss of striatal TH immunolabeling.
Cross-correlation of the discharges of muscle spindle afferents in ankle extensor and flexor muscles has been used to reveal the activity of static gamma (gammaS) motoneurones innervating chain intrafusal muscle fibres during locomotion. In the anaesthetised cat, the cross-correlation of spindle afferents, jointly innervated by a gammaS-efferent with chain fibre contacts, showed short duration synchrony (2-8 ms) when the efferent was stimulated repetitively. In pre-mammillary decerebrated cats, the cross-correlograms of discharges of some pairs of spindle afferents showed similar short duration peaks of synchronisation and these were interpreted as being due to a common gammaS drive to chain intrafusal muscle fibres. The incidence of synchrony was low, and was similar at rest (5 % of pairs) and during treadmill locomotion (7 % of pairs). Phase dependence of synchrony was evident during locomotion in the flexor muscle. The synchrony of muscle spindle afferent discharge is discussed in relation to estimates of the numbers of spindles contacted by individual gammaS-efferents.
Glial cells are known to interact extensively with neuronal elements in the brain, influencing their activity. Astrocytes associated with synapses integrate neuronal inputs and release transmitters that modulate synaptic sensitivity. Glial cells participate in formation and rebuilding of synapses and play a prominent role in protection and repair of nervous tissue after damage. For glial cells to take an active part in plastic alterations under physiological conditions and pathological disturbances, extensive specific signaling, both within single cells and between cells, is required. In recent years, intensive research has led to our first insight into this signaling. We know there are active connections between astrocytes in the form of networks promoting Ca2+ and ATP signaling; we also know there is intense signaling between astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and neurons, with an array of molecules acting as signaling substances. The cells must be functionally integrated to facilitate the enormous dynamics of and capacity for reconstruction within the nervous system. In this paper, we summarize some basic data on glial neuronal signaling to provide insight into synaptic modulation and reconstruction in physiology and protection and repair after damage.
Alzheimer's disease is widely held to be associated with oxidative stress due, in part, to the action of amyloid beta-peptide (A beta). We observed that A beta 25-35 induced an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in NT2 rho+ cells, leading to protein and lipid oxidation. This oxidative status was partially prevented by the antioxidants, vitamin E, reduced glutathione, and by melatonin. However, NT2 rho0 cells (that lack mitochondrial DNA) in the absence of A beta showed an increase in ROS production, lipid and protein oxidation, as compared with parental rho+ cells. Upon A beta 25-35 treatment, in rho+ cells, a decrease in glutathione reductase activity and in GSH levels was observed, whereas glutathione peroxidase activity was shown to be increased. In NT2 rho0 cells, in the absence of A beta, GSH levels were maintained, whereas glutathione reductase and peroxidase activities were increased. The exposure of A beta to rho0 cells did not induce any change in these parameters. We observed that melatonin prevented caspase activation and DNA fragmentation in rho+ cells treated with A beta. Considering the evidence presented, we argue that the glutathione cycle impairment is a key event in A beta-induced cell toxicity.
The efficiency of plasmid gene transfer in skeletal muscle is significantly enhanced by pretreatment with hyaluronidase and the application of an electrical field to the muscle following the injection of plasmid DNA, a process referred to as electrotransfer. However, the presence of increased levels of connective tissue in muscular dystrophies, such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), may affect the efficiency of this process. Here we demonstrate that the efficiency of electrotransfer is not affected by increased levels of connective tissue in the mdx mouse model of DMD and that any damage induced by the electrotransfer process is not exacerbated in the dystrophic phenotype. However, increasing the concentration of hyaluronidase does not improve transfection efficiencies further. Unlike direct injection of plasmid DNA, the efficiency of electrotransfer is not dependent upon the sex and age of mice used. The combined treatment of hyaluronidase and electrotransfer results in highly efficient gene transfer in dystrophic muscle with limited muscle damage.
Laterality is believed to have genetic components, as has been deduced from family studies in humans and responses to artificial selection in mice, but these genetic components are unknown and the underlying physiological mechanisms are still a subject of dispute. We measured direction of laterality (preferential use of left or right paws) and degree of laterality (absolute difference between the use of left and right paws) in C57BL/6ByJ (B) and NZB/BlNJ (N) mice and in their F(1) and F(2) intercrosses. Measurements were taken of both forepaws and hind paws. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) did not emerge for direction but did for degree of laterality. One QTL for forepaw (LOD score = 5.6) and the second QTL for hind paw (LOD score = 7.2) were both located on chromosome 4 and their peaks were within the same confidence interval. A QTL for plasma luteinizing hormone concentration was also found in the confidence interval of these two QTL. These results suggest that the physiological mechanisms underlying degree of laterality react to gonadal steroids.
Mammalian visual cortex is immature at birth and develops gradually during defined postnatal temporal windows. In the present work, we studied the maturation of astrocytes in developing mouse visual cortex (VC). The cellular distribution and the level of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Experiments were performed at different postnatal ages: postnatal day 12 (P12), before eye opening; P24, corresponding roughly to the peak of the critical period for monocular deprivation, and P60, after the end of the critical period. At P12, GFAP immunoreactivity (IR) was distributed throughout all cortical layers. At P24, there was a prominent localization of GFAP IR in layers I, II, and VI, while cortical layers III, IV, and V contained no longer GFAP IR cells. No differences were found in GFAP IR between P24 and P60. Western blot analysis revealed a reduction of GFAP expression in the VC at P24 with respect to P12 and no significant difference between P60 and P24. These results show that GFAP expression is modulated during early postnatal development. To know whether visual experience influences the maturation pattern of GFAP expression, mice were dark-reared from P12 to P24. Dark rearing did not change the distribution and the expression of GFAP. Our results indicate that maturation of GFAP expression occurs early in postnatal development in mouse VC. In addition, we showed that GFAP development is not affected by visual deprivation.
Ceruloplasmin is a key enzyme involved in detoxifying ferrous iron, which can generate free radicals. The secreted form of ceruloplasmin is produced by the liver and is abundant in serum. We have previously identified a membrane-bound glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored form of ceruloplasmin (GPI-Cp) that is expressed by astrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) (Patel and David. 1997. J Biol Chem 272:20185-20190). We now provide direct evidence that rat leptomeningeal cells, which cover the surface of the brain, also express GPI-Cp. The expression of GPI-Cp on the surface of these cells increases with postnatal development and is regulated in vitro by cell density, time in culture, and various extracellular matrix molecules. The expression of GPI-Cp also appears to be regulated differently in astrocytes and leptomeningeal cells in vitro. The abundant expression of GPI-Cp on the surface of leptomeningeal cells suggests that these cells play a role in antioxidant defense along the surface of the postnatal CNS possibly by detoxifying the cerebrospinal fluid.
Dr. Leon Pochovski (1869-1965), the first fully trained surgeon to settle in Eretz-Israel, was summoned in 1913 from Jaffa to Rishon-le-Zion to treat a patient who sustained a tangential gunshot injury of the brain from a bullet shot at nearly point blank range, in the right occipital region. As the patient's condition deteriorated intracranial bleeding was diagnosed. Dr. Pochovski did not hesitate to operate and successfully removed an intracerebral hematoma. At first there were no visual symptoms, but on the 11th day there was hemianopia due to dysfunction of the initially uninvolved left hemisphere. It became progressed and then cleared. The hemianopia was associated with diplopia and created hallucinations in the blind field. The mode of treatment and the learned discussion of the uncommon symptomatology demonstrate that the practicing physicians were providing clinical service that did not differ in the technical standards and academic level from that of their colleagues overseas.
Binaural interaction plays an important role in shaping response properties of central auditory neurons. Using single unit recording and iontophoresis, we examined frequency tuning curves (FTCs), interaural intensity difference (IID) curves, and rate-intensity functions of inferior collicular (IC) neurons of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, under closed system or free field stimulation conditions. We isolated 46 EI (excitation-inhibition), 24 EO (monaural excitation) and 6 EE (excitation-excitation) neurons. Inhibitory FTCs of EI neurons plotted under ipsilateral sound stimulation fell within (n=10, 22%), partly overlapped (n=26, 56%), or almost entirely encompassed (n=10, 22%) excitatory FTCs plotted by contralateral sound stimulation. The discharge rate of EI neurons was a sigmoid function of IID. The peak discharge rate occurred at IIDs at which contralateral sound stimulation was stronger than ipsilateral sound stimulation. Application of bicuculline, an antagonist for gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptors, raised the IID curves and broadened the excitatory FTCs but partly or completely abolished the ipsilateral inhibitory FTCs. For EE neurons, excitatory FTCs and rate-intensity functions plotted by contralateral sound stimulation were always broader and higher than those plotted by ipsilateral sound stimulation. The sharpness of FTCs of EI neurons was significantly greater at ipsilateral 30 degrees than at 30 degrees contralateral. This direction-dependent frequency tuning was effectively abolished by occlusion of the ipsilateral ear. Possible mechanisms underlying these observations are discussed.
Both otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) and the relative length of the index and ring fingers (the 2D:4D ratio) exhibit large sex differences, and both exhibit masculinization effects in female homosexuals and bisexuals. Because these sex differences exist in young children, the implication is that both types of measure are affected by prenatal androgen exposure, but it has been unknown to what degree these two types of measure are related. Accordingly, OAEs and the relative lengths of the fingers and the toes were measured in 59 heterosexual females, 55 heterosexual males, 29 homosexual females, and 33 homosexual males. The correlations between the two types of measure were unexpectedly quite low in both the heterosexual and nonheterosexual groups. For example, the correlation between number of spontaneous OAEs per ear and 2D:4D was less than 0.25, for both sexes and both sexual orientations. One interpretation of these results is that the prenatal hormonal mechanisms producing the sex differences in OAEs differ in quality, degree, or timing from those producing the sex differences in relative finger length. That is, OAEs and 2D:4D may be windows onto slightly different prenatal processes or times during prenatal development. Measures of mental-rotation ability also were obtained on these participants, and those correlations with relative finger length also were small.
Stress decreases sexual activity, but it is uncertain which aspects of stress are detrimental to reproduction. This study used an escapable/inescapable stress paradigm to attempt to dissociate physical from psychological components of stress, and assess each component's impact on reproductive behavior in the male Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus). Two experiments were completed using this protocol where two animals receive the same physical stressor (an electric footshock) but differ in the psychological aspect of control. One group (executive) could terminate the shock for themselves as well as a second group (yoked) by pressing a bar. Experiment 1 demonstrated a significant increase in plasma glucocorticoids at the end of a single 90-min stress session with no difference in glucocorticoid levels between the executive and yoked groups at any time point. Experiment 2 quantified male reproductive behavior prior to and immediately following 12 days of escapable or inescapable stress in executive, yoked, and no-stress control hamsters (n = 12/group). Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed a number of significant changes in reproductive behavior before and after stress in the three treatment groups. The most striking difference was a decrease in hit rate observed only in the animals that could not control their stress (yoked group). Hit rate in the executive males that received the exact same physical stressor but could terminate the shock by pressing a bar was nearly identical to control animals that never received any foot shock. Therefore, we conclude that coping or control can ameliorate the negative effects of stress on male reproductive behavior.
Aging is characterized by a progressive deterioration of motor function related to dysfunctions of the nigrostriatal system. Because estrogen has been reported to protect dopaminergic neurons and to improve the motor deficits associated with Parkinson's disease, we hypothesized that it would partially reverse the age-related decline of motor function in normal aging. We tested the effects of estrogen treatment and withdrawal on fine motor performance in five aged (21-24 years old) and five young (6-9 years old) ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys. The tests required the monkeys to use each hand to retrieve a Life Saver candy from metal rods bent in shapes of different complexity. Monkeys were tested twice a week for 8 consecutive weeks, during treatment with placebo or ethinyl estradiol (EE(2)) in alternating 14-day blocks. Each behavioral test was videotaped and subsequently scored for the duration and the success of the first trial on each shape. Both groups of monkeys improved rapidly with practice in speed and success of retrieval. The older monkeys were slower but as successful as the young monkeys in retrieving the candy. The left hand was faster than the right hand for both the aged and young females. We failed to detect any effect of EE(2) treatment on speed or success of retrieval in either group. These results confirm the slowing of fine motor performance with aging in female rhesus monkeys. They also indicate that estradiol, at least as administered in this study, does not benefit fine manual performance.
The KE family is a large three-generational pedigree in which half of the members suffer from a verbal and orofacial dyspraxia in association with a point mutation in the FOXP2 gene. This report extends previous voxel-based morphometric analyses of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans (Watkins et al. [2002] Brain 125:465-478) using a bilateral conjunction analysis. This searches specifically for areas of grey matter density that differ bilaterally in the affected members compared with both matched controls and the unaffected family members. 3-D T1-weighted MRI datasets of 17 family members (10 affected, 7 unaffected) and matched controls were compared. The most significant findings were reduced grey matter density bilaterally in the caudate nucleus, the cerebellum, and the left and right inferior frontal gyrus in the affected members. In addition, increased grey matter density was found bilaterally in the planum temporale. These results confirm that a point mutation in FOXP2 is associated with several bilateral grey matter abnormalities in both motor and language related regions. The results also demonstrate the advantages of using a conjunction analysis when bilateral abnormalities are suspected.
Printed word frequency can modulate retrieval effort in a task requiring associative semantic judgment. Event-related fMRI, while avoiding stimulus order predictability, is in theory statistically less powerful than block designs. We compared one event-related and two block designs that evaluated the same semantic judgment task and found that similar brain regions demonstrated the word frequency effect. Although the responses were lower in amplitude, event-related fMRI was able to detect the word frequency effect to a comparable degree compared to the block designs. The detection of a frequency effect with the event-related design also suggests that stimulus-order predictability may not be as serious a concern in block designs as might be supposed.
Reading in a second language (L2) is a complex task that entails an interaction between L2 and the native language (L1). To study the underlying mechanisms, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to visualize Chinese-English bilinguals' brain activity in phonological processing of logographic Chinese and alphabetic English, two written languages with a sharp contrast in phonology and orthography. In Experiment 1, we found that phonological processing of Chinese characters recruits a neural system involving left middle frontal and posterior parietal gyri, cortical regions that are known to contribute to spatial information representation, spatial working memory, and coordination of cognitive resources as a central executive system. We assume that the peak activation of this system is relevant to the unique feature of Chinese that a logographic character has a square configuration that maps onto a monosyllabic unit of speech. Equally important, when our bilingual subjects performed a phonological task on English words, this neural system was most active, whereas brain areas mediating English monolinguals' fine-grained phonemic analysis, as demonstrated by Experiment 2, were only weakly activated. This suggests that our bilingual subjects were applying their L1 system to L2 reading and that the lack of letter-to-sound conversion rules in Chinese led Chinese readers to being less capable of processing English by recourse to an analytic reading system on which English monolinguals rely. Our brain imaging findings lend strongest support to the idea that language experience tunes the cortex.


Antigen injection into the thymus of adult animals induces systemic tolerance and protects animals from subsequent challenge for the autoimmune disease. However, its mechanisms are not well understood. In this study, we analyzed tolerance to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Lewis rats by intrathymic (i.t.) injection of myelin basic protein (MBP). Intrathymic injection of MBP 7 days before immunization with MBP/complete Freund's adjuvant resulted in complete suppression of clinical signs of EAE in most animals and markedly reduced the histological severity in the central nervous system lesion. However, immunohistochemical examination and the TCR repertoire analysis revealed that there was no significant difference in the T cell composition in the lesion and the TCR spectratype pattern between MBP and saline i.t. rats, suggesting that encephalitogenic T cell activation occurs equally in both protected and symptomatic rats. In contrast, quantitative analysis of cytokine mRNA and flow cytometry revealed a marked increase of IL-10 production in the splenic macrophages/dendritic cell (M/DC) population of MBP i.t. rats. Adoptive transfer of this population significantly suppressed the clinical course of EAE in recipients. Taken together, IL-10-secreting M/DC in peripheral lymphoid organs activated by MBP i.t. injection may play a critical role in the induction and maintenance of tolerance.

In 1997, Don and his co-workers described a new method for evaluating the auditory brainstem response (ABR)--yielding the stacked-wave-V ABR--which may permit the reliable detection of even small vestibular schwannomas (VSs). However, this method requires a masking technique that may not be readily available to the clinician. Furthermore, relatively high-level noise is required and may be annoying to the patient. An alternative method that might permit the same manipulation of the ABR was thus explored whereby tone-bursts (TBs) were used to obtain frequency-specific ABRs. The goal of the study was to determine whether TBs could be used to achieve the sort of de-convolution and subsequent enhancement of wave V reported with the original method of Don et al. First, the TB-stacked ABR (wave V) was compared to that obtained using derived narrowband masked ABRs in young normal-hearing subjects. Second, the TB method was employed in subjects with unilateral VSs and in patients with unilateral sensory hearing loss in a preliminary clinical trial. The observed results are promising for the use of the TB method as an alternative approach to ABR 'stacking' and warrant further research and development of the TB method.


4-phenylbutyrate (triButyrate trade mark, PB) a derivative of the short-chain fatty acid, butyrate, possesses anti-tumor activity in vitro in different tumor cell lines. Unlike most cytostatic compounds, PB possesses low toxicity. In order to evaluate possible clinical use of PB in cancer therapy, hepatocarcinoma (Hep3B) and hepatoblastoma (HepT1) cell lines, as well as xenografts derived from those in nude rats, were treated with PB in different dose (1-100 mM) and time regimens. Treatment with 10 mM of PB for 24 h (or 5 mM for 48 h) was shown to significantly inhibit Hep3B cell growth in vitro. The HepT1 cell line was more sensitive to PB treatment: already 1 mM of PB for 24 h significantly inhibited the growth of the cells. PB also resulted in regression of xenografts derived from these cell lines in vivo, when administrated by mini-pump with an intratumor catheter, yielding 20 micro mol of PB per cm3 of tumor volume per day. TUNEL assay and caspase-3 activity measurements suggested apoptosis to be the cell death mechanism in both cell lines and xenografts. Increased histones H3 and H4 acetylation was shown in both cells and xenografts, and the inhibition of histone deacetylase is proposed as the main trigger for the anti-tumor action of PB. Concomitant induction of p21Waf1/Cip1 expression was detected by RNase protection assay and Western blotting. Reduction in expression of alpha-fetoprotein was found both in Hep3B cells and xenografts, suggesting also a differentiation effect by PB.
Fast habituation (FH) is defined as a decrease in auditory evoked potential (AEP) amplitude in response to the second of a pair of temporally juxtaposed (e.g. 1-s) tones. The degree of FH may depend, in part, on the subject's ability to anticipate the stimulus sequence. This paradigm has been used in our laboratory to study cognitive functioning in human subjects. We have also developed an animal model to investigate, more comprehensively, the anatomical and physiological basis of this phenomenon seen in human subjects. In the present investigation, we wished to determine the relationship between single-trial latency variability and AEP amplitude for two conditions: one for which FH is known to occur and one for which it is not present, due to the length of the interstimulus interval (ISI). Here AEPs were obtained to 40 pairs of 100-ms pure tone stimuli (70-dB SPL, 1- and 5-s ISI, 10-s interpair interval) from 19 chronically implanted, unanesthetized, restrained male Sprague-Dawley rats. The AEP latencies, amplitudes, and the single-trial latency variabilities were obtained for each component (P1, N1, P2 and N2). Findings indicated that FH was present for the 1-s ISI condition but not for the 5-s ISI condition. In addition, single-trial latency variability was negatively correlated with both Tones 1 and 2 AEP amplitudes in the 5-s ISI condition but only with Tone 1 amplitude in the 1-s ISI condition. Thus, single-trial latency variability predicted AEP amplitude only when FH did not occur. These results support earlier findings reported from our laboratory suggesting that the decrease in amplitude during FH is not related to increased variability in the time domain but rather to decreased neuronal output.



Although migraine affects about 15 % of the population, and many studies have been performed to find the mechanism and successful management, the physiopathology of migraine is still largely unknown. The possibility of an IgE-mediated allergic mechanism and the role of histamine remains controversial. The aim of the present study was the evaluation of serum total IgE and histamine levels in migraine patients and the intluence of allergy on them. 70 patients (18-58 years) with migraine without aura were divided in to 2 groups according to their history of allergy (60% with and 40% without allergy). Serum samples were collected during fasting without allowing any premedication in 2 conditions of attack and remission periods. There was a control group containing 45 healthy volunteers. Serum total IgE and histamine levels were measured by ELISA and fluorimetric methods respectively. Mean and standard error of serum histamine (ng/ml) and total IgE (lU/mI) levels were found in control group as 48.16+/-2.70, 38.31+/-3.20 and in migraine with an allergy group as 159.11+/-4.60, 303.30+/-42.50 and in migraine without an allergy group as 105.01 +/-8.50, 79.07+/-2.70 respectively. Total IgE levels in migraine group with allergy were found significantly (P&lt;0.0001) above the control and another group suggesting an influence of an IgE-mediated mechanism on migraine. Plasma histamine levels were significantly elevated (P&lt;0.0001) in patients with migraine both during headache and symptom-free periods compared with control group although it shows that there is an increased susceptibility to histamine in allergic conditions, nonetheless this molecule has also an unrelated role in migraine. The relationship between allergy and migraine can be based in part on IgE-mediated mechanism, with histamine release playing an important role. Thus avoidance of allergic conditions in migraine patients may be a simple helpful way to prophylaxis or their treatment.
In contrast to those of other cardiac diseases, the morbility and morbidity of congestive cardiac insufficiency are not on the decrease, in spite of significant progress in pharmacological treatments and due to the increased life expectancy of the population. Cardiac transplant is the therapy of choice when cardiac failure becomes pharmacologically intractable, but all over the developed world (not to mention the situation in the underdeveloped countries) the number of heart transplants has reached the limit set by the availability of donor organs. Sooner or later xenotransplants could solve this problem, but even if our most optimistic hopes regarding their development and reliability are met, xenotransplants would still carry the risk of anthropozoonotic viral infections. Finally, as suggested in a recent overview, the way to the long-lasting clinical use of mechanical circulatory support is a long and winding road. Other options are related to tissue or cell cardiac bioassistance. Cardiac-bio-assists are biological approaches to the remedy of progressive cardiac failure based on autologous or heterologous tissue or cell transplantation. Some of the work hypotheses are in pre-clinical evaluation (skeletal muscle ventricle), others are under preliminary (cardiomyoplasty, myocardium reduction, implants of myoblasts derived from skeletal muscle satellite cells and implants of embryonic or adult stem cell-derived myocardiocytes, cellular cardiomyoplasty) or advanced clinical testing (dynamic aortomyoplasty and dynamic cardiomyoplasty). Dynamic cardiomyoplasty is a surgical procedure which could support myocardial function when cardiac insufficiency would become pharmacologically intractable in the mid term. In this procedure a nonessential muscle, the latissimus dorsi (LD), is diverted from its normal role, transferred into the chest, wrapped around the heart (LD wrap), conditioned to fatigue and activated during systole to provide cardiac assistance. The mechanisms of its action are discussed and the risk of myodystrophic lesions of the LD wrap which could reduce the work capability of the pericardial muscle prosthesis remains. We are now addressing some of these issues by means of clinical research on the group of Italian patients of demand dynamic cardiomyoplasty, and by means of animal experiments aimed at the development and testing of new surgical, clinical and biotechnological approaches. In particular, we will discuss whether the increase in the muscle mass of the distal part of the transposed LD is desirable and feasible or if it is mandatory.
In humans, directional hearing in reverberant conditions is characterized by a &quot;precedence effect,&quot; whereby directional information conveyed by leading sounds dominates perceived location, and listeners are relatively insensitive to directional information conveyed by lagging sounds. Behavioral studies provide evidence of precedence phenomena in a wide range of species. The present study employs a discrimination paradigm, based on habituation and recovery of the pupillary dilation response, to provide quantitative measures of precedence phenomena in the barn owl. As in humans, the owl's ability to discriminate changes in the location of lagging sources is impaired relative to that for single sources. Spatial discrimination of lead sources is also impaired, but to a lesser extent than discrimination of lagging sources. Results of a control experiment indicate that sensitivity to monaural cues cannot account for discrimination of lag source location. Thus, impairment of discrimination ability in the two-source conditions most likely reflects a reduction in sensitivity to binaural directional information. These results demonstrate a similarity of precedence effect phenomena in barn owls and humans, and provide a basis for quantitative comparison with neuronal data from the same species.
Women are twice as likely to suffer from depression as men. It has been proposed that the ovarian hormones estrogen and progesterone contribute to the higher incidence of this potentially debilitating disorder. Depression can also be accompanied by a loss of cognitive performance. Here we review estrogen-mediated effects on depression and memory formation in females. We propose that changes in levels of estrogen are associated with sex differences in learning as well as changes in affect prior to menses, immediately after pregnancy and during perimenopause and the menopausal transition. Finally, we discuss the animal model of depression known as 'learned helplessness' and describe research from our laboratory demonstrating that exposure to an acute stressful experience compromises a female's later ability to acquire certain types of new memories. This response to stressful experience is opposite to that observed in males and is dependent on the presence of estrogen, and more specifically-changing levels of estrogen. This observation indicates that females and males can use different hormonal and neural mechanisms to respond to the same emotional event and underscore the importance of studying the unique and changing biology of females, especially when considering treatment strategies for depression and stress-related illness.
The lifetime prevalence of mood disorders in women is approximately twice that of men. The underlying causality of this gender difference is not yet understood. There is increasing scientific attention to the modulation of the neuroendocrine system by fluctuating gonadal hormones. This review attempts to summarize our current state of knowledge on the role and potential relevance of estrogen and other sex steroids to psychiatric disorders specific to women from menarche to menopause. The sudden appearance of higher levels of estrogen in puberty alters the sensitivity of the neurotransmitter systems. Moreover, the constant flux of estrogen and progesterone levels throughout the reproductive years portends constant modification of the neurotransmitter systems. Premenstrual syndromes may be the result of an altered activity or sensitivity of certain neurotransmitter systems. Pregnancy and delivery produce dramatic changes in estrogen and progesterone levels as well as significant suppression along the HPA axis, possibly increasing vulnerability to depression. At menopause, estrogen levels decline while pituitary LH and FSH levels increase. The loss of modulating effects of estrogen and progesterone may underlie the development of perimenopausal mood disorders in vulnerable women. The pattern of neuroendocrine events related to female reproduction is vulnerable to change and is sensitive to psychosocial, environmental, and physiological factors. Further research is needed to be able to identify specific genetic markers which might help us better understand how the balance between estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and other steroid hormones affect neurotransmitter function.
Essential tremor is the most common of the movement disorders, being 20 times more common than Parkinson's Disease. It is characterised by postural and kinetic tremor which maximally affects the hands. It can be assessed by physiological techniques, subjective clinical methods, objective clinical methods and handicap/disability scales. Accelerometry, spirography and handwriting assessment, volumetry and handicap/disability questionnaires are commonly used methods. Primidone and propranolol are the first-line drugs. Several second-line drugs have been identified. Surgical techniques include lesioning or stimulation of the ventral lateral thalamus. Alcohol and botulinum toxin A are found to reduce tremor amplitude as well.

Our previous studies showed that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are required for the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) to induce the activity of the Nuclear transcription Factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) and the expression of the inducible isoform of the nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in bovine articular chondrocytes. This study aimed at elucidating the role of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and the superoxide radical, two major ROS, in mediating those IL-1-induced responses. The results obtained show that chondrocytes produce both H(2)O(2) and superoxide radical in response to IL-1. Treatment of the chondrocyte cultures with H(2)O(2) alone did not induce NF-kappa B activation or iNOS expression. Addition of H(2)O(2) simultaneously with IL-1 did neither enhance nor inhibit NF-kappa B activation and iNOS expression, relatively to treatment with IL-1 alone. Accordingly, treatment with catalase did not inhibit those IL-1-induced responses. Treatment with superoxide dismutase, however, effectively prevented IL-1-induced I kappa B-alpha degradation and iNOS expression. Taken together, the results obtained indicate that superoxide mediates IL-1-induced I kappa B-alpha degradation and the consequent NF-kappa B activation and iNOS expression in chondrocytes, whereas H(2)O(2) does not seem to participate in those IL-1-induced responses. In conclusion, the present study identifies the superoxide radical as the ROS involved in mediating the IL-1-induced signaling pathway that leads to NF-kappa B activation and to the expression of NF-kappa B-dependent genes in bovine articular chondrocytes.
1-ARA-35b (35b) is a cyclized dipeptide that shows considerable neuroprotective activity in vitro and improves neurologic recovery after fluid percussion-induced traumatic brain injury in rats. The authors evaluated the effects of treatment with 35b in mice subjected to controlled cortical impact brain injury. Animals treated with intravenous 35b after traumatic injury showed significantly enhanced recovery of beam walking and place learning functions compared with vehicle-treated controls, in addition to reduced lesion volumes. Beneficial effects were dose related and showed an inverted U-shaped dose-response curve between 0.1 and 10 mg/kg. Protective actions were found when the drug was administered initially at 30 minutes or 1, 4, or 8 hours, but not at 24 hours, after trauma. In separate experiments, rats treated with 35b on days 7 through 10 after injury showed remarkably improved place learning in comparison with injured controls. These studies confirm and extend the neuroprotective effects of this diketopiperazine in traumatic brain injury. In addition, they show that 35b has a relatively wide therapeutic window and improves cognitive function after both acute and chronic injury.
The authors developed a novel diketopiperazine that shows neuroprotective activity in a variety of in vitro models, as well as in a clinically relevant experimental model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. Treatment with 1-ARA-35b (35b), a cyclized dipeptide derived from a modified thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) analog, significantly reduced cell death associated with necrosis (maitotoxin), apoptosis (staurosporine), or mechanical injury in neuronal-glial cocultures. Rats subjected to lateral fluid percussion-induced TBI and then treated with 1 mg/kg intravenous 35b thirty minutes after trauma showed significantly improved motor recovery and spatial learning compared with vehicle-treated controls. Treatment also significantly reduced lesion volumes as shown by magnetic resonance imaging, and decreased the number of TUNEL-positive neurons observed in ipsilateral hippocampus. Unlike TRH or traditional TRH analogs, 35b treatment did not change mean arterial pressure, body temperature, or thyroid-stimulating hormone release, and did not have analeptic activity. Moreover, in contrast to TRH or typical TRH analogs, 35b administration after TBI did not alter free-magnesium concentration or cellular bioenergetic state. Receptor-binding studies showed that 35b did not act with high affinity at 50 classical receptors, channels, or transporters. Thus, 35b shows none of the typical physiologic actions associated with TRH, but possesses neuroprotective actions in vivo and in vitro, and appears to attenuate both necrotic and apoptotic cell death.
This study determined whether stroke and other types of insults produced a gene expression profile in blood that correlated with the presence of neuronal injury. Adult rats were subjected to ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, status epilepticus, and insulin-induced hypoglycemia and compared with untouched, sham surgery, and hypoxia animals that had no brain injury. One day later, microarray analyses showed that 117 genes were upregulated and 80 genes were downregulated in mononuclear blood cells of the &quot;injury&quot; (n = 12) compared with the &quot;no injury&quot; (n = 9) animals. A second experiment examined the whole blood genomic response of adult rats after global ischemia and kainate seizures. Animals with no brain injury were compared with those with brain injury documented by TUNEL and PANT staining. One day later, microarray analyses showed that 37 genes were upregulated and 67 genes were downregulated in whole blood of the injury (n = 4) animals compared with the no-injury (n = 4) animals. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction confirmed that the vesicular monoamine transporter-2 increased 2.3- and 1.6-fold in animals with severe and mild brain injury, respectively, compared with no-injury animals. Vascular tyrosine phosphatase-1 increased 2.0-fold after severe injury compared with no injury. The data support the hypothesis that there is a peripheral blood genomic response to neuronal injury, and that this blood response is associated with a specific blood mRNA gene expression profile that can be used as a marker of the neuronal damage.
Oligodendrocytes, myelin-forming glial cells of the central nervous system, are vulnerable to damage in a variety of neurologic diseases. Much is known of primary myelin injury, which occurs in settings of genetic dysmyelination or demyelinating disease. There is growing awareness that oligodendrocytes are also targets of injury in acute ischemia. Recognition of oligodendrocyte damage in animal models of ischemia requires attention to their distinct histologic features or use of specific immunocytochemical markers. Like neurons, oligodendrocytes are highly sensitive to injury by oxidative stress, excitatory amino acids, trophic factor deprivation, and activation of apoptotic pathways. Understanding mechanisms of oligodendrocyte death may suggest new therapeutic strategies to preserve or restore white matter function and structure after ischemic insults.
The present paper describes the distribution of three calcium-binding proteins (calbindin D28k, calretinin, and parvalbumin) in the mouse dorsal claustrum and endopiriform nucleus. The three calcium-binding proteins were distinctly expressed in structures of both the claustrum and the endopiriform nucleus. Calbindin was the calcium-binding protein showing the highest expression in the claustrum and the endopiriform nucleus. In contrast, calretinin-immunoreactive structures, particularly cell bodies, were very scarce in these regions. Both calbindin-immunoreactive and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons were more abundant in the claustrum than in the endopiriform nucleus, and more in rostral than in caudal levels. Nevertheless, calcium-binding protein immunoreactive neurons constitute a minority population of claustral neurons. The colocalization study of calbindin and parvalbumin immunoreactivities has demonstrated that both calcium-binding proteins are mostly expressed by separate claustral neurons in the mouse. On the other hand, our results on parvalbumin and calretinin immunoreactivity match a novel subdivision of the mouse claustrum mostly based on the pattern of cadherin expression [Neuroscience 106 (2001) 505]. In this sense, we propose that a specific zone of the dorsal claustrum with cell bodies that strongly express Rcad and cadherin-8 would be the selective target for parvalbumin-expressing fibers, and that they would be mostly avoided by calretinin-expressing axons.


The question of how should agreement between experts be measured, when their opinions are expressed on an ordinal scale, is discussed. The example used is that of quality of articles submitted to Journal of Clinical Neuroscience. Polychoric correlation is a useful concept, and there are now computer programs available to estimate this. However, it is also emphasised that the definition of agreement is a matter of choice, and the choice should be made carefully: even error-free measurements should not automatically be assumed to possess all the properties of numbers, and ordinal categories bring further difficulties.
Although some motor functions of the basal ganglia have been well studied, the oculomotor functions are not well established. We studied eye movements in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) undergoing pallidotomy to assess the role of the globus pallidus interna (GPi) in oculomotor control. Horizontal visually guided, gap and predictive saccades as well as ocular fixation were studied in patients with advanced PD before and 1 month after unilateral pallidotomy, and in healthy controls on two occasions 1 month apart. There was no difference in saccadic latency or accuracy, the number of saccadic anticipations or the ability to generate predictive saccades between the two assessments for either patients or controls. The number and amplitude of square wave jerks during ocular fixation however increased significantly in patients after pallidotomy. The results imply altered function of frontal or prefrontal cortical regions involved in ocular fixation resulting from a disruption to inhibitory pallidal influences on thalamocortical projections. The posteroventral GPi however appears not to be involved in externally controlled or predictive saccadic function.
While there have been many advances in the field of microneurosurgery, the clipping of aneurysms remains an intricate procedure. Technical complications include residual aneurysm, perforator injuries, parent artery occlusion and cranial nerve injuries. The neuroendoscope is a useful tool and adjunct to the microsurgical clipping of these aneurysms. We study the usefulness of the neuroendoscope in enhancing visualisation during surgery. Twenty-four cases of ruptured cerebral aneurysms were operated on over a duration of 6 months in which a 1mm diameter rigid endoscope was used. We discuss our preliminary results and examine the advantages of the neuroendoscope. These include the ability to look around corners and behind obstructions. While this provides an additional view to the surgeon, the high magnification gives good definition of the surrounding structures. With less brain retraction, smaller operative exposures and yet better visualisation offered, neuroendoscopy may reduce operative morbidity.
Primary intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) refers to spontaneous bleeding from intraparenchymal vessels. It accounts for 10-20% of all strokes, with higher incidence rates amongst African and Asian populations. The major risk factors are hypertension and age. In addition to focal neurological findings, patients may present with symptoms of elevated intracranial pressure. The diagnosis of ICH can only be made through neuro-imaging. A CT scan is presently standard, although MRI is increasingly important in the evaluation of acute cerebrovascular disease. A significant proportion of intracerebral haematomas expand in the first hours post-ictus and this is often associated with clinical worsening. There is evidence that the peri-haematomal region is compromised in ICH. This tissue is oedematous, although the precise pathogenesis is controversial. An association between elevated arterial pressure and haematoma expansion has been reported. Although current guidelines recommend conservative management of arterial pressure in ICH, an acute blood pressure lowering trial is overdue. ICH is associated with a high early mortality rate, although a significant number of survivors make a functional recovery. Current medical management is primarily aimed at prevention of complications including pneumonia and peripheral venous thromboembolism. Elevated intracranial pressure may be treated medically or surgically. Although the latter definitively lowers elevated intracranial pressure, the optimal patient selection criteria are not clear. Aggressive treatment of hypertension is essential in the primary and secondary prevention of ICH.


The presently recommended tests for assaying rabies antibodies like mouse neutralization test (MINT) and rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test (RFFIT) are either time consuming or expensive and are generally performed in reference laboratories. There is a need to develop a specific and rapid method for detection of rabies antibodies that can be used to monitor sero-conversion after pre-or post-exposure vaccination. In this study, we have developed a passive haemagglutination (PHA) using purified rabies virus glycoprotein coupled to sheep erythrocytes using chromium chloride (0.04%) as a coupling agent. Two hundred and fifty five serum samples from people vaccinated with different rabies vaccines, 16 paired serum and CSF samples from autopsy confirmed cases of paralytic rabies, and serum samples from 65 normal healthy controls were tested and evaluated in comparison to standard MNT. Among the vaccinees, 250 samples were positive both by MNT and PHA but 5 samples were negative by PHA and positive by MNT. The titres obtained by PHA were lower compared to MNT, but there was significant correlation between the two (r=0.885). The specificity of the test was 99.7% and sensitivity was 100% as compared to MNT. Thus this PHA test promises to be a rapid and specific test for assaying rabies antibodies and may be useful in screening large number of serum samples for sero conversion after vaccination. It may also assist in rapid laboratory confirmation of paralytic rabies cases, based on detection of antibodies in CSF and serum.
Plants release complex mixtures of volatiles important in the interaction with insects and other organisms. In the search for compounds that contribute to the perception of odour quality in the weevil Pissodes notatus, single olfactory receptor neurones on the antennae were screened for sensitivity to naturally produced plant volatiles by the use of gas chromatography linked to single cell recordings. We here present 60 olfactory neurones responding to 25 of the numerous compounds released by host and non-host plants. All the neurones show high selectivity and are classified into 12 distinct types. The two most abundant types respond to alpha-pinene, beta-pinene, and 3-carene ( n=17), and to isopinocamphone and pinocamphone ( n=17), respectively. Other neurone types respond to limonene ( n=9), beta-phellandrene ( n=3), and fenchone ( n=4). Responses to beta-caryophyllene ( n=1) and to ethanol ( n=4) are also shown. Except for two pairs, the neurone types do not show overlap of the molecular receptive range. The active compounds are present in the host, Pinus pinaster, as well as in non-hosts, supporting the idea that plant odour quality is mediated by the ratio of the compounds rather than specific odorants.
The anatomical sciences form one of the major building blocks of the basic medical sciences in the professional training of dentists. This paper defines the courses and classifies the formats of teaching for each course within the anatomical sciences curriculum. Information was gathered from the Internet, specifically the American Dental Education Association (ADEA) website links to U.S. and Canadian dental schools and their online catalogues or bulletins as well as online course syllabi. The results demonstrate the distribution of schools in the United States and Canada teaching anatomical sciences in the following categories: stand-alone, sequential, and multifaceted courses for gross anatomy; stand-alone and integrated courses for histology; stand-alone, integrated, incorporated, and no course for neuroanatomy; and stand-alone, incorporated, and no course in embryology. This paper concludes with the proposition that a survey of the usage of anatomical knowledge in use in a typical dental general practice needs to be conducted. The results of such a survey need to be evaluated with the intention of determining what should be taught in a dental clinical anatomical sciences curriculum.
Both the anatomy and physiology parts of national boards have questions on neuroscience. Currently, there are course guidelines established for dental neuroanatomy but not for dental neuroscience. As a result, there is great variability in what and how neurosciences are taught to dental students. At first glance, it is difficult to determine where neurosciences fit in the dental curriculum. One area where there is a close tie between basic science and clinical care is the realm of pain control. Since the Institute of Medicine study recommended that basic and clinical sciences curricula provide clinically relevant education, a neuroscience curriculum can integrate basic understanding of how the nervous system works in the care and management of dental pain. This paper describes the integrated approach to teaching neuroanatomy as a component of the head and neck gross anatomy course at the University of Louisville. This integrated strategy provides dental students with the basic concepts of neuroscience, pain pathways, autonomic nervous system, and detailed information on the cranial nerves.

Auditory processing of German 2-noun compound words was investigated with 328 participants in 4 experiments by monitoring semantic priming effects of the left constituents of the compound words. The authors demonstrated that there is no primacy of the left constituents in accessing auditorily presented German compound words in the mental lexicon. A clear priming effect of left constituents occurred only for compound words with a transparent right constituent that is the head of compound words in Germanic languages. The data suggest that the access to German compounds in the auditory domain involves 2 temporally overlapping routes: direct and decompositional. The prosodic structure (i.e., the duration) of the first morphemes of compound words appears to be a determining factor for activation of the decompositional route.

In 1934, the Norwegian biochemist and physician Asbjrn Flling described an inherited metabolic disorder characterized by severe intellectual impairment, motor problems, and skin abnormalities. He found that affected individuals could be identified by the abnormal excretion of phenylpyruvic acid in their urine. The disorder, which Flling initially termed imbecillitas phenylpyrouvica, would later come to be known as phenylketonuria or PKU. The present paper focuses on the story of Flling's discovery and his subsequent contributions to the area of study. In the years that have followed, research on PKU has continued to play a major role in the neurosciences, shaping our understanding of genetic disorders, human metabolism, and brain development.
Proteinase-activated receptor 1 (PAR-1) is a G protein-coupled receptor that is activated by thrombin and is implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammation. Although PAR-1 is expressed on immunocompetent cells within the brain such as astrocytes, little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory brain diseases. Herein, we investigated PAR-1 regulation of brain inflammation by stimulating human astrocytic cells with thrombin or the selective PAR-1-activating peptide. Activated cells expressed significantly increased levels of IL-1 beta, inducible NO synthase, and PAR-1 mRNA. Moreover, supernatants of these same cells were neurotoxic, which was inhibited by an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Striatal implantation of the PAR-1-activating peptide significantly induced brain inflammation and neurobehavioral deficits in mice compared with mice implanted with the control peptide or saline. Since HIV-related neurological disease is predicated on brain inflammation and neuronal injury, the expression of PAR-1 in HIV encephalitis (HIVE) was investigated. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that PAR-1 and (pro)-thrombin protein expression was low in control brains, but intense immunoreactivity was observed on astrocytes in HIVE brains. Similarly, PAR-1 and thrombin mRNA levels were significantly increased in HIVE brains compared with control and multiple sclerosis brains. These data indicated that activation and up-regulation of PAR-1 probably contribute to brain inflammation and neuronal damage during HIV-1 infection, thus providing new therapeutic targets for the treatment of HIV-related neurodegeneration.
Performance on many cognitive and neuropsychological tests may be improved by prior exposure to testing stimuli and procedures. These beneficial practice effects can have a significant impact on test performance when conventional neuropsychological tests are administered at test-retest intervals of weeks, months or years. Many recent investigations have sought to determine changes in cognitive function over periods of minutes or hours (e.g., before and after anesthesia) using computerized tests. However, the effects of practice at such brief test-retest intervals has not been reported. The current study sought to determine the magnitude of practice effects in a group of 113 individuals assessed with an automated cognitive test battery on 4 occasions in 1 day. Practice effects were evident both between and within assessments, and also within individual tests. However, these effects occurred mostly between the 1st and 2nd administration of the test battery, with smaller, nonsignificant improvements observed between the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th administrations. On the basis of these results, methodological and statistical strategies that may aid in the differentiation of practice effects from drug-induced cognitive changes are proposed.

Polyprotein processing of plus-strand RNA viruses is important in the regulation of gene production and replication. The core protein of hepatitis C virus (HCV), constructing the viral particle, is processed from its precursor polyprotein and observed as two forms, p23 and p21. Production of p21 by cleavage at the C-terminus of p23 is considered crucial to viral assembly and replication. In this study, this processing step was compared between clones isolated from two patients with fulminant hepatitis and from five patients with chronic hepatitis by an in vitro translation assay and cell transfection assay. The p21 core protein was predominant from the clone isolated from one of the fulminant hepatitis patient (p21 core protein production was 65.98%), while p23 was abundant with clones from five chronic hepatitis patients (p21 core protein production was 7.11+/-1.62%) and clone from another fulminant hepatitis patient (p21 core protein production was 13.36%). Investigations with chimeric and mutation-introduced constructs revealed that four amino acid residues in the C-terminus of the core region are responsible for this difference. The data suggest that core protein processing is regulated by C-terminus mutations.
The conversion of muscle activity into smooth, purposeful movement of the limb depends complexly on the morphometry of muscles and their mechanical action on the skeleton. Although nonhuman primates are common subjects in motor control experiments (Scott [2000] Can J Physiol Pharmacol 78:923-933), little information is available on the morphometric properties of their upper limbs. One key variable is muscle moment arm, or mechanical advantage, which defines how linear motion or force of a muscle is translated into angular motion or torque at a joint. This study reports moment arm values with respect to joint angle (flexion/extension) of 14 muscles spanning the shoulder and elbow in Macaca mulatta. The magnitude of moment arm values ranged widely across muscles. In some muscles mechanical advantage remained constant with joint angle, whereas the moment arm of others varied strongly. The angle (Theta(f)(o)) at which optimal fascicle length (L(f)(o)) occurred showed strong trends, where the elbow-spanning muscles had Theta(f)(o) values clustered at mid-flexion and the shoulder musculature Theta(f)(o) values tended to be grouped around the neutral joint angle of 0 degrees. Estimates of peak muscle torque for flexor and extensor muscle groups at each joint were surprisingly similar in both magnitude and dependency on joint angle. The present study, along with the previous two in this series (Cheng and Scott [2000] J Morphol 245:206-224; Singh et al. [2002] J Morphol 251:323-332), provides a comprehensive description of the morphology of the proximal portion of the limb suitable for the development of a musculoskeletal model of the M. mulatta upper limb.
In partially denervated rodent muscle, terminal Schwann cells (TSCs) located at denervated end plates grow processes, some of which contact neighboring innervated end plates. Those processes that contact neighboring synapses (termed &quot;bridges&quot;) appear to initiate nerve terminal sprouting and to guide the growth of the sprouts so that they reach and reinnervate denervated end plates. Studies conducted prior to knowledge of this potential involvement of Schwann cells showed that direct muscle stimulation inhibits terminal sprouting following partial denervation (Brown and Holland, 1979). We have investigated the possibility this inhibition results from an alteration in the growth of TSC processes. We find that stimulation of partially denervated rat soleus muscle does not alter the length or number of TSC processes but does reduce the number of TSC bridges. Stimulation also reduces the number of TSC bridges that form between end plates during reinnervation of a completely denervated muscle. The nerve processes (&quot;escaped fibers&quot;) that normally grow onto TSC processes during reinnervation are also reduced in length. Therefore, stimulation alters at least two responses to denervation in muscles: (1) the ability of TSC processes to form or maintain bridges with innervated synaptic sites, and (2) the growth of axons along processes extended by TSCs.
The survival promoting and neuroprotective actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are well known but under certain circumstances this growth factor can also exacerbate excitotoxic insults to neurons. Prior exploration of the receptor through which BDNF exerts this action on motor neurons deflects attention away from p75. Here we investigated the possibility that BDNF acts through the receptor tyrosine kinase, TrkB, to confer on motor neurons sensitivity to excitotoxic challenge. We blocked BDNF activation of TrkB using a dominant negative TrkB mutant or a TrkB function blocking antibody, and found that this protected motor neurons against excitotoxic insult in cultures of mixed spinal cord neurons. Addition of a function blocking antibody to BDNF to mixed spinal cord neuron cultures is also neuroprotective indicating that endogenously produced BDNF participates in vulnerability to excitotoxicity. We next examined the intracellular signaling cascades that are engaged upon TrkB activation. Previously we found that inhibition of the phosphatidylinositide-3'-kinase (PI3'K) pathway blocks BDNF-induced excitotoxic sensitivity. Here we show that expression of a constitutively active catalytic subunit of PI3'K, p110, confers excitotoxic sensitivity (ES) upon motor neurons not incubated with BDNF. Parallel studies with purified motor neurons confirm that these events are likely to be occuring specifically within motor neurons. The abrogation of BDNF's capacity to accentuate excitotoxic insults may make it a more attractive neuroprotective agent.
We have examined the ability of KW-6002, an adenosine A2a antagonist, to modulate the dyskinetic effects of L-DOPA in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In animals rendered dyskinetic by a previous course of L-DOPA treatment, KW-6002 did not elicit any abnormal involuntary movements on its own, but failed to reduce the severity of dyskinesia when coadministered with L-DOPA. A second experiment was undertaken in order to study the effects of KW-6002 in L-DOPA-naive rats. Thirty-five animals were allotted to four groups to receive a 21-day treatment with: (i) KW-6002 (10 mg/kg/day); (ii) L-DOPA (6 mg/kg/day) i.p.; (iii) KW-6002 plus L-DOPA (same doses as above) or (iv) vehicle. Chronic treatment with KW-6002-only produced a significant relief of motor disability in the rotarod test in the absence of any abnormal involuntary movements. Combined treatment with L-DOPA and KW-6002 improved rotarod performance to a significantly higher degree than did each of the two drugs alone. However, this combined treatment induced dyskinesia to about the same degree as did L-DOPA alone. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed that KW-6002 treatment alone caused an approximately 20% reduction in the striatal levels of preproenkephalin mRNA, whereas neither the coadministration of KW-6002 and L-DOPA nor L-DOPA alone significantly altered the expression of this transcript in the dopamine-denervated striatum. Either alone or in combination with L-DOPA, KW-6002 did not have any modulatory effect on prodynorphin mRNA expression or FosB/DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in the dopamine-denervated striatum. These results show that monotreatment with an adenosine A2a receptor antagonist can relieve motor disability without inducing behavioural and cellular signs of dyskinesia in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Cotreatment with KW-6002 and L-DOPA potentiates the therapeutic effect but not the dyskinesiogenic potential of the latter drug.
It is well known that GH-PRL secreting GH3 cells express constitutive neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and produce nitric oxide (NO*). In addition, these cells possess plasma membrane prolactin (PRL) receptors which can be responsible for an autocrine 'short-loop' feedback. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the activation of PRL receptors modulates the expression of the different spliced forms of nNOS gene, and the transductional mechanisms involved in this action. In GH3 cells, both exon 2-containing nNOSalpha and exon 2-lacking nNOSbeta were time-dependently expressed, whereas the other two isoforms eNOS and iNOS were not. The antibodies directed against the residues 53-68 of the external domain common to both the long and short form of rat PRL receptors, and the selective D2 agonist cabergoline (1 nm) reduced both basal and exogenous PRL-induced expressions of nNOSalpha and nNOSbeta, but to a greater extent for the beta splicing form. In line with these results, oPRL (1 and 10 microm) added to the incubation medium increased to a greater extent the expression of nNOSbeta form than of the nNOSalpha. The receptor and non-receptor protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitors, genistein (10 microm), the Src-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 (100 microm), the MAPK inhibitor PD 098059 (50 nm) and the two PI3'-K inhibitors, wortmannin (300 nm) and LY-294002 (25 microm) prevented both basal and exogenous PRL-induced expression of nNOSalpha and nNOSbeta isoforms. In addition, exogenous PRL induced a phosphorylation of protein kinase B (PKB) (Akt) that was prevented both by the two MAPK inhibitors PD 098059 and U 0126, and by the PI3'-K inhibitors wortmannin and LY-294002. Up-regulation of the expression of the two splicing forms of nNOS elicited by PRL-receptor activation was mirrored by the increased synthesis of NO*. In conclusion, PRL receptor activation up-regulated the expression of both nNOSalpha and nNOSbeta proteins via a PTK, PI3'-K, MAPK and PKB signalling transduction components. This action may represent the molecular mechanism by which PRL exerts the 'short-loop' feedback on its own secretion.
It has been previously demonstrated that estrogen can protect neurons from a variety of insults, including beta-amyloid (Abeta). Recent studies have shown that estrogen can rapidly modulate intracellular signaling pathways involved in cell survival. In particular, estrogen activates protein kinase C (PKC) in a variety of cell types. This enzyme plays a key role in many cellular events, including regulation of apoptosis. In this study, we show that 17beta-estradiol (E2) rapidly increases PKC activity in primary cultures of rat cerebrocortical neurons. A 1 h pre-treatment with E2 or phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), a potent activator of PKC, protects neurons against Abeta toxicity. Protection afforded by both PMA and E2 is blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of PKC. Further, depletion of PKC levels resulting from prolonged PMA exposure prevents subsequent E2 or PMA protection. Our results indicate that E2 activates PKC in neurons, and that PKC activation is an important step in estrogen protection against Abeta. These data provide new understanding into the mechanism(s) underlying estrogen neuroprotection, an action with therapeutic relevance to Alzheimer's disease and other age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most commonly diagnosed form of dementia in the elderly. Predominantly this disease is sporadic in nature with only a small percentage of patients exhibiting a familial trait. Early-onset AD may be explained by single gene defects; however, most AD cases are late onset (&gt; 65 years) and, although there is no known definite cause for this form of the disease, there are several known risk factors. Of these, the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (apoE) gene (APOE) is a major risk factor. The epsilon4 allele of APOE is one of three (epsilon2 epsilon3 and epsilon4) common alleles generated by cysteine/arginine substitutions at two polymorphic sites. The possession of the epsilon 4 allele is recognized as the most common identifiable genetic risk factor for late-onset AD across most populations. Unlike the pathogenic mutations in the amyloid precursor or those in the presenilins, APOE epsilon4 alleles increase the risk for AD but do not guarantee disease, even when present in homozygosity. In addition to the cysteine/arginine polymorphisms at the epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 locus, polymorphisms within the proximal promoter of the APOE gene may lead to increased apoE levels by altering transcription of the APOE gene. Here we review the genetic and biochemical evidence supporting the hypothesis that regulation of apoE protein levels may contribute to the risk of AD, distinct from the well known polymorphisms at the epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 locus.


Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is present in the adult, as well as in the embryonic and postnatal rodent cerebellum. Further, the distribution of the type 1 CRF receptor has been described in adult and postnatal animals. The focus of the present study is to determine the distribution and cellular relationships of the type 1 CRF receptor (CRF-R1) during embryonic development of the cerebellum. Between embryonic day (E)11 and E12, CRF-R1 immunoreactive puncta are uniformly distributed in the ventricular zone, the site of origin of Purkinje cells, nuclear neurons, and GABAergic interneurons, as well as the germinal trigone, the birthplace of the precursors of granule cells. Between E13 and 18, the distribution of immunolabeled puncta decreases in both the ventricular zone and the germinal trigone and increases in the intermediate zone, as well as in the dorsal aspect of the cerebellar plate. Between E14 and 18, antibodies that label specific populations of cerebellar neurons were combined with the antibody for the receptor to determine the cellular elements that expressed CRF-R1. At E14, CRF-R1 immunoreactivity is co-localized in neurons immunolabeled with PAX-2, an antibody that is specific for GABAergic interneurons. These neurons continue to express CRF-R1 as they migrate dorsally toward the cerebellar surface. Between E16 and 18, Purkinje cells, immunolabeled with calbindin, near the dorsal surface of the cerebellum express CRF-R1 in their cell bodies and apical processes. CRF has been shown to have a depolarizing effect on adult and postnatal Purkinje cells. Further, CRF has been shown to contribute to excitability of hippocampal neurons during embryonic development by binding to CRF-R1; depolarization induced excitability appears to be critical for cell survival. The location of the type one CRF receptor and the presence of its primary ligand, CRF, in the germinal zones of the cerebellum and in migrating neurons suggest that this receptor/ligand interaction could be important in the regulation of neuronal survival through cellular mechanisms that lead to depolarization of embryonic cerebellar neurons.
We showed previously that spinal cord implants of hybridoma cells (O1) that secrete an IgM antigalactocerebroside cause focal multiple-sclerosis-like plaques of demyelination followed by remyelination to form &quot;shadow plaques&quot; (Rosenbluth et al., 1999). The antibody in that case was directed against a glycolipid present in mature oligodendrocytes and myelin but not in precursor cells. We now report the effects of implanting a different hybridoma (O4) that secretes IgM antibodies directed against sulfatide, a constituent not only of mature myelin and oligodendrocytes but also of late precursor cells, in order to determine whether this hybridoma too would generate focal demyelination and would, in addition, block remyelination. Our results show that focal plaques of demyelination indeed appear after O4 implantation, and that remyelination does occur, but only in cases where the hybridoma cells have degenerated, probably through host rejection. The occurrence of remyelination suggests that oligodendrocyte precursor cells are capable of migrating in rapidly from adjacent areas or that early precursors, not yet expressing sulfatide, remain undamaged within the lesions. In cases where intact hybridoma cells persist at lesion sites, remyelination does not occur. Failure of remyelination in this model thus appears to result from the continuing presence of antimyelin antibodies rather than from depletion of oligodendrocyte precursors.
To match a neuron's morphology with its expression of a particular protein, it is useful to first identify the cell by immunostaining and then inject it with fluorescent dye. Such targeted injection cannot be performed with a hydrophilic dye (such as Lucifer yellow) because the neuron, once rendered porous to antibodies, does not retain it. But a lipophilic dye (such as DiI) injected iontophoretically into the soma forms a crystal and is thereby trapped. From this intracellular depot dye diffuses into the cell membrane to reveal the detailed morphology. We have used this strategy to identify the morphology of a GABAergic retinal bipolar cell and several types of GABAergic amacrine cell. In addition, we demonstrate probable connections from a narrow-field, GABAergic amacrine cell to the OFF brisk-transient ganglion cell. Finally, we show that the strategy works in the cortical slice, showing a layer IV cell immunostained for parvalbumin to be a &quot;nest basket cell&quot;.
Oestradiol (E2) induces luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) hypersecretion, thereby triggering LH surge release in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Neural signals responsible for the surge are marked by a morning increase in LHRH gene expression and an afternoon increase in LHRH release. Evidence suggests that subpopulations of noradrenergic neurones may be responsible for one or both of these signals. To further investigate this issue, we examined effects of E2 on the activity of A1 and A2 noradrenergic neurones, as reflected in changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression, on the day of LH surge release. We then used dual-label in situ hybridization to determine whether E2-induced changes occurred primarily in A1 and A2 subdivisions wherein most noradrenergic neurones expressed oestrogen receptor (ER)alpha and/or ER beta mRNA. We found that in all subdivisions, levels of TH mRNA were higher in E2- than oil-treated rats at 12.00 h. These differences resulted from a decline in TH mRNA expression in oil-treated rats, as well as a rise in levels in E2-treated rats between 10.00 h and 12.00 h. During the afternoon, TH mRNA expression in most A1 and A2 subdivisions peaked at 14.00 h when LH surge release began. However, in all but the middle and caudal A2 subdivisons, levels were similar in E2-treated and control rats at this time. This was attributable to a widespread increase in TH mRNA expression between 12.00 h and 14.00 h in OVX rats. There was no evidence that E2 induced changes in TH mRNA expression preferentially in regions wherein most neurones contained ER alpha or ER beta mRNA. Our findings suggest that E2 activation of middle and caudal A2 neurones, in conjunction with the widespread E2-independent activation of noradrenergic neurones in other subdivisions, may play a role in the induction of LH surge release.
Differentiation of hypophysiotropic neurones that regulate the secretion of growth hormone (GH) and prolactin is influenced by GH and prolactin. Genetic GH and prolactin deficiency in mutant rodent models such as the Ames dwarf (df/df) mouse results in an increase in the number of GH-stimulatory GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) neurones and a reduction of prolactin-inhibitory tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurones in the arcuate nucleus during postnatal development. The present study tested the hypothesis that these concomitant changes in numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and GHRH-immunoreactive neurones in df/df hypothalamus might represent a neuronal population of fixed number that undergoes a partial change in phenotype during postnatal development. To evaluate this possibility, the postnatal reduction of the df/df TIDA population was prevented by administering prolactin neonatally to preserve TH phenotype; dwarf and normal sibling mice were treated with daily injections of ovine prolactin or vehicle starting at postnatal day 12 and continuing for 30 days. Following this treatment, numbers of arcuate neurones containing GHRH or TH, or both, were quantified using immunocytochemistry. It was hypothesized that prolactin preservation of TH-immunoreactive cell number would be accompanied by either a decrease in the GHRH-producing population or an increase in numbers of cells producing both TH and GHRH. In prolactin-treated normal (DF/df) mice, numbers of arcuate TH-immunoreactive neurones were similar to those in vehicle-treated normals. Numbers of TH-positive neurones in prolactin-treated dwarfs were higher than in vehicle-treated dwarfs, and did not differ from numbers in DF/df. Numbers of GHRH-immunoreactive cells in vehicle-treated df/df were higher than in vehicle-treated DF/df, and were not different in prolactin-treated groups of either dwarf or normal mice. Neurones containing both TH and GHRH constituted 15% of the TH population, and 76% of the GHRH population, in control normal mice; in control dwarfs, double-labelled cells were 9.3% of TH and 9.9% of GHRH. Numbers of cells immunoreactive for both TH and GHRH were not affected by prolactin treatment in either mouse type. These results demonstrate that the increase in number of GHRH-expressing neurones in the df/df arcuate nucleus does not occur at the expense of the TH phenotype, and that this increase is not influenced by prolactin feedback. Although coexpression of TH and GHRH in a subpopulation indicates that TIDA and GHRH populations are not exclusive, they appear to be influenced independently by prolactin and GH signals during development.
Genetically selected aggressive (SAL) and nonaggressive (LAL) male wild house-mice which show distinctly different coping styles, also display a differential regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis after exposure to an acute stressor. To test the hypothesis that coping style predicts stressor susceptibility, the present study examined line differences in response to a chronic stressor. Chronic psychosocial stress was evoked using two paradigms. In the first paradigm, a SAL or LAL male was living in sensory contact (except tactile contact) with a dominant SAL male for 25 days (sensory contact stress). In the second paradigm, a SAL or LAL male was, in addition to the first paradigm, defeated by a SAL male for 21 consecutive days (defeat stress). The sensory contact stressor induced in LAL mice chronic body weight loss and increased plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone levels compared to SAL mice and increased corticosterone levels, thymus involution and lower hippocampal mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) : glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ratio compared to LAL controls. The defeat stressor increased corticosterone secretion and caused adrenal hypertrophy and thymus involution in both mouse lines. Defeated LAL mice showed long-lasting body weight loss and higher corticosterone concentrations than SAL mice and lower hippocampal MR : GR ratio and decreased immobility behaviour in the forced swimming test than LAL controls. Hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone mRNA expression was higher in defeated SAL than in controls. The present data show that both stress paradigms induced line-dependent physiological and neuroendocrine changes, but that the sensory contact stressor produced chronic stress symptoms in LAL mice only. This latter stress paradigm therefore seems promising to analyse the role of genetic factors in the individual differences in stress-related psychopathology.
Afferent endogenous opioid neuronal systems facilitate prolactin secretion in a number of physiological conditions including pregnancy and lactation, by decreasing tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) inhibitory tone. The aim of this study was to investigate the opioid receptor subtypes involved in regulating TIDA neuronal activity and therefore facilitating prolactin secretion during early pregnancy, late pregnancy and lactation in rats. Selective opioid receptor antagonists nor-binaltorphimine (kappa-receptor antagonist, 15 micro g/5 micro l), beta funaltrexamine (mu-receptor antagonist, 5 microg/5 microl) and naltrindole (delta-receptor antagonist, 5 microg/5 microl) or saline were administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) on day 8 of pregnancy during a nocturnal prolactin surge, on day 21 of pregnancy during the ante partum prolactin surge or on day 7 of lactation before the onset of a suckling stimulus. Serial blood samples were collected at regular time intervals, via chronic indwelling jugular cannulae, before and after drug administration and plasma prolactin was determined by radioimmunoassay. TIDA neuronal activity was measured using the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) : dopamine ratio in the median eminence 2 h 30 min after i.c.v. drug injection. In each experimental condition, plasma prolactin was significantly inhibited by both kappa- and mu-receptor antagonists, whereas the delta-receptor antagonist had no effect compared to saline-injected controls. Similarly, nor-binaltorphimine and beta funaltrexamine significantly increased the median eminence DOPAC : dopamine ratio during early and late pregnancy, and lactation whereas naltrindole had no effect compared to saline-injected controls. These data suggest that TIDA neuronal activity, and subsequent prolactin secretion, is regulated by endogenous opioid peptides acting at both kappa- and mu-opioid receptors during prolactin surges of early pregnancy, late pregnancy and lactation.
Nitric oxide (NO) is formed as a consequence of induction of the iNOS enzyme during inflammatory disorders. To investigate NO production in multiple sclerosis (MS), we determined the concentrations of its oxidation products (NOx) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma of 61 MS patients. The patients were divided into three groups on the basis of their clinical disease activity. The total levels of NOx in CSF were significantly increased in all MS groups as compared to healthy controls and tension headache patients. CSF nitrite correlated with clinical disease activity. At exacerbation, the CSF nitrite levels exceed the plasma level. This suggests that clinical disease activity is due to a CNS inflammatory response, which is more intense and qualitatively different from that during clinical stable phases. This study supports NO involvement in the pathogenesis of MS and determination of nitrite levels may be useful a surrogate marker for disease activity.
Adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) mediate leukocyte infiltration into the CNS, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Because exogenous interleukin-10 (IL-10) inhibits ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression and clinical EAE, we hypothesize that endogenous IL-10 signaling may suppress expression of adhesion molecules. In a rat model of chronic relapsing EAE, expression levels of IL-10 and its receptor (IL-10R1), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA in the spinal cord are markedly increased, whereas levels of IL-10 mRNA remain relatively low. The temporal pattern of mRNA and protein expression showed marked differences between spinal cord levels. During relapse, IL-10, IL-10R1, ICAM-1, VCAM-1 mRNA levels and neurological scores show positive correlations. We conclude that endogenous IL-10 is not a crucial factor inhibiting adhesion molecule expression in this model.
Transgenic expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the CNS under the control of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene promoter (GFAP-IL6 mice) causes significant damage and alters the expression of many genes, including a dramatic upregulation of metallothionein-I (MT-I). The findings in this report support the idea that the upregulation of MT-I observed in GFAP-IL6 mice is an important mechanism for coping with brain damage. Thus, GFAP-IL6 mice that were crossed with TgMTI transgenic mice (GFAP-IL6xTgMTI) and overexpressed MT-I in the brain showed a decreased upregulation of cytokines such as IL-6 and a diminished recruitment and activation of macrophages and T cells throughout the CNS but mainly in the cerebellum. The GFAP-IL6 mice showed clear evidence of increased oxidative stress, which was significantly decreased by MT-I overexpression. Interestingly, MT-I overexpression increased angiogenesis in GFAP-IL6 mice but not in control littermates. Overall, the results strongly suggest that MT-I+II proteins are valuable factors that protect against cytokine-induced CNS injury.
The simplest cellular model for classical conditioning in the nudibranch mollusk, Hermissenda crassicornis, involves the presynaptic hair cells and postsynaptic photoreceptors. Whereas the cellular mechanisms for postsynaptic photoreceptors have been studied extensively, the presynaptic mechanisms remain uncertain. Here, we determined the phenotype of the voltage-dependent Ca(2+) current in the presynaptic hair cells that may be directly involved in changes in synaptic efficacy during classical conditioning. The Ca(2+) current can be classified as a P-type current because its activation voltage under seawater recording conditions is approximately -30 mV, it showed slow inactivation, and it is reversibly blocked by omega-agatoxin-IVA. The steady-state activation and inactivation curves revealed a window current, and the single-channel conductance is approximately 20 pS. The P-type current was enhanced by cAMP analogs (approximately 1.3-fold), and by forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase (approximately 1.25-fold). In addition, the P-type current showed voltage-dependent facilitation, which is mediated by protein kinase A (PKA). Specifically, the PKA inhibitor peptide [PKI(6-22)amide] blocked the enhancement of the Ca(2+) current produced by conditioning depolarization prepulses. Because neurotransmitter release is mediated by Ca(2+) influx via voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, and because of the nonlinear relationship between the Ca(2+) influx and neurotransmitter release, we propose that voltage-dependent facilitation of the P-type current in hair cells would produce a robust change in synaptic efficacy.
Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was used to retrogradely label afferents innervating the utricular macula in adult pigeons. The pigeon utriclar macula consists of a large rectangular-shaped neuroepithelium with a dorsally curved anterior edge and an extended medioposterior tail. The macula could be demarcated into several regions based on cytoarchitectural differences. The striola occupied 30% of the macula and contained a large density of type I hair cells with fewer type II hair cells. Medial and lateral extrastriola zones were located outside the striola and contained only type II hair cells. A six- to eight-cell-wide band of type II hair cells existed near the center of the striola. The reversal line marked by the morphological polarization of hair cells coursed throughout the epithelium, near the peripheral margin, and through the center of the type II band. Calyx afferents innervated type I hair cells with calyceal terminals that contained between 2 and 15 receptor cells. Calyx afferents were located only in the striola region, exclusive of the type II band, had small total fiber innervation areas and low innervation densities. Dimorph afferents innervated both type I and type II hair cells with calyceal and bouton terminals and were primarily located in the striola region. Dimorph afferents had smaller calyceal terminals with few type I hair cells, extended fiber branches with bouton terminals and larger innervation areas. Bouton afferents innervated only type II hair cells in the extrastriola and type II band regions. Bouton afferents innervating the type II band had smaller terminal fields with fewer bouton terminals and smaller innervation areas than fibers located in the extrastriolar zones. Bouton afferents had the most bouton terminals on the longest fibers, the largest innervation areas with the highest innervation densities of all afferents. Among all afferents, smaller terminal innervation fields were observed in the striola and large fields were located in the extrastriola. The cellular organization and innervation patterns of the utricular maculae in birds appear to represent an organ in adaptive evolution, different from that observed for amphibians or mammals.
In the hippocampus, the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV) is expressed in interneurons that innervate perisomatic regions. PV in GABAergic synaptic terminals was proposed to limit repetitive GABA release by buffering of &quot;residual calcium.&quot; We assessed the role of presynaptic PV in Ca(2+)-dependent GABA release in the hippocampus of PV-deficient (PV-/-) mice and wild-type (PV+/+) littermates. Pharmacologically isolated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were evoked by low-intensity stimulation of the stratum pyramidale and recorded from voltage-clamped CA1 pyramidal neurons. The amplitude and decay time constant of single IPSCs were similar for both genotypes. Under our experimental conditions of reduced release probability and minimal presynaptic suppression, paired-pulse facilitation of IPSCs occurred at intervals from 2 to 50 ms, irrespective of the presence of PV. The facilitation of IPSCs induced by trains of 10 stimuli at frequencies &gt;20 Hz was enhanced in cells from PV-/- mice, the largest difference between PV-/- and PV+/+ animals (220%) being observed at 33 Hz. The effect of IPSC facilitation at sustained gamma frequencies was assessed on kainate-induced rhythmic IPSC-paced neuronal oscillations at gamma frequencies, recorded with dual field potential recordings in area CA3. The maximum power of the oscillation was 138 microV(2) at 36 Hz in slices from PV+/+ mice and was trebled in slices from PV-/- mice. PV deficiency caused a similar increase in gamma power under conditions used to study IPSC facilitation and can be explained by an increased facilitation of GABA release at sustained high frequencies. The dominant frequency and coherence were not affected by PV deficiency. These observations suggest that PV deficiency, due to an increased short-term facilitation of GABA release, enhances inhibition by high-frequency burst-firing PV-expressing interneurons and may affect the higher cognitive functions associated with gamma oscillations.
Patterned spontaneous activity is generated in developing neuronal circuits throughout the CNS including the spinal cord. This activity is thought to be important for activity-dependent neuronal growth, synapse formation, and the establishment of neuronal networks. In this study, we examine the spatiotemporal distribution of motor patterns generated by rat spinal cord and medullary circuits from the time of initial axon outgrowth through to the inception of organized respiratory and locomotor rhythmogenesis during late gestation. This includes an analysis of the neuropharmacological control of spontaneous rhythms generated within the spinal cord at different developmental stages. In vitro spinal cord and medullary-spinal cord preparations isolated from rats at embryonic ages (E)13.5-E21.5 were studied. We found age-dependent changes in the spatiotemporal pattern, neurotransmitter control, and propensity for the generation of spontaneous rhythmic motor discharge during the prenatal period. The developmental profile of the neuropharmacological control of rhythmic bursting can be divided into three periods. At E13.5-E15.5, the spinal networks comprising cholinergic and glycinergic synaptic interconnections are capable of generating rhythmic activity, while GABAergic synapses play a role in supporting the spontaneous activity. At late stages (E18.5-E21.5), glutamate drive acting via non- N-methyl-d-aspartate (non-NMDA) receptors is primarily responsible for the rhythmic activity. During the middle stage (E16.5-E17.5), the spontaneous activity results from the combination of synaptic drive acting via non-NMDA glutamatergic, nicotinic acetylcholine, glycine, and GABA(A) receptors. The modulatory actions of chloride-mediated conductances shifts from predominantly excitatory to inhibitory late in gestation.
The profile of activity across rat somatosensory cortex on stimulation of a single whisker was examined using both intrinsic signal imaging and electrophysiological recording. In the same animals, under sodium pentobarbital anesthesia, the intrinsic signal response to a 5-Hz stimulation of whisker C2 was recorded through a thinned skull. Subsequently, the thinned skull was removed, and individual cortical neurons were recorded at multiple locations and in all cortical layers in response to the same whisker stimulation paradigm. The amplitude of the evoked response obtained with both techniques was quantified across the cortical surface with respect to distance (&lt;or=1.6 mm) from the peak intrinsic signal activity. Cortical neurons were rated as having a significant or nonsignificant whisker-evoked response as compared with a baseline period of spontaneous firing; a minority of neurons exhibited a small but significant increase in neuronal spiking even at long distances (&gt;1.6 mm) from the optically determined peak of activity. Overall, this analysis shows a significant correlation between the two techniques in terms of the profile of evoked activity across the cortical surface. Furthermore, this data set affords a detailed and quantitative comparison between the two activity-dependent techniques-one measuring an intrinsic decrease in light reflectance based largely on metabolic changes and one measuring neuronal firing patterns. Studies such as this, comparing directly between imaging and detailed electrophysiology, may influence the interpretation of the extent of the activated area as assessed with in vivo functional imaging techniques.
Distributed neural networks (ones characterized by high levels of interconnectivity among network neurons) are not well understood. Increased insight into these systems can be obtained by perturbing network activity so as to study the functions of specific neurons not only in the network's &quot;baseline&quot; activity but across a range of network activities. We applied this technique to study cycle period control in the rhythmic pyloric network of the lobster, Panulirus interruptus. Pyloric rhythmicity is driven by an endogenous oscillator, the Anterior Burster (AB) neuron. Two network neurons feed back onto the pacemaker, the Lateral Pyloric (LP) neuron by inhibition and the Ventricular Dilator (VD) neuron by electrical coupling. LP and VD neuron effects on pyloric cycle period can be studied across a range of periods by altering period by injecting current into the AB neuron and functionally removing (by hyperpolarization) the LP and VD neurons from the network at each period. Within a range of pacemaker periods, the LP and VD neurons regulate period in complementary ways. LP neuron removal speeds the network and VD neuron removal slows it. Outside this range, network activity is disrupted because the LP neuron cannot follow slow periods, and the VD neuron cannot follow fast periods. These neurons thus also limit, in complementary ways, normal pyloric activity to a certain period range. These data show that follower neurons in pacemaker networks can play central roles in controlling pacemaker period and suggest that in some cases specific functions can be assigned to individual network neurons.
Motor cortex stimulation has both excitatory and inhibitory effects on ipsilateral muscles. Excitatory effects can be assessed by ipsilateral motor-evoked potentials (iMEPs). Inhibitory effects include an interruption of ipsilateral voluntary muscle activity known as the silent period (iSP) and a reduction in corticospinal excitability evoked by conditioning stimulation of the contralateral motor cortex (interhemispheric inhibition, IHI). Both iSP and IHI may be mediated by transcallosal pathways. Their relationship to the contralateral corticospinal projection and whether iSP and IHI represent the same phenomenon remain unclear. The neuronal population activated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is highly dependent on the direction of the induced current in the brain. We examined the relationship among iMEP, iSP, IHI, and the contralateral corticospinal system by examining the effects of different stimulus intensities and current directions. Surface electromyography (EMG) was recorded from both first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscles. The iSP in the right FDI muscle was obtained by right motor cortex stimulation during voluntary muscle contraction. IHI was examined by conditioning stimulation of the right motor cortex followed by test stimulation of the left motor cortex at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 2-80 ms. The induced current directions tested in the right motor cortex were anterior medial (AM), posterior medial (PM), posterior lateral, and anterior lateral (AL). Contralateral MEPs (cMEPs) had the lowest threshold with the AM direction and the shortest latency with the PM direction. iMEPs were present in 8 of 10 subjects. Both iMEP and IHI did not show significant directional preference. iSP was observed in all subjects with the highest threshold for the AL direction and the longest duration for the AM direction. cMEP, iSP, and IHI all increased with stimulus intensity up to approximately 75% stimulator output. Target muscle activation decreased IHI at 8-ms ISI but had little effect on IHI at 40-ms ISI. iSP and IHI at 8-ms ISI did not correlate at any stimulus intensities and current directions tested, and factor analysis showed that they are explained by different factors. However, active IHI at 40-ms ISI was explained by the same factor as iSP. The different directional preference for cMEP compared with iMEP and IHI suggests that these ipsilateral effects are mediated by populations of cortical neurons that are different from those activating the corticospinal neurons. iSP and IHI do not represent the same phenomenon and should be considered complementary measures of ipsilateral inhibition.
The lateral amygdaloid (LA) nucleus is the main input station of the amygdala for sensory afferents. However, it is unclear how the lateral nucleus transforms these inputs, because its intrinsic connectivity is poorly understood. Here, we took advantage of the fact that glutamatergic neurons of the lateral nucleus send a primarily unidirectional projection to the basomedial nucleus. Consequently, it was possible to infer the targets of their intranuclear axons (projection cells vs inhibitory interneurons) by backfiring some projection neurons from the basomedial nucleus and analyzing evoked responses in other LA projection cells. Basomedial stimuli evoked markedly different synaptic responses depending on the orientation of the slices. In coronal slices (intact and decorticated), the prevalent response of LA neurons was an inhibition, regardless of the stimulation intensity. This inhibition was sensitive to GABA(A) and non-NMDA receptor antagonists, suggesting that it was mediated by the activation of GABAergic cells of the LA. In contrast, basomedial stimuli primarily evoked EPSPs in horizontal slices, regardless of the position of recorded neurons. In light of these findings, we conclude that the prevalent target of the intrinsic axon collaterals of projection cells depend on the rostrocaudal position of target neurons with respect to the parent cell body: inhibitory interneurons at rostrocaudal proximity versus other projection cells at a distance. Thus, feedback interneurons effectively divide the lateral nucleus in transverse processing modules that prevent runaway excitation within each module but allow intermixing of sensory information in the rostrocaudal plane.
Conjunctive stimulation of climbing fiber and parallel fiber inputs results in long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses. Although hypothesized to play a major role in cerebellar motor learning, there has been no characterization of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of LTD in the whole animal, let alone its spatial properties, both of which are critical to understanding the role of LTD in cerebellar function. Neutral red optical imaging of the cerebellar cortex in the anesthetized mouse was used to visualize the spatial patterns of activation. Stimulation of the parallel fibers evoked a transverse beam of optical activity, and stimulation of the contralateral inferior olive evoked parasagittal bands. Conjunctive stimulation of parallel fibers and climbing fibers induced a long-term decrease (at least 1 hr) in the optical response to subsequent parallel fiber activation confined to the region of interaction between these two inputs. Activation of climbing fibers alone failed to induce the long-term decrease. Field potential recordings confirmed that the depression is postsynaptic and restricted to the interaction site. The long-term depression in the beam was prevented by a group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR(1)) antagonist and was absent in transgenic mice selectively expressing an inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC) in Purkinje cells. Conversely, the long-term depression occurred in the mGluR(4) knock-out mouse, consistent with its postsynaptic origin. In addition to providing the first visualization of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell LTD in the cerebellar cortex, this study demonstrates the spatial specificity of LTD and its dependence on mGluR(1) and PKC in vivo.
Although neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors contribute to hyperalgesia, and their expression is increased in the spinal cord during peripheral inflammation, little is known regarding the signaling molecules and the second messenger pathways that they activate in regulating the expression of the NK1 receptor gene. Because the promoter region of the NK1 receptor contains a cAMP response element (CRE), we tested the hypothesis that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) regulates the expression of NK1 receptors via a pathway involving activation of the transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB). Experiments were conducted on primary cultures of neonatal rat spinal neurons. Treatment of cultures with CGRP for 8-24 hr increased (125)I-substance P binding on spinal neurons; the increase in binding was preceded by an elevation in NK1 receptor mRNA. The CGRP-induced change in (125)I-substance P binding was concentration-dependent and was inhibited by the antagonist CGRP(8-37). CGRP increased phosphorylated CREB immunoreactivity and CRE-dependent transcription in neurons, indicating the involvement of the transcription factor CREB. Evidence that CGRP increased cAMP levels in spinal neurons and that the protein kinase A inhibitor H89 attenuated CGRP-induced CRE-dependent transcription suggests that the intracellular pathway stimulated by CGRP leads to activation of protein kinase A. Collectively these data define a role for CGRP as a signaling molecule that induces expression of NK1 receptors in spinal neurons. The data provide evidence that a neuropeptide receptor controls gene expression in the CNS and add another dimension to understanding the cotransmission of substance P and CGRP by primary afferent neurons.
The Bad signaling pathway contributes to the regulation of apoptosis after a variety of cell death stimuli, and Bad plays a key role in determining cell death or survival. We have reported that overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) reduces apoptotic cell death after transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). However, both the role of the Bad pathway after tFCI and the role of oxygen free radicals in the regulation of apoptosis remain unknown. To clarify these issues, we used an in vivo tFCI model of SOD1 transgenic mice and wild-type mice. Moreover, to examine the role of protein kinase A (PKA) in the Bad pathway after tFCI, we administered the PKA inhibitor, H89, into the mouse brain after tFCI. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis showed that dephosphorylation and translocation of Bad were detected early after tFCI and that they were promoted by H89 treatment but prevented by SOD1. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that the dimerization of Bad progressed with 14-3-3 (Bad/14-3-3) and with Bcl-x(L) (Bad/Bcl-x(L)) after tFCI. Moreover, Bad/14-3-3 was prevented by H89 treatment but promoted by SOD1. Bad/Bcl-x(L) was prevented by SOD1 but promoted by H89 treatment. A cell death assay revealed that apoptotic-related DNA fragmentation was aggravated by H89 treatment but reduced by SOD1. These results suggest that the Bad pathway mediated by PKA is involved in apoptotic cell death after tFCI and that overexpression of SOD1 may attenuate this apoptotic cell death.
Norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs) terminate noradrenergic synaptic transmission and represent a major therapeutic target for antidepressant medications. NETs and related transporters are under intrinsic regulation by receptor and kinase-linked pathways, and clarification of these pathways may suggest candidates for the development of novel therapeutic approaches. Syntaxin 1A, a presynaptic soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein, interacts with NET and modulates NET intrinsic activity. NETs colocalize with and bind to syntaxin 1A in both native preparations and heterologous systems. Protein kinase C activation disrupts surface NET/syntaxin 1A interactions and downregulates NET activity in a syntaxin-dependent manner. Syntaxin 1A binds the NH(2) terminal domain of NET, and a deletion of this domain both eliminates NET/syntaxin 1A associations and prevents phorbol ester-triggered NET downregulation. Whereas syntaxin 1A supports the surface trafficking of NET proteins, its direct interaction with NET limits transporter catalytic function. These two contradictory roles of syntaxin 1A on NET appear to be linked and reveal a dynamic cycle of interactions that allow for the coordinated control between NE release and reuptake.
We characterized synaptosomal glutamate transport activity in a recently developed transgenic rat model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) overexpressing the G93A Cu(2+)/Zn(2+) superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutation. Using spinal cord synaptosomes, a significant reduction (43%) in the maximal velocity for high-affinity, Na(+)-dependent glutamate uptake was observed at disease end stage in G93A rats compared with age-matched controls. Similarly, a 27% reduction in maximum velocity (V(max)) was measured at disease onset, but no difference in spinal cord V(max) values were observed with presymptomatic animals compared with controls. In comparison, we observed no differences in the V(max) for glutamate clearance at disease end stage with synaptosomes from cortex, hippocampus, striatum, cerebellum, and brainstem, indicating a specific deficit in the spinal cord. The pharmacological sensitivity of spinal cord uptake to dihydrokainate suggests that the GLT-1 (glutamate transporter-1) subtype primarily mediates the transport activity. Expression analysis revealed a loss of GLT-1 as well as qualitative changes in GLAST (glutamate/aspartate transporter) but no measurable changes in EAAC1 (excitatory amino acid carrier 1) in spinal cord of end-stage G93A rats, indicating that deficits in glutamate transporters in this rat model may be glial specific. Riluzole, a neuroprotective agent used clinically to slow the progression of ALS, produced an enhancement of spinal cord synaptosomal glutamate uptake in control animals and early-stage disease G93A rats, but this effect was lost in end-stage animals. Altered expression of astroglial glutamate transporters accompanied by reduced capacity for spinal cord clearance of extracellular glutamate in the G93A SOD1 transgenic rat may account for a dampened effect of riluzole to enhance glutamate uptake at end-stage disease.
ATP is released by neurons and functions as a neurotransmitter and modulator in the CNS. Here I show that ATP released from glial cells can also serve as a potent neuromodulator, inhibiting neurons in the retina of the rat. Activation of glial cells by focal ejection of ATP, ATPgammaS, dopamine, thrombin, or lysophosphatidic acid or by mechanical stimulation evoked hyperpolarizing responses and outward currents in a subset of retinal ganglion cells by increasing a Ba(2+)-sensitive K(+) conductance in the neurons. This glia-evoked inhibition reduced the firing rate of those neurons that displayed spontaneous spike activity. The inhibition was abolished by the A(1) adenosine receptor antagonist DPCPX (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine) (10 nm) and was reduced by the ecto-ATPase inhibitor ARL-67156 (6-N,N-diethyl-D-beta,gamma-dibromomethyleneATP) (50 microm) and by the ectonucleotidase inhibitor AOPCP [adenosine-5'-O-(alpha,beta-methylene)-diphosphonate] (250 microm). Selective activation of retinal glial cells demonstrated that Mller cells, but not astrocytes, mediate the inhibition. ATP release from Mller cells into the inner plexiform layer of the retina was shown using the luciferin-luciferase chemiluminescence assay. These findings demonstrate that activated glial cells can inhibit neurons in the retina by the release of ATP, which is converted to adenosine by ectoenzymes and subsequently activates neuronal adenosine receptors. The results lend support to the hypothesis that glial cells play an active role in information processing in the CNS.
The axons of dentate gyrus granule cells form synapses in the hilus. Ca(2+) signaling was investigated in the boutons of these axons using confocal fluorescence imaging. Boutons were loaded with various concentrations of the Ca(2+) indicator Oregon Green BAPTA-1 by patch-clamping the cell bodies and allowing the dye to diffuse into the axon. Resting free [Ca(2+)] started at 74 nm, rose to approximately 1 microm immediately after an action potential, and then decayed to rest with a time constant of 43 msec (all extrapolated to a dye concentration of zero). Action potential-induced [Ca(2+)] rises were smaller in larger boutons, consistent with a size-independent Ca(2+) channel density of 45/microm(2). Action potential-induced [Ca(2+)] changes varied with dye concentration in a manner consistent with kappa(E) approximately 20 for the ratio of endogenous buffer-bound Ca(2+) to free Ca(2+). During trains of action potentials, [Ca(2+)] increments summed supralinearly by more than that expected from dye saturation. The amount of endogenous Ca(2+) buffering declined as [Ca(2+)] rose, and this saturation indicated a buffer with a dissociation constant of approximately 500 nm and a concentration of approximately 130 microm. This is similar to the dissociation constant of calbindin-D28K, a Ca(2+)-binding protein that is abundant in dentate granule cells. Thus, calbindin-D28K is a good candidate for the Ca(2+) buffer revealed by these experiments. The saturation of endogenous buffer can generate short-term facilitation by amplifying [Ca(2+)] changes during repetitive activity. Buffer saturation may also be relevant to the presynaptic induction of long-term potentiation at synapses formed by dentate granule cells.
necdin (Ndn) is one of a cluster of genes deleted in the neurodevelopmental disorder Prader-Willi syndrome. necdin is upregulated during neuronal differentiation and is thought to play a role in cell cycle arrest in terminally differentiated neurons. Most necdin-deficient Ndn(tm2Stw) mutant pups carrying a targeted replacement of Ndn with a lacZ reporter gene die in the neonatal period of apparent respiratory insufficiency. We now demonstrate that the defect can be explained by abnormal neuronal activity within the putative respiratory rhythm-generating center, the pre-Btzinger complex. Specifically, the rhythm is unstable with prolonged periods of depression of respiratory rhythmogenesis. These observations suggest that the developing respiratory center is particularly sensitive to loss of necdin activity and may reflect abnormalities of respiratory rhythm-generating neurons or conditioning neuromodulatory drive. We propose that necdin deficiency may contribute to observed respiratory abnormalities in individuals with Prader-Willi syndrome through a similar suppression of central respiratory drive.
The limbic system refers to a group of connected neural regions that are associated with motivation, learning, and memory. The marginal division (MrD) is a zone located at the caudal border of the neostriatum in mammalian brains that has been shown to be involved in learning and memory. In a previous study, c-fos expression showed functional connections between the MrD, basal nucleus of Meynert (NBM) and limbic system (Shu et al., 1988a, 1999). In the present study, to explore the relationship between these regions, the expression of limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) was investigated using molecular and immunohistochemical methods. Synaptic and functional connections between the MrD and the NBM were studied also using tract tracing, electron microscopic and behavioral methods. LAMP is thought to be a marker of the limbic system and expression of LAMP protein and mRNA was observed in both the MrD and the limbic system. From such results, it is concluded that the MrD is a new component of the limbic system. Fibers from the MrD were observed projecting and synapsing on cholinergic neurons of the NBM. As reduction of learning and memory was induced by lesioning the projection from the MrD to the NBM, it would seem that the MrD modulates the learning and memory function of the NBM. In conclusion, the results of these studies suggest that the MrD is a new component of the limbic system, and there are functional and structural connections between the MrD, NBM and limbic system. The MrD seems to act as a link between the limbic system and the NBM, and plays a role in learning and memory.
Thyroid hormones (THs), primarily 3,3',5-triiode-(L)-thyronine (T(3)), have been clearly established as natural inducers of apoptosis during metamorphosis of anuran embryos. We decided to use this phenomenon to test the hypothesis that, prior to genomic activation, T(3) has acute actions in the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of the tail of amphibian embryos. We detected a dramatic increase in the production of miniature end-plate currents (MEPCs) 2-5 min after continuous application of T(3) (250 nM) using focal recordings under voltage clamp. Furthermore, this increase in the spontaneous release of neurotransmitter, evaluated by the MEPC frequency, was maintained for several hours. Reverse-T(3), the &quot;inhibitory&quot; form of THs, prevented this increase in MEPC frequency, suggesting that this is probably a highly specific action of T(3). In addition, the elevation in MEPC frequency induced by T(3) was unchanged in the presence or absence of extracellular calcium. The T(3)-mediated increase in MEPC frequency was blocked by niflumic acid, a nonsteroidal antinflammatory fenamate used to prevent the apoptotic volume decrease observed in many systems. The present study demonstrated that T(3) induces a remarkable nongenomic action in the NMJ of the tadpole tail at pre- and promatamorphic stages.
In an avian coculture system, the neuronal precursors of the cochleovestibular ganglion typically migrated from the otocyst and differentiated in response to soluble fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), which had free access to FGF receptors on the cell surface. Free FGF-2 switched cells from a proliferation mode to migration, accompanied by increases in process outgrowth, fasciculation, and polysialic acid expression. Microsphere-bound FGF-2 had some of the same effects, but in addition it increased proliferation and decreased fasciculation and polysialic acid. As shown by immunohistochemistry, FGF-2 that was bound to latex microspheres depleted the FGF surface receptor protein, which localized with the microspheres in the cytoplasm and nucleus. For microsphere-bound FGF-2, the surface receptor-mediated responses to FGF-2 appear to be limited and the door opened to another venue of intracellular events or an intracrine mechanism.
The chick tangential nucleus is a major vestibular nucleus whose principal cells receive convergent inputs from primary vestibular and nonvestibular fibers and participate in the vestibular reflexes. During development, the principal cells gradually acquire the mature firing pattern in part by losing a specific potassium current around hatching (H). Here we focus on characterizing the expression of connexin 43 (Cx43), a gap junction protein found mainly between astrocytes in the mature brain. The astrocytic syncytium plays an important role in maintaining extracellular potassium ion balance in the brain. Accordingly, it is important to characterize the potential of this syncytium to communicate during the critical developmental age of hatching. Using fluorescence immunocytochemistry, we investigated whether Cx43 staining was concentrated in specific cellular compartments at H1 by applying well-known markers for astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein; GFAP), oligodendrocytes (antimyelin), neurons (microtubule-associated protein 2), and synaptic terminals (synaptotagmin). GFAP-positive astrocytes and GFAP-negative nonneuronal cells around the principal cell bodies were labeled with Cx43, suggesting that Cx43 was expressed exclusively by nonneuronal cells near the neuronal elements. Next, the developmental pattern of expression of Cx43 was studied at embryonic day 16 (E16), H1, and H9. At E16, Cx43 was present weakly as random small clusters in the tangential nucleus, whereas, at H1, overall staining became localized, with increases in size, brightness, and number of immunostained clusters. Finally, at H9, Cx43 staining decreased, but cluster size and location remained unchanged. These results suggest that Cx43 is developmentally regulated with a peak at birth and is associated primarily with astrocytes and nonneuronal cells near the principal cell bodies.
The structures associated with learning and memory have been widely studied for over 100 years. The idea of the famous neuropsychologist K.S. Lashley, that learning and memory are stored diffusely in the brain, dominated neuroscience in the early half of Twentieth Century. Since Scoville reported in 1957 a persistent impairment of recent memory caused by bilateral medial temporal lobe resection in a patient, the concept that different brain structures play different roles in learning and memory has been established, but the structures were thought to work separately. The connections and functional influences between hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, thalamus and hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and thalamus, amygdala and hippocampus, basal nucleus of Meynert and medial temporal lobe system, and amygdala and thalamus were successively reported. The marginal division (MrD) is a pan-shaped structure consisting of spindle-shaped neurons at the caudal margin of the neostriatum in the mammalian brain. The MrD has been shown to contribute to associative learning and declarative memory by behavioral study in rats and by functional magnetic resonance image study in humans. Lesions in the MrD influenced the learning and memory function of the basal nucleus of Meynert and attenuated hippocampal long-term potentiation. The MrD is likely, based on its position, advanced development in higher mammalian brains, abundant and swift blood supply, and complex connections, to be an important subcortical memory center in the brain. The above-mentioned studies demonstrated that memory-related centers could influence each other and play different roles. Therefore, we propose that there are very possibly hierachical memory centers in the brain.
This communication outlines the development of aneurysm clips, from those originally used by Walter Dandy to those in use today. The history is rich, with many contributions from neurosurgical pioneers and innovators. As a result, the modern neurosurgeon has a wide selection of biocompatible aneurysm clips from which to choose, clips that have known closing pressures and various sizes and shapes, as well as a selection of clip applicators that do not obstruct the surgical field.
Peripheral nerve graft repair after severe brachial plexus injury is futile if there is degeneration of motor fibers in the proximal nerve stump to which the graft must be attached. Traditional intraoperative neurophysiological assessment methods like nerve action potential (NAP) and somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) monitoring have been used to evaluate proximal nerve stump integrity, but these methods do not allow evaluation of the integrity of motor fibers back to the anterior horn cell. Consequently, the authors used transcranial electrical stimulation and recorded neurogenic motor evoked potentials (MEPs) directly from the brachial plexus in a patient undergoing surgical repair of a complete upper brachial plexus injury (Erb palsy) to assess the functional continuity of motor fibers. In addition, selected elements of the brachial plexus were directly stimulated, and NAPs were recorded. Finally, SSEPs were recorded from the scalp after stimulation of selected elements of the brachial plexus. Neurogenic MEPs were present from the medial cord of the brachial plexus, but not the middle or upper trunk; NAPs were present from the lateral and posterior cords after middle trunk stimulation, but absent after upper trunk stimulation; and SSEPs were present after medial cord stimulation but absent after stimulation of the upper and middle trunks. For the first time, neurogenic MEPs were coupled with NAPs and SSEPs to evaluate successfully the functional status of motor fibers back to the anterior horn cell for accurate localization of the lesion sites.


Deep brain Stimulation (DBS) is an effective treatment for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and motor complications who can no longer be improved by adjustment of medical therapy. Selection of surgery candidates and follow-up after surgery are critical for good outcome. Functional neuroimaging can help in the clinical assessment of these patients. We have used single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and the tracer ECD to measure regional cerebral blood flow before and 6 months after DBS of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in 20 patients with advanced PD. We found a significant increase in the anterior cingulate/supplementary motor cortex in the 12 good responders (change in off unified UPDRS &gt;50%). Conversely, patients with poor response (n=8; change in off UPDRS-III &lt;50% following DBS) revealed a significant worsening of cortical hypoperfusion particularly in the prefrontal areas. No flow decrements were detected in the basal ganglia and in the thalamus in both groups during DBS stimulation suggesting that DBS does not have a &quot;lesion like&quot; effect. If DBS stimulates and does not inactivate STN projection neurons, flow reduction in the poor responders may be secondary to increased inhibitory basal ganglia output.

Amongst the wear debris particles implicated in the particle hypothesis for prosthetic loosening are polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA), and particularly PMMA with barium sulphate contrast agent. Another suggested cause for loosening is hydrostatic pressure. PMMA particles were combined with hydrostatic pressure in a study to investigate whether there could be a synergistic or additive effect between these two factors. Titanium plates were fastened onto tibiae of 59 rats. After osseointegration, PMMA particles with barium sulphate were administered to the bone-implant interface. Further, PMMA particles were introduced into a previously published model for hydrostatic pressure induced osteolysis. There was measurable resorption in response to the PMMA particles but no additive or synergistic effect from introducing particles to the pressure model, and the effect of pressure was far greater than that of particles. These results suggest that, whereas particles can be shown to elicit an osteolytic response, the much less studied osteolytic effects of pressure could be far more important.
Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor used widely in the treatment of depression. In contrast to the proconvulsant effect of many antidepressants, fluoxetine has anticonvulsant activity. This property may be due in part to positive modulation of the GABA(A) receptors (GABARs), which mediate most fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain. We examined the effect of fluoxetine on the activity of recombinant GABARs transiently expressed in mammalian cells. Fluoxetine increased the response of the receptor to submaximal GABA concentrations but did not alter the maximum current amplitude. Sensitivity did not depend upon the beta- or gamma-subtype composition of the receptor when coexpressed with the alpha(1) subunit. Among the six alpha subtypes, only the alpha(5) subunit conferred reduced sensitivity to fluoxetine. The metabolite norfluoxetine was even more potent than fluoxetine. Mutations at residues in the alpha(5) subunit that alter its sensitivity to zinc or selective benzodiazepine derivatives did not affect potentiation by fluoxetine. This suggests that fluoxetine acts through a novel modulatory site on the GABAR. The direct positive modulation of GABARs by fluoxetine may be a factor in its anticonvulsant activity.
Acute exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) causes severe disruption of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) regulation, which apparently contributes to neuronal death. Activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MTP) evidently contributes to this effect. We examined in more detail the contribution of mitochondrial Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](m)) to elevations of [Ca(2+)](i) caused by acute exposure to a low concentration of MeHg in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons. In particular, we sought to determine whether interactions occurred between Ca(2+)(i) pools in response to MeHg. Prior depletion of Ca(2+)(m) using carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) and oligomycin significantly decreased the amplitude of [Ca(2+)](i) release from intracellular stores, and delayed the onset of whole-cell [Ca(2+)](i) elevations, caused by 0.5 microM MeHg. CCCP alone hastened the MeHg-induced release of Ca(2+) within the cell, whereas oligomycin alone delayed the MeHg-induced influx of extracellular Ca(2+). In granule cells loaded with rhod-2 acetoxymethylester to measure changes in [Ca(2+)](m), MeHg exposure caused a biphasic increase in fluorescence. The initial increase in fluorescence occurred in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+) and was abolished by mitochondrial depolarization. The secondary increase was associated with spreading of the dye from punctate staining to whole-cell distribution, and was delayed significantly by the MTP inhibitor cyclosporin A and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin. We conclude that MeHg causes release of Ca(2+) from the mitochondria through opening of the MTP, which contributes the bulk of the elevated [Ca(2+)](i) observed during MeHg neurotoxicity. Additionally, the Ca(2+) that enters the mitochondria seems to originate in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, providing a mechanism for the observed mitochondrial Ca(2+) overload.
Here, we investigated the mechanism of the antihyperalgesic effect of capsaicin cream in the nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain model in mice. In naive mice, application of capsaicin cream onto footpad caused no significant changes in the thermal latency in contrast to the severe thermal hyperalgesia induced by a capsaicin ointment. On the other hand, application of the cream 3 h before test concentration dependently reversed both thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia observed after partial sciatic nerve injury in mice. In algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion (ANF) test, application of 0.1% capsaicin cream in naive mice blocked intraplantar (i.pl.) nociceptin- and ATP-induced flexion responses, whereas prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)) agonist-induced responses were unaffected. After nerve injury PGI(2) agonist-induced flexion responses were hypersensitized, and capsaicin cream concentration dependently blocked these hyperalgesic responses. Intraplantar injection of capsaicin solution in ANF test also produced potent flexion responses in naive mice that were lost after neonatal capsaicin-treatment. Partial sciatic nerve injury in neonatal capsaicin-treated mice caused reappearance of i.pl. capsaicin-induced flexion responses, suggesting novel expression of capsaicin receptors due to injury. The PGI(2) agonist-induced responses were also hypersensitized in such injured mice. Capsaicin cream completely reversed both i.pl. capsaicin- or i.pl. PGI(2) agonist-induced hyperalgesia in neonatal capsaicin-treated injured mice. Finally, novel expression of VR1 receptors on neonatal capsaicin-insensitive neurons after nerve injury was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. The newly expressed VR1 receptors after nerve injury were mainly confined to A-fibers. Together, our results suggest that novel expression of capsaicin receptors in neuropathic condition contributes to the analgesic effects of the capsaicin cream.
Inspiratory activity of the hypoglossal nerve (XIIn) often precedes that of the phrenic nerve (PHRn). By manipulating artificial respiration, this preceding activity (pre-I XIIn activity) can be lengthened or isolated prematurely (decoupled XIIn activity) without developing into overt PHRn-associated inspiratory bursts. We hypothesized that these pre-I and decoupled XIIn activities, collectively termed 'XIIn-w/o-PHRn activity', reflect certain internal states of the respiratory centre at the period just prior to the transition from the expiratory phase to the inspiratory phase. In decerebrate, neuromuscularly blocked and artificially ventilated rats, the firing properties of medullary respiratory neurones were examined during the period of the XIIn-w/o-PHRn activity. The majority of the inspiratory neurones examined could be classified into two types: one was active (XIIn-type) and the other was inactive (PHRn-type) during the XIIn-w/o-PHRn period. On the other hand, augmenting expiratory (E-AUG) neurones of the Btzinger complex (BOT) and the caudal ventral respiratory group (VRG) fired intensively during this period. Their firing stopped at the onset of the overt inspiratory bursts in the XIIn and PHRn, suggesting that BOT E-AUG neurones inhibit PHRn-type, but not XIIn-type, inspiratory neurones. We hypothesize that XIIn-type inspiratory activity facilitates the phase change from expiration to inspiration, through activation of certain inspiratory neurones that inhibit the firing of BOT E-AUG neurones and generation of the overt inspiratory bursts in XIIn-type and PHRn-type inspiratory neurones.
Tottering, a mouse model for absence epilepsy and cerebellar ataxia, carries a mutation in the gene encoding class A (P/Q-type) Ca2+ channels, the dominant exocytotic Ca2+ channel at most synapses in the mammalian central nervous system. Comparing tottering to wild-type mice, we have studied glutamatergic transmission between parallel fibres and Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices. Results from biochemical assays and electrical field recordings demonstrate that glutamate release from parallel fibre terminals of the tottering mouse is controlled largely by class B Ca2+ channels (N-type), in contrast to the P/Q-channels that dominate release from wild-type terminals. Since N-channels, in a variety of assays, are more effectively inhibited by G proteins than are P/Q-channels, we tested whether synaptic transmission between parallel fibres and Purkinje cells in tottering mice was more susceptible to inhibitory modulation by G protein-coupled receptors than in their wild-type counterparts. GABAB receptors and alpha2-adrenergic receptors (activated by bath application of transmitters) produced a three- to fivefold more potent inhibition of transmission in tottering than in wild-type synapses. This increased modulation is likely to be important for cerebellar transmission in vivo, since heterosynaptic depression, produced by activating GABAergic interneurones, greatly prolonged GABAB receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition in tottering as compared to wild-type slices. We propose that this enhanced modulation shifts the balance of synaptic input to Purkinje cells in favour of inhibition, reducing Purkinje cell output from the cerebellum, and may contribute to the aberrant motor phenotype that is characteristic of this mutant animal.
Applications of mathematics and computational techniques to our understanding of neuronal systems are provided. Reduction of membrane models to simplified canonical models demonstrates how neuronal spike-time statistics follow from simple properties of neurons. Averaging over space allows one to derive a simple model for the whisker barrel circuit and use this to explain and suggest several experiments. Spatio-temporal pattern formation methods are applied to explain the patterns seen in the early stages of drug-induced visual hallucinations.
While it is widely assumed that the long-range horizontal connections in V1 are present to support contour integration, there has been only limited consideration of other possible relationships between anatomy and physiology (the horizontal connections) and visual function beyond contour integration. We introduce the possibility of other relationships directly from the perspective of computation and differential geometry by identifying orientation columns in visual physiology with the (unit) tangent bundle in differential geometry. This suggests abstracting early vision in a space that incorporates both position and orientation, from which we show that the physiology is capable of supporting a number of functional computations beyond contour integration, including texture-flow and shading-flow integration, as well as certain relationships between them. The geometric abstraction emphasizes the role of curvature, which necessitates a coupled investigation into how it might be estimated. The result is an elaboration of layer-to-layer interactions within an orientation column, with non-linearities possibly implemented by shunting inhibition. Finally, we show how the same computational framework naturally lends itself to solving stereo correspondence, with binocular tangents abstracting curves in space.
Receptive fields structure of neurons in primary visual cortex suggests that they process visual stimuli in the frequency domain, in a way similar to the frequency analysis performed in the auditory system. As a consequence, both psychophysicists and electrophysiologists have long probed the visual system using extended sine wave gratings that are well localized in the frequency domain but poorly defined in visual space. Meanwhile, how the brain processes the geometrical properties and the spatial and temporal relationships between stimulus parts has received less attention. Recent progress in visual neuroscience that uncovered long-range horizontal connections between cortical neurons and revealed the complex architecture of primary visual cortex and feedback connectivity led to new insights concerned with the processing of geometrical properties of visual stimuli in V1. This paper presents a short historical perspective of the emergence of new issues related to the cortical architecture and its functional consequences on the processing of geometrical properties.



Newborn mammals spend as much as 90% or more of their time in a sleep state characterized by frequent twitches, rapid eye movements (REMs), and irregular respiratory cycles. These motor and respiratory patterns resemble the phasic motor/respiratory components of adult REM sleep, and as a consequence, this sleep state is traditionally viewed as an immature form of REM sleep. An alternative view is that a significant portion of what has been called REM sleep in these species is a form of spontaneous activity typical of the immature nervous system. In this review, we compare and contrast these two opposing views about the ontogenetic origins of REM sleep, and review the evidence most often cited to support the idea that REM sleep is present in newborn altricial mammals. Critical review of this evidence indicates that REM sleep may not be present at birth in these species; rather, it appears that all mammals early in development exhibit spontaneous, dissociated activity that progressively becomes organized into the distinct states of REM and non-rapid eye movement sleep.
We have examined a series of overlapping peptide fragments from the 8-20 region of human islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) with the objective of defining the smallest fibril-forming domain. Peptide fragments corresponding to LANFLV (residues 12-17) and FLVHSS (residues 15-20) were strong enhancers of beta-sheet transition and fibril formation. Negative stain electron microscopy illustrated the ability of these peptide fragments to form fibrils independently when incubated alone in solution. Circular dichroism analysis revealed that when full-length human IAPP was incubated in the presence of these two fragments, fibrillogenesis was accelerated. While the two fragments, LANFLV and FLVHSS, were able to enhance the recruitment of additional IAPP molecules during fibril formation, the &quot;seeding&quot; activity of these peptides had no effect on altering IAPP-induced cytotoxcity as determined by cell culture studies. Therefore, this study has identified two internal IAPP peptide fragments within the 8-20 domain that may have a role in enhancing the folding and aggregation of human IAPP. These fragments are the smallest sequences identified, within the 8-20 region of hIAPP, that can independently form fibrils, and that can interact with IAPP to assemble into fibrils with characteristics similar as those formed by human IAPP alone.

The human polyomavirus JC virus is the etiologic agent of the fatal disease demyelinating progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Although multiple transcription factors have been shown to interact with the JC virus promoter and regulate transcriptional activity, their relevance to cell specificity remains elusive. To investigate whether chromatin structure controls glial cell-specific expression of JC virus early genes, glial and nonglial cells were transfected with a reporter plasmid containing the JC virus early promoter and then treated with the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors trichostatin A (TSA) and sodium butyrate. TSA and butyrate induced 20- to 30-fold activation of the JC virus promoter in nonglial cells, whereas less than 2-fold induction was observed in glial cells. These results indicate that the JC virus early promoter might be highly suppressed in nonglial cells by hypoacetylated chromatin and activated by hyperacetylation. In support of this, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated acetylation of the JC virus promoter region in U87MG cells but no acetylation in HeLa cells. In addition, treatment of HeLa cells with TSA induced hyperacetylation of the JC virus promoter, whereas minimal induction was seen in U87MG cells. Deletional and site-directed mutational analyses revealed that the enhancer region and Sp1 binding site upstream of the TATA box were important for TSA-mediated activation. We confirmed TSA-mediated activation of the JC virus promoter in the context of natural chromatin structure in stable cell lines. Thus, it appears that chromatin structure may control JC virus transcription in a cell-specific manner.



Puromycin-sensitive alanyl aminopeptidase (PSA, EC 3.4.11.14) is a member of the ubiquitous aminopeptidase family, which cleaves N-terminal amino acids from proteins. PSA is suggested to function as a trimming protease in the MHC class I pathway, which is activated in brains of Alzheimer disease (AD). We examined the immunohistochemical localization of PSA in brains of AD and control cases using a rabbit anti-PSA. In the control cases, the antiserum revealed staining in a few glial cells and blood vessels. In AD brain, however, intensely stained cells were found richly in the cerebral cortex. Double immunofluorescence studies confirmed that PSA-positive cells were reactive microglia. Such PSA-positive reactive microglia tended to locate in and around senile plaques and were sometimes observed to associate with neurons containing neurofibillary tangles. The present result indicates that reactive microglia express PSA-immunoreactive molecules, probably in association with the pathological conditions of AD.
Molecular and cellular markers of age-related alterations in the brain vary significantly between different brain regions and between different types of neurons. In contrast to what had been thought for years, it has recently become clear that only specific types of neurons show an age-related loss of cells. Based on previous work we hypothesize that there is an interrelationship between two important processes in the aging brain: some types of neurons in the aging brain show an accumulation of unrepaired nuclear (n) nDNA damage since no cells are lost during aging. In contrast, other types of neurons show no accumulation of unrepaired nDNA damage since the cells with the greatest decline in nDNA repair capacity and the highest amount of nDNA damage are lost during aging. Most interestingly, the former types of neurons seem to correlate strongly with those types of neurons afflicted in age-related cognitive decline and in the selective neuronal vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, modulation of the nDNA damage response by stimulation of nDNA repair processes, or by elimination of neurons with a high amount of unrepaired nDNA damage in the aging brain, may lead to a functional improvement in networks of these types of neurons and to a better functioning of the aging brain in general. Ultimately, the implication of this strategy may lead to the prevention of AD.
c-Ret encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase that is essential for normal development of the kidney as well as enteric and sympathetic neurons. Since sympathetic neurons and neuroendocrine chromaffin cells originate from a common progenitor cell, we have examined the relevance of c-Ret for the development of adrenal chromaffin cells by analyzing mouse mutants lacking c-Ret. Adrenal chromaffin cells express c-Ret mRNA at embryonic day (E) 12.5 and 13.5, yet levels of expression decline at later embryonic and postnatal ages. Adrenal medullae of c-Ret deficient mice show normal numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive cells at E13.5 and at birth. Ultrastructurally, adrenal chromaffin cells of c-Ret(-/-) mice appear unaltered: chromaffin cells develop typical secretory chromaffin granules, the morphological hallmark of chromaffin cells, and synaptic terminals appear normal. However, adrenaline levels and numbers of chromaffin cells immunoreactive for the adrenaline synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) are reduced by about 30% in c-Ret-deficient mice arguing for a direct or indirect role of c-Ret in the regulation of PNMT. Thus, despite expression of c-Ret, adrenal chromaffin cells develop largely normal in mice lacking c-Ret. We therefore conclude that sympathetic neurons and neuroendocrine chromaffin cells profoundly differ in their requirement for c-Ret signaling during development.
Nerve repair with tubes has a limit to regeneration depending upon the length of the gap. The characteristics of the guide, in terms of permeability, durability and adhesiveness, also influence regeneration. Considering the importance of the cellular component in regeneration, the development of artificial grafts, composed of a biocompatible nerve guide filled with a neurotropic matrix and seeded with Schwann cells (SCs), is an interesting option to enhance nerve regeneration and provide an alternative to the classical autologous nerve graft. We evaluated the ability of SCs transplanted into a nerve guide to improve regeneration after sciatic nerve resection, leaving a 6-mm gap, in the mouse. Syngeneic, isogeneic and autologous SCs were suspended in Matrigel and seeded in resorbable guides, and compared to acellular guides and to nerve autografts. The immunogenicity of the transplanted SCs clearly influenced the outcome. Transplants of autologous SCs resulted in only slightly lower levels of reinnervation than autografts, but higher recovery and number of regenerated axons than transplants of isologous and syngeneic SCs, and than acellular guides. Thus, by combined developments on nerve guides, extracellular matrix components and cell transplantation, an artificial graft has been designed that allows axonal regeneration across long gaps to levels comparable with an autograft.
This paper aims to explore the neurochemical basis of the ability to represent one's own or other's mental states such as intentions, beliefs, wants and knowledge, an ability often referred to as 'theory of mind'. Based on neurochemical and psychopharmacological investigations in autism and schizophrenia, pathologies in which this ability is impaired, it is hypothesized that 'theory of mind' abilities are contingent on the integrity of the serotonergic and dopaminergic system. This hypothesis is discussed in light of the system's neurochemical properties and role in cognition. It is suggested that specific abnormalities to this system can account for differences in the profile of 'theory of mind' impairments that may exist among patients belonging to different pathologies.
We report three cases of large occipito-encephaloceles that were managed in the Neurosciences Unit, Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia over the last 5 years. All patients had pre-operative MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) evolution and mapping of the sagittal sinus tract. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of all three patients were initially diverted by means of ventricular shunt two weeks prior to shunt removal. The slow drainage of CSF prevented electrolyte and volume disturbances due to sudden decompression during their definitive occipital encephalocele operations. After 3 years follow-up, all these patients are progressing well.
Although the preponderance of studies investigating the effects of estrogen on vasomotor tone and function have focused on women, a number of recent studies have intriguingly shown that estrogen's rapid vasodilatory properties is also preserved in men. Unlike classical steroid transcription mediated pathways, estrogen's acute vasodilatory effect is mediated by calcium dependent cell surface estrogen receptors that stimulate constitutive endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity. The transient release of eNOS derived nitric oxide exerts profound physiological effects on the vasculature exerting a state of cellular inhibition (i.e. vasodilation). Thus, the partial or complete attenuation of this rapid signaling system can promote endothelial dysfunction, an early pathophysiological event in atherosclerotic development. Consequently, human males experiencing age-related declines in testosterone and aromatase derived estradiol plasma levels may lose a vital cardioprotective mechanism that preserves proper endothelial function. Therapeutic strategies to preserve basal nitric oxide levels through the maintenance of normal physiological estradiol levels may confer cardiovascular benefits to aging males.
According to spreading activation models of automatic priming, highly related associates should yield stronger priming effects than weakly related associates. The strength of relations is usually based on word association norms. However, this strength effect has been found in some studies but not in others. The present study suggests that one factor that might be responsible for this inconsistency is whether the weak associate is the primary or nonprimary response in the word association norms This possibility was explored by comparing priming effects of weak nonprimary and primary associates with those of strong primary associates. Comparable priming effects were found for the strong and weak primary associates whereas the weak nonprimary associates did not yield any priming effects. These results were obtained both in paired (Experiment 1) and single (Experiment 2) presentation priming procedures. Thus, the rank of the associate is an important factor in predicting the magnitude of the priming effect.

Chenodeoxycholate (CDCA) is a primary bile acid mostly implicated in cholestatic liver injury. In this study, we have investigated the involvement of membrane fluidity and cytochrome c release in CDCA-induced mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), and the preventive role of carvedilol. Treatment of calcium-loaded hepatic mitochondria with CDCA was found to cause osmotic swelling and release of cytochrome c, associated with an increase in membrane fluidity, in both protein and lipid regions. Carvedilol and cyclosporine A (CyA) reduced both cytochrome c release and alterations in membrane fluidity induced by CDCA. The hydroxylated metabolite of carvedilol, BM-910228, had no effect. Thus, modulation of membrane fluidity, plays an important role in MPT pore opening promoted by CDCA. As a result, we have delineated a pathway for the preventive role of carvedilol in mitochondrial dysfunction induced by CDCA.
A novel mitochondrial DNA point mutation, a C-to-A mutation at nucleotide position (np) 11,777, was identified in two unrelated patients out of 100 with Leigh syndrome. This mutation converted a highly evolutionary conserved arginine to a serine at codon 340 in ND4 gene. This codon was also converted by a G-to-A mutation at np 11,778, the most common mutation associated with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), but the amino acid replacement was different (R340S vs. R340H). Cybrid study revealed that the percentage of heteroplasmy was correlated with complex I function and that the novel mutation caused a much more deleterious effect than the np 11,778 LHON mutation in complex I activity.
Neuronal apoptosis has been implicated as an important mechanism of cell death in acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Ceramide is a product of sphingolipid metabolism which induces neuronal apoptosis in culture, and ceramide levels increase in neurons during various conditions associated with cell death. In this study we investigate the mechanism of ceramide-induced apoptosis in primary cortical neuronal cells. We show that ceramide treatment initiates a cascade of biochemical alterations associated with cell death: earliest signal transduction changes involve Akt dephosphorylation and inactivation followed by dephosphorylation of proapoptotic regulators such as BAD (proapoptotic Bcl-2 family member), Forkhead family transcription factors, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, mitochondrial depolarization and permeabilization, release of cytochrome c into the cytosol, and caspase-3 activation. Bongkrekic acid, an agent that inhibits mitochondrial depolarization, significantly reduces ceramide-induced cell death and correlated caspase-3 activation. Together, these data demonstrate the importance of the mitochondrial-dependent intrinsic pathway of caspase activation for ceramide-induced neuronal apoptosis.
Blockade of neuromuscular activity in the chick embryo during the period of programmed cell death of motoneurons results in a complete rescue of these cells. Understanding the cellular mechanisms that mediate this counterintuitive effect is of considerable interest with respect to the regulation of motoneuron survival during development as well as for understanding why motoneurons die pathologically. Although considerable evidence supports the role of a peripheral site of action at the neuromuscular junction in mediating the rescue of motoneurons following activity blockade, some evidence also supports a role for central nervous system (CNS) neurons. For example, the rescue of motoneurons by curare has been reported to be blocked by the GABA(A) agonist muscimol via its actions on CNS neurons. We have carried out a series of studies to further investigate this interesting observation. Surprisingly, we find that: (1) muscimol blocks activity and rescues MNs in a dose-dependent manner, similar to curare; (2) muscimol's effects on MN survival appear to be mediated by its action on intramuscular nerve branching, similar to curare; and (3) although muscimol acts centrally, the effects of muscimol on MN survival and axon branching are mediated peripherally at the neuromuscular junction, similar to curare. Because muscimol reduces MN depolarization these data also suggest that the depolarization of MNs by afferents is not required for promoting MN survival. Taken together, these data provide further evidence in support of a peripheral site of action of activity blockade in rescuing motoneurons from developmental cell death.
Sequence motifs at the protein carboxyl termini in linear polypeptides are uniquely positioned and functionally capable of serving as recognition signatures for a variety of cellular and biochemical processes. At the proteome level, it is unknown whether and what carboxyl-terminal sequences might be particularly conserved, which may be directly related to specific biological functions shared among certain groups of proteins. To investigate this question, we analyzed the terminal sequences of reported yeast open reading frames, which presumably constitute the predicted, entire proteome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The results show that there are both known and novel terminal sequences. They are conserved at a frequency similar to that of functionally important, experimentally confirmed signals such as the HDEL sequence that mediates the endoplasmic reticulum retention and/or retrieval. The findings support the notion that there may be additional carboxyl-terminal signals, and the conserved motifs could be experimentally tested for currently unknown biological functions. Similar analyses were also applied to the limited proteome databases of other organisms with overall consistent findings. Therefore, indexing a proteome according to its carboxyl-terminal sequences may provide a means for functional classification and determination of proteins.
In the present study, we focused on the molecular events involved in tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production in response to the amyloidogenic 105-amino acid carboxyl-terminal fragment (CT105) of amyloid precursor protein, a candidate alternative toxic element in Alzheimer's disease pathology, and the mechanisms by which cyclic AMP regulates the relating inflammatory signal cascades. CT105 at nanomolar concentrations strongly activated multiple signaling pathways involving tyrosine kinase-dependent extracellular signal-regulated kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases. Moreover, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signal was required for excess TNF-alpha production in human macrophages derived from THP-1 cells. Interferon-gamma significantly potentiated the induction of the CT105-mediated signal cascade. These multiple signaling pathways in turn converged, at least in part, at the nuclear transcription factor known as cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which acts on the TNF-alpha gene promoter through the cAMP response element. The cell-permeable cAMP analog dibutyryl cAMP partially and almost simultaneously suppressed all of these CT105-induced signaling pathways through excessive CREB phosphorylation, which led to decreased CREB DNA binding activity and reduced TNF-alpha expression. Furthermore, dibutyryl cAMP decreased the interaction of the p65 nuclear factor-kappa B with CREB binding protein, thus further inhibiting CT105-mediated TNF-alpha expression. Collectively, the detailed molecular mechanisms of amyloidogenic CT-induced TNF-alpha production as negatively regulated by cAMP may advance the possibility of targeted treatment in Alzheimer's disease.
Molecular cloning of membrane-spanning mammalian adenylyl cyclases (ACs) has led to the discovery of nine different isotypes, making ACs potentially useful therapeutic targets. This study investigated the mechanism by which fungicidal nitroimidazole compounds modulate AC activity. Current evidence indicates that biological control of AC activity occurs through the cytosolic domains. Hence, full-length ACII, ACIX, and recombinant fusion proteins composed of the cytoplasmic loops of human ACIX or the first and second cytoplasmic loops of rat ACV and ACII, respectively, were expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. The AC activities of the respective proteins were characterized, and their modulation by nitroimidazoles was investigated. Calmidazolium inhibited the activities of both full-length ACs and soluble fusion proteins (IC(50), approximately 10 microM). Inhibition of ACIX by calmidazolium was mediated by direct interaction with the catalytic core in a noncompetitive fashion. ACIX was essentially insensitive to 2'-deoxyadenosine 3'-monophosphate, a known blocker of AC activity. The ACV-ACII fusion protein was inhibited by calmidazolium (IC(50), approximately 20 microM) as well as by 2'-deoxyadenosine 3'-AMP (IC(50), approximately 2 microM), in a manner indicating independent mechanisms of action. Taken together, the data demonstrate that ACIX is insensitive to adenosine analogs and that calmidazolium inhibits AC activity by a novel, noncompetitive mechanism.
The Zeitgeist favors an interpretation of schizophrenia as a condition of abnormal connectivity of cortical neurons, particularly in the prefrontal and temporal cortex. The available evidence points to reduced connectivity, a possible consequence of excessive synaptic pruning in development. A decreased thalamic input to the cerebral cortex appears likely, and developmental studies predict that this decrease should entail a secondary loss of both long- and short-range cortico-cortical connections, including connections between the hemispheres. Indeed, morphological, electrophysiological and neuropsychological studies over the last two decades suggest that the callosal connections are altered in schizophrenics. However, the alterations are subtle and sometimes inconsistent across studies, and need to be investigated further with new methodologies.
HLA-DR2 haplotype and DQ1 DNA alleles, characterizing 90 to 100% of all narcoleptic patients, were found to be equally distributed in 20 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with early hallucinations, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep-related behaviour disturbances (RBD), and sleep onset in REM (SOREM), and in 20 PD patients without hallucinations, despite 10 to 15 years of treatment, and no RBD or SOREM.
Conduction block is an important functional consequence of demyelination whereby nervous transmission is abolished. Its mechanism has been discussed with respect to the loss of insulation due to disruption of myelin. Recent development of threshold tracking techniques, which enabled noninvasive assessment of axonal membrane potentials and ion channels, has provided evidence that axonal excitability changes significantly and contributes to conduction failure. This view, based upon axo-glial interaction, clarifies the mechanism of muscle fatigue and fasciculation associated with peripheral demyelination and possibly explains selective motor involvement in multifocal motor neuropathy.

Cortical map plasticity is thought to involve long-term depression (LTD) of cortical synapses, but direct evidence for LTD during plasticity or learning in vivo is lacking. One putative role for LTD is in the reduction of cortical responsiveness to behaviorally irrelevant or unused sensory stimuli, a common feature of map plasticity. Here we show that whisker deprivation, a manipulation that drives map plasticity in rat somatosensory cortex (S1), induces detectable LTD-like depression at intracortical excitatory synapses between cortical layer 4 (L4) and L2/3 pyramidal neurons. This synaptic depression occluded further LTD, enhanced LTP, was column specific, and was driven in part by competition between active and inactive whiskers. The synaptic locus of LTD and these properties suggest that LTD underlies the reduction of cortical responses to deprived whiskers, a major component of S1 map plasticity.
The posttranslational modification of clock proteins is critical for the function of circadian oscillators. By genetic analysis of a Drosophila melanogaster circadian clock mutant known as Andante, which has abnormally long circadian periods, we show that casein kinase 2 (CK2) has a role in determining period length. Andante is a mutation of the gene encoding the beta subunit of CK2 and is predicted to perturb CK2beta subunit dimerization. It is associated with reduced beta subunit levels, indicative of a defect in alpha:beta association and production of the tetrameric alpha2:beta2 holoenzyme. Consistent with a direct action on the clock mechanism, we show that CK2beta is localized within clock neurons and that the clock proteins Period (Per) and Timeless (Tim) accumulate to abnormally high levels in the Andante mutant. Furthermore, the nuclear translocation of Per and Tim is delayed in Andante, and this defect accounts for the long-period phenotype of the mutant. These results suggest a function for CK2-dependent phosphorylation in the molecular oscillator.
Although integration is a widely acknowledged goal in neuroscience, our approach to the function of biological entities often places boundaries that defy integration. Mapping across systems - from the genome to cognitive function - will require innovative methods that can identify every contributing component to a function, and instantaneously scale numerous changes in large data sets to consequences over the entire biological hierarchy.
The ability to detect and respond to novel events is crucial for survival in a rapidly changing environment. Four decades of neuroscientific research has begun to delineate the neural mechanisms by which the brain detects and responds to novelty. Here, we review this research and suggest how changes in neural processing at the cellular, synaptic and network levels allow us to detect, attend to and subsequently remember the occurrence of a novel event.
We are an intensely social species--it has been argued that our social nature defines what makes us human, what makes us conscious or what gave us our large brains. As a new field, the social brain sciences are probing the neural underpinnings of social behaviour and have produced a banquet of data that are both tantalizing and deeply puzzling. We are finding new links between emotion and reason, between action and perception, and between representations of other people and ourselves. No less important are the links that are also being established across disciplines to understand social behaviour, as neuroscientists, social psychologists, anthropologists, ethologists and philosophers forge new collaborations.
Some clinical reports suggest that tricyclic antidepressants which block both noradrenaline and serotonin (5-HT) reuptake (SNRIs) are more effective than selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in treating severe depression. Moreover, one neurochemical study reported larger increases in extracellular 5-HT in rat frontal cortex in response to the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine compared to the SSRI fluoxetine. However, imipramine, which blocks both 5-HT and noradrenaline reuptake, also binds with relatively high affinity to receptors for noradrenaline, histamine and acetylcholine. Thus, to test the hypothesis that compounds that inhibit both 5-HT and noradrenaline reuptake produce larger increases in 5-HT efflux, we compared the effects of acute systemic administration of several SNRIs and SSRIs. Extracellular 5-HT was measured using microdialysis probes implanted in the diencephalon and frontal cortex of unanesthetized rats. We tested the SSRIs paroxetine (0.3-10 mg/kg), citalopram (10-20 mg/kg) and fluoxetine (10 mg/kg), the nonselective tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (20 mg/kg) and the more selective SNRIs duloxetine (3-30 mg/kg) and venlafaxine (30-50 mg/kg). During the lights-off period, paroxetine and duloxetine increased 5-HT in the diencephalon approximately 300 and approximately 200%, respectively. During the lights-on period, paroxetine and duloxetine each increased 5-HT approximately 400% in the diencephalon. In the frontal cortex, both paroxetine and duloxetine increased 5-HT approximately 200%. Citalopram and venlafaxine each increased 5-HT in the diencephalon approximately 300%. Fluoxetine and imipramine increased 5-HT in the diencephalon by approximately 125 and approximately 80%, respectively. Thus, these results do not support the hypothesis that compared to SSRIs, compounds which inhibit both 5-HT and noradrenaline reuptake have a larger acute effect on extracellular 5-HT.
The metabolism of anandamide by fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH) at different intra- and extracellular pH values has been investigated in intact C6 rat glioma cells. The cellular uptake of anandamide at 37 degrees C was found to decrease by 28% when the extracellular pH (pH(e)) was reduced from pH 7.4 to pH 6.2. In contrast, a selective decrease in intracellular pH (pH(i)), accomplished by acidifying the cells followed by incubation in sodium-free buffer at pH 7.4, did not affect the uptake. Anandamide uptake was inhibited by (R)-ibuprofen, with pI(50) values of 3.05+/-0.57, 3.66+/-0.23 and 3.94+/-0.88 at pH(e) values of 7.4, 6.8 and 6.2, respectively. In the presence of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, however, (R)-ibuprofen failed to inhibit the uptake of anandamide. A reduction in pH(e) from 7.4 to 6.2 produced a 17% reduction in the FAAH-catalyzed metabolism of anandamide in the intact C6 cells. However, an increased sensitivity of FAAH activity to inhibition by (R)-ibuprofen as well as (R,S)-flurbiprofen and (S)-flurbiprofen was seen at a lower pH(e). For (R)-ibuprofen, pI(50) values of 3.57+/-0.08, 4.04+/-0.05 and 4.59+/-0.04 were found at pH(e) values of 7.4, 6.8 and 6.2, respectively. For (R,S)- and (S)-flurbiprofen, the pI(50) values at pH(e) 7.4 were 4.02+/-0.05 and 4.13+/-0.18, respectively at a pH(e) of 7.4, and 4.81+/-0.11 and 4.84+/-0.10, respectively, at a pH(e) of 6.2. In contrast, intracellular acidification did not affect either the rate of anandamide metabolism or its inhibition by (R)-ibuprofen or (S)-flurbiprofen. It is concluded that a reduction of extracellular pH produces an enhanced accumulation of the acidic NSAIDs ibuprofen and flurbiprofen into C6 glioma cells and thereby an inhibition of anandamide metabolism.
After crossing the midline, different populations of commissural axons in Drosophila target specific longitudinal pathways at different distances from the midline. It has recently been shown that this choice of lateral position is governed by the particular combination of Robo receptors expressed by these axons, presumably in response to a gradient of Slit released by the midline. Here we propose a simple theoretical model of this combinatorial coding scheme. The principal results of the model are that purely quantitative rather than qualitative differences between the different Robo receptors are sufficient to account for the effects observed following removal or ectopic expression of specific Robo receptors, and that the steepness of the Slit gradient in vivo must exceed a certain minimum for the results observed experimentally to be consistent.
We derive analytically the solution for the output rate of the ideal coincidence detector. The solution is for an arbitrary number of input spike trains with identical binomial count distributions (which includes Poisson statistics as a special case) and identical arbitrary pairwise cross-correlations, from zero correlation (independent processes) to complete correlation (identical processes).
Motor skill learning may involve training a neural system to automatically perform sequences of movements, with the training signals provided by a different system, used mainly during training to perform the movements, that operates under visual sensory guidance. We use a dynamical systems perspective to show how complex motor sequences could be learned by the automatic system. The network uses a continuous attractor network architecture to perform path integration on an efference copy of the motor signal to keep track of the current state, and selection of which motor cells to activate by a movement selector input where the selection depends on the current state being represented in the continuous attractor network. After training, the correct motor sequence may be selected automatically by a single movement selection signal. A feature of the model presented is the use of 'trace' learning rules which incorporate a form of temporal average of recent cell activity. This form of temporal learning underlies the ability of the networks to learn temporal sequences of behaviour. We show that the continuous attractor network models developed here are able to demonstrate the key features of motor function. That is, (i) the movement can occur at arbitrary speeds; (ii) the movement can occur with arbitrary force; (iii) the agent spends the same relative proportions of its time in each part of the motor sequence; (iv) the agent applies the same relative force in each part of the motor sequence; and (v) the actions always occur in the same sequence.
Alterations of striatal cholinergic markers may correlate with cognitive impairments in aged rats. M2 muscarinic receptors were found to be presynaptic inhibitory autoreceptors on striatal cholinergic interneurons. The effect of bilateral intrastriatal infusions of the M2 muscarinic receptor antagonist methoctramine was assessed, in cognitively impaired aged (24-26 months) Long-Evans female rats, on memory performances in a water maze. Compared with vehicle infusions, methoctramine injected bilaterally (1 microg/side) in the dorsolateral striatum, significantly improved procedural memory performance while having no effect on spatial working memory. Our results suggest that, in cognitively impaired aged rats, the blockade of M2 muscarinic receptors in the dorsolateral striatum improves procedural memory probably by enhancing the release of acetylcholine.
In humans and in animals, some aged individuals are severely impaired in learning and memory capacity whereas others perform as well as young adults. In the present study, the spatial memory capacity of young and aged rats was characterized by the Morris water maze task, and then firing patterns of hippocampal &quot;place cells&quot; were assessed as the animals explored a familiar environment and a geometrically-altered version of the environment. Spatial representations of hippocampal cells in young and memory-intact aged rats changed upon exposure to the altered environment. In contrast, spatial representations of many cells in aged, memory-impaired rats were unaffected by the environmental alteration. Furthermore, combining all groups, the extent to which spatial representations distinguished the familiar and altered environments predicted learning capacity in the water maze. These findings suggest that a major component of memory impairment in aging may be the failure of the hippocampus to encode subtle differences in contextual information that differ across multiple experiences, such as the sequence of training trials in the water maze.
X-linked IAP protein is a potent inhibitor of cell death. Here, we describe a novel transgenic mouse in which the human XIAP gene is expressed under the control of the neuron-specific enolase promoter (NSE-xiap). We demonstrate that nigrostriatal dopamine neurons of NSE-xiap mice were resistant to the damaging effects of the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPTP. MPTP-induced reduction of striatal dopamine metabolism was also attenuated in NSE-xiap mice. Furthermore, NSE-xiap mice treated with MPTP did not exhibit deficits in exploratory behaviour in an open-field test. Taken together, these findings suggest that strategies to enhance neuronal expression of XIAP may provide therapeutic benefit for the treatment of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease.
The Morris water maze is a task widely used to investigate cellular and molecular changes associated with spatial learning and memory. This task has both spatial and aversive (swimming related stress) components. It is possible that stress may influence cellular modifications observed after learning the Morris water maze spatial task. Heat shock proteins, also known as stress proteins, are up-regulated in response to thermal stress, trauma, or environmental insults. In the rat hippocampus, psychophysiological stress increases the levels of heat shock protein 70 (HSC70). In this study, we investigated whether the expression of the hsc70 gene is modulated in the hippocampus during learning of the Morris water maze task. Five groups of rats were trained in the Morris water maze task for varying amounts of time (either 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 days). Training consisted of 10 trials/day in which the animals were given 60s to find a submerged platform. Rats were sacrificed 24h after their last training trial. Results showed a significant increase in hsc70 mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampal formation after two and three days of training, respectively. The increase in mRNA and protein was associated with learning but not stress because the increase was not observed in the yoked control animals. These findings suggest that cellular and molecular changes can occur independent of stress. Moreover, the results are the first to implicate hsc70 expression in spatial learning.
Induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has been described in a wide range of neurological diseases including animal models of epilepsy. The present study was undertaken to assess COX-2 expression in hippocampal biopsies from patients with therapy-refractive temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). For this purpose, hippocampal CA1 subfield was dissected from epileptic patients with (n=5) or without (n=2) hippocampal sclerosis (HS). COX-2 expression was investigated using immunohistochemistry and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. COX-2 immunoreactivity in TLE patient material in the absence of HS was restricted to a few neurons of the hippocampus. In the presence of HS, on the other hand, a significant induction of astrocytic COX-2 immunoreactivity associated with a concomitant increase in the steady-state level of COX-2 mRNA was observed in the CA1 subfield. These findings suggest that induction of astrocytic COX-2 is implicated in the pathogenesis of HS in TLE and is consistent with the previous findings of increased concentrations of prostaglandins in the cerebrospinal fluid of these patients.
In neural and neuroendocrine cells, Ca(2+) influx is essential for exocytosis. Ca(2+) influx takes place through electrical membrane activity, which often occurs in bursts of action potentials that lead to intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations. Cytoplasmic Ca(2+) buffers and intracellular Ca(2+) stores are involved in the propagation of the oscillations through the cell. Studies focused on action potential bursts with a high frequency up to 20 Hz indicate that, depending on the cell type under investigation, bursts either enhance or reduce exocytosis efficiency. In many cell types, the bursting frequency can be as low as 1 Hz, although no information is present on whether this influences exocytosis efficiency. The present study addresses the role of low-frequency bursts around 1 Hz and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) buffering in the regulation of exocytosis efficiency, using neuroendocrine melanotrope cells of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. Exocytosis efficiency was determined by membrane capacitance measurements. Mimicking the bursting activity of 1 Hz (typical for this cell type) by repetitive depolarizing pulses enhanced exocytosis efficiency by 58% compared to application of only one single depolarizing pulse. This increase appears to be particularly due to a small number of distinct depolarizing pulses within a burst. Including the fast Ca(2+) buffer BAPTA in the intracellular solution reduced exocytosis efficiency by 60% in the first part of a burst, whereas during the later part of the burst, stimulation (+50%) took place. We conclude that low-frequency bursting in the Xenopus melanotrope cell strongly promotes exocytosis efficiency and that this efficiency also depends on the capacity of the cytoplasm to buffer the intracellular Ca(2+) signal; strong Ca(2+) buffering during a short burst will decrease exocytosis efficiency, whereas with prolonged bursts, buffering capacity will be overcome, leading to Ca(2+) accumulation and thus enhanced exocytosis efficiency.
In this study we demonstrate that, even in blocked design fMRI, an event-related analysis may provide a more accurate model of the hemodynamic responses than an epoch-related analysis. This is because the temporal shape of the predicted response differs between the event-related and the epoch model, with the former reaching its peak sooner and returning to baseline later than the latter. We present data from a blocked design fMRI study of single word reading alternated with rest. Conventionally, such a design would be analyzed using an epoch analysis with boxcar regressors. However, here we used a combined model in which trials were modeled as both single events and epochs. This allowed us to estimate the variance in the BOLD signal that was explained by either the event-related or the epoch regressors having discounted the effect of the other. We found that, in a number of language regions, the event-related model explained changes in activity that were not accounted for by the epoch model. In addition, we show that the advantage of the event-related over epoch model was engendered by its early onset rather than its late offset, relative to the epoch model.
This technical note deals with a priori estimation of efficiency of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) designs. The efficiency of an estimator is a measure of how reliable it is and depends on error variance (the variance not modeled by explanatory variables in the design matrix) and the design variance (a function of the explanatory variables and the contrast tested). Changes in the experimental design can induce changes in the variance of estimated responses. This translates into changes in the standard error of the response estimate or equivalently into changes in efficiency. One consequence is that statistics, testing for the same activation in different contexts (i.e., experimental designs), can change substantially even if the activation and error variance are exactly the same. We demonstrate this effect using an event-related fMRI study of single word reading during blocked and randomized trial presentations. Furthermore, we show that the error variance can change with the experimental design. This highlights a problem with a priori comparison of efficiency for two or more experimental designs, which usually assumes identical error variance.
Temporolimbic circuits play a crucial role in the regulation of human emotion. A highly sensitive single-shot multiecho functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technique with gradient compensation of local magnetic field inhomogeneities and real-time data analysis were used to measure increases in amygdala activation during single 60-s trials of self-induced sadness. Six healthy male and female subjects performed a validated mood induction paradigm with randomized presentation of sad or neutral faces in 10 trials per scan. Subjects reported the intensity of experienced sadness after each trial. Immediate feedback of amygdala activation was given to the subjects during the ongoing scan to reinforce mood induction. Correspondence between increased intensity of predominantly left sided amygdala activation and self-rating of sadness was found in 78% of 120 sad trials, in contrast to only 14% of neutral trials. Amygdala activation was reproducible during repeated scanning sessions and displayed the strongest correlation with self-rating among all regions. These results suggest that amygdala activation may be closely associated with self-induced sadness. This novel real-time fMRI technology is applicable to a wide range of neuroscience studies, particularly those of the limbic system, and to neuropsychiatric conditions, such as depression, in which pathology of the amygdala has been implicated.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series analysis and statistical inferences about the effect of a cognitive task on the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) are largely based on the linear model. However, this method requires that the error vector is a gaussian variable with an identity correlation matrix. When this assumption cannot be accepted, statistical inferences can be made using generalized least squares. In this case, knowledge of the covariance matrix of the error vector is needed. In the present report, we propose a method that needs stationarity of the autocorrelation function but is more flexible than autoregressive model of order p (AR(p)) models because it is not necessary to predefine a relation between coefficients of the correlation matrix. We tested this method on sets of simulated data (with presence of an effect of interest or not) representing a time series with a monotonically decreasing autocorrelation function. This time series mimicked an experiment using a random event-related design that does not create correlation between scans. The autocorrelation function is empirically determined and used to reconstitute the correlation matrix as the toeplitz matrix built from the autocorrelation function. When applied to simulated time series with no effect of interest, this method allows the determination of F values corresponding to the accurate false positive level. Moreover, when applied to time series with an effect of interest, this method gives a density function of F values which allows the rejection of the null hypothesis. This method provides a flexible but interpretable time domain noise model.
We report a case of spontaneous acute subdural hematoma in a 30-year-old man, who was diagnosed with hemophilia during his hospital stay. He developed an extradural hematoma following evacuation of the acute SDH, which was also evacuated. He had a good outcome. Management of such a patient is discussed.
Persistent mirror movements are unwanted movements restricted to muscles homologous to those moved intentionally on the opposite body half. It is rarely observed and the functional MRI findings in a case of persistent mirror movement are described.
Giant vertebrobasilar (VB) junction aneurysms are uncommon aneurysms, especially those associated with multiple aneurysms of the posterior circulation. We report two cases, one with a small and a giant aneurysm of the VB junction which were surgically clipped; and the other with a small left anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) aneurysm which resolved spontaneously. The patient, however, developed a de-novo giant VB junction aneurysm, which was detected on a follow-up angiogram. This aneurysm was treated by surgical clipping. The clinical features, angiographic considerations and surgical treatment of such rare conditions are discussed and the relevant literature reviewed.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) was used to evaluate the cortical excitability and central motor pathways in Parkinson's disease (PD) and correlate with severity and duration of disease. 19 cases of PD and 13 controls were enrolled. The threshold intensity (TI), cortical latency (CL), central conduction time (CCT), motor evoked potential amplitude (MEP) obtained with TMS were correlated with Hoehn and Yahr and duration of disease. The threshold intensity (TI) was significantly lower in patients of PD than controls. The TI in patients with PD was 53.16-/+8.4% patients and 67.1-/+21.6% in controls (p&lt;0.05). This strongly correlated with duration of disease, TI being lower in patients with disease duration more than 5 years. There was no difference in the other TMS parameters - CL, CCT, MEP between patients and controls. Our study revealed increased excitability in PD which was related to longer duration of disease.
Dural reconstruction is a significant problem in many cases of decompressive craniotomy and dural defect. Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) sheet have been used as a dura mater substitute for duraplasty. The outcomes of 83 consecutive patients at our institution were reviewed who underwent external decompression and closure with the ePTFE sheet between August 1995 and December 2000. Eight cases of infection occurred. Seven patients had infection with subdural empyema after cranioplasty with autologous bone. Three patients improved after removal of only the infected bone. One patient improved after removal of the infected bone and ePTFE sheet. One patient experienced wound infection after the original operation. Four patients subsequently developed local and severe inflammation with skin erythema until the ePTFE sheet was removed. Four patients had severe recurrent infections which required subsequent therapy such as vascularized free rectus abdominis muscle flap transfer. Duraplasty with ePTFE sheet might promote infection and poor circulation in the skin flap. The ePTFE sheet should be removed at an early stage in a patient with infection.
Hemorrhagic shock is a clinical syndrome that manifests as hypoperfusion, hypoxia, and ischemia initiating various cellular stress responses involved in the synthesis and release of an assortment of pro-inflammatory molecules, cytokines, chemokines, and reactive oxidant species (ROS). The ROS have been shown to oxidize and damage proteins making them targets for ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. Cullin-5 (cul-5), an E3 ligase that binds ubiquitin to proteins targeted for degradation via the proteasome, was investigated for its gene expression during hemorrhagic shock. Male Long-Evans rats were subjected to volume controlled (27 ml kg-1) hemorrhage over 10 min and kept in shock for 60 min. Quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction showed cul-5 mRNA levels were significantly increased in the brainstem and cerebellum, and decreased in the hypothalamus of rats as a result of hemorrhagic shock (n = 6) compared to sham-treated rats (n = 6). Cul-5 mRNA levels in the cerebral cortex, small intestine, kidney, liver, lung, or pituitary gland did not significantly change after hemorrhagic shock. This is the first report of cul-5 mRNA regulation by hemorrhagic shock. Evidence indicates this protein may have a regulatory role in ubiquitin-proteasomal protein degradation in response to hemorrhagic shock.
Only about 50% of central pain patients respond to motor cortex stimulation in the long run. There is a need for prognostic factors. Here we show that propofol test and TMS both predict short-term effect in nine patients with central pain. This may help reduce the number of failures.
Extradural motor cortex stimulation was introduced in 1989 for control of central pain. In recent years this has been found useful in several patients with movement disorders. This paper attempts to bring together all the relevant literature, discuss mechanisms and lay out guidelines for future research and clinical applications.

While calf muscle hypertrophy is a striking diagnostic finding in sarcoglycanopathy, as it is in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies, its pathogenetic mechanism remains unknown. gamma-Sarcoglycan, one of the subunits of the sarcoglycan complex, is the protein responsible for gamma-sarcoglycanopathy. To elucidate the pathogenetic mechanisms of muscle hypertrophy and degeneration in muscular dystrophy, we utilized a mutant mouse as a model animal. In this study, we generated gamma-sarcoglycan-deficient (gsg-/-) mice by gene targeting. The gsg-/- mice described here, similar to the gsg-/- mice reported previously (J Cell Biol 142 (1998) 1279), demonstrated skeletal and cardiac muscle degeneration. The limb, shoulder, and pelvic muscles of the gsg-/- mice exhibited progressive muscle hypertrophy and weakness with age, and the findings were similar to those seen in other mouse models for limb-girdle and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We found that the number of muscle fibers increased with age, and most of the fibers in the hypertrophic muscle were centrally nucleated regenerating fibers. Therefore, muscle hypertrophy of the gsg-/- mice may result from an increase of the number of muscle fibers and probable fiber branching and may not be due to the pseudohypertrophy caused by fibrous and fat tissue replacement, as has been long supposed in muscular dystrophy. The muscle pathology became more 'dystrophic' in mice over 1 year of age when there was a marked variation in fiber size with interstitial fibrosis.
Previously, the authors have established spontaneously immortalized cell lines from long-term cultures of normal adult mouse Schwann cells. Establishment of such Schwann cell lines derived from murine disease models may greatly facilitate studies of the cellular mechanisms of their peripheral nervous system lesions in the relevant diseases. Recently, the authors have established immortalized Schwann cell lines derived from Niemann-Pick disease type C mice (NPC; spm/spm) and globoid cell leukodystrophy mice (twitcher). In the present study, long-term cultures were maintained of Schwann cells derived from dorsal root ganglia and consecutive peripheral nerves of another NPC mouse (npc(nih)/npc(nih), npc(nih)/+), myelin P0 protein-deficient mice (P0-/-, P0+/-) with their wild-type littermates (P0+/+), and neurofibromatosis type 1 gene (NF1)-deficient mice (Nf1(FCr)/+) for 8-10 months, and immortalized cell lines from all these animals established spontaneously. These cell lines had spindle-shaped Schwann cell morphology and distinct Schwann cell phenotypes and retained genomic and biochemical abnormalities, sufficiently representing the in vivo pathological features of the mutant mice. These immortalized Schwann cell lines can be useful in studies of nervous system lesions in these mutant mice and relevant human disorders.
The purposes of neuropathological examination are diagnosis and discovery of new findings. Quantitative examination closely relates to these aims. To fulfil these aims, neuropathologists should understand well the strengths and weaknesses of the power of observation. The power of observation in humans is quite strong in differentiation of shapes, but weak in counting numbers and measuring size, length and width. Quantitative examination is a help in observation, and the fruits of the examination are generalization, numerization and schematization of the neuropathological findings, and analogy of neuronal function.
Werner syndrome (WS) is an autosomal recessive disorder associated with accelerated aging. It is well documented on systemic aging but it is unclear whether the brain with WS shows accelerated aging. A 55-year-old patient with WS was studied and it was found that a deletion mutation of exon 26 of the WRN gene was not associated with CNS pathology, such as amyloid plaques or NFT. Furthermore, additional genetic analysis showed an apolipoprotein E genotype of epsilon3/epsilon3 that did not play either an accelerating or inhibitory action on' amyloid deposition. Therefore, based on the genetic and neuropathological analysis, it was observed that the WS-associated aging seen in many organs did not extend to the CNS.
The ability of the substance P (NK(1) receptor) antagonist (SPA) L-760735 to inhibit conditioned fear was assessed in gerbils using a four plate apparatus. Animals that had been treated with diazepam (3 mg/kg) or L-760735 (3 mg/kg) 30 min before a 3 min conditioning session in the apparatus exhibited a release of plate crossings during the retest session approximately 3 h later. Plate crossings were also increased when animals received diazepam or L-760735 30 min before the retest session. In contrast, fluoxetine and venlafaxine (30 mg/kg) did not exhibit anxiolytic-like effects. During the retest session, gerbils drummed their hind feet on the floor; this behaviour was not observed spontaneously in gerbils that were nave to the apparatus. Foot drumming was abolished by pretreatment with L-760735 or diazepam (3 mg/kg) but was markedly increased following administration of fluoxetine or venlafaxine (30 mg/kg). Foot drumming elicited by aversive conditioning alone or in combination with fluoxetine was abolished by administration of L-760735 and by amygdala lesions involving the basolateral and lateral nuclei, indicating that this behaviour is an alarm signal or fear response mediated via release of substance P in brain circuits involving the amygdala. The observations provide further evidence for an anxiolytic-like profile of SPAs in preclinical assays and demonstrate a clear difference between the actions of SPAs and established antidepressant drugs.
For a number of years it has been known that the CNS convulsant picrotoxin inhibits the GABA(A) receptor, an anion-selective member of the ligand-gated ion channel (LGIC) superfamily. PTX also inhibits other anion-selective LGIC members, such as GABA(C), glycine and glutamate-gated Cl(-) channels. In the present report, we tested the ability of picrotoxin to inhibit cation-selective 5-HT(3A) receptors. Murine 5-HT(3A) receptors were expressed in HEK293 cells, and functionally evaluated using whole-cell patch clamp recording. Picrotoxin inhibited 5-HT-gated currents in a concentration-dependent manner, with an IC(50) of approximately 30 microM. Moreover, the blockade by PTX was non-competitive and use-facilitated. Pentylenetetrazole and U-93631, ligands that act at a domain similar to that of picrotoxin in GABA(A) receptors, also inhibited the 5-HT(3A) receptor. For each ligand tested, its potency was 5-10 fold lower than typically observed in GABA(A) receptors. Our results demonstrate that, in addition to being a relatively non-selective inhibitor of anionic LGICs, picrotoxin also inhibits the cation-selective 5-HT(3A) receptor. Moreover, the fact that both PTZ and U-93631 similarly inhibit the 5-HT(3A) receptor is consistent with the suggestion that the site of picrotoxin action in this receptor may be comparable to that in anion-selective LGICs.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are two forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity that are thought to be involved in learning and memory. Evidence has shown that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an enzyme that converts arachidonic acid to prostaglandins, is expressed in postsynaptic dendritic spines and is regulated by synaptic activity. COX-2 inhibition has been shown to directly attenuate LTP in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Also recently the p38 MAP kinase cascade, a pathway utilised by cells for COX-2 expression, has been implicated in LTD induction in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Here we demonstrate for the first time a direct role for COX-2 and p38 MAP kinase in LTD and confirm the inhibitory role of COX-2 in LTP in the rat dentate gyrus. Perfusion of the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 (1 micro M) 60 min before tetanic stimulation resulted in an attenuation of LTD (84+/-5%, n=5 compared to controls of 57+/-7%, n=6, P&lt;0.05). Prolonged exposure (2 h) to NS-398 (1 micro M) resulted in a significant reduction in LTP (71+/-8%, n=5, P&lt;0.01 compared to controls of 170+/-11%, n=5 at 60 min post HFS). The p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB220025 (250 nM) significantly attenuated LTD (88+/-5%, n=7; P&lt;0.01 compared to vehicle controls at 60 min, 56+/-5%, n=6) but had no significant effect on LTP. Both NS-398 and SB220025 had no significant effect on the isolated NMDA-mediated EPSP. These data demonstrate a role for COX-2 and p38 MAPK in LTD in the dentate gyrus in vitro that is independent of NMDA receptor activation.
Nicotine has bimodal effects on anxiety, with low doses having an anxiolytic effect and high doses having an anxiogenic effect. The dorsal hippocampus is one of the brain areas that mediate the anxiogenic effect of nicotine through enhanced 5-HT release, but the nAChR subtype(s) that mediate these effects are not known. Intrahippocampal administration of a high dose of nicotine (1 micro g, 4.3 mM) had an anxiogenic effect in the social interaction test that was reversed by co-administration of a behaviourally inactive dose (1.9 ng, 4.3 micro M) of methyllycaconitine (MLA), which is an antagonist at alpha7 and alpha3 nAChR subunits. At a dose (0.8 ng, 4.3 micro ;M) at which its actions would be specific to alpha4beta2 and alpha3beta2 nAChRs dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) was unable to reverse nicotine's anxiogenic effect. Reversal was obtained with a 10-fold higher, but receptor non-specific concentration of DHbetaE (7.8ng, 43 micro M), suggesting that the DHbetaE reversal might have been due to action at alpha7 nAChRs. Exposure of hippocampal slices to MLA (0.25, 05, 1 and 10 micro M) significantly reduced the increase in [(3)H]5-HT release evoked by nicotine (100 micro M). DHbetaE (0.1-0.5 micro M) failed to reverse this effect of nicotine on [(3)H]5-HT release, although higher concentrations (1 and 10 micro M), at which alpha7 subunits would also be affected, were able to do so. Because of the lack of effects of low, receptor specific concentrations of DHbetaE, it is more likely that the MLA reversal of both nicotine's anxiogenic effect and its stimulation of [(3)H]5-HT release is due to action at alpha7 than at alpha3 units. This is perhaps also more likely because the alpha7 receptors are highly expressed in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas the alpha3 subunits are much less abundant. However, what is most important is that, in the dorsal hippocampus, nicotine's anxiogenic effect and induced release of [(3)H]5-HT are mediated by non alpha4beta2 nAChRs, which contrasts with the previously reported anxiolytic effect of a low dose of nicotine which is mediated by alpha4beta2 nAChRs within the dorsal raph nucleus. Thus the anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of nicotine can be distinguished both by brain region and by nicotinic receptor subtype.
Neuronal networks of the hippocampal CA3 region generate stereotyped patterns of electrical activity in response to activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) that consist of intermittent episodes of prolonged oscillatory activity. In light of the slow kinetics of such network responses, we investigated the possible contribution of the hyperpolarisation-activated inward current (I(h)) in the generation and maintenance of hippocampal oscillatory states. Hippocampal 'mini-slice' experiments in which the main subfields of the hippocampus were isolated by transection of the connecting afferents revealed that the CA3 region was the primary generator of both mGluR and mAChR-mediated network responses. Subsequent patch-clamp experiments confirmed the presence of a prominent hyperpolarisation-activated inward current in the principal cells of the CA3 region that was sensitive to caesium chloride and the selective I(h) blocker ZD-7288.Furthermore, in the presence of mAChR or mGluR agonists these cells exhibited a slow membrane potential oscillation that was independent of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. Blockade of I(h) suppressed this oscillation as well as mGluR and mAChR-induced theta based intermittent network oscillatory behaviour. These data support the idea that the I(h) pacemaker current is important in the generation of patterned neuronal activities in the hippocampus.
The purpose of this paper is to examine the &quot;dual-process&quot; information-processing model of Schneider and Shiffrin (Schneider, W., and Shiffrin, R. M., Psychol. Rev. 84: 1-66, 1977; see also Shiffrin, R. M., and Schneider, W., Psychol. Rev. 84: 127-190, 1977) in light of the research data that have accumulated since the model was introduced more than 20 years ago. First, a brief introduction of the basic model of automatic and controlled information processing will be given. Second, some alternatives to the basic model that were developed over the last two decades will be reviewed. Third, data from neuropsychology and cognitive neuroscience that have a bearing upon this framework will be considered. Finally, some comments on the current usefulness of the dual-process framework for neuropsychological research will be offered.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often comorbid with major depressive episodes (MDEs) and both conditions carry a higher rate of suicidal behavior. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and serotonin abnormalities are associated with both conditions and suicidal behavior, but their inter-relation is not known. We determined cortisol response to placebo or fenfluramine in MDE, MDE and PTSD (MDE+PTSD), and healthy volunteers (HVs) and examined the relation of cortisol responses to suicidal behavior. A total of 58 medication-free patients with MDE (13 had MDE+PTSD) and 24 HVs were studied. They received placebo on the first day and fenfluramine on the second day. Cortisol levels were drawn before challenge and for 5 h thereafter. The MDE+PTSD group had the lowest plasma cortisol, the MDE group had the highest, and HVs had intermediate levels. There were no group differences in cortisol response to fenfluramine. Suicidal behavior, sex, and childhood history of abuse were not predictors of baseline or postchallenge plasma cortisol. Cortisol levels increased with age. This study finds elevated cortisol levels in MDE and is the first report of lower cortisol levels in MDE+PTSD. The findings underscore the impact of comorbidity of PTSD with MDE and highlight the importance of considering comorbidity in psychobiology.
Numerous evidences suggest that stress and stress-related hormones can modulate the activity of the brain reward pathway and thus may account for individual vulnerability towards the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. Transgenic (TG) mice expressing an antisense mRNA against the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), which partially blocks GR expression, were used to assess the role of GR dysfunction on cocaine (COC)-induced c-fos and Nerve-Growth Factor Inducible-B (NGFI-B, or Nur77) gene expression. These two genes belong to different families of transcription factors and have been shown to be modulated by various dopaminergic drugs. TG and wild-type (WT) mice were both acutely and repeatedly treated with COC (20 mg/kg, i.p.). In the chronic experiment, mice received a 5-day treatment of COC and were challenged 5 days later with COC or vehicle. Locomotor activity was assessed during the entire chronic experiment in the mouse home cages. Animals were sacrificed 1 h after the last injection and NGFI-B and c-fos mRNA levels in the prefrontal cortex, the nucleus accumbens and the striatum were measured by in situ hybridization. Acute COC administration led to significantly smaller c-fos increases in TG mice compared to WT, whereas repeated COC treatment potentiated c-fos induction both in TG and WT mice to equivalent levels. TG mice displayed higher basal NGFI-B expression in the nucleus accumbens and the level of NGFI-B mRNA was differently modulated by COC in TG mice compared to WT mice. In accordance with data on c-fos expression, behavioral data indicate a blunted locomotor effect on the first COC injection in TG mice, a phenomenon corrected by the repeated COC treatment. These results suggest that an alteration of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis can modify COC-induced regulation of the transcription factors c-fos and NGFI-B, and that these changes parallel those seen at the behavioral level. It also demonstrates that the differences at the behavioral and molecular levels noted between TG and WT mice after acute COC injection disappear following repeated COC administration, suggesting that repeated COC has a greater impact in TG mice underexpressing GRs.
Endovascular treatment of aneurysms of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) avoids manipulation of the brainstem or lower cranial nerves and should therefore carry a lower risk of neurological morbidity than surgical clipping. We reviewed our experience of 23 patients with PICA aneurysms treated by endovascular occlusion with Guglielmi detachable coils and documented their long-term outcome on follow-up. We observed a 28 day procedure-related neurological morbidity of 13% (3/23 patients). One patient suffered permanent neurological complications. There were no procedure-related deaths. None of our patients suffered a re-bleed from their treated aneurysms. Our series shows endovascular treatment of ruptured PICA aneurysms to be safe and effective.
Cullin-5 (cul-5), a member of the cullin gene family, may have a role in proteolysis and cell cycle regulation. Our recent study demonstrated that cul-5 mRNA is ubiquitously expressed in the central nervous system and many peripheral organs. The present study used quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction to measure changes in cul-5 mRNA expression as a consequence of osmotic stress in vivo. Cul-5 mRNA levels were significantly increased in the rat cerebral cortex, hypothalamus and kidney following 48 h of water deprivation. Water deprivation for a shorter time period (24 h) or rehydration (24 h access to water following 48 h of water deprivation) also elevated kidney cul-5 mRNA levels. Water deprivation did not significantly alter cul-5 mRNA levels in the brainstem, cerebellum, hippocampus, lung or liver. Since cul-5 appears to be linked to proteosome-mediated protein degradation, it may have a role in protein regulation under conditions of osmotic stress.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is best known for its long-term survival effect on dopaminergic neurons in the ventral midbrain. A recent study showed that acute application of GDNF to these neurons suppresses A-type potassium channels and potentiates neuronal excitability. Here we have characterized the acute effects of GDNF on Ca(2+) channels and synaptic transmission. GDNF rapidly and reversibly potentiated the high voltage-activated (HVA) Ca(2+) channel currents in cultured dopaminergic neurons. Analyses of channel kinetics indicate that GDNF decreased the activation time constant, increased the inactivation and deactivation time constants of HVA Ca(2+) channel currents. Ca(2+) imaging experiments demonstrate that GDNF facilitated Ca(2+) influx induced by membrane depolarization. To investigate the physiological consequences of the Ca(2+) channel modulation, we examined the acute effects of GDNF on excitatory synaptic transmission at synapses made by these dopaminergic neurons, which co-release the transmitter glutamate. Within 3 min of application, GDNF increased the amplitude of spontaneous and evoked excitatory autaptic- or multiple-postsynaptic currents. The frequency as well as the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents was also increased. These results reveal, for the first time, an acute effect of GDNF on synaptic transmission and its potential mechanisms, and suggest that an important function of GDNF for midbrain dopaminergic neurons is the acute modulation of transmission and ion channels.
The isolation and characterization of multiple melatonin receptors in a wide range of tissues and cells signifies the functional diversity of melatonin. In different cellular environments, melatonin can regulate distinct second messengers or even positively or negatively regulate the same signal transduction pathway. The capacity by which melatonin receptors modulate the activities of various effector molecules is determined by the complement of signaling components present in any particular cell type. The specific interactions between many signaling molecules have been discerned in an increasing number of cellular systems and this information is being used to explain the physiological actions of melatonin. This review will attempt to summarize recent research by many groups that has revealed numerous subtleties of the melatonin-coupled signaling pathways.
We have investigated the effect of methanol exposure on the retinal function of juvenile rats. The electroretinogram (ERG) and oscillatory potentials (OPs) were recorded prior to and up to 72 h after the administration of methanol. Data were compared to a control group which was only exposed to physiological saline. Our findings can be summarized as follows: methanol generally reduced the amplitude of all retinal potentials, and in some cases, to baseline levels. The ERG b-wave was affected earlier and more prominently than the a-wave. All measured OPs (2-4) were decreased but OP2 was less affected, suggesting that the cone pathway may be less sensitive to methanol than the rod-mediated pathway. These data indicate that juvenile rats (21 days old, i.e. with an immature synaptic development) present a sensitivity to methanol comparable to that observed in adult animals.

Students with school phobia have two major clinical problems in common: 1) easy fatigability and 2) disturbed learning and memory functions. In the last 15 years, we studied these cases using various medical and physiological methods, by evaluating clinical autonomic nervous system functions, circadian rhythms such as hormonal secretion, deep body temperature, and sleep-wake. Most of them showed autonomic nervous system dysfunction and circadian rhythm disturbances quite similar to &quot;jet lag&quot;. We suggest that this kind of circadian rhythm disturbances are quite prevalent among children in the world and cause memory and learning disabilities.
With regards to education, there are various problems, which have repeatedly been investigated and discussed by many commissions and committees. The conclusions drawn from these efforts have, however, swung back and forth over time, like a pendulum. Apart from finding symptomatic solutions, pediatric neurologists in the 21st century should drastically re-evaluate &quot;the view of children&quot; by virtue of brain science that has been rapidly advancing. From this aspect, I would like to make a proposal for the establishment of new developmental neurology.
From a biological viewpoint, learning and education are closely related to brain development because the brain is an adaptable information processor open to the environment. Stimuli from the environment cause new neuronal connections. Therefore, learning is the process in which the brain reacts to stimuli by making neuronal connections that act as an information processing circuit and provide information storage similar to a database. On the other hand, education is a process that should guide and inspire the construction of the basic architecture of brain information processing by preparing and controlling the input stimuli to the brain.
&quot;Nurturing the Brain&quot; is a new research field aiming at facilitating development and maintenance of healthy brains and keeping their learning capabilities at full display throughout life. It is based on recent remarkable progress in developmental neuroscience and non-invasive technologies for visualizing brain activities in humans, even infants and children. &quot;Nurturing the Brain&quot; research will help us to cure or prevent various types of developmental disorders such as ADHD and autism. It will also help us in choosing an appropriate timing for child care and education on the basis of new knowledge of the critical period of development for various brain functions.
Infants achieve remarkable functions during the first year of life. Dendrites and synaptic connections grow and subcortical myclination takes place. In recent years, we have witnessed remarkable progress in the field of neuroscience. It has become clear that the human brain shows maximal plasticity in infancy and early childhood. This plasticity provides a golden window of opportunity to maximize human development. Excess synaptic connections are eliminated during late childhood, a phenomenon that appears to be influenced at least to some extent by the environment. In many years of clinical practice as a pediatrician, I have observed the growth and development of both normal children and those challenged with developmental disabilities. Parents need to spend time responding to and playing with their young children. The plasticity of the human brain in early life is not only an opportunity; it is also responsibility. We must provide all children with the optimal environment for both intellectual and psychological development. It seems that sensitive and sympathetic responses from caretakers are of critical importance. Physicians and basic investigators have the responsibility of further elucidating brain function, as means of discovering how to optimize the environment for development of the human brain.
Recently it has been suggested that a previously undetected, rhodopsin-based, visual pigment, located in some retinal ganglion cells and having a peak sensitivity around 460 nm, may be responsible for light-induced melatonin suppression and, perhaps, maintenance of the circadian rhythm. Using data from the literature, it is shown that, as absorption in the crystalline lens for shorter visible wavelengths increases substantially with age, while the pupil diameter tends to decrease, the effective retinal exposure received under the same ambient lighting conditions by the pigment is almost 10 times lower in an old, as compared with a young, eye. Interestingly, replacement of the old crystalline lens by an intraocular implant restores the exposure to youthful levels. The possible effects of these changes with age on circadian rhythms are discussed.
The aim of this study was to evaluate corneal innervation in soft contact lens wearers using the Tomey Confoscan confocal microscope (40x/0.75 objective lens). Three distinct age- and sex-matched subject groups were involved, including extended soft (hydrogel and silicone-hydrogel) contact lens wearers, overnight soft (hydrogel) contact lens wearers, and non contact lens wearers. A number of variables were objectively measured, subjectively evaluated, or graded in order to investigate the distribution and morphology of corneal nerves. For most of the evaluated parameters, no statistically significant differences were found. However, qualitative observations showed noticeable differences in corneal nerve appearance among the different subject groups; the degree of corneal oedema was suggested as the main causative factor. In conclusion, neither the short-term (overnight wear) nor the long-term (12-month extended wear) soft contact lens wear appeared to affect the morphology and/or distribution of corneal nerves as viewed with confocal microscopy.

A characteristic symptom of neuropathic pain is mechanical allodynia. In animal models of neuropathic pain, mechanical allodynia is often assessed using von Frey filaments. Although the forces applied with these filaments are highly reproducible, there are various disadvantages of using this method. Testing paradigms and definitions of withdrawal threshold are not standardised. Moreover, measurements may be influenced by various conditions, such as ambient temperature, humidity, weight bearing of the limb and stress. We have therefore investigated another technique to assess mechanical allodynia, the 'CatWalk' automated quantitative gait analysis. With this computer-assisted method of locomotor analysis, it is possible to objectively and rapidly quantify several gait parameters, including duration of different phases of the step cycle and pressure applied during locomotion. We tested rats with a chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve, a model of neuropathic pain, both with von Frey filaments and the CatWalk method. We demonstrate that these rats minimise contact with the affected paw during locomotion, as demonstrated by a reduction in stance phase and pressure applied during stance. Moreover, these parameters show a high degree of correlation with mechanical withdrawal thresholds as determined by von Frey filaments. We therefore suggest that the CatWalk method might serve as an additional tool in the investigation of mechanical allodynia.
The analgesia produced by low and high frequency transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is mediated by the release of mu- or delta-opioids, respectively in the central nervous system. Repeated administration of either mu- or delta-opioid agonists induce opioid analgesic tolerance. Thus, we tested if repeated administration of TENS (either low or high frequency) in rats leads to a development of tolerance to its antihyperalgesic effects with a corresponding cross-tolerance to mu- and delta-opioid agonists. Unilateral knee joint inflammation (3% carrageenan) was induced in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Either low (4 Hz) or high frequency (100 Hz) TENS was administered for 6 days (20 min daily) to the inflamed knee joint under halothane anesthesia. The no TENS controls were administered anesthesia only for the same period. Withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli was measured before and after administration of TENS on each day and also on the sixth day. A separate group of animals was tested for tolerance to either the mu-opioid agonist, morphine (1.32, 3.95, 13.2 nmol/10 ml, intrathecal (i.t.)) or the delta-opioid agonist, SNC-80 (6, 20, 60, 120 nmol/10 ml, i.t.) 30 min after i.t. administration. The reduced mechanical withdrawal threshold following the induction of inflammation was reversed by the application of TENS. However, repeatedly administering either low or high frequency TENS for 6 days, lead to a diminution in its effectiveness in reversing the ipsilateral secondary mechanical hyperalgesia by the fourth day. The effects of morphine in the low and SNC-80 in the high frequency TENS groups were significantly less than the group that did not receive TENS. On the other hand, morphine and SNC-80 were similar to the no TENS control in the high and low frequency TENS groups, respectively. Thus, repeated administration of low and high frequency TENS leads to a development of opioid tolerance with a corresponding cross-tolerance to i.t. administered mu- and delta-opioid agonists, respectively. Clinically, it can be inferred that a treatment schedule of repeated daily TENS administration should be avoided to possibly obviate the induction of tolerance.
Placebo-activated endogenous opioids act on pain mechanisms inducing analgesia, as well as on the respiratory centers inducing respiratory depression. Here, we show that placebo analgesia is accompanied by a reduced beta-adrenergic activity of the heart. We measured heart rate during placebo-induced expectation of analgesia, both in the clinical and the laboratory setting. In the clinical setting, we found that the placebo analgesic response to an electrical noxious stimulus was accompanied by a reduced heart rate response. In order to investigate this effect from a pharmacological viewpoint, we reproduced the same effect in the laboratory setting by using experimental ischemic arm pain. We found that the opioid antagonist naloxone completely antagonized both placebo analgesia and the concomitant reduced heart rate response, whereas the beta-blocker propranolol antagonized the placebo heart rate reduction, but not placebo analgesia. By contrast, both placebo responses were present during muscarinic blockade with atropine, indicating no involvement of the parasympathetic system. In order to better understand the effects of naloxone and propranolol, we performed a spectral analysis of the heart rate variability for the identification of the sympathetic and parasympathetic components, and found that the beta-adrenergic low frequency (0.15 Hz) spectral component was reduced during placebo analgesia, an effect that was reversed by naloxone. These findings indicate that placebo analgesia is accompanied by a complex cascade of events which affect the cardiovascular system.
Gaucher disease, the inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase, presents with a wide spectrum of manifestations. Although Gaucher disease has been divided into three clinical types, patients with atypical presentations continue to be recognized. A careful phenotypic and genotypic assessment of patients with unusual symptoms may help define factors that modify phenotype in this disorder. One such example is a rare subgroup of patients with type 3 Gaucher disease who develop progressive myoclonic epilepsy. We evaluated 16 patients with myoclonic epilepsy, nine of whom were diagnosed by age 4 y with severe visceral involvement and myoclonus, and seven with a more chronic course, who were studied between ages 22 and 40. All of the patients had abnormal horizontal saccadic eye movements. Fourteen different genotypes were encountered, yet there were several shared alleles, including V394L (seen on two alleles), G377S (seen on three alleles), and L444P, N188S, and recombinant alleles (each found on four alleles). V394L, G377S, and N188S are mutations that have previously been associated with non-neuronopathic Gaucher disease. The spectrum of genotypes differed significantly from other patients with type 3 Gaucher disease, where genotypes L444P/L444P and R463C/null allele predominated. Northern blot studies revealed a normal glucocerebrosidase transcript, whereas Western studies showed that the patients studied lacked the processed 56 kD isoform of the enzyme, consistent with neuronopathic Gaucher disease. Brain autopsy samples from two patients demonstrated elevated levels of glucosylsphingosine, a toxic glycolipid, which could contribute to the development of myoclonus. Thus, although there were certain shared mutant alleles found in these patients, both the lack of a shared genotype and the variability in clinical presentations suggest that other modifiers must contribute to this rare phenotype.
This work describes the isolation and pharmacological characterization of a neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor from rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). The receptor exhibits approximately 45% amino acid sequence identity to mammalian Y1-subfamily receptors, Y1, Y4 and y6, a similar degree of identity as these subtypes display to one another. Because it displays highest sequence identity to zebrafish Yb (75%), we named it the trout Yb receptor. The receptor exhibits high binding affinity for zebrafish and human NPY and peptide YY (PYY) but not truncated forms of the peptides. Human pancreatic polypeptide (PP) also binds with high affinity. Y1 selective antagonists exhibit poor binding as is the case for Y2 and Y5 selective ligands. This binding profile supports membership in the Y1 subfamily. Sequence data also support this relationship suggesting that Yb is a fourth and separate member of the Y1 subfamily. NPY has a number of important physiological functions such as regulating food intake and reproduction. The expression of the receptor in the hypothalamus and telencephalon suggests a possible role in these processes. This and other receptors from this species have potential for improving aquaculture.
Exposing the developing brain to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) has been shown to cause deficits in neurobehavioral functions, particularly on learning and memory and seizure sensitivity. Besides acting as a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, PCP at high doses is known to affect the dopaminergic system. The present study assessed the effect of postnatal PCP treatment on locomotor activity and striatal dopamine (DA) D(2) receptor. Male and female rat pups were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with one of three doses of PCP (1, 3 and 5 mg/kg) or saline from postnatal day (PD) 5 to PD 15. Control and PCP-treated rats were given a challenge dose of PCP (10 mg/kg) as adults, and their locomotor behaviors--locomotion, stereotypy and ataxia--were scored. Postnatal PCP treatment did not have any significant effect in either sex on any of the PCP-induced locomotor behavioral paradigms studied. Separate groups of male and female rats were treated daily with saline or PCP (5 mg/kg i.p.) from PD 5 to PD 15 and sacrificed either as juveniles (PD 21) or adults, and D(2) receptor binding was measured in their striata. Striatal D(2) receptor density in juvenile and adult male postnatal PCP-treated rats did not differ from saline-treated controls. Adult female PCP-treated rats showed a slight but significant reduction in the maximal binding of striatal D(2) receptors. There was no effect of postnatal PCP on striatal D(2) receptor binding in female juvenile rats. These results support the hypothesis that blocking the developing NMDA receptor minimally affects PCP-induced locomotor behavior and the striatal D(2) receptor.
Abnormal repetitive behavior, including stereotypy, is often observed in conjunction with developmental, neuropsychiatric, and genetic disorders. The present work employed the deer mouse model of spontaneous and persistent stereotypy to identify basal ganglia involvement in the mediation of these abnormal behaviors. To evaluate the hypothesis that stereotypy is expressed in these mice due to alterations in the activity of cortico-basal ganglia motor circuits, intrastriatal pharmacological manipulations aimed at attenuating the spontaneously emitted stereotypy were performed. Bilateral striatal infusion of the NMDA or dopamine D(1) receptor antagonists MK-801 or SCH23390, respectively, produced a substantial reduction in levels of stereotypic jumping without inhibiting nonstereotypic motor behavior. These findings support the hypothesis that environmentally related stereotypy is expressed as a consequence of elevated feedback activity occurring along motor circuits of the basal ganglia.
Dextromethorphan has been reported to decrease the self-administration of several drugs of abuse, including morphine, methamphetamine, cocaine, and nicotine. Most drugs of abuse increase extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. The effects of dextromethorphan on DA release in the nucleus accumbens of nai;ve rats and of rats treated acutely and chronically with morphine were studied using in vivo microdialysis. DA dialysate levels were evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Acute morphine (5 mg/kg i.p.) treatment increased the levels of DA in the nucleus accumbens to approximately 175% of basal levels. Chronic morphine (20 mg/kg i.p. daily for 5 days) increased DA release in the nucleus accumbens to 250% of basal levels. Acute treatment with dextromethorphan (20 or 30 mg/kg s.c.) alone did not alter nucleus accumbens DA levels. Pretreatment with dextromethorphan (20 mg/kg s.c., 20 min prior) potentiated the effects of acute morphine, while attenuating the effects of chronic morphine on nucleus accumbens DA levels. These results with dextromethorphan suggest that the mechanism mediating the effects of dextromethorphan on drug self-administration involves modulation of the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway.
Borna Disease Virus (BDV) is a neurotropic RNA virus that is worldwide in distribution, causing movement and behavior disorders in a wide range of animal species. BDV has also been reported to be associated with neuropsychiatric diseases of humans by serologic study and by recovery of nucleic acid or virus from blood or brain. Natural infections of horses and sheep produce encephalitis with erratic excited behaviors, hyperkinetic movement or gait abnormalities; naturally infected cats have ataxic &quot;staggering disease.&quot; Experimentally infected primates develop hyperactivity, aggression, disinhibition, then apathy; prosimians (lower primates) have hyperactivity, circadian disruption, abnormal social and dominance behaviors, and postural disorders. However, the neuropharmacological determinants of BD phenotypes in laboratory and natural hosts are incompletely understood. Here we review how experimentally infected rodents have provided models for examining behavioral, pharmacologic, and biochemical responses to viral challenge, and how rodents experimentally infected as neonates or as adolescents are providing models for examining age-specific neuropharmacological adaptations to viral injury.
This paper investigates traveling wave solutions of the spatially discrete reaction-diffusion systems whose kinetics are modeled by the McKean caricature of the FitzHugh-Nagumo model. In the limit of a weak coupling strength, we construct the traveling wave solutions and obtain the critical coupling constant below which propagation failure occurs. We report the existence of two different pulse traveling waves with different propagation speeds. Analytical results on the wave speed are obtained. Earlier results on propagation in the bistable medium are found as a limiting regime of our analysis.


This article has discussed the relationship between cognitive deficits and functional outcome in schizophrenia. This relationship was noted first by Kraepelin and Bleuler at the beginning of the twentieth century. With the introduction of conventional neuroleptics, the focus shifted toward the treatment of positive symptoms. In the past few decades, cognitive dysfunction has been recognized as a fundamental feature of schizophrenia and has been shown repeatedly to have a negative association with functional outcome [6]. Improvement in cognitive functioning became one of the most important clinical targets in the treatment of schizophrenia in the 1990s [82]. Main domains of cognition that are disrupted significantly in schizophrenia include attention, executive function, verbal and visuospatial working memory, and learning and memory. Although conventional antipsychotics are effective in treating positive symptoms, they lack the ability to improve cognitive impairment and produce poor functional outcome. Previous research has shown superior efficacy of atypical antipsychotics on cognitive impairments in schizophrenia compared with conventional antipsychotics. Because the heterogeneity of atypical antipsychotics in their pharmacologic properties, they have differential profiles of cognitive efficacy in patients with schizophrenia. Establishing the cognitive profile of each atypical antipsychotic is an important task. This knowledge can be used to address individual cognitive problems and needs. Because cognitive deficits have been shown to have associations with different aspects of clinical symptoms, limited learning in rehabilitation programs, and functional outcome in schizophrenia, targeting individual cognitive deficits would lead to greater treatment success in terms of clinical and functional outcome. Although atypical antipsychotics have some benefit on cognitive function, further efforts to improve cognitive function are required. Attempts at improving cognition in schizophrenia with specific cognitive enhancers pharmacologically and psychological therapies such as cognitive remediation might lead to better functional outcome in patients with schizophrenia.


The author reviews reemerging coconstructive conceptions of development and recent empirical findings of developmental plasticity at different levels spanning several fields of developmental and life sciences. A cross-level dynamic biocultural coconstructive framework is endorsed to understand cognitive and behavioral development across the life span. This framework integrates main conceptions of earlier views into a unifying frame, viewing the dynamics of life span development as occurring simultaneously within different time scales (i.e., moment-to-moment microgenesis, life span ontogeny, and human phylogeny) and encompassing multiple levels (i.e., neurobiological, cognitive, behavioral, and sociocultural). Viewed through this metatheoretical framework, new insights of potential interfaces for reciprocal cultural and experiential influences to be integrated with behavioral genetics and cognitive neuroscience research can be more easily prescribed.




Sydenham's chorea (SC) occurs weeks or months after Group A streptococcal infection, and is characterized by involuntary, purposeless movements of the limbs, in addition to behavioural alteration. There is a body of evidence which suggests that SC is an immune-mediated brain disorder with regional localization to the basal ganglia. Recent reports have suggested that the spectrum of post-streptococcal CNS disease is broader than chorea alone, and includes other hyperkinetic movement disorders (tics, dystonia and myoclonus). In addition, there are high rates of behavioural sequelae, particularly emotional disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorder, anxiety and depression. These findings have lead to the hypothesis that similar immune-mediated basal ganglia processes may be operating in common neuropsychiatric disease such as tic disorders, Tourette syndrome and obsessive-compulsive disorder. This review analyses the historical aspects of post-streptococcal CNS disease, and the recent immunological studies which have addressed the hypothesis that common neuropsychiatric disorders may be secondary to basal ganglia autoimmunity.
Past studies showed that chemicals in cigarette smoke inhibit oviductal functioning in vivo and in vitro. The purposes of this study were to identify individual toxicants in cigarette smoke solutions that inhibit various aspects of oviductal functioning and to determine their effective doses using in vitro bioassays. Solid phase extraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) were used to identify individual chemicals in mainstream (MS) and sidestream (SS) cigarette smoke solutions. Pyridines, which were the most abundant class of compounds identified, were purchased, assayed for purity, and tested in dose-response studies on hamster oviducts. The lowest observable adverse effect level was determined for each pyridine derivative using the oocyte pick-up rate, ciliary beat frequency, and infundibular muscle contraction assays. 2-Methylpyridine, 4-methylpyridine, 2-ethylpyridine, 3-ethylpyridine, and 4-vinylpyridine were inhibitory at picomolar concentrations in all assays. This work shows picomolar doses of pyridines with single methyl or ethyl substitutions significantly inhibit oviductal functioning raising questions regarding the safety of these compounds.


Although migraine affects about 15% of population and many studies have been performed to find the mechanism and a successful management, the physiopathology of migraine is still largely unknown. The possibility of an immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated allergic mechanism and the role of histamine remain controversial. The aim of the present study was to evaluate serum total IgE and histamine levels in migraine patients and the influence of allergy on them. Seventy patients (18-58 years) with migraine without aura were divided into two groups according to their history of allergy (60% with and 40% without allergy). Serum samples were collected during fasting without allowing any premedication during the two periods of attack and remission. There was a control group containing 45 healthy volunteers. Serum total IgE and histamine levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and fluorimetric methods, respectively. Mean and standard errors of serum histamine (ng/ml) and total IgE (IU/ml) levels were found in the control group to be 48.16 +/- 2.70 and 38.31 +/- 3.20, in the migraine with allergy group 159.11 +/- 4.60 and 303.30 +/- 42.50 and in the migraine without allergy group 105.01 +/- 8.50 and 79.07 +/- 2.70, respectively. Total IgE levels in migraine with allergy group were found to be significantly (P &lt; 0.0001) above that in the control and another group, suggesting an influence of an IgE-mediated mechanism on migraine. Although the plasma histamine levels, which were significantly elevated (P &lt; 0.0001) in patients with migraine, both during headache and symptom-free periods, when compared with the control group, indicate that there is an increased susceptibility to histamine in allergic conditions, this molecule has also an unrelated role in migraine. The relationship between allergy and migraine can be based, in part, on an IgE-mediated mechanism, and histamine release plays an important role. Thus, the avoidance of allergic conditions in migraine patients may be a simple, helpful way for prophylaxis or their treatment.



Stressful events, by their effects on neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine processes, are thought to favor the development or exacerbation of depressive illness. In as much as immunological challenge, may provoke stressor-like neuroendocrine and central neurochemical changes, the view was offered that immune activation essentially acts like a stressor and may contribute to the evolution of affective illness. In this respect, viral and bacterial infections appear to influence behavioral/metabolic (e.g. fever, anorexia, somnolence) and neurotransmitter functioning through the release of cytokines, which act as messengers between the immune system and brain. The present report provides a brief overview of the neurochemical consequences of proinflammatory cytokine treatments, particularly the actions of interleukin (IL)-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. As well, synergy with psychogenic and neurogenic stressors are described, as are data showing that cytokines, like stressors, may have time-dependent proactive (sensitization) effects, so that reexposure to the treatments greatly augments hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity, as well as central neurochemical changes. Indeed, the neurotransmitter alterations are not restricted to hypothalamic nuclei, but occur in several extrahypothalamic sites, including various limbic regions. It is suggested that by virtue of these neurochemical changes, cytokines may have both immediate and proactive effects on mood states.




Previous studies have suggested that patients who adopted a coping response characterized as helplessness or hopelessness reported higher levels of psychological distress than patients who adopted a response characterized as fighting spirit. There are also studies suggesting a relationship between family functioning and psychological well-being of cancer patients and their family members. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate the relationship between breast cancer patients' coping response to the diagnosis of cancer and family functioning. A total of 46 postoperative ambulatory female breast cancer patients and their husbands participated in this study. Patients and husbands completed the Family Assessment Device (FAD), and patients also completed the Mental Adjustment to Cancer (MAC) scale. They filled in these self-report questionnaires at home. The results of multiple regression analysis showed that patients' perception of poor family functioning in the area of Communication measured by the FAD correlated with high Helplessness/Hopelessness score of the MAC, whereas high education in the patients was correlated with low Fighting Spirit score on the MAC. The results suggested a link between a patient's attitude of helplessness or hopelessness in the face of cancer and inappropriate communication among family members. Consequently, health care professionals should devote attention not only to the patient but also to other family members and intervene to promote appropriate communication patterns among the family members.
The serotonin 5-HT(6) receptor, a G-protein-coupled receptor, displays high affinity for antipsychotic, antidepressant, and psychotropic drugs. We created a constitutively active form of the human 5-HT(6) receptor in order to probe the molecular domains of receptor activation and to determine if inverse agonist activities of antipsychotic drugs contribute to their clinical profile. Previous studies from our laboratory support a critical role for the c-terminal region of the third intracellular loop (il3) in the activation of G(q)-coupled serotonin receptors. In the present study, PCR-based mutagenesis was used to mutate serine 267 (S6.34) in the c-terminal region of il3 to lysine (S267K). The native and S267K 5-HT(6) receptors were expressed in COS-7 cells to study the functional effects of the mutation. The S267K receptor shows 10-fold higher affinity for serotonin than the native receptor and demonstrates agonist-independent activity. Clozapine decreased the basal activity of the S267K receptor to vector control levels. Therefore, we can conclude that the S267K mutation renders the 5-HT(6) receptor constitutively active and that clozapine is an inverse agonist at the mutant 5-HT(6) receptor. These results indicate that the c-terminal region of il3 of the G(s)-coupled 5-HT(6) receptor is a key domain for G-protein coupling, similar to the G(q)-coupled 5-HT receptors. The inverse agonist action of clozapine indicates that drugs displaying competitive antagonist activity at native 5-HT(6) receptors may display inverse agonist activity at the constitutively activated form of the receptor.
Cognitive science is a child of the 1950s, the product of a time when psychology, anthropology and linguistics were redefining themselves and computer science and neuroscience as disciplines were coming into existence. Psychology could not participate in the cognitive revolution until it had freed itself from behaviorism, thus restoring cognition to scientific respectability. By then, it was becoming clear in several disciplines that the solution to some of their problems depended crucially on solving problems traditionally allocated to other disciplines. Collaboration was called for: this is a personal account of how it came about.
Religious concepts activate various functionally distinct mental systems, present also in non-religious contexts, and 'tweak' the usual inferences of these systems. They deal with detection and representation of animacy and agency, social exchange, moral intuitions, precaution against natural hazards and understanding of misfortune. Each of these activates distinct neural resources or families of networks. What makes notions of supernatural agency intuitively plausible? This article reviews evidence suggesting that it is the joint, coordinated activation of these diverse systems, a supposition that opens up the prospect of a cognitive neuroscience of religious beliefs.
In the past decade there has been renewed interest in the study of mental imagery. Emboldened by new findings from neuroscience, many people have revived the idea that mental imagery involves a special format of thought, one that is pictorial in nature. But the evidence and the arguments that exposed deep conceptual and empirical problems in the picture theory over the past 300 years have not gone away. I argue that the new evidence from neural imaging and clinical neuropsychology does little to justify this recidivism because it does not address the format of mental images. I also discuss some reasons why the picture theory is so resistant to counterarguments and suggest ways in which non-pictorial theories might account for the apparent spatial nature of images.
Active or passive immunization against the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) has been proposed as a method for preventing and/or treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to lowering brain Abeta and amyloid burden in transgenic mouse models of AD, a beneficial effect of immunization on previously characterized memory impairment(s) has also been reported in these mice. Whether these preclinical data will predict efficacy in AD patients remains to be seen. A clinical trial of active immunization (vaccination) was halted, owing to a serious adverse event (meningoencephalitis), raising questions about the safety of this approach. Two recent reports suggest that immunotherapy-based approaches to treating and preventing AD will require careful antigen and antibody selection, to maximize efficacy and minimize serious adverse events. However, given the potential efficacy of this approach, we believe that immunotherapy for AD should not be prematurely abandoned.
What is the functional significance of generating a burst of spikes, as opposed to a single spike? A dominant point of view is that bursts are needed to increase the reliability of communication between neurons. Here, we discuss the alternative, but complementary, hypothesis: bursts with specific resonant interspike frequencies are more likely to cause a postsynaptic cell to fire than are bursts with higher or lower frequencies. Such a frequency preference might occur at the level of individual synapses because of the interplay between short-term synaptic depression and facilitation, or at the postsynaptic cell level because of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations and resonance. As a result, the same burst could resonate for some synapses or cells and not resonate for others, depending on their natural resonance frequencies. This observation suggests that, in addition to increasing reliability of synaptic transmission, bursts of action potentials might provide effective mechanisms for selective communication between neurons.
From the first glimpse of moving spines half a decade ago, the prevailing view has been that spine contortions and wiggling, especially during development, maximize encounters with presynaptic growth cones or synaptic boutons. Other new evidence has revealed that spines continue to be motile even after they settle on a presynaptic partner and form a synapse. We present the evidence for each view, and discuss how spines with synapses could move relative to their apparently stable presynaptic partners. Thus, spine motility might not simply be a means towards an end of synapse formation, but could continue, albeit at a lower rate, during synapse turnover after development ends.
How effective are synaptic inputs made at different dendritic sites in the control of action potential output? Recent technical advances have allowed direct observation of the amplitude and time course of excitatory synaptic inputs generated at defined dendritic sites. These findings indicate that contrasting mechanisms exist to enhance the impact of dendritic excitatory inputs to pyramidal neurons of the neocortex and hippocampus. Furthermore, multiple sites of synaptic integration have been revealed, suggesting that proximal and distal inputs are likely to be integrated in different ways. Taken together, these data emphasize the cell- and input-specific strategies used by neurons to enhance the impact of dendritic inputs on action potential generation.
Folate is a cofactor in one-carbon metabolism, during which it promotes the remethylation of homocysteine -- a cytotoxic sulfur-containing amino acid that can induce DNA strand breakage, oxidative stress and apoptosis. Dietary folate is required for normal development of the nervous system, playing important roles regulating neurogenesis and programmed cell death. Recent epidemiological and experimental studies have linked folate deficiency and resultant increased homocysteine levels with several neurodegenerative conditions, including stroke, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Moreover, genetic and clinical data suggest roles for folate and homocysteine in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders. A better understanding of the roles of folate and homocysteine in neuronal homeostasis throughout life is revealing novel approaches for preventing and treating neurological disorders.
To elucidate pathways from specific genes to complex behaviors, assays of mouse behavior need to be valid, reliable and replicable across laboratories. Behavioral assays are proving to be as complex as the intricate cellular and molecular pathways that are the main interest of many mouse users. There is no perfect behavioral test, but we propose some aphorisms to stimulate discussion that is necessary for continued progress in task development. For maximal utility, a behavioral test should yield valid data for most of the commonly used inbred mouse strains. Tests of simple, ubiquitous behaviors usually yield meaningful data for most mice, especially when based on automated scoring or on simple physical measures that are likely to be replicable across laboratories. Extreme test scores resulting from non-performance on a task can inflate the apparent reliability of a test, and devious adaptations to a task can undermine its validity. The optimal apparatus configuration for certain genetic or pharmacological analyses might depend on the particular laboratory environment. Despite our best efforts, the mice will continue to win some innings.
A current disturbing trend in stem cell biology is the abandonment of rigorous definitions of stem and progenitor cells in favor of more ambiguous, all-encompassing concepts. However, recent studies suggest that there are consistent, functional differences in the biology of these two cell types. Admittedly, it can be difficult to harmonize the in vivo and in vitro functional differences between stem and progenitor cells. Nonetheless, these distinctions between cell types should be emphasized rather than ignored, as they can be used to test specific hypotheses in neural stem cell biology.
Active feedback mechanisms in the ears of mammals amplify and tune the auditory response to sound stimuli, allowing these organisms to enjoy both exquisite sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity. A requisite component of this feedback pathway has recently been identified. Targeted deletion of pres, the gene that encodes the novel membrane-bound motor protein prestin, has revealed a hundred-fold loss in hearing sensitivity suggesting that it might be part of the elusive cochlear amplifier.
Recent evidence indicates that trophic factors can exert fast effects on neurones and so alter synaptic plasticity. Here, we focus on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which exerts a modulatory action at hippocampal synapses that are involved in learning and memory, and at the first pain synapse between primary sensory neurones and dorsal horn neurones. Hippocampal and sensory neurones share some properties for the release of endogenous BDNF. In the Schaffer collateral pathway of the hippocampus, binding of BDNF to high-affinity trkB receptors is essential for the induction of long-term potentiation, a specific type of synaptic plasticity. However, the consequences of BDNF binding to trkB receptors in the dorsal horn in relation to pain mechanisms are less well established and are considered in detail.
Little is known about the expression of mitogens and other tumour-related substances in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of glioma patients. The aim of the current study was to determine the presence of aberrant proteins in the CSF of patients with low-grade gliomas. Lumbar puncture was performed in 8 adult patients with supratentorial low-grade gliomas at the time of diagnosis and in 7 controls. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time of flight mass spectrometry were used to detect and quantify deviant proteins in the CSF. Two isoforms of alpha(2)-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein (AHSG) were identified and demonstrated in higher levels in patients with low-grade gliomas compared with the control group consisting of patients with mixed neurological diagnoses (p = 0.001 and p = 0.04, respectively). In 1 patient, the level of AHSG was significantly reduced after gross total resection of the tumour. AHSG appears in the present proteome screening as a novel substance in glioma research. This glycoprotein is expressed in the fetal human brain and is believed to be involved in the embryonic development of the neocortex. Further analyses are planned to determine the significance of the increased levels of AHSG in the CSF of patients with low-grade gliomas.


We have evaluated the spatial distribution of low-voltage-activated calcium currents in ganglion cells of the tiger salamander retina. Whole-cell recordings were obtained from ganglion cells in a retinal slice preparation and from acutely dissociated ganglion cells that were identified through retrograde dye injection. In single dissociated cells, we estimated the magnitude (pA) and current density (pA/pF) of LVA currents in ganglion cells, both with and without dendritic processes. Ganglion cells that retained a portion of their dendritic arbor had larger LVA calcium currents and higher LVA current densities than those which lacked processes. When cell capacitance measurements were used to derive the surface area of the soma and dendritic processes, we concluded that a higher LVA current density was present in the dendrites; we estimate that, on average, the current density in the dendrites is approximately five times that of the soma. The presence of a significant density of LVA calcium channels in the dendrites of ganglion cells suggests that they could be involved in a number of cellular functions, including dendritic integration of synaptic currents, impulse generation, and homeostatic functions related to changes in the intradendritic calcium concentration.

The review is focused on attention as behavior-controlling process. Neurophysiological, electrophysiological and neuropsychological studies of different brain structures during voluntary attention are analyzed. These data show that selective voluntary attention modulates activity of sensory specific cortical zones involved in relevant signal processing. Fronto-thalamic system consisting of prefrontal cortex and thalamic mediodorsal nuclei is shown to be main source of top-down selective modulation of voluntary attention. The review proposed the hypothetical model of selective cortical activity modulation during voluntary attention based upon the available data and evidence of own electroencephalographic studies.
Sympathetic control of arteries and veins may be altered in hypertension. To test this hypothesis, constrictions of mesenteric arteries and veins caused by nerve stimulation and by norepinephrine (NE) and ATP were studied in vitro in tissues from deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive and sham normotensive rats. In DOCA-salt arteries, the maximum neurogenic response was greater than that in sham arteries. The P2 receptor antagonist, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, 10 microM), greatly reduced neurogenic responses in sham but not DOCA-salt arteries. The alpha1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin (0.1 microM), inhibited responses in DOCA-salt but not sham arteries. Concentration-response curves for norepinephrine and ATP were similar in sham and DOCA-salt arteries, indicating that reactivity to sympathetic vasoconstrictor transmitters was not changed in DOCA-salt arteries. Neurogenic constrictions in sham and DOCA-salt veins were similar in amplitude, and they were completely blocked by prazosin. However, concentration-response curves for norepinephrine in DOCA-salt veins were right-shifted compared to those in sham veins. Cocaine (10 microM) and corticosterone (10 microM) caused a leftward shift in norepinephrine concentration-response curves in DOCA-salt but not sham veins. Norepinephrine content was decreased in DOCA-salt arteries and veins, and there was an increased norepinephrine transporter (NET) level in DOCA-salt veins. These data indicate that, in DOCA-salt hypertension, there is an increased norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerves associated with mesenteric arteries and veins. In arteries, this results in an increase in the amplitude of neurogenic constrictions. In veins, increased norepinephrine release maintains neurogenic constrictions in the presence of increased NET levels.
As in many humans suffering from lupus erythematosus, the development of systemic autoimmunity and inflammation in Fas-deficient MRL-lpr mice is accompanied by CNS dysfunction of unknown etiology. Experimental studies revealed infiltration of lymphoid cells into the choroid plexus, reduced neuronal complexity, retarded brain growth, and enlargement of cerebral ventricles. Moreover, an increased presence of cells with nicked-DNA (TUNEL+ cells) in the periventricular areas suggested accelerated apoptosis in brain cells of MRL-lpr mice. However, direct evidence that the dying cells were neurons was lacking. For this purpose, we presently use Fluoro-Jade B (FJB), a novel fluorescent dye which has high affinity for dying neurons (both apoptotic and necrotic). As expected, in comparison to the control groups, the brains of diseased, 5-month-old MRL-lpr mice showed increased numbers of FJB-positive (+) cells in cortical and periventricular regions. The FJB+ cells were significantly more numerous than TUNEL+ cells, and only approximately 7% co-localized with TUNEL. Immunostaining for CD4 and CD8 markers did not correlate with the number of FJB+ cells, suggesting that T-lymphocyte infiltration into the brain tissue is not a reliable predictor of neuronal demise. Conversely, indices of systemic autoimmunity (splenomegaly and high serum anti-nuclear antibody levels) were associated with increased FJB+ cell numbers in brains of autoimmune MRL-lpr mice, supporting the causal link between autoimmunity and neurodegeneration. Taken together, the above results suggest that factors other than T-cell infiltration and cell death mechanisms other than Fas-mediated apoptosis dominate neuronal degeneration in lupus-prone MRL-lpr mice.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is a limbic forebrain structure that receives heavy projections from, among other areas, the basolateral amygdala, and projects in turn to hypothalamic and brainstem target areas that mediate many of the autonomic and behavioral responses to aversive or threatening stimuli. Despite its strategic anatomical position, initial attempts to implicate the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in conditioned fear were largely unsuccessful. Recent studies have shown, however, that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis does participate in certain types of anxiety and stress responses. In this work, we review these findings and suggest from the emerging pattern of evidence that, although the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis may not be necessary for rapid-onset, short-duration behaviors which occur in response to specific threats, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis may mediate slower-onset, longer-lasting responses that frequently accompany sustained threats, and that may persist even after threat termination.
The social interaction test of anxiety was developed 25 years ago to provide an ethologically based test that was sensitive to both anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects. It is sensitive to a number of environmental and physiological factors that can affect anxiety. It has detected anxiogenic effects of peptides such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and anxiolytic effects of neuropeptide Y and substance P receptor antagonists. It has successfully identified neuropharmacological sites of action of anxiogenic compounds and drug withdrawal. Effects of compounds acting on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) systems have been extensively investigated after both systemic administration and microinjection into specific brain regions. The use of this test has, thus, played a crucial role in unravelling the neural basis of anxiety. It is hoped that in the next 25 years, the test will play a crucial role in determining the genetic basis of anxiety disorders.
As a calcium-sensing protein, calmodulin acts as a transducer of the intracellular calcium signal for a variety of cellular responses. Although calcium is an important regulator of neuronal survival during development of the nervous system and is also implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, it is not known if calmodulin mediates these actions of calcium. To determine the role of calmodulin in regulating neuronal survival and death, we overexpressed calmodulin with mutations in all four Ca(2+)-binding sites (CaM(1-4)) or with disabled C-terminal Ca(2+)-binding sites (CaM(3,4)) in cultured neocortical neurons by adenoviral gene transfer. Long-term neuronal survival was decreased in neurons overexpressing CaM(1-4) and CaM(3,4), which could not be rescued by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The basal level of Akt kinase activation was decreased, and the ability of BDNF to activate Akt was completely abolished in neurons overexpressing CaM(1-4) or CaM(3,4). In contrast, BDNF-induced activation of p42/44 MAPKs was unaffected by calmodulin mutations. Treatment of neurons with calmodulin antagonists and a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor blocked the ability of BDNF to prevent neuronal death, whereas inhibitors of calcium/ calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II did not. Our findings demonstrate a pivotal role for calmodulin in survival signaling by BDNF in developing neocortical neurons by activating a transduction pathway involving phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and Akt. In addition, our findings show that the C-terminal Ca(2+)-binding sites are critical for calmodulin-mediated cell survival signaling.
Membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) regulate cellular adhesion and signal transduction at sites of cell-cell contact. MAGUKs are composed of modular protein-protein interaction motifs including L27, PDZ, Src homology (SH) 3, and guanylate kinase domains that aggregate adhesion molecules and receptors. Genetic analyses reveal that lethal mutations of MAGUKs often occur in the guanylate kinase domain, indicating a critical role for this domain. Here, we explored whether GMP binding to the guanylate kinase domain regulates MAGUK function. Surprisingly, and in contrast to previously published studies, we failed to detect GMP binding to the MAGUKs postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) and CASK. Two amino acid residues in the GMP binding pocket that differ between MAGUKs and authentic guanylate kinase explain this lack of binding, as swapping these residues largely prevent GMP binding to yeast guanylate kinase. Conversely, these mutations restore GMP binding but not catalytic activity to PSD-95. Protein ligands for the PSD-95 guanylate kinase domain, guanylate kinase-associated protein (GKAP) and MAP1A, appear not to interact with the canonical GMP binding pocket, and GMP binding does not influence the intramolecular SH3/guanylate kinase (GK) interaction within PSD-95. These studies indicate that MAGUK proteins have lost affinity for GMP but may have retained the guanylate kinase structure to accommodate a related regulatory ligand.
Autism is a psychiatric syndrome characterized by impairments in three domains: social interaction, communication, and restricted and repetitive behaviours and interests. Recent findings implicate the amygdala in the neurobiology of autism. In this paper, we report the results of a series of novel experimental investigations focusing on the structure and function of the amygdala in a group of children with autism. The first section attempts to determine if abnormality of the amygdala can be identified in an individual using magnetic resonance imaging in vivo. Using single-case voxel-based morphometric analyses, abnormality in the amygdala was detected in half the children with autism. Abnormalities in other regions were also found. In the second section, emotional modulation of the startle response was investigated in the group of autistic children. Surprisingly, there were no significant differences between the patterns of emotional modulation of the startle response in the autistic group compared with the controls.
Normative-IQ individuals with autism are capable of solving explicit social cognitive problems at a level that is not matched by their ability to meet the demands of everyday social situations. The magnitude of this discrepancy is now being documented through newer techniques such as eye tracking, which allows us to see and measure how individuals with autism search for meaning when presented with naturalistic social scenes. This paper offers an approach to social cognitive development intended to address the above discrepancy, which is considered a key element for any understanding of the pathophysiology of autism. This approach, called the enactive mind (EM), originates from the emerging work on 'embodied cognitive science', a neuroscience framework that views cognition as bodily experiences accrued as a result of an organism's adaptive actions upon salient aspects of the surrounding environment. The EM approach offers a developmental hypothesis of autism in which the process of acquisition of embodied social cognition is derailed early on, as a result of reduced salience of social stimuli and concomitant enactment of socially irrelevant aspects of the environment.
Autism is a complex disorder that is heterogeneous both in its phenotypic expression and its etiology. The search for genes associated with autism and the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie its behavioural symptoms has been hampered by this heterogeneity. Recent studies indicate that within autism, there may be distinct subgroups that can be defined based on differences in neurocognitive profiles. This paper presents evidence for two kinds of subtypes in autism that are defined on the basis of language profiles and on the basis of cognitive profiles. The implications for genetic and neurobiological studies of these subgroups are discussed, with special reference to evidence relating these cognitive phenotypes to volumetric studies of brain size and organization in autism.
Autism is a developmental disorder characterized by impaired social interaction and communication as well as repetitive behaviours and restricted interests. The consequences of this disorder for everyday life adaptation are extremely variable. The general public is now more aware of the high prevalence of this lifelong disorder, with ca. 0.6% of the population being affected. However, the signs and symptoms of autism are still puzzling. Since a biological basis of autism was accepted, approaches from developmental cognitive neuroscience have been applied to further our understanding of the autism spectrum. The study of the behavioural and underlying cognitive deficits in autism has advanced ahead of the study of the underlying brain abnormalities and of the putative genetic mechanisms. However, advances in these fields are expected as methodological difficulties are overcome. In this paper, recent developments in the field of autism are outlined. In particular, we review the findings of the three main neuro-cognitive theories of autism: theory-of-mind deficit, weak central coherence and executive dysfunction.
Activation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) is an early event in brain injury, which leads to the formation and accumulation of bioactive lipids: platelet-activating factor (PAF), free arachidonic acid, and eicosanoids. A cross-talk between secretory PLA(2) (sPLA(2)) and cPLA(2) in neural signal transduction has previously been suggested (J Biol Chem 271:32722; 1996). Here we show, using neuronal cell cultures, an up-regulation of cPLA(2) expression and an inhibition by the selective cPLA(2) inhibitor AACOCF3 after exposure to neurotoxic concentrations of sPLA(2)-OS2. Pretreatment of neuronal cultures with recombinant PAF acetylhydrolase (rPAF-AH) or the presynaptic PAF receptor antagonist, BN52021, partially blocked neuronal cell death induced by sPLA(2)-OS2. Furthermore, selective COX-2 inhibitors ameliorated sPLA(2)-OS2-induced neurotoxicity. We conclude that sPLA(2)-OS2 activates a neuronal signaling cascade that includes activation of cPLA(2), arachidonic acid release, PAF production, and induction of COX-2.
We evaluated cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of tau and beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta42), in relation to apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype, in patients with mild Alzheimer disease (AD) treated with rivastigmine (n=11) and tacrine (n=16) for 1 year; and two untreated AD groups. The rivastigmine-treated AD patients showed a significant increase in CMRglc as compared to both tacrine-treated and untreated AD subjects. The rivastigmine-treated AD group showed no change in CSF-tau levels after 1 year, while in contrast a significant increase as seen in tacrine-treated and untreated AD patients. The CSF-tau changes were mainly seen in ApoE epsilon4 carriers. There was no significant change in Abeta42 after 1-year treatment with either rivastigmine or tacrine. This study shows that the two long-term cholinesterase inhibitor treatments exert different effects on biological markers for AD.
Adult male hooded Lister rats were either fed a diet containing 150 microg/g soya phytoestrogens or a soya-free diet for 18 days. This concentration of phytoestrogens should have been sufficient to occupy the oestrogen-beta, but not the oestrogen-alpha, receptors. Using in situ hybridisation, significant reductions were found in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression in the CA3 and CA4 region of the hippocampus and in the cerebral cortex in the rats fed the diet containing phytoestrogens, compared with those on the soya-free diet. No changes in glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 or glial fibrillary acidic protein mRNA were found. This suggests a role for oestrogen-beta receptors in regulating BDNF mRNA expression.
Mutations in the BRI(2) gene cause the autosomal dominant neurodegenerative diseases familial British dementia (FBD) and familial Danish dementia (FDD). BRI(2) is a member of a family of type 2 integral transmembrane spanning proteins, including mBRI(2), its murine homologue. The function of BRI(2) is unknown. Northern and Western analyses and in situ hybridization were employed to determine the expression of mBRI(2) in the mouse. mBRI(2) mRNA was expressed in several tissues including the liver, heart, lung, and ubiquitously throughout the brain. mBRI(2) protein was detected at high levels in many brain regions. Murine BRI(2) expression is similar to that described in the human brain but does not fully explain the distribution of pathology seen in FBD and FDD.
The factors determining the large variation seen in human corpus callosum (CC) morphology are as yet unknown. In this study heritability of CC size was assessed by comparing the concordance of CC midsagittal area in 14 monozygotic and 12 dizygotic twin pairs with a mean age of 27 years, using magnetic resonance imaging and various methods of calculating trait heritability. Heritability was high regardless of method of assessment. The application of a structural equation model resulted in the estimate that 94% of the variance in CC midsagittal size is attributable to the genome. This indicates that under normal conditions and before the effects of normal aging, there is very modest influence of the environment on CC morphology. The results suggest that correlates of CC size, such as the pattern of cerebral lateralization, cognitive abilities and neuropsychiatric dysfunction may be associated with the genetic determinants of CC morphology.
Recent epidemiologic studies of different sample populations have suggested that the risk of AD and PD may be increased in individuals with high-calorie diets and in those with increased homocysteine levels. Dietary restriction and supplementation with folic acid can reduce neuronal damage and improve behavioral outcome in mouse models of AD and PD. Animal studies have shown that the beneficial effects of dietary restriction result, in part, from increased production of neurotrophic factors and cytoprotective protein chaperones in neurons. By keeping homocysteine levels low, folic acid can protect cerebral vessels and can prevent the accumulation of DNA damage in neurons caused by oxidative stress and facilitated by homocysteine. Although further studies are required in humans, the emerging data suggest that high-calorie diets and elevated homocysteine levels may render the brain vulnerable to neurodegenerative disorders.


Novel (E)-N(1)-(benzyl)cinnamamidines were prepared and evaluated as NR2B subtype NMDA receptor ligands. Excellent affinity was achieved by appropriate substitution of either phenyl ring. The 2-methoxybenzyl compound 1h had approximately 1,000-fold lower IC(50) in NR2B than NR2A-containing cells. Replacement of the styryl unit by 2-naphthyl was well tolerated.
Chemokines are small, soluble proteins that regulate leukocyte migration, adhesion, and proliferation. Recent evidence suggests that chemokine receptors are expressed in the central nervous system and that their functions extend beyond their roles in inflammation. Specific chemokines and their receptors are implicated in cerebellar development. In this study, we evaluated the expression of beta-chemokine receptor CCR1 in the immature and adult rat cerebellum and report striking developmental changes in CCR1 expression. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assays of cerebellum revealed moderate increases in CCR1 mRNA expression from postnatal day (P) 3 to adulthood. Light and confocal microscopy were used to evaluate developmental changes in the neuroanatomical and cell-specific distribution of CCR1 immunoreactivity. CCR1 immunoreactivity was detected as early as P3 and peaked between P7 and P21. The predominant CCR1-immunoreactive neuronal cell types included granule cells of the internal granular layer, Purkinje cells, Golgi cells, and molecular layer interneurons; Bergmann glia, astrocytes, and resting microglia also expressed CCR1. In contrast, granule cells in the external germinal layer, descending granule cells, and activated microglia rarely expressed CCR1. We also evaluated the expression of the CCR1 ligand macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha/CCL3). Two cell populations expressed MIP-1alpha: physiologically activated microglia in white matter (P7-P14) and Purkinje cells (P7-adult). MIP-1alpha-positive cells were frequently located near the processes and cell bodies of CCR1-immunoreactive cells, during times of neuronal and glial maturation (second and third postnatal weeks). These findings provide support for the hypothesis that CCR1 plays a role in postnatal cerebellar development.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF)-treated neurospheres from fetal forebrain contain multipotential cells capable of neuronal, astrocytic, and oligodendroglial differentiation. These neural precursor cells express the TrkB as well as the neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR), suggesting that they are BDNF responsive. In this study, we test whether the p75NTR plays a role in the differentiation of these neural precursor cells in vitro. Activation of the TrkB and the p75NTR by the addition of BDNF facilitates neuronal commitment and marked neurite genesis. However, no promotion of neuronal commitment by BDNF was observed in the neural precursor cells from mice carrying a mutation in the p75NTR gene. In addition, we observed a significant increase in the number of nestin-positive cells and the proliferation of the cells lacking functional p75NTR. These findings suggest that the p75NTR is required for proper neuronal fate decision as well as the differentiation of the neural precursor cells.

The extended amygdala, a morphological and functional entity within the basal forebrain, is a neuronal substrate for emotional states like fear and anxiety. Anxiety disorders are commonly treated by benzodiazepines that mediate their action via GABA(A) receptors. The binding properties and action of benzodiazepines depend on the alpha-subunit profile of the hetero-pentameric receptors: whereas the alpha1 subunit is associated with benzodiazepine type I pharmacology and reportedly mediates sedative as well as amnesic actions of benzodiazepines, the alpha2 subunit confers benzodiazepine type II pharmacology and mediates the anxiolytic actions of benzodiazepines. We determined the localization of alpha1 and alpha2 subunits within the extended amygdala, identified by secretoneurin immunostaining, to define the morphological substrates for the diverse benzodiazepine actions. A moderate expression of the alpha1 subunit could be detected in compartments of the medial subdivision and a strong expression of the alpha2 subunit throughout the central subdivision. It is concluded that the alpha1 and alpha2 subunits are differentially expressed within the extended amygdala, indicating that this structure is compartmentalized with respect to function and benzodiazepine action.
Recent evidence indicates that the superior colliculus (SC), in addition to its functions in sensory detection, also participates in controlling the generalized activation state of the forebrain, as measured by the electroencephalogram (EEG) or electrocorticogram (ECoG). The mechanisms by which the SC modulates forebrain activation are not well understood. By using in vivo microdialysis, we examined the role of serotonin release as a mechanism by which the SC can control neocortical activity in the urethane-anesthetized rat. Electrical 100 Hz stimulation of the SC increased frontal cortex serotonin output to 116, 118, and 140% of baseline levels for stimulation intensities of 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 mA, respectively. Further, 75% of extracellularly recorded single (putative serotonergic) dorsal raphe neurons increased their discharge rate in response to 100 Hz stimulation of the SC. Stimulation of the SC also suppressed frontal cortex low frequency (1-6 Hz) synchronized ECoG activity, replacing it with high-frequency desynchronization. This activation response was resistant to cholinergic-muscarinic receptor antagonists (atropine, 50 mg/kg; scopolamine, 2 mg/kg), but was reduced or abolished by systemic treatment with the serotonergic receptor antagonists ketanserin (10 mg/kg) or methiothepin (5 mg/kg). These data suggest that efferents from the SC, possibly by an excitatory action on serotonergic dorsal raphe cells, produce an enhanced release of serotonin and ECoG activation in the neocortex. The stimulation of cortical serotonin output may constitute a mechanism by which the SC acts on the forebrain to increase cortical excitability in response to sensory stimuli processed by SC neurons.
The neurotrophic and neuroprotective potential of the alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) analog cyclo-[Ac-Nle(4),Asp(5),D-Phe(7),Lys(10)]alpha-MSH-(4-10) amide (melanotan-II), a potent melanocortin receptor agonist, was investigated. The sciatic nerve crush model was used as a paradigm to investigate the neurotrophic properties of melanotan-II. Melanotan-II significantly enhanced the recovery of sensory function following a crush lesion of the sciatic nerve in the rat at a dose of 20 microg kg(-1) per 48 h, s.c., but not at a dose of 2 or 50 microg kg(-1). In addition, we observed that melanotan-II also possesses neuroprotective properties, as it partially protected the nerve from a toxic neuropathy induced by cisplatin. Thus, the present data for the first time demonstrate the effectiveness of the potent alpha-MSH analog melanotan-II in nerve regeneration and neuroprotection.
Chat (Cas/HEF1-associated signal transducer) is a novel adaptor protein with an N-terminal Src homology-2 domain and C-terminal Cas/HEF1 association domain. We report here the molecular cloning of Chat-H, the hematopoietic isoform of Chat. Chat-H has an extended N-terminal domain besides the known Chat domain structures, suggesting a unique function of Chat-H in hematopoietic cells. Jurkat transfectants overexpressing Chat-H show a marked increase in interleukin-2 production after costimulation of T cell receptor and CD28. The degree of JNK activation is enhanced substantially in the Chat-H transfectants upon costimulation. The Src homology-2 domain mutant of Chat-H loses this signal modulating activity. Expression of the Cas/HEF1 association domain mutant exhibits a dominant negative effect on both JNK activation and interleukin-2 production. We further found that Chat-H forms a complex with Pyk2H and enhances its tyrosine 402 phosphorylation, an up-regulator of the JNK pathway. These results suggest that Chat-H positively controls T cell function via integrating the costimulatory signals.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain and are thought to be involved in learning and memory formation. The activity of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors can be regulated by direct phosphorylation of their subunits, which affects the electrophysiological properties of the receptor, and the receptor association with numerous proteins that modulate membrane traffic and synaptic targeting of the receptor. In the present study we investigated the association of protein kinase C (PKC) gamma isoform with the GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit. PKC gamma was co-immunoprecipitated with GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit in rat cerebellum and in cultured chick retina cell extracts, and immunocytochemistry experiments showed co-localization of GluR4 and PKC gamma in cultured chick retinal neurons. Pull-down assays showed that native PKC gamma binds the GluR4 C-terminal membrane-proximal region, and recombinant PKC gamma was retained by GST-GluR4 C-terminal fusion protein, suggesting that the kinase binds directly to GluR4. Furthermore, GST-GluR4 C-terminal protein was phosphorylated on GluR4 Ser-482 by bound kinases, retained by the fusion protein, including PKC gamma. The GluR4 C-terminal segment that interacts with PKC gamma, which lacks the PKC phosphorylation sites, inhibited histone H1 phosphorylation by PKC, to the same extent as the PKC pseudosubstrate peptide 19-31, indicating that PKC gamma bound to GluR4 preferentially phosphorylates GluR4 to the detriment of other substrates. Additionally, PKC gamma expression in GluR4 transfected human embryonic kidney 293T cells increased the amount of plasma membrane-associated GluR4. Our results suggest that PKC gamma binds directly to GluR4, thereby modulating the function of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors.
Members of the BCL-2-related antiapoptotic family of proteins have been shown previously to regulate ATP/ADP exchange across the mitochondrial membranes and to prevent the loss of coupled mitochondrial respiration during apoptosis. We have found that BCL-2/BCL-x(L) can also improve mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation in cells harboring pathogenic mutations in mitochondrial tRNA genes. The effect of BCL-2 overexpression in mutated cells was independent from apoptosis and was presumably associated with a modulation of adenine nucleotide exchange between mitochondria and cytosol. These results suggest that BCL-2 can regulate respiratory functions in response to mitochondrial distress by regulating the levels of adenine nucleotides.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) holds great promise for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In humans, its intracerebroventricular administration leads to limiting side effects. Direct parenchymal delivery using mechanical means, or cell and gene therapy represent potential alternatives. In the present study, a representative of each of these three approaches, i.e. polymer rods, genetically modified encapsulated cells and lentiviral vectors was analyzed for its ability to release GDNF in the striatum of rats. One week post-surgery, GDNF was detected over a distance of 4 mm with all three methods. At 4 weeks GDNF staining diminished with rods and to a lesser extent with encapsulated cells, whereas it increased with lentiviral vectors. Nanogram range of GDNF was measured with all methods at 1 week. At 4 weeks, GDNF levels decreased significantly with rods, whereas they remained stable with encapsulated cells and lentiviral vectors. We conclude that all three methods investigated allow striatal delivery of GDNF, but the time during which it needs to be released will determine the approach chosen for clinical application.


The hippocampus is critical for spatial memory formation in rodents. Calcium currents through L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (L-VSCCs) are increased in CA1 neurons of the hippocampus of aged rats. We have recently shown that expression of the calcium conducting L-VSCC subunit alpha(1D) (Ca(v)1.3) is selectively increased in area CA1 of aged rats. We and others have speculated that excessive Ca(2+) influx through L-VSCC may be detrimental to memory formation. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between age-related working memory decline and alpha(1D) protein expression in the hippocampus. In addition, we studied the effects of chronic treatment with the L-VSCC antagonist nimodipine (NIM) on age-related working memory deficits and alpha(1D) expression in the hippocampus. Here we report that age-related increases in alpha(1D) expression in area CA1 correlate with working memory impairment in Fischer 344 rats. Furthermore, we demonstrate that chronic NIM treatment ameliorates age-related working memory deficits and reduces expression of alpha(1D) protein in the hippocampus. The present results suggest that L-VSCCs participate in processes underlying memory formation and that increases in L-VSCC protein and currents observed with aging may play a role in age-related memory decline. Furthermore, the amelioration in age-related memory decline produced by NIM treatment may be mediated, at least in part, by reductions in the abnormally high levels of alpha(1D) protein in the aged hippocampus. These findings may have implications for patients with Alzheimer's disease, who show increased L-VSCC protein expression in the hippocampus, and for patients receiving chronic treatment with L-VSCC antagonists.
This intracellular study investigates synaptic mechanisms of orientation and direction selectivity in cat area 17. Visually evoked inhibition was analyzed in 88 cells by detecting spike suppression, hyperpolarization, and reduction of trial-to-trial variability of membrane potential. In 25 of these cells, inhibition visibility was enhanced by depolarization and spike inactivation and by direct measurement of synaptic conductances. We conclude that excitatory and inhibitory inputs share the tuning preference of spiking output in 60% of cases, whereas inhibition is tuned to a different orientation in 40% of cases. For this latter type of cells, conductance measurements showed that excitation shared either the preference of the spiking output or that of the inhibition. This diversity of input combinations may reflect inhomogeneities in functional intracortical connectivity regulated by correlation-based activity-dependent processes.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (CNGCs) on the dendritic cilia of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) are critical for sensory transduction in the olfactory system. Do CNGCs also play a role in the axons and/or nerve terminals of ORNs? We find that the cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP can both facilitate and depress synaptic transmission between olfactory nerve fibers and their targets in olfactory bulb glomeruli. Cyclic nucleotides increase intracellular Ca(2+) in ORN terminals and enhance spontaneous transmitter release; at higher concentrations, cyclic nucleotides depress evoked transmission by altering olfactory nerve excitability. Cyclic nucleotides have no effect on transmission or nerve excitability, however, in mice lacking olfactory CNGCs. Taken together, our results identify a novel role for presynaptic CNGCs in modulating neurotransmission.
Recent studies provide new insight into the mechanistic function of Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP), paving the way to understanding the biological basis of Fragile X Syndrome. While it has been known for several years that there are spine defects associated with the absence of the mRNA binding protein FMRP, it has been unclear how its absence may lead to specific synaptic defects that underlie the learning and cognitive impairments in Fragile X. One hypothesis under study is that FMRP may play a key role in the regulation of dendritically localized mRNAs, at subsynaptic sites where regulation of local protein synthesis may influence synaptic structure and plasticity. This review highlights recent progress to identify the specific mRNA targets of FMRP and assess defects in mRNA regulation that occur in cells lacking FMRP. In addition, exciting new studies on Fmr1 knockout mice and mutant flies have begun to elucidate a key role for FMRP in synaptic growth, structure, and long-term plasticity.
Of several circulating hormones that act on hypothalamus to affect body energy balance, only ghrelin is also expressed in hypothalamic neurons. From the studies of Horvath and colleagues appearing in this issue of Neuron, it appears that neuronal ghrelin acts presynaptically to stimulate release of the orexigenic peptide, neuropeptide Y, and other neurotransmitters, thus defining a new and subtle modulatory circuit.
Neurogranin (Ng) is a Ca(2+)-sensitive calmodulin-binding neuron-specific protein that has been implicated in the regulation of numerous post-synaptic signalling pathways. Here, we investigate the effects of 5 months low level ethanol consumption (approximately 20% of total calories intake) on Ng mRNA expression in the brain of adult (approximately 7-8 months) and aged (approximately 21-22 months) mice using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Results showed that ageing was accompanied by a decrease in amounts of mRNA coding for Ng, especially in the hippocampus (approximately 25% of adults) known to play a critical role in higher cognitive functions. Chronic ethanol consumption restored this decline up to pre-senescent (adult) levels without altering Ng mRNA levels in adult mice. On the basis of recent data indicating a central role for Ng in the regulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and spatial learning, our results suggest that moderate ethanol consumption might have a beneficial influence on cognitive deterioration during senescence. Such a possibility is in fact congruent with recent follow-up studies conducted in elderly people.
This study is a first step in an attempt to identify the factors which determine and maintain the electrophysiological phenotype(s) of mature neurons of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN). We cultured MVN microexplants obtained from slices of the brainstem of newborn rats, using a hollow punching needle. The electrophysiological maturation of the neurons was followed by analyzing their responses to 1 s steps of current of increasing amplitude. The maximal number of spikes that was generated in response to such stimuli increased dramatically over time in vitro. However, even after 28 days in vitro, it did not exceed about 60 spikes/s. At this stage of culture, the input-output properties of the spike generator of the MVN neurons were similar to those observed in brainstem slices of newborn rats, but clearly inferior to those of adult neurons which can generate sustained firing up to 150-200 spikes/s.
The correlation between oxidative stress and the loss of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha4 subunit has been investigated in the temporal cortex from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The level of lipid peroxidation was significantly increased in AD brains, whereas there were no significant changes in protein oxidation either in whole tissues or the cellular membrane protein parts between AD brains and controls. The nAChR alpha4 subunit at protein level was significantly decreased in AD brains. Furthermore, there was a correlation between the increased levels of lipid peroxidation and the decreased numbers of the alpha4 subunit protein in AD brains. We suggest that lipid peroxidation might be a sensitive target in AD brain and related the mechanism of the loss of the nAChR alpha4 subunit in the disease.
Serotonin 1B knockout (KO) mice exhibit better spatial reference memory performance in the Morris water maze than their wild type (WT) controls. The present study was aimed at dissecting the underlying cognitive bases of this facilitation using a stepwise water maze paradigm. The performance of KO mice did not differ from WT in a single start-goal task, nor when using two opposite starts. However, KO mice exhibited better performance in stages requiring cognitive flexibility or the higher level of spatial navigation planning (standard version). In a short-term memory version of the task, no such genotype effect was observed, confirming our previous findings. These results suggest that the serotonin 1B receptor gene deletion selectively enhances learning performance when the cognitive requirement of the task is elevated.

To construct the intricate network of connections that supports the functions of an adult nervous system, neurons must form highly elaborate processes, extending in the appropriate direction across long distances to form synapses with their partners. As the nervous system takes shape, the process of neuronal morphogenesis is controlled by a broad repertoire of cellular signals. These extracellular cues and cellular interactions are translated by receptors at the cell surface into physical forces that control the dynamic architecture of the neuron as it explores the surrounding terrain. The interpretation of these cues involves a large set of intracellular proteins, whose functional logic we are just beginning to appreciate. We shall consider the basic mechanics of neuronal morphogenesis and some of the emerging pathways that seem to link the outer and inner worlds of the neuron.
Ideas about the role of RNA in learning and memory have a checkered past. A new study in Drosophila, synthesizing classical forward genetics with DNA microarrays, brings us closer to seeing that role clearly.
In the hippocampus at birth, most glutamatergic synapses are immature and functionally &quot;silent&quot; either because the neurotransmitter is released in insufficient amount to activate low-affinity alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors or because the appropriate receptor system is missing or nonfunctional. Here we show that, in the newborn rat, a brief application of nicotine at immature Schaffer collateral-CA1 connections strongly enhances neurotransmitter release and converts presynaptically silent synapses into conductive ones. This effect is persistent and can be mimicked by endogenous acetylcholine released from cholinergic fibers. Thus, during a critical period of postnatal development, activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors contributes to the maturation of functional synaptic contacts and the wiring of adult hippocampal circuitry.
The water channel AQP4 is concentrated in perivascular and subpial membrane domains of brain astrocytes. These membranes form the interface between the neuropil and extracerebral liquid spaces. AQP4 is anchored at these membranes by its carboxyl terminus to alpha-syntrophin, an adapter protein associated with dystrophin. To test functions of the perivascular AQP4 pool, we studied mice homozygous for targeted disruption of the gene encoding alpha-syntrophin (alpha-Syn(-/-)). These animals show a marked loss of AQP4 from perivascular and subpial membranes but no decrease in other membrane domains, as judged by quantitative immunogold electron microscopy. In the basal state, perivascular and subpial astroglial end-feet were swollen in brains of alpha-Syn(-/-) mice compared to WT mice, suggesting reduced clearance of water generated by brain metabolism. When stressed by transient cerebral ischemia, brain edema was attenuated in alpha-Syn(-/-) mice, indicative of reduced water influx. Surprisingly, AQP4 was strongly reduced but alpha-syntrophin was retained in perivascular astroglial end-feet in WT mice examined 23 h after transient cerebral ischemia. Thus alpha-syntrophin-dependent anchoring of AQP4 is sensitive to ischemia, and loss of AQP4 from this site may retard the dissipation of postischemic brain edema. These studies identify a specific, syntrophin-dependent AQP4 pool that is expressed at distinct membrane domains and which mediates bidirectional transport of water across the brain-blood interface. The anchoring of AQP4 to alpha-syntrophin may be a target for treatment of brain edema, but therapeutic manipulations of AQP4 must consider the bidirectional water flux through this molecule.
Both neocortical and hippocampal networks organize the firing patterns of their neurons by prominent oscillations during sleep, but the functional role of these rhythms is not well understood. Here, we show a robust correlation of neuronal discharges between the somatosensory cortex and hippocampus on both slow and fine time scales in the mouse and rat. Neuronal bursts in deep cortical layers, associated with sleep spindles and delta waves/slow rhythm, effectively triggered hippocampal discharges related to fast (ripple) oscillations. We hypothesize that oscillation-mediated temporal links coordinate specific information transfer between neocortical and hippocampal cell assemblies. Such a neocortical-hippocampal interplay may be important for memory consolidation.
Stress may influence the sensitivity of subjects to rewarding stimuli and stress modality may differentially affect this sensitivity. This relation was investigated in our animal model using chronic physical (repeated mild foot shocks) and emotional (witness) stress. Previous research has established that the two stressors have differential long-term effects on behaviour, where physical stress caused inactivity in a small open field and emotional stress hyperactivity. Rats were stressed on 5 consecutive days and tested for locomotor activity in a small open field (day 10) and saccharine preference (day 11). The preference for graded concentrations of saccharine over water was used as a measure for their sensitivity to reward. Physical stress treatment induced a long-term decrease both in preference for saccharine and open field activity compared to control treatment. Emotional stress animals showed an increase in open field behaviour activity and a slight increase in saccharine preference. Physical stress seems to cause anhedonia, while emotional stress might cause an increased sensitivity to reward. In conclusion, stress can induce differential long-term effects on sensitivity to positive stimuli and the response to novelty depending on stress modality.
In order to study the involvement of area V6A in visually guided behavior, restricted lesions to the anterior bank of the parieto-occipital sulcus (POs) were made in two adult Cercopithecus aethiops monkeys, trained in visuomotor tests. Beside the known clinical signs of parietal deficit (abnormal posture of the arm contralateral to the most recent lesion and reluctance to use it), misreaching was evident soon after surgery and disappeared quickly. Uncertainties in a landmark test and prolonged response times to the pressing of light-buttons lasted for a few weeks and 1 month, respectively. As suggested by previous anatomical and physiological data, these findings confirm the role of the POs region in the execution of reaching movements. Moreover, they also demonstrate that following lesion, locally networked areas can rapidly adjust in order to re-establish pre-lesional behavior. These adjustments take place well before that any anatomical changes may occur.
Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) develop most neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease early in life, including loss of cholinergic markers in the basal forebrain. Ts65Dn mice, an animal model of DS, perform poorly on tasks requiring spatial memory and also exhibit basal forebrain pathology beginning around 6 months of age. We evaluated memory as well as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) protein levels in basal forebrain, frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum in Ts65Dn mice at the age when cholinergic degeneration is first observed, and compared values to normosomic controls. Six-month-old Ts65Dn mice exhibited impairments in working and reference memory as assessed on a water radial-arm maze. The working memory deficit was related to the inability of Ts65Dn mice to successfully sustain performance as the working memory load increased. Coupled with cognitive performance deficiencies, Ts65Dn mice also exhibited lower frontal cortex BDNF protein levels than controls. Further, BDNF levels were negatively correlated with working memory errors during the latter portion of testing in Ts65Dn mice, thereby suggesting that lower BDNF protein levels in the frontal cortex may be associated with the observed working memory impairment.
Two experiments were performed to investigate the interactive effects of postnatal iron administration and adult MPTP treatment upon the function of C57 Bl/6 mice tested at adult age and to ascertain the possible ameliatory effects of a subthreshold dose of L-Dopa co-administered with different doses of the uncompetitive glutamate antagonist, MK-801. Experiment I indicated that postnatal iron induced marked deficits (hypoactivity), initially, in all three parameters of motor activity at the 5.0 and 7.5 mg/kg doses, and to a lesser extent at the 2.5 mg/kg dose. Later combination with MPTP (2x40 mg/kg) potentiated severely these deficits. During the final period of testing a marked hyperactivity was obtained for the two higher dose groups; this effect was abolished in mice administered MPTP. Experiment II indicated that the deficits in motor activity parameters induced by postnatal iron at 7.5 mg/kg were alleviated in a dose-related manner by the co-administration of the uncompetitive glutamate antagonist, MK-801, with a subthreshold dose of L-Dopa. Postnatal iron (7.5 mg/kg) administration followed by low doses of MPTP (2x20 mg/kg) 3 months later virtually abolished all motor activity. The combination of these compounds increased also the motor activity of mice treated with MPTP (2x20 mg/kg) or mice treated with the combination of postnatal iron and MPTP. The combination of MK-801 with L-Dopa increased locomotor (0.3 mg/kg), rearing (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) and total activity (0.3 mg/kg) of iron-treated mice during the initial, hypoactive 30-min period of testing. Locomotor activity (0.1 mg/kg) of MPTP-treated mice was increased too during this period. During the final 30-min period of testing all three parameters of activity (locomotion, 0.3 mg/kg; rearing and total activity, 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) were enhanced in the iron-treated mice, locomotion (0.1 mg/kg) and rearing (0.1 mg/kg) in the iron plus MPTP treated mice and only locomotion (0.1 mg/kg) in the MPTP-treated mice. In control mice (vehicle+saline), the higher doses of MK-801 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) enhanced both locomotor and total activity. Analyses of total iron concentration in the frontal cortex and basal ganglia of Fe(2+) and vehicle treated mice indicated that marked elevations basal ganglia iron levels of the 5.0 and 7.5 mg/kg groups, later injected either saline or MPTP, were obtained (Experiment I). In Experiment II, iron concentrations in the basal ganglia were elevated in both the Fe(2+)-sal and Fe(2+)-MPTP groups to 170 and 177% of Veh.-sal values, respectively. There was a significant increase in the frontal cortex of iron-treated mice later administered either saline or MPTP (2x40 mg/kg) in Experiment I as well as in those given iron followed by MPTP (2x20mg/kg) in Experiment II. The implications of iron overload in parkinsonism seem confirmed by the interactive effects of postnatal administration of the metal followed by adult MPTP treatment upon motor activity and the activity-enhancing effects of co-administration of L-Dopa with MK-801.
The aim of this work is to develop a prokaryotic system capable of expressing membrane-bound receptors in quantities suitable for biochemical and biophysical studies. Our strategy exploits the endogenous high-level expression of the membrane protein bacteriorhodopsin (BR) in the Archaeon Halobacterium salinarum. We attempted to express the human muscarinic acetylcholine (M(1)) and adrenergic (a2b) receptors by fusing the coding region of the m1 and a2b genes to nucleotide sequences known to direct bacterio-opsin (bop) gene transcription. The fusions included downstream modifications to produce non-native carboxyl-terminal amino acids useful for protein identification and purification. bop mRNA and BR accumulation were found to be tightly coupled and the carboxyl-terminal coding region modifications perturbed both. m1 and a2b mRNA levels were low, and accumulation was sensitive to both the extent of the bop gene fusion and the specific carboxyl-terminal coding sequence modifications included. Functional a2b adrenergic receptor expression was observed to be dependent on the downstream coding region. This work demonstrates that a critical determinant of expression resides in the downstream coding region of the wild-type bop gene and manipulation of the downstream coding region of heterologous genes may affect their potential for expression in H. salinarum.
Competition and cooperation between type II and type III receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) regulate axon extension and pathfinding in Drosophila. The first step to investigate whether RPTPs influence axon growth in the more complex vertebrate nervous system is to identify which neurons express a particular RPTP. We studied the expression of mouse PTPRO, a type III RPTP with an extracellular region containing eight fibronectin type III domains, during embryogenesis and after birth. Mouse PTPRO mRNA is expressed exclusively in two cell types: neurons and kidney podocytes. Maximal expression in the brain was coincident with mid to late gestation and axonogenesis in the brain. We cloned two cDNAs, including a splice variant without sequence coding of 28 amino acids within the juxtamembrane domain that was found mostly in kidney. In situ hybridization detected mPTPRO mRNA in the cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb and nucleus, hippocampus, motor neurons, and the spinal cord midline. In addition, mPTPRO mRNA was found throughout dorsal root, cranial, and sympathetic ganglia and within kidney glomeruli. Mouse PTPRO mRNA was observed in neuron populations expressing TrkA, the high-affinity nerve growth factor receptor, or TrkC, the neurotrophin-3 receptor, and immunoreactive mPTPRO and TrkC colocalized in large dorsal root ganglia proprioceptive neurons. Our results suggest that mPTPRO is involved in the differentiation and axonogenesis of central and peripheral nervous system neurons, where it is in a position to modulate intracellular responses to neurotrophin-3 and/or nerve growth factor.
Contact between sensory axons and their targets is critical for the development and maintenance of normal neural circuits. Previous work indicates that the removal of afferent contact to the olfactory bulb affects bulb organization, neurophenotypic expression, and cell survival. The studies also suggested changes to the structure of individual cell types. The current work examines the effects of denervation on the morphology of mitral/tufted, periglomerular, and granule cells. Focal denervation drastically changed mitral/tufted cell structure but had only subtle effects on periglomerular and granule cells. Denervated mitral/tufted cells lacked apical tufts and, in most cases, a primary dendrite. In addition, the denervated cells had more secondary processes whose orientation with respect to the bulb surface was altered. Our results suggest that contact between olfactory axons and the bulb is necessary for cell maintenance and may be critical for the ability of mitral/tufted cells to achieve adult morphology
The developing central nervous system is extremely sensitive to ethanol, with well-defined temporal periods of vulnerability. Many brain regions are particularly susceptible to ethanol during the early neonatal period, corresponding to the human third trimester, which represents a dynamic period of growth and differentiation. For this study, neonatal rats were acutely exposed to ethanol or control conditions at a neonatal age when the developing striatum has been shown to be vulnerable to ethanol (postnatal day 3 [P3]), and at a later age (P14), when this developing region is relatively ethanol-resistant. We then analyzed basal levels of neurotrophic factors (NTFs), and ethanol-mediated changes in NTFs, apoptosis-related proteins, antioxidants, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, which may underlie this differential temporal vulnerability. Sequential analyses were made following ethanol exposure on these two postnatal days, with assessments of NTFs nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4); apoptosis-related proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, Bax, Akt and c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK); antioxidants superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase and catalase; and ROS. The results indicated that basal levels of BDNF, and to some degree NGF, were greater at the older age, and that ethanol exposure at the earlier age elicited considerably more pro-apoptotic and fewer pro-survival changes than those produced at the later age. Thus, differential temporal vulnerability to ethanol in this CNS region appears to be related to differences in both differential levels of protective substances (e.g. NTFs), and differential cellular responsiveness which favors apoptosis at the most sensitive age and survival at the resistant age.



Although recent data has shown that 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists' can enhance basal cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission in the cortex and hippocampus, the distribution of this receptor within terminal regions of the dopaminergic system suggests a possible role for this receptor in the modulation of dopamine (DA). Therefore, the role of the 5-HT(6) receptor was examined in the rat striatum in the presence and absence of the DA transport inhibitor/releaser, amphetamine. Amphetamine (0.3mg/kg s.c.) induced a selective increase in extracellular DA reaching a maximum of 311.3+/-73.5% of preinjection levels. Administration of SB-271046 (1 and 10mg/kg s.c.) followed by amphetamine produced an augmentation of amphetamine-induced changes in both DA and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), reaching maximum levels of 510.1+/-110.5% and 271+/-93.4% of preinjection values, respectively. Similarly, local infusion of amphetamine (100 nM) resulted in an increase in striatal DA levels reaching a maximum of 365.7+/-73.3% of preinfusion values. However, combination treatment with SB-271046 (1mg/kg s.c.) and amphetamine produced no augmentation of amphetamine-induced increases in extracellular levels of DA or in any other neurotransmitter measured. Taken together these data indicate that the 5-HT(6) receptor is not playing a role in the tonic modulation of NA, DA, 5-HT or glutamate neurotransmission in the striatum. However, when dopaminergic neurotransmission is enhanced the 5-HT(6) receptor appears to have a modulatory influence on not only DA but also 5-HT systems. This is the first direct neurochemical evidence that the 5-HT(6) receptor may have modulatory influences on both DA and 5-HT systems in the rat striatum.

Excess ER stress induces caspase-12 activation and/or cytochrome c release, causing caspase-9 activation. Little is known about their relationship during ER stress-mediated cell death. Upon ER stress, P19 embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells showed activation of various caspases, including caspase-3, caspase-8, caspase-9, and caspase-12, and extensive DNA fragmentation. We examined the relationship between ER stress-mediated cytochrome c/caspase-9 and caspase-12 activation by using caspase-9- and caspase-8-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts and a P19 EC cell clone [P19-36/12 (-) cells] lacking expression of caspase-12. Caspase-9 and caspase-8 deficiency inhibited and delayed the onset of DNA fragmentation but did not inhibit caspase-12 processing induced by ER stress. P19-36/12 (-) cells underwent apoptosis upon ER stress, with cytochrome c release and caspase-8 and caspase-9 activation. The dominant negative form of FADD and z-VAD-fmk inhibited caspase-8, caspase-9, Bid processing, cytochrome c release, and DNA fragmentation induced by ER stress, suggesting that caspase-8 and caspase-9 are the main caspases involved in ER stress-mediated apoptosis of P19-36/12 (-) cells. Caspase-8 deficiency also inhibited the cytochrome c release induced by ER stress. Thus, in parallel with the caspase-12 activation, ER stress triggers caspase-8 activation, resulting in cytochrome c/caspase-9 activation via Bid processing.
The evolutionary justification by LeDoux (1996) for his dual-route model of fear processing was analyzed computationally by applying genetic algorithms to artificial neural networks. The evolution was simulated of a neural network controlling an agent that gathered food in an artificial world and that was occasionally menaced by a predator. Connections could not change in the agent's &quot;lifetime,&quot; so there was no learning in the simulations. Only if the smells of food and predator were hard to distinguish and the fitness reflected time pressures in escaping from the predator did the type of dual processing postulated by LeDoux emerge in the surviving agents. Processing in the &quot;quick and dirty&quot; pathway of the fear system ensured avoidance of both predators and food, but a distinction between food and predator was made only in the long pathway. Elaborate processing inhibited the avoidance reaction and reversed it into an approach reaction to food, but strengthened the avoidance reaction to predators (and more finely tuned the direction of escape). It is suggested that &quot;computational neuroethology&quot; (Beer, 1990) may help constrain reasoning in evolutionary psychology, particularly when applied to specific neurobiological models, and in the future may even generate new hypotheses for cognitive neuroscience.
Although progenitor cells in developing vertebrate retina are capable of producing all retinal cell types, they are competent to produce only certain cell types at a given time, and this competence changes as development progresses. We asked whether a change in progenitor cell competence is primarily responsible for ending production of a specific cell type, the retinal ganglion cell. Reducing Notch expression using an antisense oligonucleotide in vitro or in vivo increased ganglion cell genesis. The antisense treatment could reinitiate ganglion cell genesis after it had terminated in a region of the retina, but only for a brief period. The failure of the Notch antisense treatment to reinitiate ganglion cell production after this period was not due to the lack of receptor or ligand expression, as both Notch-1 and Delta-1 were still expressed. The failure of the Notch antisense treatment to reinitiate ganglion cell production is consistent with the suggestion that the intrinsic competence of progenitor cells changes as development progresses. Because reducing Notch signaling can reinitiate ganglion cell production for a brief period after ganglion cell production has normally ceased, it appears that ganglion cell production initially ends in a region of the retina because of cell-cell interactions and not because progenitor cells lose the competence to make ganglion cells. Notch signaling appears to temporarily prevent production of ganglion cells in a region, while some other signal must initiate a change in progenitor cell competence, thus permanently ending the possibility of further ganglion cell production.
Axonal degeneration has been identified as the major determinant of irreversible neurological disability in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Axonal injury begins at disease onset and correlates with the degree of inflammation within lesions, indicating that inflammatory demyelination influences axon pathology during relapsing-remitting MS (RR-MS). This axonal loss remains clinically silent for many years, and irreversible neurological disability develops when a threshold of axonal loss is reached and compensatory CNS resources are exhausted. Experimental support for this view-the axonal hypothesis-is provided by data from various animal models with primary myelin or axonal pathology, and from pathological or magnetic resonance studies on MS patients. In mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), 15-30% of spinal cord axons can be lost before permanent ambulatory impairment occurs. During secondary progressive MS (SP-MS), chronically demyelinated axons may degenerate due to lack of myelin-derived trophic support. In addition, we hypothesize that reduced trophic support from damaged targets or degeneration of efferent fibers may trigger preprogrammed neurodegenerative mechanisms. The concept of MS as an inflammatory neurodegenerative disease has important clinical implications regarding therapeutic approaches, monitoring of patients, and the development of neuroprotective treatment strategies.
Despite patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) experience a progressive disease course from onset, the burden and activity of lesions on conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain are lower than in all other main clinical phenotypes of MS. This review outlines the major contributions given by magnetization transfer MRI, diffusion tensor MRI and functional MRI to the understanding of the pathophysiology of PPMS and provides evidence that, at least, three factors might explain this clinical/MRI discrepancy: (a) the presence of a diffuse tissue damage at a microscopic level; (b) a prevalent involvement of the cervical cord, and (c) an impairment of the adaptive capacity of the cortex to limit the functional consequences of subcortical structural damage.
We hypothesized that cessation of brainstem monoaminergic systems and an activation of brainstem inhibitory systems are both involved in pontine inhibitory area (PIA) stimulation-induced muscle atonia. In our previous study (Lai et al., 2001), we found a decrease in norepinephrine and serotonin release in motoneuron pools during PIA stimulation-induced muscle tone suppression. We now demonstrate an increase in inhibitory amino acid release in motor nuclei during PIA stimulation in the decerebrate cat using in vivo microdialysis and HPLC analysis techniques. Microinjection of acetylcholine into the PIA elicited muscle atonia and simultaneously produced a significant increase in both glycine and GABA release in both the hypoglossal nucleus and the lumbar ventral horn. Glycine release increased by 74% in the hypoglossal nucleus and 50% in the spinal cord. GABA release increased by 31% in the hypoglossal nucleus and 64% in the spinal cord during atonia induced by cholinergic stimulation of the PIA. As with cholinergic stimulation, 300 msec train electrical stimulation of the PIA elicited a significant increase in glycine release in the hypoglossal nucleus and ventral horn. GABA release was significantly increased in the hypoglossal nucleus but not in the spinal cord during electrical stimulation of the PIA. Glutamate release in the motor nuclei was not significantly altered during atonia induced by electrical or acetylcholine stimulation of the PIA. We suggest that both glycine and GABA play important roles in the regulation of upper airway and postural muscle tone. A combination of decreased monoamine and increased inhibitory amino acid release in motoneuron pools causes PIA-induced atonia and may be involved in atonia linked to rapid eye-movement sleep.
This study sought to determine whether CA1 hippocampal neurons encode the duration of the trace interval during trace fear conditioning. Single neurons were recorded extracellularly in the CA1 of rabbits during and after a single trace fear classical conditioning session. Trace fear conditioning trials consisted of an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS; 3 sec) and a fear-producing shock unconditioned stimulus (US; 0.5 sec) separated by a silent trace interval. One group of rabbits was trained using a 10 sec trace interval (n = 5), and another group was trained using a 20 sec trace interval (n = 4). These groups were compared with pseudoconditioning control rabbits (n = 5 and n = 4, respectively) that received unpaired CSs and USs. One day after trace and pseudo fear conditioning rabbits received a CS-alone retention session in which no USs were presented. The trace conditioned groups showed larger bradycardiac-fear responses on CS-alone trials compared with the pseudoconditioning groups. A significant percentage of CA1 neurons from the 10 and 20 sec trace groups (24 and 28%, respectively) showed maximal firing on CS-alone retention trials timed to 10 sec (+/-1.5 sec) and 20 sec (+/-2.0 sec) after CS offset, respectively. These latencies were similar to the duration of the trace interval used on previous CS-trace-US trials. Timed CA1 firing was not seen in pseudoconditioning control animals, suggesting that a subset of CA1 neurons encoded the trace interval duration. The percentage of neurons encoding trace duration was largest when rabbits exhibited significant fear responses to the CS, suggesting that trace encoding was related to the strength of the CS and US association.
Na+-dependent spikes initiate in the soma or axon hillock region and actively backpropagate into the dendritic arbor of many central neurons. Inward currents underlying spike discharge are offset by outward K+ currents that repolarize a spike and establish a refractory period to temporarily prevent spike discharge. We show in a sensory neuron that somatic and dendritic K+ channels differentially control burst discharge by regulating the extent to which backpropagating dendritic spikes can re-excite the soma. During repetitive discharge a progressive broadening of dendritic spikes promotes a dynamic increase in dendritic spike refractory period. A leaky integrate-and-fire model shows that spike bursts are terminated when a decreasing somatic interspike interval and an increasing dendritic spike refractory period synergistically act to block backpropagation. The time required for the somatic interspike interval to intersect with dendritic refractory period determines burst frequency, a time that is regulated by somatic and dendritic spike repolarization. Thus, K+ channels involved in spike repolarization can efficiently control the pattern of spike output by establishing a soma-dendritic interaction that invokes dynamic shifts in dendritic spike properties.
The receptor subtypes that mediate the effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on food intake have not been clearly defined. The NPY Y4 receptor has been identified recently as a potential mediator of the regulation of food intake. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the central site of action of the Y4 receptor using a combination of neuroanatomical and physiological approaches. Using immunocytochemistry, Y4-like immunoreactivity was found to be colocalized with orexin cell bodies in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) and orexin fibers throughout the brain. In situ hybridization confirmed the expression of Y4 mRNA in orexin neurons. To determine the functional interaction between Y4 receptors and orexin neurons, we examined the effects of rat pancreatic polypeptide (rPP), a Y4-selective ligand, or NPY, a nonselective ligand, administered directly into the LHA on the stimulation of food and water intake and c-Fos expression. Both rPP and NPY significantly increased food and water intake when they were administered into the LHA, although NPY was a more potent stimulator of food intake. Furthermore, both NPY and rPP significantly stimulated c-Fos expression in the LHA. However, whereas rPP stimulated c-Fos expression in orexin neurons, NPY did not. Neither rPP nor NPY stimulated c-Fos in melanin-concentrating hormone neurons, but both activated neurons of an unknown phenotype in the LHA. These results suggest that a functional Y4 receptor is expressed on orexin neurons and that these neurons are activated in response to a ligand with high affinity for the Y4 receptor (rPP). Although these data suggest a role for central Y4 receptors, the endogenous ligand for this receptor has yet to be clearly established.
Moving dots can evoke a percept of the spatial structure of a three-dimensional object in the absence of other visual cues. This phenomenon, called structure from motion (SFM), suggests that the motion flowfield represented in the dorsal stream can form the basis of object recognition performed in the ventral stream. SFM processing is likely to contribute to object perception whenever there is relative motion between the observer and the object viewed. Here we investigate the motion flowfield component of object recognition with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Our SFM stimuli encoded face surfaces and random three-dimensional control shapes with matched curvature properties. We used two different types of an SFM stimulus with the dots either fixed to the surface of the object or moving on it. Despite the radically different encoding of surface structure in the two types of SFM, both elicited strong surface percepts and involved the same network of cortical regions. From early visual areas, this network extends dorsally into the human motion complex and parietal regions and ventrally into object-related cortex. The SFM stimuli elicited a face-selective response in the fusiform face area. The human motion complex appears to have a central role in SFM object recognition, not merely representing the motion flowfield but also the surface structure of the motion-defined object. The motion complex and a region in the intraparietal sulcus reflected the motion state of the SFM-implicit object, responding more strongly when the implicit object was in motion than when it was stationary.
Subjects were trained on a pursuit task in which the target trajectory was predictable only on the horizontal axis. Half of them were sleep deprived on the first post-training night (n = 13). Three days later, functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed task-related increases in brain responses to the learned trajectory, as compared with a new trajectory. In the sleeping group (n = 12) as compared with the sleep-deprived group, subjects' performance was improved, and their brain activity was greater in the superior temporal sulcus (STS). Increased functional connectivity was observed between the STS and the cerebellum and between the supplementary eye field and the frontal eye field. These differences indicate sleep-related plastic changes during motor skill learning in areas involved in smooth pursuit eye movements.
Steroid hormones alter dendritic architecture in many animals, but the exact relationship between dendritic anatomy, synaptic strength, and behavioral expression is typically unknown. In larvae of the moth Manduca sexta, the tip of each abdominal proleg (locomotory appendage) bears an array of mechanosensory hairs, each innervated by a planta hair sensory neuron (PH-SN). In the CNS, PH-SN axons make monosynaptic, excitatory nicotinic cholinergic connections with accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons. These synapses mediate a proleg withdrawal reflex behavior that is lost at pupation. The prepupal peak of ecdysteroids (molting hormones) triggers the regression of APR dendrites and a &gt;80% reduction in the amplitude of EPSPs produced in APRs by PH-SNs that innervate posterior planta hairs. The present study tested the hypothesis that a decrease in the number of synaptic contacts from PH-SNs to APRs contributes to this synaptic weakening. Pairs of PH-SNs and APRs were fluorescently labeled in larvae and pupae, and the number of indistinguishably close anatomical contacts (putative synapses) was counted by confocal laser scanning microscopy. During APR dendritic regression, the mean number of contacts from posterior PH-SNs decreased by approximately 80%, whereas the size of individual contacts did not change detectably and the axonal arbors of PH-SNs did not regress. These results suggest that the steroid-induced regression of motoneuron dendrites physically disconnects the motoneurons from the synaptic terminals of sensory neurons, producing synaptic weakening and the developmental loss of the proleg withdrawal reflex behavior at pupation.
Altering the concentrations of cyclic nucleotides within nerve cells can dramatically change their responses to axonal guidance cues, but the physiological signals that might induce such alterations are unknown. Here we show that the chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) reduces the repellent activities of slit-2 on cultured retinal ganglion cell axons, of semaphorin 3A on dorsal root ganglion sensory axons, and of semaphorin 3C on sympathetic axons. This is a modulatory effect because SDF-1 has no detectable attractive or repellent effects on retinal or DRG axons by itself. This modulation is mediated through CXCR4, the receptor of SDF-1, and a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein-coupled signaling pathway that induces an elevation of cAMP. The spinal cords of CXCR4 mutant mice contain hyperfasciculated and aberrantly projecting axons. These results suggest that SDF-1 plays an essential role in modulating axonal responsiveness to various known guidance cues through a cyclic nucleotide-dependent signaling pathway.
We identified a group of actin-binding-bundling proteins that are expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) but are not detected in other neurons of the CNS. These proteins are novel isoforms of the actin-bundling protein espin that arise through the use of a unique site for transcriptional initiation and differential splicing. Light and electron microscopic localization studies demonstrated that these espin isoforms are enriched in the dendritic spines of PCs. They were detected in the head and neck and in association with the postsynaptic density (PSD) of dendritic spines in synaptic contact with parallel or climbing fibers. They were also highly enriched in PSD fractions isolated from cerebellum. The PC espins efficiently bound and bundled actin filaments in vitro, and these activities were not inhibited by Ca2+. When expressed in transfected neuronal cell lines, the PC espins colocalized with actin filaments and elicited the formation of coarse cytoplasmic actin bundles. The insulin receptor substrate p53 (IRSp53), an Src homology 3 (SH3) adapter protein and regulator of the actin cytoskeleton, was identified as an espin-binding protein in yeast two-hybrid screens. Cotransfection studies and pull-down assays showed that this interaction was direct and required the N-terminal proline-rich peptide of the PC espins. Thus, the PC espins exhibit the properties of modular actin-bundling proteins with the potential to influence the organization and dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton in PC dendritic spines and to participate in multiprotein complexes involving SH3 domain-containing proteins, such as IRSp53.
The glutamate receptor (GluR) agonist-binding site consists of amino acid residues in the extracellular S1 and S2 segments in the N-terminal and M3-M4 loop regions, respectively. Molecular and atomic level structural analyses have identified specific S1 and S2 residues that interact directly with ligands, interact with one another in a dimeric configuration, and influence channel gating and desensitization properties of AMPA receptors. Other studies suggest that KA receptor gating and desensitization may differ mechanistically. In particular, a leucine (L) to tyrosine (Y) mutation in the S1 segment of AMPA receptors is sufficient to block desensitization, whereas KA receptors naturally contain a tyrosine residue at the equivalent position (Y751 in GluR6) but retain the fast-desensitizing phenotype. We hypothesized that KA receptor desensitization is preserved by a compensatory substitution in the S2 segment. We generated a series of GluR6 mutants that converted individual S2 domain residues to their AMPA receptor equivalents. Various S2 mutations had effects on the kinetics of desensitization and recovery from desensitization, but no single amino acid substitution was found to block desensitization, as in the L/Y mutant AMPA receptors, or to prevent desensitization to KA. Other mutations designed to neutralize residues thought to interact across the dimer interface had dramatic effects on channel gating and desensitization. These results are consistent with a close but imperfect structural homology between AMPA and KA receptors and support the role of conserved S1S2 domain interactions at the dimer interface in GluR channel function.
Neuropathic pain is a common and often incapacitating clinical problem for which little useful therapy is presently available. Painful peripheral neuropathies can have many etiologies, among which are trauma, viral infections, exposure to radiation or chemotherapy, and metabolic or autoimmune diseases. Sufferers generally experience both pain at rest and exaggerated, painful sensitivity to light touch. Spontaneous firing of injured nerves is believed to play a critical role in the induction and maintenance of neuropathic pain syndromes. Using a well characterized nerve ligation model in the rat, we demonstrate that hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-modulated (HCN) &quot;pacemaker&quot; channels play a previously unrecognized role in both touch-related pain and spontaneous neuronal discharge originating in the damaged dorsal root ganglion. HCN channels, particularly HCN1, are abundantly expressed in rat primary afferent somata. Nerve injury markedly increases pacemaker currents in large-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons and results in pacemaker-driven spontaneous action potentials in the ligated nerve. Pharmacological blockade of HCN activity using the specific inhibitor ZD7288 reverses abnormal hypersensitivity to light touch and decreases the firing frequency of ectopic discharges originating in Abeta and Adelta fibers by 90 and 40%, respectively, without conduction blockade. These findings suggest novel insights into the molecular basis of pain and the possibility of new, specific, effective pharmacological therapies.
Synaptic GTPase-activating protein (SynGAP) is a neuronal RasGAP (Ras GTPase-activating protein) that is selectively expressed in brain and highly enriched at excitatory synapses, where it negatively regulates Ras activity and its downstream signaling pathways. To investigate the physiological role of SynGAP in the brain, we have generated mutant mice lacking the SynGAP protein. These mice exhibit postnatal lethality, indicating that SynGAP plays a critical role during neuronal development. In addition, cell biological experiments show that neuronal cultures from mutant mice have more synaptic AMPA receptor clusters, suggesting that SynGAP regulates glutamate receptor synaptic targeting. Moreover, electrophysiological studies demonstrated that heterozygous mutant mice have a specific defect in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). These studies show that the regulation of synaptic Ras signaling by SynGAP is important for proper neuronal development and glutamate receptor trafficking and is critical for the induction of LTP.
Hippocampal theta activity, a high-amplitude, slow (4-12 Hz) oscillation that occurs in a variety of behavioral contexts, is thought to emerge in infant rats only after 1 week of age. However, we report here that unanesthetized 2- and 4-d-old rats with electrodes implanted in the CA1 field of the hippocampus and tested in thermoneutral conditions exhibit theta activity. Moreover, this infant theta is characterized by the same neuronal bursting pattern and power spectrum that characterize theta in adults. Simultaneous measures of behavior and neck muscle tone indicated that bouts of theta occurred predominantly during periods of muscle atonia (with or without concurrent myoclonic twitching), indicative of REM sleep. In contrast, sharp waves were accompanied by startles (i.e., simultaneous and vigorous movement of all four limbs). These findings underscore the need for comprehensive in vivo investigations of the pharmacology, neural substrates, and behavioral correlates of hippocampal field activity in neonates.
Cerebral vasospasm remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The availability of a mouse model of SAH that is simple, replicable and has low mortality would provide a powerful approach for understanding cellular and molecular mechanisms contributing to post-SAH pathologies. The present study characterizes a mouse model of experimental SAH, which produces consistent constriction of large cerebral arteries. Adult mice received injections of autologous blood into the cisterna magna, and the diameters of large intracranial vessels were measured 1 h to 7 days post-SAH. A diffuse blood clot was evident in both the anterior and posterior circulations after SAH. Vascular wall thickening, lumenal narrowing and corrugation of the internal elastic lamina were observed. Both acute (6-12 h) and delayed (1-3 days) phases of vasoconstriction occurred after SAH. Overall mortality was only 3%. A reproducible, low mortality model of SAH-induced cerebral vasospasm in mice is described. This mouse model should facilitate the delineation of cellular and molecular mechanisms of SAH-induced pathologies because of the widespread availability of various technologies for this species (e.g. genetically-altered animals and gene expression arrays). This model also represents a replicable and inexpensive approach for screening therapeutic candidates.
Nylon filter arrays spotted with differential display PCR (DD-PCR) clones and hybridized with radiolabeled cRNA generated from the source RNA pool (reverse Northern blot) provide a high-throughput means to screen clones for artifacts. Reverse Northern blots also confirm differential gene expression in parallel and require modest quantities of the source RNA pool. We describe a strategy to screen multiple candidates from DD-PCR by high-throughput ligation and transformation, followed by reverse Northern blotting. Purification of re-amplified DD-PCR clones and fabrication of nylon arrays was facilitated by a batch-processing protocol using the widely available Biomek laboratory robot and Bioworks scripts (available from the authors). A strategy to screen out DD-PCR product artifacts of an inappropriate size was also employed. Using these approaches, we identified several mRNAs that are differentially expressed in response to venlafaxine, fluoxetine or desipramine antidepressant treatment in rat C6 glioma cell lines and are candidates for full length clone isolation using 5'-RACE. Such an approach provides a rapid means to eliminate the high percentage of false positive clones from DD-PCR and enables independent confirmation of differential gene expression patterns generated by various experimental conditions.
cDNA microarrays and two-dimensional gel-electrophoresis in combination with mass spectrometry, were used to screen alterations in mRNA and protein levels, respectively, in cerebral cortex of MK-801-treated rats. The rats were divided in two groups; group 1 (short-term treated) and group 2 (long-term treated). In group 1, four genes were up-regulated and five down-regulated. In group 2, seven genes were up-regulated and six down-regulated. In group 1, the levels of one protein was increased and eight proteins reduced. In group 2, the levels of two proteins were increased and four proteins reduced. Several of the altered genes (casein kinase 2, glutamic acid decarboxylase, synaptotagmin, gamma aminobutyric acid [GABA] transporter, creatine kinase, and cytochrome c oxidase) and proteins (superoxide dismutase, hsp 60, hsp 72 and gamma-enolase) have previously been connected to schizophrenia. Alterations of the genes (microglobulin, c-jun proto-oncogene, 40S ribosomal protein S19, adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation factors, platelet-derived growth factor, fructose-bisphophate aldolase A, and myelin proteolipid) and the proteins (stathmin, H+-transp. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, beta-actin and alpha-enolase), have not, to our knowledge, earlier been implicated in schizophrenia pathology. Overall, these results with a combined approach of genomics and proteomics add to the validity of subchronic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist treatment as an animal model of schizophrenia.
Hormones released from the pituitary have been shown to regulate the expression of different proteins in the central nervous system. We wanted to examine whether peripheral administration of bovine growth hormone (bGH) regulates the expression of delta-opioid receptor (DOR) in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Expression of the DOR protein was quantified using Western blot densitometry. DOR mRNA was quantified with a solution hybridization RNase protection assay. Hypophysectomized (Hx) and untreated normal female rats were included in the study. All Hx rats were hormonally treated with cortisol (400 microg/kg/day) and L-thyroxine (10 microg/kg/day) for 19 days. Hypophysectomy resulted in a threefold increase in cerebral cortex and a twofold increase in cerebellum of the DOR protein compared with normal rats. One subgroup of Hx rats received bGH (1 mg/kg body weight) as a daily subcutaneous injection for 19 days. This treatment normalized the levels of DOR protein in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Immunohistochemical experiments showed that GH decreased DOR expression especially in layers II-VI in cerebral cortex and in stratum moleculare in cerebellum. Quantification of DOR mRNA by solution hybridization RNase protection assay corresponded to the DOR protein measurements. We conclude that the expression of DORs in cerebral cortex and cerebellum is regulated by GH.
Recent research indicates that the novel multimodular adaptor protein EHSH1 plays an important role in a partnership between clathrin-mediated endocytosis and intracellular signaling pathways, including the MAPK pathway, receptor-tyrosine kinase/ras-mediated pathway, and the rho family of the GTPase-dependent pathway. We report the detailed expression pattern of EHSH1 in the rat CNS, using separate cultures of neurons, astrocytes, and microglia, and biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses. Cultured neurons from the cortex express primarily the long isoform EHSH1-l, as well as a small amount of the short isoform EHSH1-s. Cultured astrocytes express EHSH1-s, at a level similar to neurons, and a trace of EHSH1-l. Cultured microglia express only EHSH1-s. Double immunofluorescent staining of cortical sections showed that EHSH1 is expressed predominantly in neurons. These results suggest that EHSH1-l is a primary isoform and that EHSH1-l is highly enriched in neurons in the rat adult CNS. Immunohistochemistry of a series of brain sections revealed widespread distribution of EHSH1 throughout the brain. Particularly intense immunoreactivity was observed in the somatodendritic region of neurons in Layer III of the neocortex, hippocampus, globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus, and substantia nigra. Interestingly, all pyramidal neurons in Layer III of the neocortex and hippocampus did not necessarily exhibit equal levels of immunostaining. In contrast, little EHSH1 immunoreactivity was detected in septofimbrial nucleus and subfornical organ of the septal region, and solitary tract and external cuneate nuclei of the medulla. Variety in the expression of EHSH1 in neurons of different regions may reflect different conditions in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and the following signal transduction.
Neuronal nicotinic alpha7 subunits have been found in chick and rat skeletal muscle during development and denervation. In the present study, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was used to detect alpha7 subunit mRNA in denervated mouse muscle. To determine whether the alpha7 subunit forms functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in muscle, choline was used to induce a membrane depolarization because choline has been considered a specific agonist of alpha7-containing (alpha7*) nAChRs. We found, however, that choline (3-10 mM) also weakly activates muscle nAChRs. After inhibiting muscle nAChRs with a specific muscle nAChR inhibitor, alpha-conotoxin GI (alphaCTxGI), choline was used to activate the alpha7* nAChRs on muscle selectively. Four weeks after denervation, rapid application of choline (10 mM) elicited a substantial depolarization in the presence of alphaCTxGI (0.1 microM). This component of the depolarization was never present in denervated muscles obtained from mutant mice lacking the alpha7 subunit (i.e. alpha7-null mice). The depolarization component that is resistant to alphaCTxGI was antagonized by pancuronium (3-10 microM) and by a 4-oxystilbene derivative (F3, 0.1-0.5 microM) at concentrations considered highly specific for alpha7* nAChRs. Another selective alpha7 antagonist, methyllycaconitine (0.05-5 microM), did not strongly inhibit this choline-induced depolarization. Furthermore, the choline-sensitive nAChRs showed little desensitization over 10 s of application with choline (10-30 mM). These results indicate that functional alpha7* nAChRs are significantly present on denervated muscle, and that these receptors display unusual functional and pharmacological characteristics.
Fifty years of study of the nervous system and behavior of crayfish have revealed neural circuits for movements that are similar to those seen during formation of a dominance hierarchy. Given this background, it is of interest to ask what is understood about the neural substrates of dominance hierarchy formation. Here we will consider the social behavior that crayfish display in the wild and in the laboratory, and its relationship to movements released by activation of specific neural circuits. We will consider how these movements might be knit together to produce the behavior patterns that are characteristic of dominant and subordinate animals.


The neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) mediates a wide variety of biological effects. Consistent with the function in controlling the survival and neurite formation, p75(NTR) is expressed during the developmental stages of the nervous system. Importantly, p75(NTR) is re-expressed in various pathological conditions and is suggested to contribute to the inhibition of neuronal regeneration and the death of the neurons. Here we develop a tool to knock down the expression of p75(NTR) by employing a small interfering RNA (siRNA). The siRNA for p75(NTR) effectively reduces the expression of endogenous p75(NTR) both in Schwann cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro. NGF-induced cell death in Schwann cells and the neurite retraction in DRG neurons induced by myelin-associated glycoprotein are attenuated by the siRNA. Inhibition of p75(NTR) in specific pathological conditions by the siRNA may provide a potential therapeutic agent.
We report six novel members of the superfamily of human G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) found by searches in the human genome databases, termed GPR123, GPR124, GPR125, GPR126, GPR127, and GPR128. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that these are additional members of the family of GPCRs with long N-termini, previously termed EGF-7TM, LNB-7TM, B2 or LN-7TM, showing that there exist at least 30 such GPCRs in the human genome. Three of these receptors form their own phylogenetic cluster, while two other places in a cluster with the previously reported HE6 and GPR56 (TM7XN1) and one with EMR1-3. All the novel receptors have a GPS domain in their N-terminus, except GPR123, as well as long Ser/Thr rich regions forming mucin-like stalks. GPR124 and GPR125 have a leucine rich repeat (LRR), an immunoglobulin (Ig) domain, and a hormone-binding domain (HBD). The Ig domain shows similarities to motilin and titin, while the LRR domain shows similarities to LRIG1 and SLIT1-2. GPR127 has one EGF domain while GPR126 and GPR128 do not contain domains that are readily recognized in other proteins beyond the GPS domain. We found several human EST sequences for most of the receptors showing differential expression patterns, which may indicate that some of these receptors participate in central functions while others are more likely to have a role in the immune or reproductive systems.
Congenitally helpless rats have been selectively bred to display an immediate helpless response to stress in order to model hereditary brain differences that contribute to depression vulnerability. Differences in regional brain metabolism between congenitally helpless and non-helpless rats were investigated using quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. The results indicated that congenitally helpless rats had 64-71% elevated metabolism in the habenula and a 25% elevation in the related interpeduncular nucleus. In contrast, helpless rats had 28% reduced metabolism in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and 14-16% reductions in the basal ganglia and basolateral and central amygdala. The opposite metabolic changes in the habenula and ventral tegmental area may be especially important for determining the congenitally helpless rat's global pattern of brain activity, which resembles the metabolic activity pattern produced by dopamine antagonism.
In in vitro rat hippocampal slices, a short period of transient anoxia caused a lasting increase in the amplitude of the compound action potential (population spike, PS) that was evoked in CA1 by stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals. No such increase was seen over a comparable period of time in slices that were not subjected to anoxia. The appearance of such an increase was dependent on the duration of anoxia. Anoxia of 1 min duration did not cause any increase, anoxia lasting 2 min caused a nonsignificant increase, while 3 min of anoxia caused a lasting and statistically significant increase in PS amplitude. Addition of creatine, a compound that is known to afford protection against severe neuronal damage from longer periods of anoxia, prevented PS potentiation at a concentration of 10 mM, but not at a concentration of 1 mM. In addition, while 1 mM creatine by itself did not show any effect on PS amplitude of control slices, 10 mM creatine decreased PS amplitude also in such control slices, that had not been exposed to anoxia. These data demonstrate that this postanoxic hyperexcitability is caused by mechanisms that are little sensitive to the protection that in other contexts is provided by creatine. We suggest that understanding the mechanisms of postanoxic hyperexcitability may help understand the pathophysiology of the epileptic seizures that sometimes occur at the time of an ischemic stroke.
Tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) sodium channels Na(v)1.8/SNS and Na(v)1.9/NaN are preferentially expressed in small diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. The urinary bladder is innervated by small afferent neurons from L6/S1 DRG, of which approximately 75% exhibit high-threshold action potentials that are mediated by TTX-R sodium channels. Following transection of the spinal cord at T8, the bladder becomes areflexic and then gradually hyper-reflexic, and there is an attenuation of the TTX-R sodium currents in bladder afferent neurons. In the present study, we demonstrate that Na(v)1.8 is expressed in both bladder and non-bladder afferent neurons, while Na(v)1.9 is expressed in non-bladder afferent neurons but is rarely observed in bladder afferent neurons. In spinal cord transected rats 28-32 days following transection, there is a decreased expression of Na(v)1.8 sodium channels in bladder afferents, but no change in the expression of Na(v)1.8 in non-bladder afferent neurons. Both bladder and non-bladder afferent neurons exhibit limited increases in Na(v)1.9 expression following spinal cord transection. These results demonstrate that the expression of TTX-R channels in bladder afferent neurons changes after spinal cord transection, and these changes may contribute to the increased excitability of these neurons following spinal cord injury.
Key to understanding how receptor diversity is achieved and controlled is the identification of selective assembly signals capable of distinguishing between other subunit partners. We have identified that the beta1-3 subunits exhibit distinct assembly capabilities with the gamma2L subunit. Similarly, analysis of an assembly box in alpha1-(57-68) has revealed an absolute requirement for this region in the assembly of alphabeta receptors. Furthermore, a selective requirement for a single amino acid (Arg-66), previously shown to be essential for the formation of the low affinity GABA binding site, is observed. This residue is critical for the assembly of alpha1beta2 but not alpha1beta1 or alpha1beta3 receptors. We have confirmed the ability of the previously identified GKER signal in beta3 to direct the assembly of betagamma receptors. The GKER signal is also involved in driving assembly with the alpha1 subunit, conferring the ability to assemble with alpha1(R66A) on the beta2 subunit. Although this signal is sufficient to permit the formation of beta2gamma2 receptors, it is not necessary for beta3gamma2 receptor formation, suggesting the existence of alternative assembly signals. These findings support the belief that GABA(A) receptor assembly occurs via defined pathways to limit the receptor diversity.
Analysis of small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons revealed novel functions for vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) in the regulation of cytosolic Ca(2+). The VR1 agonist capsaicin induced Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular stores in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+), and this release was inhibited by the VR1 antagonist capsazepine but was unaffected by the phospholipase C inhibitor xestospongins, indicating that Ca(2+) mobilization was dependent on capsaicin receptor binding and was not due to intracellular inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate generation. Confocal microscopy revealed extensive expression of VR1 on endoplasmic reticulum, consistent with VR1 operating as a Ca(2+) release receptor. The main part of the capsaicin-releasable Ca(2+) store was insensitive to thapsigargin, a selective endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor, suggesting that VR1 might be predominantly localized to a thapsigargin-insensitive endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) store. In addition, VR1 was observed to behave as a store-operated Ca(2+) influx channel. In DRG neurons, capsazepine attenuated Ca(2+) influx following thapsigargin-induced Ca(2+) store depletion and inhibited thapsigargin-induced inward currents. Conversely, transfected HEK-293 cells expressing VR1 showed enhanced Ca(2+) influx and inward currents following Ca(2+) store depletion. Combined data support topographical and functional diversity for VR1 in the regulation of cytosolic Ca(2+) with the plasma membrane-associated form behaving as a store-operated Ca(2+) influx channel and endoplasmic reticulum-associated VR1 possibly functioning as a Ca(2+) release receptor in sensory neurons.
Gonadal hormones have been shown to exert modulatory effects on nociception and analgesia. To investigate the role of gonadal hormones in the response by female rats to both phasic and persistent nociceptive stimulation, we evaluated the effects of long-term ovariectomy (OVX, 6 months) on the thermal pain threshold and on formalin-induced responses. The thermal pain threshold was evaluated with the plantar test apparatus, while persistent pain was induced by a subcutaneous injection of dilute formalin (50 microliter, 10%) in the dorsal hind paw. The formalin test was carried out in an open field apparatus where the animal's spontaneous behavior and formalin-induced responses (licking duration, flinching frequency and flexing duration of the injected paw) were recorded for 60 min. Estradiol and corticosterone plasma levels were determined in blood collected from the anesthetized animals at the end of the test. In OVX females, the duration of formalin-induced licking was longer than in Intact females during both the first and the second phase; flinching and flexing did not differ from Intact. The thermal pain threshold was only slightly affected by OVX. Estradiol and corticosterone were lower in OVX females than Intact ones. These data indicate that long-term depletion of gonadal hormones in female rats modulates the pain-induced behavioral responses related to supraspinal neural circuits (licking of the injected paw) rather than more spinally mediated responses such as formalin-induced flinching and withdrawal latency in the plantar test.
Blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging uses alterations in brain hemodynamics to infer changes in neural activity. Are these hemodynamic changes regulated at a spatial scale capable of resolving functional columns within the cerebral cortex? To address this question, we made simultaneous measurements of tissue oxygenation and single-cell neural activity within the visual cortex. Results showed that increases in neuronal spike rate were accompanied by immediate decreases in tissue oxygenation. We used this decrease in tissue oxygenation to predict the orientation selectivity and ocular dominance of neighboring neurons. Our results establish a coupling between neural activity and oxidative metabolism and suggest that high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging may be used to localize neural activity at a columnar level.

Unilateral lesions of the forelimb sensorimotor cortex and motor skills training interact to enhance synaptic plasticity in layer V of the motor cortex contralateral to the lesion in male rats. In this study, we assessed the metabolic correlates of these synaptic changes by quantifying the number and size of mitochondria in synaptic axonal terminals with perforated or non-perforated post-synaptic densities (PSDs) and single or multiple post-synaptic contacts. The number of synaptic mitochondria per neuron was significantly greater in rats with lesions. Neither manipulation affected mitochondrial size or number of mitochondria per synapse. Independent of experimental condition, terminals with perforated PSDs had more mitochondria than those with non-perforated PSDs and, among those with non-perforated PSDs, terminals with multiple synaptic contacts had more mitochondria than those forming single synapses.
The aminoalkylindole BML-190 and diarylpyrazole AM251 ligands have previously been shown to bind to cannabinoid CB(2) and CB(1) receptors, respectively. In HEK-293 cells stably expressing the human CB(2) receptor, BML-190 and AM251 potentiated the forskolin-stimulated accumulation of cAMP. Moreover, the CB(2) receptor can interact productively with 16z44, a promiscuous G alpha(16/z) chimera. BML-190 and AM251 reduce the basal levels of inositol phosphate production in cells expressing the CB(2) receptor and 16z44. These results demonstrate that BML-190 and AM251 act as inverse agonists at the human CB(2) receptor acting via G alpha(i/o) and G alpha(q) family-coupled pathways.

Classically recognized as the cutaneous stretch receptors associated with the slowly adapting type II (SAII) primary afferents, Ruffini corpuscles have rarely been reported in the skin, despite numerous histologic investigations. Electrophysiological recordings of the primary afferents in humans suggest that SAII fibers represent approximately 15% of the myelinated mechanosensitive axons in the peripheral nerves innervating the volar surface of the hand. In the present study, an analysis of glabrous skin was conducted in human donors to assess the distribution of Ruffini and Ruffini-like corpuscles in the distal phalanx of the index finger. Only one presumptive Ruffini corpuscle was found in the skin processed for double immunofluorescence labeling with antibodies against protein gene product 9.5 and neurofilament 200-kDa subunit. Based on their relatively scattered distributions, we conclude that very few SAII primary afferents are likely to terminate as Ruffini corpuscles in human glabrous skin.
Although it is well established that the activity of pyramidal projection neurons in the basolateral amygdala (ABL) is controlled by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibitory interneurons, very little is known about the connections of specific interneuronal subpopulations in this region. In the present study, immunohistochemical techniques were used at the light and electron microscopic levels to identify specific populations of interneurons and to analyze their connections with each other and with unlabeled presumptive pyramidal neurons. Double-labeling immunofluorescence experiments revealed that antibodies to vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and calbindin-D28K (CB) labeled two separate interneuronal subpopulations in the ABL. Light microscopic double-labeling immunoperoxidase experiments demonstrated that many VIP-positive (VIP+) axon terminals formed intimate synaptic-like contacts with the CB-positive (CB+) neurons and that both CB+ and VIP+ terminals often contributed to the formation of pericellular baskets that surrounded unlabeled perikarya of pyramidal neurons. By using a dual immunoperoxidase/immunogold-silver procedure at the ultrastructural level, it was found that 30% of VIP+ terminals in the anterior subdivision of the basolateral nucleus innervated interneurons that were either CB+ (25%) or VIP+ (5%). A smaller percentage (15%) of CB+ terminals formed synapses with labeled interneurons. Both VIP+ and CB+ terminals also innervated unlabeled perikarya, dendrites, and spines, most of which probably belonged to pyramidal neurons. The interconnections between interneurons may be important for disinhibitory mechanisms and the mediation of rhythmic oscillations in the ABL.
While dopamine mechanisms play a crucial role in cocaine-taking behavior, the contribution of endogenous opioid systems is less clear. We assessed the effects of opioid receptor blockade by naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) on the daily performance and subsequent initiation of cocaine self-administration in trained rats. Naloxone decreased self-administration rate by approximately half, with the effect varying from complete blockade to no change. On the day following naloxone treatment, the latencies from the drug availability cue to the first self-administration were consistently longer than before naloxone treatment. Measurement of brain temperature and behavioral observations suggested a lower than normal level of motivational arousal as a factor for slow initiation of cocaine-taking behavior. After the first drug infusion, however, performance was uniformly normal. These data suggest endogenous opioid systems play a role in cocaine-taking behavior and indicate a residual inhibitory consequence of naloxone treatment on the initiation of this behavior.
Hippocampal synaptic plasticity was studied in transgenic mice over-expressing human alpha-synuclein containing the A30P Parkinson's disease mutation. Medial perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses showed enhanced paired-pulse depression (PPD) for short interpulse intervals (&lt; 200 ms), without differences in basal transmission. Extracellular calcium reduction failed to rescue the enhanced PPD. Paired-pulse facilitation in the CA1 region was normal in slices from transgenic mice, but enhanced synaptic depression was revealed upon repetitive stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals. Long-term potentiation in the CA1 field was not impaired in slices from transgenic mice. These results suggest that mutant alpha-synuclein accumulation impairs short-term changes in synaptic strength when neurotransmitter availability is limited due to enhanced release probability or repetitive synaptic activity.
Short-term synaptic depression is a widespread and predominant mechanism underlying the process of neural information. To study the short-term depression at primary afferent synapses between Adelta fibers and substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons in the spinal cord, transverse spinal cord slices with dorsal root attached were made from young rats. With whole-cell voltage-clamp method, Adelta-fiber elicited excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded from SG neurons visualized by infrared microscope. Using the normalized peak amplitudes of EPSCs, the existence of short-term depression was examined at all six stimulus frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 20 Hz. Both paired-pulse and steady-state depressions became greater with the increasing stimulus frequency. External calcium concentration could significantly affect the degrees of paired-pulse and steady-state depressions, with paired-pulse depression more affected. Application of NMDA receptor antagonist had no significant effect on this depression. These results indicated that short-term synaptic depression exists at primary afferent neurotransmission in spinal cord and results from the presynaptic reduction in the number of quanta of transmitter released by impulses.
Free Zn(2+) is released in excess at excitatory synapses in pathological conditions including transient global and focal cerebral ischemia, which causes neuronal and glial cell death. In the current study, we explored the mechanism underlying Zn(2+)-induced cell death in primary cortical astroglial cultures. Chronic treatment with 30-35 microM Zn(2+) led to the death of 70-95% of astrocytes within 18 h, preceded by Zn(2+) influx. Extracellular glutathione (GSH; 100 microM) completely blocked the Zn(2+) influx and Zn(2+) toxicity. The Zn(2+) toxicity was also inhibited when intracellular GSH was increased. Conversely, it was aggravated when intracellular GSH was depleted by buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). Consistently, the level of cellular GSH was notably decreased with a concurrent increase in oxidized GSH in Zn(2+)-treated astrocytes. These results suggest that the disruption of proper maintenance of thiol homeostasis is a mechanism underlying Zn(2+) toxicity in primary cortical astrocytes.
Fatty acids, which are essential nutritional components, are also involved in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Here we report a human cell surface receptor that we name free fatty acid receptor (FFAR), because it is specifically activated by medium to long-chain free fatty acids. The receptor belongs to the class of seven-transmembrane, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and also mediates responses to antidiabetic drugs of the thiazolidinedione type. It is expressed in skeletal muscle, heart, liver, and pancreatic beta-cells. Stimulation of FFAR increases the intracellular calcium concentration in cells expressing the receptor in a native (pancreatic beta-cell line) or in a recombinant form. In view of the nature of the activating substances, their physiological role in the body, and the tissue distribution of FFAR we suggest the term &quot;nutrient sensing receptor&quot; for receptors acting at the interface between dietary components and signalling molecules.
We synthesized a new series of small cyclic melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) analogues and screened them for binding affinity at the four MSH binding melanocortin (MC) receptors. We identified a novel substance HS131, with about 20-fold higher affinity for the MC4 receptor than the MC3 receptor. This substance proved to be antagonist for all the four MC receptors in a cAMP assay. HS131 is a six amino acid long peptide, has a molecular weight below 1000, and has only two amino acids in common with the natural MSH peptides. HS131 potently and dose dependently increased food intake after i.c.v. administration. Moreover, s.c. administration of HS131 (1.0 mg/kg) increased food intake, suggesting that HS131 may be able to pass the blood brain barrier. This cyclic low molecular weight peptidomimetic will enable studies of the functional role of the MC4 receptors by peripheral administration and it may be used as a template for further development of low molecular weight substances for the MC receptors.
Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) is a form of short-term, activity-dependent synaptic plasticity common to most chemically transmitting synapses, manifested as an enhancement in the amplitude of the second of two rapidly evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The generally accepted explanation of PPF posits that residual intraterminal free [Ca(2+)] from the first action potential facilitates the probability of transmitter release evoked by the second stimulus. A common extension of this hypothesis postulates that any plastic change which alters the probability of transmitter release, should also alter the magnitude of PPF. In the present study, we examined the relationship between PPF and both stimulus- and chemically-evoked long-term depression of synaptic strength (LTD) at Schaffer collateral-CA1, commissural/associational-CA3 and mossy fiber-CA3 synapses in rat hippocampal slices. We observed no significant change in mean PPF associated with either electrically- or chemically-induced LTD at any of these synapses. However, a correlation analysis revealed a complex pattern of PPF changes with LTD, such that low initial PPF was correlated with increases in PPF, while high initial PPF was associated with decreases. Combined with previous findings supporting a presynaptic site for chemical and stimulus-evoked LTD, our current data suggests a complex set of neurosecretory modifications downstream of presynaptic Ca(2+) influx, may, at least in part, underlie the expression of LTD.
Mutations of the parkin gene on chromosome 6q25-27 are the predominant genetic cause of early-onset and autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism. Parkin is a multi-domain protein with ubiquitin-protein E3 ligase activity that has a role in the proteasome-mediated degradation of target substrates. Although the parkin gene contains an expanded intron/exon structure and spans more than 1.3 Mb, we have identified a novel transcript that initiates 204 bp upstream of parkin and spans over 0.6 Mb, antisense to parkin. We have tentatively named this novel gene Parkin co-regulated gene, or PACRG. A 35 bp site of bi-directional transcription activation within the common promoter was mapped using dual-luciferase assays. This region appeared to be responsible for the majority of transcription regulation of both genes, and comparison of the mouse and human sequences revealed conserved transcription factor-binding sites. A 15 bp interval within the activation region, containing a non-canonical myc-binding site, bound nuclear protein derived from human substantia nigra. Database analysis identified highly conserved homologs of PACRG encoded by the mouse and Drosophila genomes, and Northern analysis demonstrated that PACRG and parkin were co-expressed in many tissues, including brain, heart and muscle. Western analysis revealed a protein of the predicted size, approximately 30 kDa, which was expressed in mouse and human brain. Although PACRG protein lacks known functional domains, in silico prediction suggests a potential link to the ubiquitin/proteasome system.
Mutations in ion channels involved in the generation and termination of action potentials constitute a family of molecular defects that underlie fatal cardiac arrhythmias in inherited long-QT syndrome. We report here that a loss-of-function (E1425G) mutation in ankyrin-B (also known as ankyrin 2), a member of a family of versatile membrane adapters, causes dominantly inherited type 4 long-QT cardiac arrhythmia in humans. Mice heterozygous for a null mutation in ankyrin-B are haploinsufficient and display arrhythmia similar to humans. Mutation of ankyrin-B results in disruption in the cellular organization of the sodium pump, the sodium/calcium exchanger, and inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (all ankyrin-B-binding proteins), which reduces the targeting of these proteins to the transverse tubules as well as reducing overall protein level. Ankyrin-B mutation also leads to altered Ca2+ signalling in adult cardiomyocytes that results in extrasystoles, and provides a rationale for the arrhythmia. Thus, we identify a new mechanism for cardiac arrhythmia due to abnormal coordination of multiple functionally related ion channels and transporters.
Several theories have proposed a functional role for response synchronization in sensory perception. Critics of these theories have argued that selective synchronization is physiologically implausible when cortical networks operate at high levels of activity. Using intracellular recordings from visual cortex in vivo, in combination with numerical simulations, we find dynamic changes in spike threshold that reduce cellular sensitivity to slow depolarizations and concurrently increase the relative sensitivity to rapid depolarizations. Consistent with this, we find that spike activity and high-frequency fluctuations in membrane potential are closely correlated and that both are more tightly tuned for stimulus orientation than the mean membrane potential. These findings suggest that under high-input conditions the spike-generating mechanism adaptively enhances the sensitivity to synchronous inputs while simultaneously decreasing the sensitivity to temporally uncorrelated inputs.
Tyrosine kinases have been implicated in cellular processes thought to underlie learning and memory. Here we show that tyrosine kinases play a direct role in long-term synaptic facilitation (LTF) and long-term memory (LTM) for sensitization in Aplysia. Tyrosine kinase activity is required for serotonin-induced LTF of sensorimotor (SN-MN) synapses, and enhancement of endogenous tyrosine kinase activity facilitates the induction of LTF. These effects are mediated, at least in part, through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and are blocked by transcriptional and translational inhibitors. Moreover, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) also enhances the induction of LTF in a MAPK-dependent fashion. Finally, activation of endogenous tyrosine kinases enhances the induction of long-term memory for sensitization, and this enhancement also requires MAPK activation. Thus, tyrosine kinases, acting through MAPK, play a pivotal role in LTF and LTM formation.
Information processing in the neuron requires spatial summation of synaptic inputs at the dendrite. In CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, a brief period of correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity, which induces long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD), results in a persistent increase or decrease in the linearity of spatial summation, respectively. Such bidirectional modification of the summation property is specific to the modified input and reflects localized dendritic changes involving I(h) channels and NMDA receptors. Thus, correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity alters not only the strength of the activated input but also its dendritic integration with other inputs.
Subthreshold-activating somatodendritic A-type potassium channels have fundamental roles in neuronal signaling and plasticity which depend on their unique cellular localization, voltage dependence, and kinetic properties. Some of the components of A-type K(+) channels have been identified; however, these do not reproduce the properties of the native channels, indicating that key molecular factors have yet to be unveiled. We purified A-type K(+) channel complexes from rat brain membranes and found that DPPX, a protein of unknown function that is structurally related to the dipeptidyl aminopeptidase and cell adhesion protein CD26, is a novel component of A-type K(+) channels. DPPX associates with the channels' pore-forming subunits, facilitates their trafficking and membrane targeting, reconstitutes the properties of the native channels in heterologous expression systems, and is coexpressed with the pore-forming subunits in the somatodendritic compartment of CNS neurons.
We targeted 266 CAG repeats (a number that causes infantile-onset disease) into the mouse Sca7 locus to generate an authentic model of spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 (SCA7). These mice reproduced features of infantile SCA7 (ataxia, visual impairments, and premature death) and showed impaired short-term synaptic potentiation; downregulation of photoreceptor-specific genes, despite apparently normal CRX activity, led to shortening of photoreceptor outer segments. Wild-type ataxin-7 was barely detectable, as was mutant ataxin-7 in young animals; with increasing age, however, ataxin-7 staining became more pronounced. Neurons that appeared most vulnerable had relatively high levels of mutant ataxin-7; it is interesting, however, that marked dysfunction occurred in these neurons weeks prior to the appearance of nuclear inclusions. These data demonstrate that glutamine expansion stabilizes mutant ataxin-7, provide an explanation for selective neuronal vulnerability, and show that mutant ataxin-7 impairs posttetanic potentiation (PTP).
Increased purinergic sensitivity of injured sensory neurons suggests the possible involvement of purinoceptors for the generation of pain after nerve injury. To identify the purinoceptors that are involved, the changes in mRNA levels of 6 subtype purinoceptors were examined in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of the normal rat and after spinal nerve ligation, using RNase protection assay (RPA). In addition, the P2X(2) containing neurons were examined in the L5 DRG, using an immunohistochemical method. The relative amounts of mRNAs for the six purinoceptor subtypes were in the order of P2X(3)&gt;P2X(4)&gt;P2X(6)&gt;P2X(5) approximately P2X(2)&gt;P2X(1) in the normal lumbar DRG. After nerve injury, the mRNA of P2X(5) was increased, those of P2X(3) and P2X(6) were decreased, and those of P2X(2) and P2X(4) were unchanged. Immunohistochemical studies, however, showed 23% of the total DRG neurons are P2X(2) positive in the normal L5 DRG, but that increased to 73% after nerve ligation. These data suggest that not only transcriptional but also posttranscriptional changes of multiple purinoceptors might be involved in the enhancement of purinergic sensitivity in injured sensory neurons.
Abundant levels of the hyperactive low molecular weight (LMW) forms of cyclin E contribute to deregulation of Cdk2 in breast tumors, but the mechanism through which they arise is not fully understood. Here, we explored the hypothesis that post-translational processing by a protease generates the LMW forms of cyclin E in breast tumors. In ZR75 tumor cell lysates, calcium-induced cyclin E truncation into peptides corresponding in size with LMW forms of cyclin E in tumor tissues. Calpeptin inhibited calcium-stimulated cyclin E truncation, indicating that cleavage resulted from activity of the calcium-dependent protease, calpain. Consistently, calcium+calpain caused truncation of cyclin E immunoprecipitated from tumor cells and tissues. Calcium also caused truncation of the calpain regulatory subunit in tumor cell lysates, indicating that elevated calpain activity accompanies cyclin E truncation. Increased levels of the calpain small subunit were also observed in breast tumors, and significant amounts of its proteolyzed forms indicated increased calpain activity. While elastase also caused cyclin E truncation, the cleavage pattern was distinct from that generated by calpain, suggesting discrete mechanisms in regulating the formation of LMW cyclin E in breast tumors. Treatment of ZR75 cultures with calcium+A23187 recapitulated the formation of the calcium/calpain-induced LMW forms of cyclin E. Altered calcium homeostasis and/or inability of the endogenous calpain inhibitor to control the activity of high levels of the calpain small subunit may contribute to increased calpain activity in breast tumors, causing abundant levels of LMW cyclin E.
The aim of this study was to develop an efficient method for packaging and concentrating lentiviral vectors that consistently yields high-titer virus on a scale suitable for in vivo applications. Transient cotransfection of 293T packaging cells with DNA plasmids encoding lentiviral vector components was optimized using SuperFect, an activated dendrimer-based transfection reagent. The use of SuperFect allowed reproducible and efficient production of high-titer lentiviral vector at concentrations greater than 1 x 10(7) transducing units per ml (TU/ml) and required less than one-third of the total amount of DNA used in traditional calcium phosphate transfection methods. Viral titers were further increased using a novel concentration protocol that yielded an average final titer of 1.4 x 10(10) TU/ml. Lentiviruses produced using these methods exhibited efficient transduction of central nervous system and peripheral tissues in vivo. The method is reproducible and can be scaled up to facilitate the use of these vectors in animal studies.
The establishment and refinement of neuronal connections depend on dynamic modification of the morphology and physiology of developing axons in response to extrinsic factors. In embryonic cultures of Xenopus spinal neurons, acute application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induced rapid collateral protrusion of filopodium-like microspikes and lamellipodia along the neurite processes, leading to a morphologic alternation of the neuron. Both types of membrane protrusions contained high concentrations of actin filaments and depended on the polymerization of the actin cytoskeleton. Immunofluorescent staining, however, revealed the presence of microtubules (MTs) in lamellipodia induced by BDNF. These MTs appeared to have arisen from debundling of MTs in the neurite shaft at the protrusion sites, splaying and extending in the rapidly protruding lamellipodia. Inhibition of microtubule polymerization by nocodazole largely abolished the formation of lamellipodia but not of microspikes. Taken together, our results suggest that collateral sprouting of microspikes and lamellipodia involve distinctly different cytoskeletal mechanisms. Although the actin cytoskeleton is solely responsible for microspike formation, cooperative efforts by microtubules and actin filaments are essential for lamellipodial protrusion in response to extrinsic factors.


Sounds that move towards us have a greater biological salience than those that move away. Recent studies in human and non-human primates have demonstrated a perceptual and behavioural priority for such looming sounds that is also reflected in an asymmetric pattern of cortical activation.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor (NMDAR), long implicated in developmental plasticity, shows decay time kinetics that shorten postnatally as NR2A subunits are added to the receptor. Neither the mechanism nor immediate effect of this change is known. We studied developing NMDAR currents by using visual neurons in slices from NR2A knockout (NR2AKO) and WT mice. Both strains show increased dendritic levels of synaptic density scaffolding protein PSD-95 with age. Dendritic levels of NR2A increased at the same time in WT and immunoprecipitated with PSD-95. PSD-95NMDAR binding was significantly decreased in the NR2AKO. Moreover, NMDAR miniature currents (minis) were lost and rise times of NMDAR evoked currents increased in mutant mice. Age-matched WT cells showed NR2A-rich receptors predominating in minis, yet slow NR2B mediated currents persisted in evoked currents. Disrupting photoreceptor activation of retinal ganglion cells eliminated increases in PSD-95 and NR2A in superior collicular dendrites of WT mice and slowed the loss of miniature NMDAR currents in NR2AKOs. These data demonstrate that NMDARs that respond to single quantal events mature faster during development by expressing the NR2A subunit earlier than NMDARs that respond to evoked release. We hypothesize that NR2A-rich NMDARs may be localized to the center of developing synapses by an activity-dependent process that involves the targeting of PSD-95 to the postsynaptic density. Neonatal receptors become restricted to perisynpatic or extrasynaptic sites, where they participate primarily in evoked currents.
Mints (also called X11-like proteins) are adaptor proteins composed of divergent N-terminal sequences that bind to synaptic proteins such as CASK (Mint 1 only) and Munc18-1 (Mints 1 and 2) and conserved C-terminal PTB- and PDZ-domains that bind to widely distributed proteins such as APP, presenilins, and Ca(2+) channels (all Mints). We find that Mints 1 and 2 are similarly expressed in most neurons except for inhibitory interneurons that contain selectively high levels of Mint 1. Using knockout mice, we show that deletion of Mint 1 does not impair survival or alter the overall brain architecture, arguing against an essential developmental function of the Mint 1-CASK complex. In electrophysiological recordings in the hippocampus, we observed no changes in short- or long-term synaptic plasticity in excitatory synapses from Mint 1-deficient mice and detected no alterations in the ratio of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic currents. Thus the Mint 1-CASK complex is not required for AMPA- and NMDA-receptor functions or for synaptic plasticity in excitatory synapses. In inhibitory synapses, however, we uncovered an approximately 3-fold increase in presynaptic paired-pulse depression, suggesting that deletion of Mint 1 impairs the regulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid release. Our data indicate that Mints 1 and 2 perform redundant synaptic functions that become apparent in Mint 1-deficient mice in inhibitory interneurons because these neurons selectively express higher levels of Mint 1 than Mint 2.
Temporal stimulus reinforcement sequences have been shown to determine the directions of synaptic plasticity and behavioral learning. Here, we examined whether they also control the direction of cortical reorganization. Pairing ventral tegmental area stimulation with a sound in a backward conditioning paradigm specifically reduced representations of the paired sound in the primary auditory cortex (AI). This temporal sequence-dependent bidirectional cortical plasticity modulated by dopamine release hypothetically serves to prevent the over-representation of frequently occurring stimuli resulting from their random pairing with unrelated rewards.
Electrically evoked otoacoustic emission is a manifestation of reverse transduction by the inner ear. We present evidence for a single-cell correlate of this phenomenon, hair-bundle movement driven by transepithelial electrical stimulation of the frog's sacculus. Responses could be observed at stimulus frequencies up to 1 kHz, an order of magnitude higher than the organ's natural range of sensitivity to acceleration or sound. Measurements at high-stimulus frequencies and pharmacological treatments allow us to distinguish two mechanisms that mediate the electrical responses: myosin-based adaptation and Ca(2+)-dependent reclosure of transduction channels. These mechanisms also participate in the active process that amplifies and tunes the mechanical responses of this receptor organ. Transient application of the channel blocker gentamicin demonstrated the crucial role of mechanoelectrical transduction channels in the rapid responses to electrical stimulation. A model for electrically driven bundle motion that incorporates the negative stiffness of the hair bundle as well as its two mechanisms of motility captures the essential features of the measured responses.
In recent years, a role for AMPA receptors as modulators of presynaptic functions has emerged. We have investigated the presence of AMPA receptor subunits and the possible dynamic control of their surface exposure at the presynaptic membrane. We demonstrate that the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2 are expressed and organized in functional receptors in axonal growth cones of hippocampal neurons. AMPA receptors are actively internalized upon activation and recruited to the surface upon depolarization. Pretreatment of cultures with botulinum toxin E or tetanus toxin prevents the receptor insertion into the plasma membrane, whereas treatment with alpha-latrotoxin enhances the surface exposure of GluR2, both in growth cones of cultured neurons and in brain synaptosomes. Purification of small synaptic vesicles through controlled-pore glass chromatography, revealed that both GluR2 and GluR1, but not the GluR2 interacting protein GRIP, copurify with synaptic vesicles. These data indicate that, at steady state, a major pool of AMPA receptor subunits reside in synaptic vesicle membranes and can be recruited to the presynaptic membrane as functional receptors in response to depolarization.
Age-related decline in dopamine receptor levels has been observed in regional studies of animal and human brains; however, identifying specific cellular substrates and/or alterations in distinct neuronal populations remains elusive. To evaluate whether age-related decreases in dopamine receptor subtypes are associated with specific cell populations in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, antisense RNA amplification was combined with cDNA array analysis to examine effects of aging on D1-D5 dopamine receptor mRNA expression levels in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and entorhinal cortex layer II stellate cells from post-mortem human brains (19-92 years). In CA1 pyramidal neurons, significant age-related decline was observed for dopamine receptor mRNAs (D1-D4, P &lt; 0.001; D5, P &lt; 0.05) but not for the cytoskeletal elements beta-actin, three-repeat (3R) tau, and four-repeat (4R) tau. In contrast, no significant changes were observed in stellate cells across the same cohort. Thus, senescence may be a factor responsible for cell-specific decrements in dopamine receptor gene expression in one population of neurons within a circuit that is critical for learning and memory. Furthermore, these results support the hypothesis that alterations in dopaminergic function may also be related to behavioral abnormalities, such as psychosis, that occur with aging.


A comprehensive investigation of the incidence, distribution, progression and chemical composition of Abeta deposits in the brains of two young (5 years) and seven aged (25-30 years) rhesus monkeys was conducted to determine the similarity of this phenomenon to that in the human. The brains of the young rhesus were devoid of Abeta deposits. In contrast, Abeta deposits were observed within the cerebral cortex of all aged animals. In animals with mild Abeta burden, deposits were observed primarily in association cortical zones. In animals with moderate Abeta burden, many paralimbic cortical zones also contained Abeta deposits. Finally, in an animal with a heavy burden of Abeta, core limbic cortical zones were also involved. The primary sensory and motor cortices were relatively free of Abeta deposits. A higher proportion of plaques contained Abeta40 as compared with Abeta42. Abeta deposits contained a number of other constituents. Cholinesterases were present in nearly 50% of plaques and displayed the exact same biochemical characteristics as those in the human. Nearly 20% of Abeta deposits also contained apolipoprotein E and a smaller proportion contained heparin sulfate proteoglycans and alpha1-anti-chymotrypsin. The latter three chemicals were present in many compact plaques. These results indicate that the distribution, progression and chemical composition of plaques in the aged rhesus monkey display many similarities to those observed in the aged human and Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, despite some differences from the human, the aged rhesus may be a good model for studies of the pathological effects of Abeta in the primate brain.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines released by activated microglia could be a driving force in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. We evaluated whether the presence of complement factor C1q and serum amyloid P component (SAP) in Abeta deposits is related to microglial activation. Activated microglia accumulate in SAP- and C1q-immunoreactive fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) plaques in AD temporal cortex. No clustered microglia are seen in SAP- and C1q-positive circumscript, non-fibrillar, tau-negative Abeta plaques in AD caudate nucleus and non-demented control temporal cortex. In addition, no clustered microglia were observed in C1q- and SAP-negative, irregular shaped, diffuse plaques in AD caudate nucleus and in non-demented control temporal cortex, which suggests that microglia are attracted and activated in Abeta deposits of certain fibrillarity that, in addition, have fixed SAP and C1q. Therefore, the effects of Abeta(1-42), SAP and C1q on cytokine secretion by human postmortem microglia in vitro were assessed. Abeta(1-42) alone had little to no effect. Abeta(1-42) peptides in combination with C1q or C1q and SAP increased microglial interleukin (IL)-6 secretion four- and eightfold, respectively. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, as well as intracellular IL-1alpha and IL-1beta levels, also increased upon exposure of microglia to Abeta(1-42)-SAP-C1q complexes. Combined with earlier findings, that amyloid and activated microglia accumulate at a relatively early stage of cognitive decline in AD patients, this suggests that clustering of activated, cytokine-secreting microglia in SAP- and C1q-containing Abeta deposits precedes neurodegenerative changes in AD, and thus may provide a &quot;therapeutic window&quot;.
In looking for a possible influence of nuclear inclusions (NIs) on neurodegeneration in human brains, we quantified morphological features of pontine neurons of three unrelated cases of neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) and five control cases. Cross-sectional area of each neuronal nucleus and the indices for its deformity (long axis/short axis and circularity index defined as deviation from the perfect circle) were measured on pontine sections and their relation to NIs was statistically analyzed. Cross-sectional area of neuronal nuclei harboring ubiquitin-immunopositive NIs was significantly larger (110.6+/-1.6 micro m(2), mean +/- SE), while that of nuclei not harboring NIs was smaller (77.8+/-1.5 micro m(2)) than that in controls (90.5+/-0.7 micro m(2)). This difference remained significant even when the cross-sectional area occupied by NIs was subtracted from that of the nucleus harboring the NI (97.4+/-1.5 micro m(2)). This could hardly be explained if nuclear shrinkage is accelerated in the presence of NI. On the contrary, NI formation in pontine neurons of NIID might be linked, either directly or indirectly, to a mechanism, which counteracts rather than accelerates nuclear shrinkage. Because nuclear deformity was apparent even in neurons with NIs, whose nuclei were significantly larger than controls, the nuclear deformity is not secondary to its shrinkage and represents another aspect of neurodegeneration independent of nuclear shrinkage. Association of NIs to neurons of larger nuclear size in NIID brain indicates that NIs are not necessarily toxic to neurons.

The Shc family of proteins participates in mitogenic and survival signalling through binding to receptor tyrosine kinases. We report here on the expression of Shc in forebrain, spinal cord and hind limb muscles from 30-month-old rats with different degrees of sensorimotor impairment. ShcA (mRNA and protein) is up-regulated in skeletal muscles and spinal cord of aged rats, and this change relates to biological age, i.e. degree of behavioural incapacitation, rather than to chronological age. Western blot and RT-PCR revealed that the increase in ShcA selectively affected the p46 isoform in the spinal cord, whereas in muscle tissue a robust increase of p66(ShcA) was also evident. Furthermore, in parallel with the up-regulation of ShcA, an increase of p75(NTR) mRNA in the aged animals was observed. ShcB mRNA showed a tendency for down-regulation in both spinal cord and skeletal muscles, whereas the expression of ShcC was unaltered. Our data show that the regulation of Shc mRNAs in senescence is region as well as isoform specific. The regulatory changes may reflect changes in mitogenic/survival signalling induced by age-related cell and tissue damage. The coup-regulation of p66(ShcA) and p75(NTR) is interesting since both molecules have been associated with apoptosis.
Functional and structural decline in the neuromuscular system with aging has been recognized as a cause of impairment in physical performance and loss of independence in the elderly. Alterations in spinal cord motor neurones and at the neuromuscular junction have been identified as evidence of denervation in skeletal muscles from aging mammals, including humans. However, the reciprocal influences of neurones on gene expression in muscle and of muscle on age-related neurodegeneration are poorly understood, and, as a result, interventions aimed at delaying or preventing degeneration of the neural component in aging muscle have been largely unsuccessful. The present article discusses the evidence for neural influence on age-related impairments of skeletal muscle, including a role in excitation-contraction uncoupling. The role of nerves in regulating the trophic actions of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and other neurotrophic factors is considered as a novel influence on the effects of aging on the neuromuscular junction. A better understanding of nerve-muscle interactions will allow for more rational interventions in the aging neuromuscular system.
In experimental studies, liquid ethanol diets are usually given as the sole source of nutrition and fluid. Two series of experiments were conducted to examine the effect of freely accessible water on the consumption of ethanol liquid diets in male Long-Evans rats. The consumption of diets and subsequent learning ability of rats were first examined in animals given twice-daily saline injections. One group received diet with no access to water for 12 weeks and was subsequently given free access to water with diets for an additional 12 weeks. A second group was given diet and water ad libitum for 24 weeks. Control animals received an isocaloric sucrose-containing diet (with or without ad libitum access to water). Subsequently, rats were tested for active avoidance learning. In the first 12 weeks, animals with ad libitum access to water drank more diet than did water-restricted animals, and previously water-restricted animals increased their diet consumption when access to water was freely available. All water-restricted animals, in both ethanol- and sucrose-treated groups, showed deficits in active avoidance learning, whereas only ethanol-treated animals in groups with ad libitum access to water showed learning deficits. In the second series of experiments, the effect of saline injections on diet consumption, both in the presence and absence of water, was examined. Although saline injections were associated with decreased diet consumption, there was no effect of free access to water. No differences in blood ethanol concentration were seen among groups. Findings obtained from both series of studies demonstrate that consumption of a Sustacal-based liquid ethanol diet does not decrease if access to water is freely available.
Dopamine receptor gene variation has been hypothesized to influence personality traits characterized by novelty seeking and related traits. We analyzed a dopamine D(3) receptor gene (DRD3) variant in a Swedish population (n = 373) investigated with one or more of several personality questionnaires. No significant relationships were found between DRD3 genotypes and any of the 15 Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and five Health-relevant Personality 5 factor inventory (HP5i) scales. The DRD3 variant was associated with some scales related to novelty seeking: the Swedish universities Scales of Personality (SSP) Adventure Seeking and the revised NEO personality inventory (NEO-PI-R) Fantasy (O1) and Order (C2) scales. There were also associations with the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) Cooperativeness and Compassion (C4) scales. After correction for multiple testing, however, no significant difference remained. We conclude that the investigated DRD3 polymorphism does not have a major impact on personality in the investigated population.
CC chemokine receptor 8 (CCR8) has been detected in vitro on type 2 helper and regulatory lymphocytes, which might exert beneficial functions in multiple sclerosis (MS) and on macrophages and microglia, possibly promoting tissue injury in MS lesions. To discriminate the relevant expression pattern in vivo, we defined the cell types that expressed CCR8 in MS lesions and determined the relationship of CCR8 expression and demyelinating activity. CCR8 was not expressed on T cells but was associated with phagocytic macrophages and activated microglia in MS lesions and directly correlated with demyelinating activity. To identify factors associated with CCR8 expression, the study was extended to other central nervous system (CNS) pathologies. CCR8 was consistently expressed on phagocytic macrophages and activated microglia in stroke and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, but not expressed on microglia in pathologies that lacked phagocytic macrophages such as senile change of the Alzheimer's type. CCR8 was up-regulated by macrophage differentiation and activating stimuli in vitro. In summary CNS CCR8 expression was associated with phagocytic macrophages and activated microglial cells in human CNS diseases, suggesting that CCR8 may be a feasible target for therapeutic intervention in MS. CCR8 expression may also indicate a selective program of mononuclear phagocyte gene expression.


Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a critical antioxidant enzyme that protects against superoxide anion generated as a consequence of normal cellular respiration, as well as during the inflammatory response. By employing dimethyl sulfate in vivo footprinting, we have previously identified ten basal protein binding sites within the MnSOD promoter. On the basis of consensus sequence comparison and in vitro footprinting data, one would predict that Sp1 might occupy five of these binding sites. To address these findings in the context of the nucleoprotein environment, we first utilized chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) to demonstrate the nuclear association of Sp1 with the MnSOD promoter region. To identify the precise location of Sp1 binding, we have modified the original protein position identification with nuclease tail (PIN*POINT) methodology, providing an approach to establish both the identity and binding occupancy of Sp1 in the context of the endogenous MnSOD promoter. These data, coupled with site-directed mutagenesis, demonstrate the functional importance of two of the Sp1 binding sites in the stimulus-specific regulation of MnSOD gene expression. We feel that the combination of ChIP and PIN*POINT analysis allows unequivocal identification and localization of protein/DNA interactions in vivo, specifically the demonstration of Sp1 with the MnSOD promoter.
The binding of Steel factor (SF) to c-kit initiates a signaling pathway essential for development and maintenance of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). Soluble and membrane-bound isoforms of SF are expressed in the gastrointestinal tract, but the role for either isoform in supporting ICC development is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the role of SF in supporting ICC in culture. ICC were cultured from dissociated mouse jejunum and grown with fibroblast cell lines that produced either soluble, membrane-bound or membrane-restricted SF. ICC were identified and counted by c-kit immunoreactivity. The number of c-kit immunoreactive cells was greater in the coculture system compared with cultures grown without SF-producing fibroblasts. All forms of SF-producing fibroblasts increased ICC number in culture but physical separation of the fibroblasts from the c-kit immunoreactive cells, the addition of exogenous SF to the culture medium, or fibroblast-conditioned media did not. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the membrane-bound form of SF preferentially contributes to expression of c-kit-positive ICC under cell culture conditions.
Proliferation and carcinogenesis of the large intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) cells is significantly increased in transgenic mice that overexpress the precursor progastrin (PG) peptide. It is not known if the in vivo growth effects of PG on IEC cells are mediated directly or indirectly. Full-length recombinant human PG (rhPG(1-80)) was generated to examine possible direct effects of PG on IEC cells. Surprisingly, rhPG (0.1-1.0 nM) was more effective than the completely processed gastrin 17 (G17) peptide as a growth factor. Even though IEC cells did not express CCK(1) and CCK(2) receptors (-R), fluorescently labeled G17 and Gly-extended G17 (G-Gly) were specifically bound to the cells, suggesting the presence of binding proteins other than CCK(1)-R and CCK(2)-R on IEC cells. High-affinity (K(d) = 0.5-1.0 nM) binding sites for (125)I-rhPG were discovered on IEC cells that demonstrated relative binding affinity for gastrin-like peptides in the order PG &gt;or= COOH-terminally extended G17 &gt;or= G-Gly &gt; G17 &gt; *CCK-8 (* significant difference; P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, our studies demonstrate for the first time direct growth effects of the full-length precursor peptide on IEC cells in vitro that are apparently mediated by the high-affinity PG binding sites that were discovered on these cells.
The mechanism(s) for how physically active organisms are resistant to many damaging effects of acute stressor exposure is unknown. Cellular induction of heat-shock proteins (e.g., HSP72) is one successful strategy used by the cell to survive the damaging effects of stress. It is possible, therefore, that the stress-buffering effect of physical activity may be due to an improved HSP72 response to stress. Thus the purpose of the current study was to determine whether prior voluntary freewheel running facilitates the stress-induced induction of HSP72 in central (brain), peripheral, and immune tissues. Adult male Fischer 344 rats were housed with either a mobile running wheel (Active) or a locked, immobile wheel [sedentary (Sed)] for 8 wk before stressor exposure. Rats were exposed to either inescapable tail-shock stress (IS; 100 1.6-mA tail shocks, 5-s duration, 60-s intertrial interval), exhaustive exercise stress (EXS; treadmill running to exhaustion), or no stress (controls). Blood, brain, and peripheral tissues were collected 2 h after stressor termination. The kinetics of HSP72 induction after IS was determined in cultured mesenteric lymph node cells. Activation of the stress response was verified by measuring serum corticosterone (RIA). Tissue and cellular HSP72 content were measured using HSP72 ELISA in cell lysates. Both Active and Sed rats had elevated levels of serum corticosterone after stress. In contrast, Active but not Sed rats exposed to IS and/or EXS had elevated HSP72 in dorsal vagal complex, frontal cortex, hippocampus, pituitary, adrenal, liver, spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and heart. In addition, Active rats exposed to IS demonstrated a faster induction of lymphocyte HSP72 compared with Sed rats. Thus Active rats responded to stress with both greater and faster HSP72 responses compared with Sed rats. These results indicate that previous physical activity potentiates HSP72 expression after a wide range of stressors. Facilitated induction of HSP72 may contribute to the increased stress resistance previously reported in physically active organisms.
It has recently been reported that exposure to inescapable tailshock (IS) enhances the release of proinflammatory cytokines following bacterial challenge. However, it is not known whether the level of potentiation of proinflammatory cytokines is sufficient to exaggerate any of the physiological processes that are regulated by these cytokines. Thus, LPS was administered and fever, activity, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses, and proinflammatory cytokine release were assessed during both the light and dark phases of the light cycle following IS. Exposure to IS resulted in elevated basal core body temperature during the light phase but not the dark phase and decreased activity during the dark phase but not the light phase. IS animals had significantly greater fever, corticosterone, and ACTH responses following LPS during both the light and dark phases, whereas enhanced proinflammatory cytokine responses were only observed during the light phase. These data suggest that enhanced proinflammatory cytokine responses are not necessary to observe enhanced HPA or fever responses.

Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and spectroscopy provide important information in patients with acute head injury. However, optimal patient management requires intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring. There are few reports on the use of ICP sensors in an MR environment. We tested the Ventrix parenchymal intracranial pressure monitoring probe and monitor (Integra Neurosciences, USA), modified by the use of a fibre-optic extension cable, within a 3 Tesla MR system. The device performed well in the MR environment, but one element within the fibre-optic extension was significantly ferromagnetic. The ICP probe produced a small susceptibility artefact on spin echo images, and a larger artefact on gradient echo images. The MR safety of the integrated system is probably acceptable, but could be easily improved with minor modifications. Although the system is MR compatible and produces generally acceptable imaging even at 3 Tesla, there is significant degradation of image quality during gradient echo sequences.

The degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in early Parkinson's disease (PD) is compensated in part by increased transmitter turnover in surviving neurons of the pathway. In this (18)F-dopa positron emission tomography study, we demonstrate compensatory changes in PD in another midbrain dopamine projection to the basal ganglia, the nigropallidal projection to the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi). Increased (18)F-dopa uptake in the GPi is seen in early PD which then is lost in advanced PD. Our early PD cases show an absence of significant clinical progression in the face of a continuing loss of nigrostriatal projections. This indicates a compensatory neuronal plasticity that we now show to involve the nigropallidal dopamine pathway to the GPi but not to the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe). Enhanced function of the dopamine projection to the GPi serves, we propose, to maintain a more normal pattern of pallidal output to ventral thalamus and motor cortex in early PD, whereas loss of this adaptive pathway in advanced disease may be a pivotal step in the progression of the disease.
We present data on the known risk factors encountered in children presenting with a first arterial ischemic stroke to a single tertiary center over 22 years. Two hundred twelve patients (54% male; median age, 5 years) were identified. One hundred fifteen (54%) were previously healthy. Cerebral arterial imaging was undertaken in 185 patients (87%) and was abnormal in 79%. Of 104 previously healthy patients investigated with echocardiography, only 8 had abnormal studies. Genetic or acquired conditions causing thrombophilia were rare. Forty percent of patients were anemic, and 21% either had elevated total plasma homocysteine or were homozygous for the t-MTHFR mutation. Trauma and previous varicella zoster infection were significantly more common in the previously healthy group. There was a significant association between cerebral arterial abnormalities and systolic blood pressure greater than 90th percentile and a trend for an association with varicella within the previous year. Clinical history and examination usually identify underlying risk factors and precipitating triggers for arterial ischemic stroke in childhood. Cerebral arterial imaging is usually abnormal, but echocardiography and prothrombotic screening are commonly negative.



The concept of locally specialized functions dominates research on higher brain function and its disorders. Locally specialized functions must be complemented by processes that coordinate those functions, however, and impairment of coordinating processes may be central to some psychotic conditions. Evidence for processes that coordinate activity is provided by neurobiological and psychological studies of contextual disambiguation and dynamic grouping. Mechanisms by which this important class of cognitive functions could be achieved include those long-range connections within and between cortical regions that activate synaptic channels via NMDA-receptors, and which control gain through their voltage-dependent mode of operation. An impairment of these mechanisms is central to PCP-psychosis, and the cognitive capabilities that they could provide are impaired in some forms of schizophrenia. We conclude that impaired cognitive coordination due to reduced ion flow through NMDA-channels is involved in schizophrenia, and we suggest that it may also be involved in other disorders. This perspective suggests several ways in which further research could enhance our understanding of cognitive coordination, its neural basis, and its relevance to psychopathology.
Pairing a novel taste with provocative vestibular stimulation results in conditioned taste aversions in both rats and humans. Vestibular system involvement in gustatory conditioning was examined in sham-lesioned or labyrinthectomized rats. Three conditioning trials consisted of 30 min access to asaccharin (0.1%) solution followed by 30 min of rotation (70 rpm) or sham rotation. In a taste reactivity test with saccharin, rotated sham-lesioned rats, but not labyrinthectomized rats, exhibited increased oral rejection reactions compared with control rats. When conditioned with lithium chloride, both labyrinthectomized and sham-lesioned rats displayed robust conditioned rejection reactions. The finding that normal vestibular function is necessary in obtaining rotation-induced conditioned taste aversions supports the face and construct validity of a rat model of motion sickness.
This review combines short presentations of several mathematical approaches that conceptualize issues in sensorimotor neuroscience from different perspectives and levels of analysis. The intricate organization of neural structures and sensorimotor performance calls for characterization using a variety of mathematical approaches. This review points out the prospects for mathematical neuroscience: in addition to computational approaches, there is a wide variety of mathematical approaches that provide insight into the organization of neural systems. By starting from the perspective that provides the greatest clarity, a mathematical approach avoids specificity that is inaccurate in characterizing the inherent biological organization. Approaches presented include the mathematics of ordered structures, motion-phase space, subject-coincident coordinates, equivalence classes, topological biodynamics, rhythm space metric, and conditional dynamics. Issues considered in this paper include unification of levels of analysis, response equivalence, convergence, relationship of physics to motor control, support of rhythms, state transitions, and focussing on low-dimensional subspaces of a high-dimensional sensorimotor space.
Injecting muscarinic receptor agonists into a specific area of the brainstem produces an antinociceptive response. The present study investigates whether direct injections of the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, into the rat nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRGC)/nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis alpha (NRGCalpha) of the rostral ventrolateral medulla evokes antinociception, and then examines the interference action of cholinergic antagonists in rats. Microinjections of carbachol (0.75, 1.5, 3 micro g/site) prolonged hot plate (HP) and tail flick (TF) responses to noxious heat stimuli in a dose-dependent manner. The level of carbachol-induced antinociception during the HP and TF tests reached a maximum at 5-15 min after carbachol administration in all groups. Thereafter, the peak level progressively decreased and reached the baseline by the end of the experiment. Antinociception induced by carbachol at 3 micro g/site was attenuated by the prior administration of the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine (200, 500 ng/site). On the other hand, the nicotinic autonomic ganglion blocker, mecamylamine (1, 3 micro g/site), did not affect subsequent carbachol-induced antinociception. These results suggest that the antinociceptive effects induced by a microinjection of carbachol depend on muscarinic, but not nicotinic, mechanisms within the rat NRGC/NRGCalpha.
The role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) in the treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders is underscored by the therapeutic action of selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors acting to enhance the degree of activation of various 5-HT receptor subtypes. The 5-HT1A receptors are particularly relevant to the antidepressant and anxiolytic responses in human beings. They are located presynaptically in the raphe nuclei, where they act as cell body autoreceptors to inhibit the firing rate of 5-HT neurons, and are located postsynaptically in limbic and cortical regions, where they also attenuate firing activity. The azapirones are full agonists at 5-HT1A autoreceptors and are generally, but not exclusively, partial agonists at postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. Some of these drugs, including gepirone and other 5-HT1A agonists such as buspirone, have been reported to exert anxiolytic and antidepressive activity in double-blind, placebo-controlled, and comparative trials. Their delayed therapeutic activity is believed to result from increased activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors occurring only after 5-HT neurons regain their normal firing activity. The recovery of this parameter, which is attributable to 5-HT1A autoreceptor desensitization, also restores 5-HT release. At this point, the summed effects of a normalized level of synaptic 5-HT and the exogenous 5-HT1A agonist can be exerted on postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors. The widespread recognition of the clinical efficacy of such agents has largely been hampered by their undesirable pharmacokinetic properties. Most 5-HT1A agonists are indeed readily absorbed but are also rapidly eliminated, thereby often producing either suboptimal therapeutic responses at low doses, or cumbersome adverse effects at higher doses. Extended-release formulations allow once-daily dosing regimens, thus avoiding sharp peak plasma concentrations. This improves compliance and permits the use of higher dosages, which may be associated with enhanced efficacy and better tolerability relative to the immediate-release formulations. In sum, 5-HT1A receptor agonism represents a valuable and efficacious therapeutic approach to major depression.


The pathogenesis of acute painful crisis in children with sickle cell disease is poorly understood; suggested risk factors include sickle cell type, severity of anemia, fetal hemoglobin concentration, and hypoxemia from upper airway obstruction. In a cohort study of 95 patients the relationship between clinical, laboratory, and sleep study data and frequency of painful crisis was investigated. Both univariate and multiple regression modeling showed that low nocturnal oxygen saturation was highly significantly associated with a higher rate of painful crisis in childhood (P &lt;.0001). Screening and treatment for hypoxemia may reduce the frequency of this and other complications of the disease.
Sequencing of the immunoglobulin (Ig) gene transcripts of the tumour B cells in lymph node (LN) and bone marrow (BM) from a follicular lymphoma (FL) patient associated with multiple myeloma identified two dominant clones. One of the clones, present in both LN and BM, had somatic mutations and extensive clonal diversity. Among the diversified clones, two dominant populations of identical sequences (group I and II) were present. Group II was a descendant population of group I and had nine more somatic mutations. Group I contained micro-, delta-, gamma- and alpha-expressing clones. Group II clones contained mainly micro- and delta-expressing clones. These findings showed that somatic mutation and isotype switching occurred repeatedly in this patient.
We present a case of pseudotumour cerebri (PTC), which is important as it illustrates the effects of chronically raised CSF pressure, the relationship between PTC and venous sinus obstruction and the successful treatment of PTC using a venous sinus stent. A 38-year-old woman, previously diagnosed with PTC and unsuccessfully treated 10 years previously re-presented with spontaneous CSF rhinorrhoea. Imaging revealed dramatic changes of chronically raised CSF pressure and a defect in the anterior cranial fossa. The CSF leak was corrected surgically and a lumbo-peritoneal shunt inserted to correct a large postoperative subgaleal CSF collection. Direct retrograde cerebral venography (DRCV) demonstrated venous sinus obstruction due to a filling defect. This was associated with a pressure gradient and a high superior sagittal sinus pressure. The venous sinus obstruction was successfully treated with a venous sinus stent and the lumbo-peritoneal shunt was removed. Chronically raised CSF pressure in untreated cases of PTC may cause widespread changes in the skull, which in this case, culminated in a spontaneous CSF leak despite relatively mild headache and visual symptoms. Furthermore, cases of PTC secondary to venous sinus obstruction may be successfully treated using venous sinus stenting. The index of suspicion for venous sinus stenosis or obstruction should be raised in the investigation of patients with PTC.
Several studies have shown that thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) reduces tremor and improves hand performance in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The purpose of this paper is to describe the cost implications of DBS in MS patients and to highlight postoperative medical requirements that can be associated with this therapy. In a prospective study of thalamic DBS in MS patients the mean equipment costs were pounds 4769 (median pounds 7010, Medtronic, 1998 prices); mean neurosurgical inpatient costs per operated patient (n = 15) were pounds 4848 (range pounds 1982-8920, median pounds 5110); and mean in-patient postoperative rehabilitation cost pounds 4602 (range pounds 0-32,225, median pounds 1783). In addition there were transport and follow up costs. Mean neurosurgical inpatient stay following stereotactic DBS implantation was 15 days (median 12 days); and mean inpatient, postoperative rehabilitation stay 54 days (median 25 days). Although there were significant improvements in hand function and tremor reduction at 12 months postoperation, the level of patient performance in activities of daily living, their perception of their handicap and ipse facto the amount of home support required were unchanged from preoperative levels. This study has highlighted significant unforeseen medical requirements and costs that can occur in MS patients who have thalamic DBS surgery.
1. We evaluated in Sprague-Dawley rats anaesthetized with propofol the engagement of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC)/cGMP cascade, glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission in the cardiovascular actions of endogenous nitric oxide (NO) at the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). 2. Microinjection bilaterally into the RVLM of a selective iNOS inhibitor, S-methylisothiourea (SMT, 250 pmoles), or a selective nNOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI, 5 pmoles), induced respectively an enhancement or a reduction in systemic arterial pressure, heart rate and power density of the vasomotor components in the spectrum of arterial blood pressure signals, our experimental index for sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone. 3. The cardiovascular actions of SMT or 7-NI in the RVLM were significantly antagonized by co-administration into the RVLM of the sGC inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]Oxadiazole[4,3-alpha]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ, 250 or 500 pmoles). 4. The cardiovascular excitatory effects after blockade of endogenous iNOS activity were significantly attenuated when N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (20 or 50 pmoles), or non-NMDA receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (250 or 500 pmoles), was co-microinjected bilaterally into the RVLM. 5. On the other hand, the cardiovascular depressive responses to blockade of endogenous nNOS activity were significantly antagonized on co-administration of GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodine (5 or 10 pmoles), but not GABA(B) receptor antagonist, 2-hydroxy saclofen (50 or 100 pmoles). 6. We conclude that the cardiovascular actions of endogenous NO in the RVLM engage the sGC/cGMP pathway. In addition, whereas NO derived from nNOS induced sympathoexcitation via both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors in the RVLM, NO generated by iNOS elicited sympathoinhibition via GABA(A) receptors.
1. In order to explore potential therapeutic implications of cannabinoid antagonists, the effects of the prototypical cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A on monoamine efflux from the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens of the rat were investigated by in vivo microdialysis. 2. SR141716A moderately increased serotonin efflux and concentrations of its metabolite 5-HIAA, both in the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens, and increased norepinephrine, dopamine and their metabolites in the medial prefrontal cortex. In contrast, it had no effect on norepinephrine, dopamine and their metabolites in the nucleus accumbens. 3. At the same doses, SR141716A increased acetylcholine efflux in the medial prefrontal cortex, in agreement with previous studies; contrary to the effects in cortex, SR141716A had no effect on acetylcholine efflux in the nucleus accumbens. 4. The efficacy of SR141716A in the psychostimulant-induced hyperlocomotion and the forced swimming paradigms was also explored in mice. SR141716A attenuated phenylcyclidine- and d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, without affecting locomotor activity when administered alone, and decreased immobility in the forced swimming test. 5. These results suggest that the cortical selectivity in the release of catecholamines, dopamine in particular, induced by the cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A, its procholinergic properties, together with its mild stimulatory effects on serotonin and norepinephrine efflux make similar compounds unique candidates for the treatment of psychosis, affective and cognitive disorders.
In this study, we examined the neuroanatomy of dyslexic (14 males, four females) and control (19 males, 13 females) children in grades 4-6 from a family genetics study. The dyslexics had specific deficits in word reading relative to the population mean and verbal IQ, but did not have primary language or motor deficits. Measurements of the posterior temporal lobe, inferior frontal gyrus, cerebellum and whole brain were collected from MRI scans. The dyslexics exhibited significantly smaller right anterior lobes of the cerebellum, pars triangularis bilaterally, and brain volume. Measures of the right cerebellar anterior lobe and the left and right pars triangularis correctly classified 72% of the dyslexic subjects (94% of whom had a rapid automatic naming deficit) and 88% of the controls. The cerebellar anterior lobe and pars triangularis made significant contributions to the classification of subjects after controlling for brain volume. Correlational analyses showed that these neuroanatomical measurements were also significantly correlated with reading, spelling and language measures related to dyslexia. Age was not related to any anatomical variable. Results for the dyslexic children from the family genetics study are discussed with reference to dyslexic adults from a prior study, who were ascertained on the basis of a discrepancy between phonological coding and reading comprehension. The volume of the right anterior lobe of the cerebellum distinguished dyslexic from control participants in both studies. The cerebellum is one of the most consistent locations for structural differences between dyslexic and control participants in imaging studies. This study may be the first to show that anomalies in a cerebellar-frontal circuit are associated with rapid automatic naming and the double-deficit subtype of dyslexia.
Although axonal pathology is recognized as one of the major pathological features of multiple sclerosis, it is less clear how early in its course it occurs and how it correlates with MRI-visible lesion loads. To assess this early axonal pathology, we quantified the concentration of whole-brain N-acetylaspartate (WBNAA) in a group of patients at the earliest clinical stage of the disease and compared the results with those from healthy controls. Conventional brain MRI and WBNAA using unlocalized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy were obtained from 31 patients at presentation with clinically isolated syndromes suggestive of multiple sclerosis and paraclinical evidence of dissemination in space, and from 16 matched controls. An additional conventional MRI scan was obtained in all patients 4-6 months later to detect dissemination of lesions in time. The mean WBNAA concentration was significantly lower in patients compared with the controls (P &lt; 0.0001). It was not significantly different between patients with and without enhancing lesions at the baseline MRI or between patients with and without lesion dissemination in time. No correlation was found between WBNAA concentrations and lesion volumes. Widespread axonal pathology, largely independent of MRI-visible inflammation and too extensive to be completely reversible, occurs in patients even at the earliest clinical stage of multiple sclerosis. This finding lessens the validity of the current concept that the axonal pathology of multiple sclerosis is the end-stage result of repeated inflammatory events, and argues strongly in favour of early neuroprotective intervention.
Patients with cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) can present as isolated lacunar infarction or with diffuse white matter changes, with the imaging appearance of leukoaraiosis. Endothelial dysfunction, which can lead to breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, impaired cerebral autoregulation and prothrombotic changes, is believed to be important in mediating disease. Circulating levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), thrombomodulin (TM), tissue factor (TF) and tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) are markers of endothelial activation and damage, and may provide insights into disease pathogenesis or differences between phenotypes. We therefore measured these markers in a prospective series of patients with lacunar stroke. One hundred and ten white Caucasian patients with previous lacunar stroke and 50 community control subjects were studied. Markers of endothelial function were measured on venous blood samples. Patients were classified on brain imaging into two groups: isolated lacunar infarction (n = 47) and ischaemic leukoaraiosis, defined as a clinical lacunar stroke and leukoaraiosis on brain imaging (n = 63). The number of lacunes and severity of leukoaraiosis were also scored on MRI. ICAM1, TM and TFPI were elevated in cerebral SVD subjects compared with controls (P &lt;or= 0.006). The ischaemic leukoaraiosis group had a different endothelial marker profile, with lower levels of TFPI (P = 0.01) and a higher TF/TFPI ratio (P = 0.01) compared with the isolated lacunar infarction group. TM levels were associated with the number of lacunes (P = 0.008) and the leukoaraiosis score (P = 0.03), but TF levels and the TF/TFPI ratio were associated only with the extent of leukoaraiosis (P &lt;or= 0.02). These results suggest that there is evidence of chronic endothelial dysfunction in cerebral SVD, and endothelial prothrombotic changes may be important in mediating the ischaemic leukoaraiosis phenotype. Therapies which help to stabilize the endothelium may have a role in this group of patients.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the CNS. Whereas oligodendrocytes have been considered the primary neural cell type most affected, recent evidence indicates that axonal and neuronal degeneration also occurs in both multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model reproducing many features of multiple sclerosis. The molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal deficits in multiple sclerosis and EAE remain elusive. To address this issue, we have analysed the expression of genes encoding proteins that play critical roles in ion homeostasis, exocytosis, mitochondrial function and impulse conduction in the Lewis rat lumbar spinal cord during the clinical course of acute EAE. Transcript and protein levels of plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPase 2 (PMCA2), an essential ion pump expressed exclusively in grey matter and involved in Ca(2+) extrusion, synapsin IIa and syntaxin 1B, important regulators of vesicular exocytosis, were dramatically decreased coincident with the onset of clinical symptoms. In contrast, changes in the expression of several other ion pumps, vesicular proteins, mitochondrial enzymes and sodium channels occurred at more advanced disease stages. Moreover, exposure of spinal cord slice cultures to kainic acid significantly reduced PMCA2 mRNA levels. Taken together, our findings suggest that glutamate, which recently has been implicated in EAE pathogenesis, suppresses neuronal PMCA2 expression leading to Ca(2+) dyshomeostasis at initial clinical phases. Consequently, perturbations in Ca(2+) balance and neurotransmitter exocytosis may partially underlie aberrant neuronal function and communication at onset of symptoms. Altered mitochondrial function and impulse conduction may exacerbate neurological deficits at subsequent disease stages.
Parkinson's disease is associated with slowness, especially of sequential movements, and is characterized pathologically by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, particularly targeting nigrostriatal projections. In turn, nigrostriatal dopamine has been suggested to be critical for the execution of sequential movements. The objective of this study was to investigate in vivo, with [(11)C]raclopride, PET changes in regional brain levels of dopamine in healthy volunteers and Parkinson's disease patients during the execution of paced, stereotyped sequential finger movements. Striatal [(11)C]raclopride binding reflects dopamine D(2) receptor availability and is influenced by synaptic levels of endogenous dopamine. During execution of a pre-learned sequence of finger movements, a significant reduction in binding potential (BP) of [(11)C]raclopride was seen in both caudate and putamen in healthy volunteers compared with a resting baseline, consistent with release of endogenous dopamine. Parkinson's disease patients also showed attenuated [(11)C]raclopride BP reductions during the same motor paradigm in striatal areas less affected by the disease process. These findings confirm that striatal dopamine release is a component of movement sequencing and show that dopamine release can be detected in early Parkinson's disease during a behavioural manipulation.
This paper reviews the nature of communication from the immune system to the brain and some implications of this communication for phenomena that are not ordinarily considered to be modulated by immune function. Pro-inflammatory cytokines released by activated immune cells signal the brain by both blood-borne and neural routes, leading to alterations in neural activity. The cascade of altered neural activity includes the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines within the brain and spinal cord. The cytokines in the brain, specifically in the hippocampus, interfere with the consolidation of memory, while the cytokines within the spinal cord exaggerate pain. Activation of this immune-to-central nervous system pathway, with the consequent production of cytokines within the central nervous system, may be involved in the mediation of a number of phenomena that occur during cancer and cancer treatment.
Early models of human cognition can be traced to nineteenth-century investigations of brain and behavior. Influential neurologists such as Wernicke, Kussmaul, and Lichtheim constructed diagrammatic models to illustrate current theories of cognition. Language was the most commonly studied cognitive function during this time; however, investigators also studied other cognitive functions, such as music and visual processing. While a number of nineteenth-century neurologists made observations about music abilities in aphasic patients, August Knoblauch, a German physician and anatomist, was the first to propose a diagrammatic model of music (1888/1890). He described a detailed cognitive model of music processing, hypothesized the existence of nine disorders of music production and perception, and coined the term &quot;amusia.&quot; Knoblauch's model is the earliest cognitive model of music and is largely unrecognized as an important part of the history of neurology, neuropsychology, and music cognition.
In later editions of his two major works, Isaac Newton proposed an electrical hypothesis of nervous transmission. According to this hypothesis, an electrical aether permeates the nerve and transmits vibrations along it. This implies that the nerve is a communication line, and potentially, an extension of the mind. The opposite view was held by Cartesian mechanists, who taught that the nerve is a power line, transmitting either pressure or tension, and that the mind is separate from the nervous system. The Newtonian model eventually supplanted the Cartesian model in the mid 18th century, and became a crucial part of the conceptual environment in which neuroscience originated. In this paper I examine the scientific origins of the Newtonian model of nervous transmission. I argue that Newton's model relies on prior work by Thomas Willis and Pierre Gassendi. Willis supplied the anatomical and physiological &quot;hard data&quot; upon which the model was built. But Gassendi, a generation before, laid out the conceptual foundations of the problem, including the principle of impulse-transmission, and the corrolary principle of the muscle as an autonomous generator of force. I conclude that Gassendi's work has been undeservedly neglected as a turning-point in the history of neuroscience.
Verb production in agrammatic Broca's aphasia has repeatedly been shown to be impaired by a number of investigators. Not only is the number of verbs produced often significantly reduced, but verb inflections and auxiliaries are often omitted as well (e.g., Bastiaanse, Jonkers, &amp; Moltmaker-Osinga, 1996; Saffran, Berndt, &amp; Schwartz, 1989; Thompson, Shapiro, Li, &amp;Schendel, 1994, 1997). It has been suggested that these problems are, in part, caused by the fact that finite verbs need to be moved from their base-generated position to inflectional nodes in the syntactic tree (e.g., Bastiaanse &amp; Van Zonneveld, 1998). Others have suggested that production deficits in agrammatism can be predicted based on the position that certain structures take in the syntactic tree (Friedmann &amp; Grodzinsky, 1997; Hagiwara, 1995). If the former theory is correct, several predictions can be made. First of all, the discrepancy between production of finite verbs in the matrix and embedded clause that has been found for Dutch (Bastiaanse &amp; Van Zonneveld, 1998) should not be observed in English, since the word order of the matrix and embedded clause are the same in the latter language. Second, if verb movement (including movement of auxiliaries) is problematic for speakers with agrammatic aphasia, then a hierarchy in the production of auxiliaries in yes/no questions, auxiliaries, and finite verbs in declarative sentences in English would be expected, since the former has been moved and the two latter are in base-generated position. In the present paper, these hypotheses were tested in a cross-linguistic study of Dutch and English. Results showed the position in the syntactic tree does not predict deficit patterns; rather the critical factor appears to relate to whether or not verb or auxiliary movement is required.
We investigated the effect of various spectral manipulations on the identification of sentential prosody. Two main categories of prosody--affective (happy, angry, sad) and linguistic (statement, question, continuation)--were studied. Thirty-six subjects were presented with stimuli that were recorded by a female native speaker of American English. The stimuli were digitally manipulated to create synthesized, band-pass filtered (F0-range and F2/F3-range) and re-entrant (pitch only version of stimulus is convolved with a steady-state signal) conditions. Results of a forced-choice discrimination paradigm showed that, in general, performance is remarkably robust despite spectral manipulation, even when there is relatively little spectral information. However, performance was significantly degraded in the low band-pass and re-entrant conditions. These observations are discussed in light of the relevance of the fundamental frequency as well as syllabification for the analysis of prosodic information.
The lateral premotor cortex (PMC) is involved during action observation in monkeys and humans, reflecting a matching process between observed actions and their corresponding motor schemata. In the present study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate if paying attention to the two observable action components, objects and movements, modulates premotor activation during the observation of actions. Participants were asked to classify presented movies as showing correct actions, erroneous actions, or senseless movements. Erroneous actions were incorrect either with regard to employed objects, or to performed movements. The experiment yielded two major results: (1) The ventrolateral premotor cortex (vPMC) and the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus (aIPS) are strongly activated during the observation of actions in humans. Premotor activation was dominantly located within Brodmann Area (BA) 6, and sometimes extended into BA 44. (2) The presentation of object errors and movements errors allowed to disentangle brain activations corresponding to the analysis of movements and objects in observed actions. Left premotor areas were more involved in the analysis of objects, whereas right premotor areas were dominant in the analysis of movements. It is suggested that the analysis of categorical information, like objects, and that of coordinate information, like movements, are pronounced in different hemispheres.
