The development of neuronal projections to a target and the establishment of synaptic connections with that target can be temporally distinct events, which typically are distinguished by functional assessments. We have applied a novel neuroanatomical approach to characterize the development of limbic forebrain synaptic inputs to autonomic neurons in neonatal rats. Transneuronal labeling of preautonomic forebrain neurons was achieved by inoculating the ventral stomach wall with pseudorabies virus (PRV) on postnatal day 1 (P1), P4, or P8. In each age group, PRV-positive neurons were present in autonomic and preautonomic regions of the spinal cord and brainstem 62-64 hr after inoculation. Transneuronal forebrain labeling in rats injected on P8 was similar to the transneuronal labeling reported previously in adult rats and included neurons in the medial and lateral hypothalamus, amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and visceral cortices. However, no cortex labeling and only modest amygdala and bed nucleus labeling were observed in rats injected with PRV on P4, and only medial hypothalamic labeling was observed in rats injected on P1. Additional tracing experiments involving central injections of PRV or cholera toxin beta indicated that lateral hypothalamic and telencephalic regions projected to the medullary dorsal vagal complex several days before establishing synaptic connections with gastric-related autonomic neurons. These results demonstrate a novel strategy for evaluating synaptic connectivity in developing neural circuits and show a temporally segregated postnatal emergence of medial hypothalamic, lateral hypothalamic, and telencephalic synaptic inputs to central autonomic neurons.
Although lesion and functional imaging studies have broadly implicated the right hemisphere in the recognition of emotion, neither the underlying processes nor the precise anatomical correlates are well understood. We addressed these two issues in a quantitative study of 108 subjects with focal brain lesions, using three different tasks that assessed the recognition and naming of six basic emotions from facial expressions. Lesions were analyzed as a function of task performance by coregistration in a common brain space, and statistical analyses of their joint volumetric density revealed specific regions in which damage was significantly associated with impairment. We show that recognizing emotions from visually presented facial expressions requires right somatosensory-related cortices. The findings are consistent with the idea that we recognize another individual's emotional state by internally generating somatosensory representations that simulate how the other individual would feel when displaying a certain facial expression. Follow-up experiments revealed that conceptual knowledge and knowledge of the name of the emotion draw on neuroanatomically separable systems. Right somatosensory-related cortices thus constitute an additional critical component that functions together with structures such as the amygdala and right visual cortices in retrieving socially relevant information from faces.
Somatic sensation can be localized precisely, whereas localization of visceral sensation is vague, possibly reflecting differences in the pattern of somatic and visceral input to the cerebral cortex. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the cortical processing of sensation arising from the proximal (somatic) and distal (visceral) esophagus in six healthy male subjects. Esophageal stimulation was performed by phasic distension of a 2 cm balloon at 0.5 Hz. For each esophageal region, five separate 30 sec periods of nonpainful distension were alternated with five periods of similar duration without distension. Gradient echoplanar images depicting bold contrast were acquired using a 1.5 T GE scanner. Distension of the proximal esophagus was localized precisely to the upper chest and was represented in the trunk region of the left primary somatosensory cortex. In contrast, distension of the distal esophagus was perceived diffusely over the lower chest and was represented bilaterally at the junction of the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices. Different activation patterns were also observed in the anterior cingulate gyrus with the proximal esophagus being represented in the right midanterior cingulate cortex (BA 24) and the distal esophagus in the perigenual area (BA32). Differences in the activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and cerebellum were also observed for the two esophageal regions. These findings suggest that cortical specialization in the sensory-discriminative, affective, and cognitive areas of the cortex accounts for the perceptual differences observed between the two sensory modalities.
The dysmyelinating mutant jimpy (jp) arises from a point mutation in the mouse gene encoding proteolipid protein and is characterized by severe dysmyelination attributable to oligodendrocyte death. This mutant was used to investigate the regulation of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation in the postnatal spinal cord. At postnatal day 18, jp spinal cord contained a three- to eightfold greater number of proliferating oligodendrocyte progenitor cells than did wild-type (wt) spinal cord. Increased proliferation in jp spinal cord was accompanied by a twofold increase in the number of progenitor cells. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR revealed no change in the level of mRNA encoding the platelet-derived growth factor A, transforming growth factor-beta, or insulin-like growth factor-I, all of which have been implicated as regulators of proliferation and differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. There was, however, a 17-fold increase in the level of mRNA encoding the chemokine GRO-1 and a 5- to 6-fold increase in GRO-1 protein in the jp spinal cord. Double immunofluorescence labeling revealed elevated levels of GRO-1 in reactive astrocytes in jp spinal cord white matter. In vitro studies indicated that extracts from jp spinal cord stimulated oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation. Furthermore, removal of GRO-1 from jp extracts by immunoprecipitation reduced the proliferation of progenitor cells to a level similar to that achieved by wt extracts. These findings suggest a novel mechanism by which proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells is regulated in the postnatal spinal cord in response to insult.
Functional recovery is often poor despite the capacity for axonal regeneration in the peripheral nervous system and advances in microsurgical technique. Regeneration of axons in mixed nerve into inappropriate pathways is a major contributing factor to this failure. In this study, we use the rat femoral nerve model of transection and surgical repair to evaluate (1) the effect of nerve transection on the speed of regeneration and the generation of motor-sensory specificity, (2) the efficacy of electrical stimulation in accelerating axonal regeneration and promoting the reinnervation of appropriate muscle pathways by femoral motor nerves, and (3) the mechanism of action of electrical stimulation. Using the retrograde neurotracers fluorogold and fluororuby to backlabel motoneurons that regenerate axons into muscle and cutaneous pathways, we found the following. (1) There is a very protracted period (10 weeks) of axonal outgrowth that adds substantially to the delay in axonal regeneration (staggered regeneration). This process of staggered regeneration is associated with preferential motor reinnervation (PMR). (2) One hour to 2 weeks of 20 Hz continuous electrical stimulation of the parent axons proximal to the repair site dramatically reduces this period (to 3 weeks) and accelerates PMR. (3) The positive effect of short-term electrical stimulation is mediated via the cell body, implicating an enhanced growth program. The effectiveness of such a short-period low-frequency electrical stimulation suggests a new therapeutic approach to accelerate nerve regeneration after injury and, in turn, improve functional recovery.
The disruption of the nerve growth factor (NGF) gene in transgenic mice leads to a lethal phenotype (Crowley et al., 1994) and hinders the study of NGF functions in the adult. In this study the phenotypic knockout of NGF in adult mice was achieved by expressing transgenic anti-NGF antibodies, under the control of the human cytomegalovirus promoter. In adult mice, antibody levels are 2000-fold higher than in newborns. Classical NGF targets, including sympathetic and sensory neurons, are severely affected. In the CNS, basal forebrain and hippocampal cholinergic neurons are not affected in the early postnatal period, whereas they are greatly reduced in the adult (55 and 62% reduction, respectively). Adult mice show a reduced ability in spatial learning behavioral tasks. Adult, but not neonatal, transgenic mice further show a new phenotype at the level of peripheral tissues, such as apoptosis in the spleen and dystrophy of skeletal muscles. The analysis of this novel comprehensive transgenic model settles the controversial issue regarding the NGF dependence of cholinergic neurons in adult animals and reveals new NGF functions in adult non-neuronal tissues. The results demonstrate that the decreased availability of NGF in the adult causes phenotypic effects via processes that are at least partially distinct from early developmental effects of NGF deprivation.
NMDA receptors in mice were mutated by gene targeting to substitute asparagine (N) in position 598 of the NR1 subunit to glutamine (Q) or arginine (R). Animals expressing exclusively the mutated NR1 alleles, NR1(Q/Q) and NR1(-/R) mice, developed a perinatally lethal phenotype mainly characterized by respiratory failure. The dysfunctions were partially rescued in heterozygous mice by the presence of pure wild-type receptors. Thus, NR1(+/Q) mice exhibited reduced life expectancy, with females being impaired in nurturing; NR1(+/R) mice displayed signs of underdevelopment such as growth retardation and impaired righting reflex, and died before weaning. We analyzed the key properties of NMDA receptors, high Ca(2+) permeability, and voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block, in the mutant mice. Comparison of the complex physiological and phenotypical changes observed in the different mutants indicates that properties controlled by NR1 subunit residue N598 are important for autonomic brain functions at birth and during postnatal development. We conclude that disturbed NMDA receptor signaling mediates a variety of neurological phenotypes.
Short-term synaptic plasticity may dramatically influence neuronal information transfer, yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In autapses (self-synapses) formed by cultured hippocampal neurons, short-term synaptic depression (STD) had several unusual features. (1) Reduction of neurotransmitter release probability with Cd(2+), a blocker of voltage-gated calcium channels, did not change depression. (2) Lowering [Ca(2+)](o) and/or raising [Mg(2+)](o) had little effect on STD in cells with strong baseline depression, but in cells with more modest baseline depression, it reduced the depression. (3) Random variations in the size of initial EPSCs did not influence successive EPSC sizes. These findings were inconsistent with release-dependent mechanisms, such as vesicle depletion, post-synaptic receptor desensitization, and autoreceptor inhibition. Instead, other results suggested that changes in action potentials (APs) contributed to depression. The somatic APs declined in amplitude with repetitive stimulation, and modest reduction of AP amplitudes with tetrodotoxin inhibited EPSCs. Notably, tetrodotoxin also increased depression. Similar changes in axonal APs could produce STD in at least two ways. First, decreasing presynaptic spike amplitudes could reduce calcium entry and release probability. Alternatively, APs could fail to propagate through some axonal branches, reducing the number of active synapses. To explore these possibilities, we derived the expected variance of EPSCs for the two scenarios. Experimentally, the variance increased and then decreased on average with successive responses during trains of APs, confirming a unique prediction from the conduction failure scenario. Thus, STD had surprising properties, incompatible with commonly postulated mechanisms but consistent with AP conduction failure at axonal branches.
To overcome technical difficulties associated with in vivo intraretinal recordings of cat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with multiple-barreled electrodes, we developed a new guide-trocar system that consisted of a small-diameter and large-diameter pipes. We also improved the method to construct tungsten-in-glass multiple-barreled electrodes suitable for intraretinal recording from RGCs. Only the small-diameter pipe was inserted into the eye ball through the sclera, through which only the taper part of a multiple-barreled electrode pass. The large-diameter pipe stably held the electrode at its trunk and remained outside the eye ball. Insertion of only the small-diameter pipe minimized damages in the eye ball and prevented the eye ball movements while positioning the electrode. The system allowed us to keep the recordings stable for more than 1 h. Iontophoretically applied L-glutamate successfully activated RGCs of both X and Y types in the cat retina.
The ever-increasing number of persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) will create a greater demand for neuroscience nurses in the 21st century. There are approximately 4 million Americans with AD, and this number is expected to increase to approximately 15 million by the year 2050. As neuroscience nurses encounter more patients with AD in their daily practice, a better understanding of this neurodegenerative disease is important in order to provide high-quality nursing care. An insight into the neurologic bases for cognitive and behavioral manifestations of AD enables nurses to implement effective nursing interventions.
This study describes the colocalized distribution and dimeric complex formation between RGS7, a GTPase-activating protein for several heterotrimeric Galpha protein families, and the Gbeta5 subunit in the adult rat brain. Confocal dual immunofluorescence labeling studies indicated a broad regional specificity in the cellular coexpression between RGS7 and Gbeta5 within the cerebral cortical layers I and V-VI, hippocampal formation, caudate-putamen, medial habenula, most thalamic nuclei, and cerebellar molecular and granular layers. In all instances, Gbeta1-beta4 immunoreactivities exhibited no observable colocalization with RGS7, despite their widespread codistribution throughout similar neuronal networks. Coimmunoprecipitation studies confirmed the selective protein-protein interaction between RGS7 and Gbeta5 within brain regions that displayed immunohistochemical colocalization. The influence of RGS7 to modulate Gbeta5gamma2-mediated phosphatidyl inositol (PI) production was examined in COS-7-cotransfected cells. In the presence of Gbeta5gamma2 only, intracellular PI accumulation was increased by 25% above basal levels; addition of RGS7 produced no significant alteration in Gbeta5gamma2-mediated PI accumulation. A similar trend was exhibited when full-length RGS7 was substituted with an RGS7 construct lacking the Gbeta5-interacting region (G protein gamma-like domain; GGL domain) or with RGS4. In conclusion, RGS7/Gbeta5 dimers occurred within most brain regions in which both proteins were cellularly coexpressed. However, an influence of RGS7 on Gbeta5gamma2-mediated PLCbeta signaling activity was not apparent, athough this was in COS-7 cell transfection studies.



Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in numerous central and systemic responses that complicate interpretation of the effects of the primary mechanical trauma. For this reason, several in vitro models of mechanical cell injury have recently been developed that allow more precise control over intra- and extracellular environments than is possible in vivo. Although we recently reported that calpain and caspase-3 proteases are activated after TBI in rats, the role of calpain and/or caspase-3 has not been examined in any in vitro model of mechanical cell injury. In this investigation, varying magnitudes of rapid mechanical cell stretch were used to examine processing of the cytoskeletal protein alpha-spectrin (280 kDa) to a signature 145-kDa fragment by calpain and to the apoptotic-linked 120-kDa fragment by caspase-3 in septo-hippocampal cell cultures. Additionally, effects of stretch injury on cell viability and morphology were assayed. One hour after injury, maximal release of cytosolic lactate dehydrogenase and nuclear propidium iodide uptake were associated with peak accumulations of the calpain-specific 145-kDa fragment to alpha-spectrin at each injury level. The acute period of calpain activation (1-6 h) was associated with subpopulations of nuclear morphological alterations that appeared necrotic (hyperchromatism) or apoptotic (condensed, shrunken nuclei). In contrast, caspase-3 processing of alpha-spectrin to the apoptotic-linked 120-kDa fragment was only detected 24 h after moderate, but not mild or severe injury. The period of caspase-3 activation was predominantly associated with nuclear shrinkage, fragmentation, and apoptotic body formation characteristic of apoptosis. Results of this study indicate that rapid mechanical stretch injury to septo-hippocampal cell cultures replicates several important biochemical and morphological alterations commonly observed in vivo brain injury, although important differences were also noted.


Numerous studies have shown that the administration of a glutamate receptor agonist or a high dose of glutamate stimulates pituitary hormone secretion in animals. However, only a single human study has reported that an oral load of glutamic acid induced the secretion of prolactin and probably adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (but not other pituitary hormones). Because of glutamate's use in foods as monosodium glutamate (MSG), a flavoring agent, and the limited amount of human data, we studied the effect of a large oral dose of MSG in humans on the secretion of prolactin and other pituitary hormones. Fasting male subjects bearing venous catheters received on separate days each of the following four treatments: a vehicle, MSG (12.7 g), a high protein meal (a physiologic stimulus of prolactin secretion) by mouth, or an intravenous infusion of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH, a pharmacologic stimulus of prolactin secretion). Plasma hormone responses were quantitated by RIA at 20-min intervals for 4 h. The protein meal induced a modest increase and TRH infusion a substantial increase in plasma prolactin, whereas MSG ingestion did not. MSG ingestion also did not raise the plasma concentrations of any of the other pituitary hormones measured (luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, growth hormone) or of cortisol. Ingestion of MSG raised plasma glutamate concentrations 11-fold; the protein meal did not raise plasma glutamate. The results demonstrate that MSG ingestion in humans does not modify anterior pituitary hormone secretion. One implication is that diet-derived glutamate may not penetrate into hypothalamic regions controlling anterior pituitary function.
Stimulation of glutamate receptors has been reported to modulate the expression of neuropeptides and their receptors in neurons. On the other hand, neuropeptides are known to regulate the presynaptic glutamate release and neuronal responses to excitatory neurotransmission. This evidence indicates a functional interaction between glutamatergic and neuropeptidergic transmission in the central nervous system (CNS). In this report, we provide pharmacologic evidence in experimental models of seizures, suggesting that somatostatin (SRIF) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are endogenous modulators of glutamate-mediated hyperexcitability in the CNS. Electroencephalographic (EEG) and behavioral seizures were induced in rats by intrahippocampal or systemic injection of kainic acid, a glutamate analog. The number of EEG seizures and their total duration were inhibited significantly by intracerebral application of a SRIF(1) receptor agonist. Similarly, kainate seizures were reduced by N[-2-(diphenylacetyl)-N-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl-D-arginamide++ +] (BIBP 3226), a NPY Y(1) receptor antagonist. Enhanced seizure susceptibility to pentylentetrazol, ensuing in rats after a systemic administration of kainic acid, was reduced significantly by intracerebral application of RC 160, a SRIF(1) receptor agonist, or NPY 13-36, a Y(2)/Y(5) receptor agonist. This evidence suggests that neuropeptide analogs may be of value for controlling seizures and possibly in other pathologic conditions associated with excessive glutamate function.
Epileptic syndromes have very diverse primary causes, which may be genetic, developmental or acquired. In rodent models, altering glutamate receptor or glutamate transporter expression by knockout or knockdown procedures can induce or suppress epileptic seizures. Regardless of the primary cause, synaptically released glutamate acting on ionotropic and metabotropic receptors appears to play a major role in the initiation and spread of seizure activity. In rodent models of acquired epilepsy and in human temporal lobe epilepsy, there is evidence for enhanced functional efficacy of ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and metabotropic (Group I) receptors. In animal models of epilepsy, antagonists acting at NMDA receptors or at Group I metabotropic receptors have potent anticonvulsant actions.
Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in brain. Our knowledge of the glutamatergic synapse has advanced enormously in the last 10 years, primarily through application of molecular biological techniques to the study of glutamate receptors and transporters. There are three families of ionotropic receptors with intrinsic cation permeable channels [N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and kainate]. There are three groups of metabotropic, G protein-coupled glutamate receptors (mGluR) that modify neuronal and glial excitability through G protein subunits acting on membrane ion channels and second messengers such as diacylglycerol and cAMP. There are also two glial glutamate transporters and three neuronal transporters in the brain. Glutamate is the most abundant amino acid in the diet. There is no evidence for brain damage in humans resulting from dietary glutamate. A kainate analog, domoate, is sometimes ingested accidentally in blue mussels; this potent toxin causes limbic seizures, which can lead to hippocampal and related pathology and amnesia. Endogenous glutamate, by activating NMDA, AMPA or mGluR1 receptors, may contribute to the brain damage occurring acutely after status epilepticus, cerebral ischemia or traumatic brain injury. It may also contribute to chronic neurodegeneration in such disorders as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington's chorea. In animal models of cerebral ischemia and traumatic brain injury, NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists protect against acute brain damage and delayed behavioral deficits. Such compounds are undergoing testing in humans, but therapeutic efficacy has yet to be established. Other clinical conditions that may respond to drugs acting on glutamatergic transmission include epilepsy, amnesia, anxiety, hyperalgesia and psychosis.

1229U91 (GW1229 or GR231118) [lle,Glu,Pro,Dpr,Tyr, Arg,Leu,Arg, Tyr-NH(2))2 cyclic (2,4'),(2'4)-diamide] has been reported by several research groups to be a potent antagonist at the Y1 neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor subtype. However, 1229U91 also displaces (125)I-peptide YY (PYY) with high affinity from the Y4 subtype. Previously, we reported that 1229U91 had full agonist properties for the Y4 receptor. To characterize the pharmacological properties of 1229U91 directly, we had it radioiodinated with the chloromine-T method. (125)I-1229U91 bound to cell lines expressing the human Y1 and Y4 receptors with high affinity. The K(d) and B(max) for (125)I-1229U91 binding to Y1 were 14.9 pM and 1458 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The Y4 receptor bound (125)I-1229U91 with a K(d) of 12.5 pM and a B(max) of 1442 fmol/mg protein. When competing (125)I-1229U91 binding from Y1 and Y4 receptors, a similar rank order of potency was observed: 1229U91 &gt; [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-NPY &gt;/= [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-PYY &gt; PYY &gt;/= NPY &gt; NPY(2-36) &gt; PYY(3-36). Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) potently displaced (125)I-1229U91 from the Y4 receptor, but displayed little affinity for Y1. In autoradiographic studies with rat brain sections, (125)I-1229U91 bound with a distribution similar to that reported for the Y1 receptor when localized with (125)I-[Leu(31),Pro(34)]-PYY. Brain regions exhibiting binding sites for (125)I-PP were not detected with this radioligand. Those include the interpeduncular nucleus and the periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Furthermore, (125)I-labeled rat PP was not displaced from these areas with 10 nM 1229U91. Thus, (125)I-1229U91 is a high affinity Y1 and Y4 radioligand and binds with a distribution in the rat brain consistent with the localization of the Y1 receptor.
Internalization, recycling, and resensitization of the human delta-opioid receptor (hDOR) were studied in the neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE, endogenously expressing this receptor. Conventional and confocal fluorescence microscopy observations, corroborated by Scatchard analysis, indicated that after a 100 nM Eto treatment, 60 to 70% of hDOR were rapidly internalized (t(1/2) &lt; 15 min). This agonist-triggered internalization was reversible for a treatment not exceeding 1 h and became irreversible for prolonged treatment (4 h), leading probably to the degradation and/or down-regulation of the receptor. The rapid internalization of hDOR was totally blocked in the presence of heparin, known as an inhibitor of G protein-coupled receptor kinases (Benovic et al., 1989), a result indicating that phosphorylation by these kinases is a critical step in desensitization (Hasbi et al, 1998) and internalization of hDOR (present study) in SK-N-BE cell line. Blockade of internalization by agents not interferring with phosphorylation, as hypertonic sucrose or concanavalin A, also blocked the resensitization (receptor functional recovering) process. Furthermore, blockade of dephosphorylation of the internalized hDOR by okadaic acid totally suppressed its recycling to the plasma membrane and its subsequent resensitization. These results indicate that regulatory events leading to desensitization, internalization, and recycling in a functional state of hDOR involve phosphorylation by a G protein-coupled receptor kinase, internalization via clathrin-coated vesicles, and dephosphorylation by acid phosphatases.
Seizures are a well known consequence of human cocaine abuse, and in rodent models, sensitivity to cocaine seizures has been shown to be strongly influenced by genotype. For example, several studies have reported significant differences between the C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) inbred mouse strains in their sensitivity to cocaine-induced seizures. This prompted our use of the BXD recombinant inbred (RI) strain set and an F(2) population derived from the B6 and D2 progenitor strains for further genetic analyses and for gene mapping efforts in this study. Cocaine was infused into the lateral tail vein, and the doses needed to induce a running bouncing clonic seizure and a tonic hindlimb extensor seizure were recorded for each mouse. In the BXD RI set, a genome-wide search was carried out for QTLs (quantitative trait loci), which are sites on a chromosome containing genes that influence seizure susceptibility. An F(2) population (B6D2F2, n = 408) was subsequently used as a second, confirmation step. Based on both RI and F(2) results, three QTLs emerged as significant (P &lt;.00005): one for clonic seizures on chromosome 9 (distal), and two for tonic seizures on chromosomes 14 (proximal to mid) and 15 (distal). Two additional QTLs emerged as suggestive (P &lt;.0015), both associated with clonic seizures on chromosomes 9 (proximal) and 15 (distal). Both QTLs on chromosome 9 were sex-specific, with much larger effects on the phenotype seen in females than in males.
In vivo microdialysis was used to characterize basal dopamine (DA) dynamics and cocaine-evoked DA levels in the striatum of 129/Sv-ter, C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, and Swiss-Webster mice. Basal dialysate levels of DA did not differ in the four strains tested. Similarly, the no net flux method of quantitative microdialysis revealed no difference in extracellular levels between strains. However, the in vivo extraction fraction of DA was significantly less in 129/Sv-ter (53%) mice compared with C57BL/6J (68%), DBA/2J (69%), and Swiss-Webster (67%) mice, indicating a lower rate of basal DA uptake in the 129/Sv-ter strain. Perfusion of K(+) (60 and 100 mM) through the microdialysis probe significantly increased dialysate DA levels and there was no difference between strains in the magnitude of this effect. The acute administration of cocaine (5-20 mg/kg i.p.) increased DA levels in the four strains tested. Cocaine-evoked DA levels (in nanomoles) were significantly greater in 129/Sv-ter compared with C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, or Swiss-Webster mice after administration of either 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg cocaine. However, the percentage increase in DA did not differ across strains. These data demonstrate that there are strain-related differences in basal DA dynamics in the striatum of the mouse. Basal DA uptake was reduced in striatum of 129/Sv-ter mice compared with C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, or Swiss-Webster mice. In addition, the response of DA levels to cocaine may be enhanced in 129/Sv-ter compared with C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, or Swiss-Webster mice.
1. Regional blood flow was measured with Doppler ultrasonic probes in anaesthetized rabbits. We used focal microinjections of pharmacological agents to investigate medullary pathways mediating ear pinna vasoconstriction elicited by electrical stimulation of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve or by pinching the lip, and pathways mediating mesenteric vasoconstriction elicited by electrical stimulation of the afferent abdominal vagus nerve. 2. Bilateral injection of kynurenate into the rostral ventrolateral medulla reduced arterial pressure and prevented the mesenteric vasoconstriction and the rise in arterial pressure elicited by abdominal vagal stimulation. However, kynurenate did not prevent ear pinna vasoconstriction or the fall in pressure elicited by trigeminal tract stimulation. Similar injections of muscimol also failed to prevent the trigeminally elicited cardiovascular changes. 3. Injections of kynurenate into the raphe-parapyramidal area did not diminish trigeminally elicited ear vasoconstriction or the depressor response. However, injections of muscimol substantially reduced or abolished the trigeminally elicited ear vasoconstriction, without affecting the depressor response. Raphe-parapyramidal muscimol injections also entirely abolished ear vasoconstriction elicited by pinching the rabbit's lip. 4. The trigeminal depressor response does not depend on either the rostral ventrolateral medulla or the raphe-parapyramidal region. 5. Mesenteric vasoconstriction elicited by stimulation of the afferent abdominal vagus nerve is mediated via the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but ear vasoconstriction elicited by lip pinch or by stimulation of the trigeminal tract is mediated by the raphe-parapyramidal region. Our study is the first to suggest a brainstem pathway mediating cutaneous vasoconstriction elicited by nociceptive stimulation.
1. Intracellular recordings made in single bundle strips of a visceral smooth muscle revealed rhythmic spontaneous membrane depolarizations termed slow waves (SWs). These exhibited 'pacemaker' and 'regenerative' components composed of summations of more elementary events termed spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs). 2. STDs and SWs persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, nifedipine and ryanodine, and upon brief exposure to Ca2+-free Cd2+-containing solutions; they were enhanced by ACh and blocked by BAPTA AM, cyclopiazonic acid and caffeine. 3. SWs were also inhibited in heparin-loaded strips. SWs were observed over a wide range of membrane potentials (e.g. -80 to -45 mV) with increased frequencies at more depolarized potentials. 4. Regular spontaneous SW activity in this preparation began after 1-3 h superfusion of the tissue with physiological saline following the dissection procedure. Membrane depolarization applied before the onset of this activity induced bursts of STD-like events (termed the 'initial' response) which, when larger than threshold levels initiated regenerative responses. The combined initial-regenerative waveform was termed the SW-like action potential. 5. Voltage-induced responses exhibited large variable latencies (typical range 0.3-4 s), refractory periods of approximately 11 s and a pharmacology that was indistinguishable from those of STDs and spontaneous SWs. 6. The data indicate that SWs arise through more elementary inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor-induced Ca2+ release events which rhythmically synchronize to trigger regenerative Ca2+ release and induce inward current across the plasmalemma. The finding that action potentials, which were indistinguishable from SWs, could be evoked by depolarization suggests that membrane potential modulates IP3 production. Voltage feedback on intracellular IP3-sensitive Ca2+ release is likely to have a major influence on the generation and propagation of SWs.
1. The relationship between single-channel conductance and ion binding affinity in Ca2+ channels was investigated by measuring differences in the apparent binding affinity (K'D) for Ca2+ among naturally occurring conductance states of an L-type (alpha1C) Ca2+ channel heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Using cell-attached patch recordings, three or more conductance levels were observed when Ca2+, Ba2+ or Li+ was used as the permeating ion. 2. With Li+ as the charge carrier, low concentrations of Ca2+ (0.1-3.0 microM) produced discrete blocking events in all conductance states. Measurements of open and blocked times as a function of Ca2+ concentration were used to calculate rates of block and unblock. 3. K'D was calculated for three of the conductance levels. Binding affinity for Ca2+ increased as conductance decreased (K'D: large = 7.5 microM, medium = 4.0 microM, small = 2.7 microM). The lower K'D values of the smaller conductance states arose from a combination of larger on-rates and smaller off-rates. 4. These results imply that permeant ions such as Ca2+ have both easier access to, and longer dwell time in, the Ca2+ binding locus in the pore when the channel opens to a subconductance level as compared to the fully open level. 5. The difference in K'D between the large and small conductance levels corresponds to a small difference in the free energy of binding, DeltaDeltaG approximately 1kBT, where kB is Boltzmann's constant and T is absolute temperature (kelvin). Nonetheless, an Eyring model of Ca2+ channel permeation incorporating the state-specific on- and off-rate constants for Ca2+ was able to reproduce the large difference in channel conductance, indicating that small differences in binding energy may be able to account for large differences in amplitude between conductance states.
This report studied the diurnal and circadian rhythms of mt1 melatonin receptor expression in the SCN of C3H/HeN mice maintained in either a light:dark (LD) cycle or in constant dark for a minimum of 6 wk. Diurnal times (ZT) were assessed with reference to the onset of the light period (ZT0) and circadian times (CT) were established by determining the phase of wheel running activity of each mouse before sacrifice. 2-[125I]-Iodomelatonin binding in the SCN revealed low amplitude diurnal and circadian rhythms with highest levels of binding 2 hr after lights on (41.3+/-1.7 fmol/mg protein, n = 5, at ZT2) or at the beginning of the subjective day (48.6+/-2.1 fmol/mg protein, n = 6, CT2), respectively. The expression of mt1 mRNA, determined by in situ hybridization with a 35S-labeled mouse mt1 riboprobe, showed robust diurnal and circadian rhythms. In animals housed under a LD cycle, low levels of expression were observed during the day, with a rapid rise in mt1 melatonin receptor expression at the beginning of the dark period (ZT14), coincident with an abrupt increase in levels of circulating melatonin measured by radioimmunoassay. In animals housed under constant dark conditions, a robust peak of mt1 mRNA expression occurred in the middle of the subjective night (CT18), 8 hr before the peak of protein expression, while the lowest levels of mt1 mRNA expression were observed during the day (CTI10). Results suggest that mt1 melatonin receptor rhythm in the C3H/HeN mouse SCN is regulated both by light and by the biological clock as distinct rhythms of both mRNA and protein are differentially expressed under a LD cycle and constant dark conditions.
An ethnographic approach to the study of caregiver-assisted music events was employed with patients suffering from dementia or suspected dementia. The aim of this study was to illuminate the importance of music events and the reactions and social interactions of patients with dementia or suspected dementia and their caregivers before, during and after such events, including the remainder of the day. The results showed that the patients experienced an ability to sing, play instruments, perform body movements, and make puns during such music events. While singing familiar songs, some patients experienced the return of distant memories, which they seemed to find very pleasurable. During and after the music events, the personnel experienced bonding with the patients, who seemed easier to care for. Caregiver-assisted music events show a great potential for use in dementia care.
The delivery of activated steroid receptors to high-affinity genomic sites must be efficient enough to account for the rapidity and selectivity of many transcriptional responses to steroid hormones. Thus, the signal transduction capacity of steroid hormone receptors will be influenced by the efficiency of receptor trafficking both between different subcellular compartments (that is, the cytoplasm and nucleus) and within a specific compartment (that is, the nucleus). Molecular chaperones, such as heat shock proteins, have long been recognized to play important roles in the management of protein folding in both stressed and nonstressed cells. In recent years, the participation of these proteins in various signal transduction pathways (for example, steroid hormone responses) has also been recognized. In this review, recent results that implicate a role for distinct heat shock proteins in subnuclear trafficking of glucocorticoid receptors are discussed. These studies also highlight the importance of mobilizing the cellular chaperone machinery for managing steroid receptor folding within the nucleus.

The relationship between exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMFs) and human health is more and more in focus. This is mainly because of the rapid increasing use of such EMFs within our modern society. Exposure to EMFs has been linked to different cancer forms, e.g. leukemia, brain tumors, neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, asthma and allergy, and recently to the phenomena of 'electrosupersensitivity' and 'screen dermatitis'. There is an increasing number of reports about cutaneous problems as well as symptoms from internal organs, such as the heart, in people exposed to video display terminals (VDTs). These people suffer from subjective and objective skin and mucosa-related symptoms, such as itch, heat sensation, pain, erythema, papules and pustules. In severe cases, people can not, for instance, use VDTs or artificial light at all, or be close to mobile telephones. Mast cells (MCs), when activated, release a spectrum of mediators, among them histamine, which is involved in a variety of biological effects with clinical relevance, e.g. allergic hypersensitivity, itch, edema, local erythema and many types of dermatoses. From the results of recent studies, it is clear that EMFs affect the MC, and also the dendritic cell, population and may degranulate these cells. The release of inflammatory substances, such as histamine, from MCs in the skin results in a local erythema, edema and sensation of itch and pain, and the release of somatostatin from the dendritic cells may give rise to subjective sensations of on-going inflammation and sensitivity to ordinary light. These are, as mentioned, the common symptoms reported from patients suffering from 'electrosupersensitivity'/'screen dermatitis'. MCs are also present in the heart tissue and their localization is of particular relevance to their function. Data from studies made on interactions of EMFs with the cardiac function have demonstrated that highly interesting changes are present in the heart after exposure to EMFs. One could speculate that the cardiac MCs are responsible for these changes due to degranulation after exposure to EMFs. However, it is still not known how, and through which mechanisms, all these different cells are affected by EMFs. In this article, we present a theoretical model, based upon observations on EMFs and their cellular effects, to explain the proclaimed sensitivity to electric and/or magnetic fields in humans.
At the present time, the dominant conceptual framework in neuroscience views neurons as discrete information processing units. While this framework has undoubtedly been successful in explaining phenomena at the single-cell level, it has had less success in explaining large-scale neural phenomena such as cognitive disorders. An alternative conceptualization of brain function is in terms of an energy continuum, where energy is an abstract variable modelling the flow of electrochemical activity between neurons. Using this energy (E) model, large-scale phenomena may be incorporated within a single conceptual framework. This framework can in turn be related to the underlying biochemistry. The E model also generates testable predictions, and should prove quantifiable using differential equations. These claims are illustrated with simple examples from the spectrum of cognitive disorders.
Understanding the mechanisms that mediate synaptic plasticity is a primary goal of molecular neuroscience. The Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction provides a particularly useful model for investigating the roles of synaptic components in both structural and functional plasticity. The powerful molecular genetics of this system makes it possible to uncover new synaptic components and signaling molecules, as well as their function in the intact organism. Together with the mouse hippocampus and Aplysia dissociated cell culture, the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction has been among the most valuable model systems for examining the molecular and cellular basis of neuronal plasticity.
Galbeta1,3GalNAc and Galbeta1,4GIcNAc are the subterminal saccharide structures present on the CT carbohydrate antigen GalNAcbeta1,4[NeuAcalpha2,3]-Galbeta1-(3GalNAc or 4GIcNAc)-R, which is localized at the mammalian neuromuscular junction. Here we show that Galbeta1,3GalNAc, Galbeta1,4GIcNAc, and the CT carbohydrate antigen affect postsynaptic assembly in cultured muscle cells. Treatment of C2C12 myotubes with benzyl-O-alpha-GalNAc or neuraminidase increased peanut agglutinin (PNA) expression and AChR clustering. Induction of AChR clustering was blocked by PNA and by muscle agrin. Addition of Galbeta1,4GIcNAc or Galbeta1,3GalNAc increased AChR clustering in myotubes and muscle-specific kinase (MUSK) autophosphorylation in vitro, while NeuAcalpha2,3Galbeta1,4GIcNAc and Galbeta1,4GIc did not. Neural agrin activated MuSK in vitro if the lactosamine-containing mucin domain was present, and this activation was blocked in large part by Galbeta1,3GalNAc and Galbeta1,4GIcNAc. Agrin fragments and MuSK bound to these disaccharides with differing specificities. Overexpression of the CT carbohydrate antigen also increased AChR clustering and MuSK autophosphorylation in the presence of neural agrin. These data suggest a model in which different portions of the CT carbohydrate structure contribute to agrin-dependent signal transduction.
Previous reports have shown that DNA-damage-evoked death of embryonic cortical neurons is delayed by general caspase inhibitors and is accompanied by an increase in DEVD-AFC cleavage activity. We show here that this cleavage activity is lacking in camptothecin-treated caspase 3-deficient neurons. Moreover, we report that death of camptothecin-treated caspase 3-deficient neurons cultured from E16 embryos is delayed and that no significant increase in survival is observed with cotreatment with the general caspase inhibitor BAF. These results indicate that caspase-dependent death of camptothecin-treated cortical neurons requires caspase 3 activity. The delay in death is accompanied by impairment of DNA fragmentation. However, Bax-dependent cytochrome c release still occurs in camptothecin-treated caspase 3-deficient cortical neurons. Accordingly, we hypothesize that the delayed death which occurs in the absence of caspase 3 activity may be due to mitochondrial dysfunction. Finally, we show that the delay in death observed with E16 caspase 3-deficient neurons does not occur in neurons cultured from E19 embryos. This suggests that the requirement for caspase 3 in death of neurons evoked by DNA damage may differ depending upon the developmental state of the cell.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system with a presumed autoimmune pathogenesis involving autoantigen-specific CD4+ T cells and cytokines. A similar frequency of T cells responding to myelin basic protein (MBP), a putative target in MS, has been observed in MS patients and controls. To dissect the differences between MBP-specific T cells in patients and controls, we have analyzed the cytokine secretion profile of such autoreactive T cells. MBP-specific T cell clones (TCC) were isolated from the peripheral blood of MS patients and controls by limiting dilution. Expression of mRNA for interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) was assessed by polymerase chain reaction whereas secretion of cytokine protein was measured by ELISA. MBP-specific TCC exhibited a heterogeneous cytokine secretion profile with clones displaying Th1, Th2 and Th0 phenotypes. A significant difference in the distribution of the cytokine profile was noted between MS patients and controls. Although the frequency of Th1 secreting MBP-reactive TCC was similar between MS patients and controls, stable MS patients had a significant association with the Th0 phenotype whereas healthy individuals were associated with the Th2 phenotype. In comparison to control TCC, MBP-specific TCC from MS patients secreted increased amounts of IFN-gamma, IL-4 and IL-10 and decreased quantities of TGF-beta. Thus, these studies suggest that there is a dysregulation in the balance between pro-inflammatory Th1 and anti-inflammatory Th2 cytokines in MS. It appears that the presence of Th1 secreting autoreactive T cells in healthy individuals may be counterbalanced by the presence of cells secreting Th2 cytokines and by the augmented production of the immunosuppressive cytokine TGF-beta, whereas in MS there is a decrease in these anti-inflammatory agents.
Much progress has been made in the 26 years since initial studies of the first purified acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) led to the discovery that an antibody-mediated autoimmune response to AChRs causes the muscular weakness and fatigability characteristic of myasthenia gravis (MG) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Now, the structure of muscle AChRs is much better known. Monoclonal antibodies to muscle AChRs, developed as model autoantibodies for studies of EAMG, were used for initial purifications of neuronal AChRs, and now many homologous subunits of neuronal nicotinic AChRs have been cloned. There is a basic understanding of the pathological mechanisms by which autoantibodies to AChRs impair neuromuscular transmission. Immunodiagnostic assays for MG are used routinely. Nonspecific approaches to immunosuppressive therapy have been refined. However, fundamental mysteries remain regarding what initiates and sustains the autoimmune response to muscle AChRs and how to specifically suppress this autoimmune response using a practical therapy. Many rare congenital myasthenic syndromes have been elegantly shown to result from mutations in muscle AChRs. These studies have provided insights into AChR structure and function as well as into the pathological mechanisms of these diseases. Evidence has been found for autoimmune responses even to some central nervous system neurotransmitter receptors, but only one neuronal AChR has so far been implicated in an autoimmune disease. Thus far, only two neuronal AChR mutations have been found to be associated with a rare form of epilepsy, but many more neuronal AChR mutations will probably be found to be associated with disease in the years ahead.

What neural activity in motor cortex represents and how it controls ongoing movement remain unclear. Suggestions that cortex generates low-level muscle control are discredited by correlations with higher-level parameters of hand movement, but no coherent alternative exists. I argue that the view of low-level control is in principle correct, and that seeming contradictions result from overlooking known properties of the motor periphery. Assuming direct motor cortical activation of muscle groups and taking into account the state dependence of muscle-force production and multijoint mechanics, I show that cortical population output must correlate with hand kinematics in quantitative agreement with experimental observations. The model reinterprets the 'neural population vector' to afford unified control of posture, movement and force production.
The neocortical primary somatosensory area (S1) consists of a map of the body surface. The cortical area devoted to different regions, such as parts of the face or hands, reflects their functional importance. Here we investigated the role of genetically determined positional labels in neocortical mapping. Ephrin-A5 was expressed in a medial &gt; lateral gradient across S1, whereas its receptor EphA4 was in a matching gradient across the thalamic ventrobasal (VB) complex, which provides S1 input. Ephrin-A5 had topographically specific effects on VB axon guidance in vitro. Ephrin-A5 gene disruption caused graded, topographically specific distortion in the S1 body map, with medial regions contracted and lateral regions expanded, changing relative areas up to 50% in developing and adult mice. These results provide evidence for within-area thalamocortical mapping labels and show that a genetic difference can cause a lasting change in relative scale of different regions within a topographic map.
We identified the LIM homeodomain transcription factor Lmx1b in the mesencephalic dopamine (mesDA) systems of embryos and adults. Analysis of spatiotemporal expression in Lmx1b null mutants and wild-type mice implicated a cascade involving Lmx1b in the early development of mesDA neurons. Although disruption of this cascade did not block induction of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a key enzyme in DA synthesis, or Nurr1, a nuclear hormone receptor, Lmx1b knockout mice failed to induce the mesDA-specific homeodomain gene Ptx3 in TH-positive neurons. Eventually, this small set of TH-positive neurons was lost during embryonic maturation. The data suggest that at least two molecular cascades operate during the specification of the mesDA system, one specifying neurotransmitter phenotype and another essential for other aspects of mesDA neuron differentiation.
We examined enhancement of synaptic transmission by neurotrophins at the presynaptic level. In a synaptosomal preparation, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) increased mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase-dependent synapsin I phosphorylation and acutely facilitated evoked glutamate release. PD98059, used to inhibit MAP kinase activity, markedly decreased synapsin I phosphorylation and concomitantly reduced neurotransmitter release. The stimulation of glutamate release by BDNF was strongly attenuated in mice lacking synapsin I and/or synapsin II. These results indicate a causal link of synapsin phosphorylation via BDNF, TrkB receptors and MAP kinase with downstream facilitation of neurotransmitter release.


We introduce a new statistical model for time series that iteratively segments data into regimes with approximately linear dynamics and learnsthe parameters of each of these linear regimes. This model combines and generalizes two of the most widely used stochastic time-series models -- hidden Markov models and linear dynamical systems -- and is closely related to models that are widely used in the control and econometrics literatures. It can also be derived by extending the mixture of experts neural network (Jacobs, Jordan, Nowlan, &amp; Hinton, 1991) to its fully dynamical version, in which both expert and gating networks are recurrent. Inferring the posterior probabilities of the hidden states of this model is computationally intractable, and therefore the exact expectation maximization (EM) algorithm cannot be applied. However, we present a variational approximation that maximizes a lower bound on the log-likelihood and makes use of both the forward and backward recursions for hidden Markov models and the Kalman filter recursions for linear dynamical systems. We tested the algorithm on artificial data sets and a natural data set of respiration force from a patient with sleep apnea. The results suggest that variational approximations are a viable method for inference and learning in switching state-space models.
A novel inhibitor of liver glycogen phosphorylase, isofagomine, was investigated as a possible inhibitor of the enzyme in the brain and in cultured astrocytes. Additionally, the effect of the drug on norepinephrine (NE) induced glycogen degradation in astrocytes was studied. Astrocytes were cultured from mouse cerebral cortex and homogenates were prepared from the cells as well as from mouse brain. Isofagomine dose-dependently inhibited glycogen phosphorylase when measured in the direction of glycogen degradation in both preparations with IC50 values (mean +/- SEM) of 1.0 +/- 0.1 microM and 3.3 +/- 0.5 microM in brain and astrocyte homogenates, respectively. Moreover, isofagomine at a concentration of 400 microM completely prevented NE induced depletion of glycogen stores and the concomitant lactate production in intact astrocytes. It is suggested that this novel glycogen phosphorylase inhibitor may be a valuable tool to investigate the functional importance of glycogen in astrocytes and in the brain.
The expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2B (5-HT2B) receptor mRNA has recently been shown in cultured astrocytes. Here the expression of functional 5-HT2B receptors has been studied in cultured astrocytes from rat cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and brain stem. Fluo-3- and fura-2-based microspectrofluorometry was used for measuring changes in intracellular free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i). The 5-HT2B agonist alpha-methyl 5-HT (40 nM) produced rapid transient increases in [Ca2+]i in astrocytes from all three brain regions studied, and these responses were blocked by the selective 5-HT2B antagonist rauwolscine (1 microM). The specificity of the responses to alpha-methyl 5-HT was further demonstrated by the failure of 4-(4-fluorobenzoyl)-1-(4-phenylbutyl)-piperidine oxalate (1 microM), a specific 5-HT2A/5-HT2C antagonist, to block these responses. The 5-HT2B-induced increases in [Ca2+]i persisted in Ca2+-free buffer, indicating that the increase in [Ca2+]i results from mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ stores. The expression of 5-HT2B receptors on astroglial cells was further verified immunohistochemically and by Western blot analysis. These results provide evidence of the existence of 5-HT2B receptors on astrocytes in primary culture.
An increasing body of evidence supports the notion that activation of astrocytic (peripheral-type) benzodiazepine receptors contributes to the pathogenesis of the central nervous system symptoms which are characteristic of portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE). Binding site densities for the PTBR ligand [3H-PK11195] are increased in autopsied brain tissue from PSE patients as well as in the brains of animals with experimental chronic liver failure. In the case of the animal studies, increased PTBR sites resulted from increased PTBR gene expression. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to ammonia or manganese (two neurotoxic agents which under normal circumstances are removed by the hepatobiliary system and which are found to accumulate in brain in PSE) results in increased densities of [3H-PK11195] binding sites. Activation of PTBR is known to result in increased cholesterol uptake and increased synthesis in brain of neurosteroids some of which have potent positive allosteric modulator properties on the GABA-A receptor system. Accumulation of such substances in the brain in chronic liver failure could explain the neural inhibition characteristics of PSE.
Although synaptic transmission is an important means of communication between neurons, neurons themselves and neurons and glia also communicate by extrasynaptic &quot;volume&quot; transmission, which is mediated by diffusion in the extracellular space (ECS). The ECS of the central nervous system (CNS) is the microenvironment of neurons and glial cells. The composition and size of ECS change dynamically during neuronal activity as well as during pathological states. Following their release, a number of neuroactive substances, including ions, mediators, metabolites and neurotransmitters, diffuse via the ECS to targets distant from their release sites. Glial cells affect the composition and volume of the ECS and therefore also extracellular diffusion, particularly during development, aging and pathological states such as ischemia, injury, X-irradiation, gliosis, demyelination and often in grafted tissue. Recent studies also indicate that diffusion in the ECS is affected by ECS volume inhomogeneities, which are the result of a more compacted space in certain regions, e.g. in the vicinity of oligodendrocytes. Besides glial cells, the extracellular matrix also changes ECS geometry and forms diffusion barriers, which may also result in diffusion anisotropy. Glial cells therefore play an important role in extrasynaptic transmission, for example in functions such as vigilance, sleep, depression, chronic pain, LTP, LTD, memory formation and other plastic changes in the CNS. In turn, ECS diffusion parameters affect neuron-glia communication, ionic homeostasis and movement and/or accumulation of neuroactive substances in the brain.
Cultured neocortical neurons were incubated in medium containing [U-13C]glucose (0.5 mM) and in some cases unlabeled glutamine (0.5 mM). Subsequently the cells were &quot;superfused&quot; for investigation of the effect of depolarization by 55 mM K+. Cell extracts were analyzed by 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry to determine incorporation of 13C in glutamate, GABA, aspartate and fumarate. The importance of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle for conversion of the carbon skeleton of glutamine to GABA was evident from the effect of glutamine on the labeling pattern of GABA and glutamate. Moreover, analysis of the labeling patterns of glutamate in particular indicated a depolarization induced increased oxidative metabolism. This effect was only observed in glutamate and not in neurotransmitter GABA. Based on this a hypothesis of mitochondrial compartmentation may be proposed in which mitochondria associated with neurotransmitter synthesis are distinct from those aimed at energy production and influenced by depolarization. The hypothesis of mitochondrial compartmentation was further supported by the finding that the total percent labeling of fumarate and aspartate differed significantly from each other. This can only be explained by the existence of multiple TCA cycles with different turnover rates.
This paper examines evidence that glial cells respond to changes in extracellular potassium ([K+]e) in ways that contribute to modulation of neuronal activity and thereby behaviour. Glial cells spatially (and probably directionally) redistribute potassium from regions of increasing concentration to those with a lesser concentration. This redistribution is largely responsible for slow potential shifts associated with behavioural responses of animals. These slow shifts are related in amplitude to the level of 'arousal' of an animal, and its motivational state. In addition, glia, especially astrocytes, respond to changes in [K+]e, the presence of transmitters like nor-adrenaline and glutamate and at least some hormones with changes in their metabolism and/or the morphological characteristics of the cell. The ionic, metabolic and morphological responses of glia to changes in extracellular potassium after neuronal activity have been associated with at least some forms of learning, including habituation, one trial passive avoidance learning and changes associated with enriched environments. The implication of these effects of potassium signalling in the brain is that there is considerable involvement of glia in a number of processes crucial to neuronal activity. Glia may also form another route for information distribution in the brain that is at least bi-directional, though less specific than its neuronal counterparts. It is evident that the Neuroscience of the future will have to incorporate much more study of neuron-glial interactions than hitherto.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a protein involved in transport of lipids and has been implicated to play an important role in regeneration after nerve injury. Determination of apoE in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) thus have a potential interest when studying different forms of brain damage and as a marker of ongoing regenerative processes in the brain. However, previous studies on CSF-ApoE in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have given inconclusive results. Such inconsistent results might be related to confounding factors interfering with sample handling and/or analyses, which have not been fully elucidated. We therefore examined different potential confounding factors for analyses of apoE in CSF and also developed a new enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The hydrophobic character of ApoE resulted in adsorption to different types of test tubes commonly used for collection of CSF at lumbar puncture, resulting in falsely low levels. This makes CSF handling critical, especially if samples are taken in different types of tubes, or is transferred to new tubes. Taking this confounding factors in consideration and analysing patient and control CSF handled in the same way and using the new ELISA, we could confirm our previous finding of reduced levels of ApoE in AD, (3.4 +/- 1.3 mg/l) compared with controls (4.5 +/- 2.7 mg/l) (p = 0.045). Both in the AD and in the control group, higher levels of CSF-ApoE was found in individuals possessing the ApoE4 alleles. Our results support that CSF-ApoE is reduced in AD, and that handling of CSF is a critical factor, which may explain the discrepant results from previous studies. Differences in the amount of patients and controls possessing the ApoE4 allele included might also increase the variance between different studies.
Previous studies have shown that the endogenous opioid peptides, acting at specific opiate receptor subtypes, are involved in the suckling-induced prolactin secretory response. The prolactin increase elicited by suckling is due, at least in part, to an inhibition of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons in the hypothalamus. We investigated the effects of immunoneutralization of dynorphin, leu-enkephalin and met-enkephalin on the suckling-induced prolactin increase and on the activity of the TIDA neurons in lactating female rats between days 7 and 12 postpartum. Rats were injected into the right lateral ventricle with antiserum specific for one of these three peptides. Control rats were administered equal amounts of immunoglobulin proteins. Suckling produced a profound and significant increase in prolactin levels, as well as a decrease in DOPA accumulation in the median eminence of lactating rats. Administration of immunoglobulin concentrations of up to 3.6 microg did not inhibit the prolactin secretory response to the suckling stimulus and did not prevent the suckling-induced inhibition of TIDA neurons. Antisera to all three endogenous opioid peptides abolished the suckling-induced prolactin increase and prevented the inhibition in DOPA accumulation in the median eminence. Thus, the endogenous opioid peptides, dynorphin, leu-enkephalin and met-enkephalin, are essential for the prolactin secretory response to suckling and inhibition of TIDA neuronal activity is at least one of the mechanisms of action utilized by these peptides.
To assess the effect of various analysis parameters on the sensitivity of event-related fMRI analyses, 36 analyses were performed on a single fMRI data-set, varying parameters along four axes: (1) resampled voxel size; (2) spatial smoothing; (3) temporal smoothing; and (4) the set of basis functions used to model event-related responses. Sensitivity (i.e., the probability of detecting an activation given it exists) was assessed in terms of Z scores and by a metric for corrected P values, the negative log of the expected Euler characteristic. Sixteen brain regions distributed across cortical and subcortical areas were included in the meta-analysis. Main effects on sensitivity were found for resampled voxel size, spatial smoothing, temporal smoothing, and the set of basis functions chosen. The analysis parameters that generally produced the most sensitive analyses were a 2-mm(3) resampled voxel size, 10-mm spatial smoothing, 4-s temporal smoothing, and a basis set comprising a hemodynamic response function and its temporal derivative.
The understanding of the mode of action of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) as treatment of neuropathic pain is still fragmentary. SCS evolved from the gate-control theory postulating a spinal modulation of noxious inflow, but there is little evidence that SCS influences nociceptive pain; pain relief in peripheral vascular disease and angina pectoris is presumably secondary to other SCS effects. In man, SCS may effectively abolish both continuous and evoked pain (tactile/thermal allodynia) whereas induced, acute nociceptive pain is unaffected. Recent SCS studies performed on rat models of mononeuropathy have demonstrated a preferential effect on A beta fiber mediated functions, and the hyperexcitability of wide-dynamic-range dorsal horn neurons was attenuated. These effects were coupled to increased release of GABA and reduced glutamate and aspartate release in the dorsal horn. Intrathecal administration of GABA, baclofen and adenosine enhanced the SCS effect on tactile allodynia even in previously non-responsive rats. Preliminary results indicate that gabapentin may have a similar effect. GABAergic and adenosine-related mechanisms conceivably represent only examples of a number of putative receptor systems involved in SCS. Clinical trials have been initiated exploring the possibility to improve the efficacy of SCS by concomitant pharmacotherapy.
Advances in neuromodulation techniques offer the promise of new therapeutic interventions for patients with neuropsychiatric maladies. Several complex social, ethical and policy issues will attend developments in this area. In this paper an ethical framework for clinical research in interventional cognitive neuroscience is advanced. Deep brain stimulation in traumatic brain injury is considered as a paradigm case to examine ethical obligations in human subject research. These include balancing access to novel therapies versus protection of vulnerable study populations, rational evaluation of study design and research strategies, informed consent, and the importance of achieving societal consensus for this line of scientific inquiry.
We review initial efforts at neuromodulation in the vegetative state and organize several aspects of recent studies of the underlying neurobiology of catastrophic brain injuries. An innovative strategy for patient and target selection for neuromodulation of impaired cognitive function is outlined. Scientific and ethical issues that will attend future efforts to appropriately risk-stratify patients and initiate interventions with therapeutic intent are considered.

Three distinct temporal phases of synaptic facilitation (short-, intermediate-, and long-term) are induced by serotonin (5-HT) at sensory (SN) to motor (MN) synapses in Aplysia. Here, we characterize two mechanistically distinct forms of intermediate-term facilitation (ITF) at tail SN-MN synapses. One form, activity-independent ITF, is produced by five spaced pulses of 5-HT in the absence of SN activity. Its induction requires protein synthesis, and its expression requires persistent activation of PKA but not PKC. The other form, activity-dependent ITF, is produced by a single pulse of 5-HT coincident with SN activation. Its induction does not require protein synthesis, and its expression requires persistent activation of PKC but not PKA. These results demonstrate that SN-MN synapses can exhibit two distinct forms of ITF that are mediated by parallel molecular pathways.
We identified the Drosophila trio gene, which encodes a Dbl family protein carrying two Dbl homology (DH) domains, each of which potentially activates Rho family GTPases. Trio was distributed along axons in the central nervous system (CNS) of embryos and was strongly expressed in subsets of brain regions, including the mushroom body (MB). Loss-of-function trio mutations resulted in the misdirection or stall of axons in embryos and also caused malformation of the MB. The MB phenotypes were attributed to alteration in the intrinsic nature of neurites, as revealed by clonal analyses. Thus, Trio is essential in order for neurites to faithfully extend on the correct pathways. In addition, the localization of Trio in the adult brain suggests its postdevelopmental role in neurite terminals.
beta-Amyloid (Abeta) deposits are found in the brains of approximately one-third of patients who die within days after a severe head injury; their presence correlating strongly with possession of an apolipoprotein E (apoE)-epsilon4 allele. The aim of the study was to investigate the relationship between Abeta42, Abeta40 and apoE immunostaining of Abeta plaques in the cerebral cortex and the relevance of apoE genotype in 23 fatally head-injured patients. These cases were known to have Abeta deposits from a previous study in which they were examined and semiquantified and related to apoE genotype. In the present study, the temporal cortex was probed using four different antibodies that recognize Abeta42(43), Abeta40 and an antibody to apoE. Abeta42(43)-positive plaques were observed in all of the 23 cases and Abeta40 immunoreactivity in only 11 of the 23 cases. In addition, semiquantitative analysis showed that relatively fewer plaques were detected with anti-Abeta40 than anti-Abeta42(43). ApoE-immunoreactive plaques were identified in 18 of the 23 cases. The number of plaques stained for apoE was relatively less than for Abeta42(43) but greater than for Abeta40. Furthermore, the density of Abeta plaques detected using either Abeta42(43), Abeta40 or apoE antibodies was associated with possession of apoE-epsilon4 in an allele dose-dependent manner. The results are consistent with Abeta42(43) as the initially deposited species in brain parenchyma and provide evidence that apoE is involved in the early stages of amyloid deposition. Further, the findings may be of relevance to the role of apoE genotype in influencing outcome after acute brain injury.
Although the pathophysiology of schizophrenia remains unclear, behavioral effects in humans induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, such as ketamine, provide direction for formulating new pharmacologic models of the illness. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the roles of NMDA receptor antagonism, as well as dopamine-releasing properties of ketamine, in regional brain metabolic activity and behavioral responses in mice. The effects of acute administration of ketamine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) were compared with those of the more selective non-competitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 (0.3 and 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), and amphetamine (4 mg/kg, i.p.) on regional brain [14C]-2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake, by using a high resolution autoradiographic technique in the freely moving mice. Both ketamine and MK-801 induced substantial and similar neuroanatomically selective alterations in regional 2-DG uptake. Remarkable increases in 2-DG uptake in response to the NMDA antagonists were seen in limbic cortical regions, hippocampal formation, nucleus accumbens, select thalamic nuclei, and basolateral amygdala. The behavior of mice given amphetamine was similar to that of mice given MK-801. However, the brain activity patterns induced by amphetamine were distinctly different from those observed after ketamine and MK-801 treatment. These results suggest that generalized behavioral activation and increased dopamine release are insufficient to account for the ketamine-induced alterations in regional brain metabolism, and that the effects of ketamine on 2-DG uptake are likely related to a reduction in NMDA receptor function. The data also suggest that ketamine-induced changes in 2-DG uptake may provide a useful paradigm for translational research to better understand the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The involvement of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) type 1 receptor in CRH-induced cardiac responses was studied in freely moving rats. Intracerebroventricular (icv) infusion of 2 microg CRH under resting conditions resulted in a significant increase in heart rate (HR), but did not significantly affect the PQ interval of the electrocardiogram. This effect involves sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activation, since CRH-treatment resulted in a marked increase in plasma norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E), and sympathetic blockade by subcutaneously injected atenolol (1 mg/kg), a beta1-selective adrenergic antagonist, completely prevented the CRH-induced tachycardia. CRH infusion after sympathetic blockade resulted in an elongation of the PQ interval, indicating CRH-induced vagal activation. Gross locomotor activity (GA) was determined to study its possible indirect effects on cardiac activity. Although CRH induced a marked increase in GA, this effect followed the tachycardiac response, indicating that the HR response was not a consequence of increased locomotor activity, but was a direct effect of icv CRH. Treatment with CP-154,526 (icv, 10 or 25 microg), a selective CRH type 1 receptor antagonist, did not affect baseline HR, plasma NE and E, whereas it partially blocked the CRH-induced increase in HR, plasma NE and E levels. CP-154,526 treatment had no significant effects on baseline or CRH-induced changes in GA. These results indicate that CRH activates the sympathetic nervous system at least in part via the CRH type 1 receptor.
Using alert monkeys, we attempted ultrasound imaging after partial craniotomy to localize a metal microelectrode in the brain. B-mode ultrasonography provided images of sulcus and gyrus patterns of the cerebral cortex, and locations of the ventricles and subarachnoid cisterns. As the microelectrode proceeded in the brain, the position of the microelectrode was clearly identified. Electrolytic microlesions generated by delivering direct currents via the microelectrode could also be detected. Color Doppler imaging of blood vessels of the brain was helpful to demarcate deep brain structures and to avoid accidental injury of the blood vessels by the microelectrode. The ultrasonography will make it possible to place recording microelectrodes or injection needles accurately in target regions of the brain in physiological, anatomical or behavioral experiments.

Six patients with cerebral tuberculoma seen over a 2 year period are reported. Their clinical presentations, the result of investigations including radiological findings and their response to medical treatment are discussed and correlated with other reports in the literature. Eighty five percent of the patients were above the age of 30 years. All patients had negative past history of tuberculosis and both chest x-ray and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were within normal limits. Five patients presented with symptoms and signs of space occupying lesions but none had papilloedema. Two patients showed paradoxical enlargement or development of new tuberculous lesions during antituberculous therapy. The diagnosis was established by brain magnetic resonance imaging in 3 patients, and was further confirmed by brain biopsy in the other 3. All patients received antituberculous treatment for 12 months, except one who continued medication for 2 years. Four patients normalized with medical treatment. Intracranial tuberculoma must be included in the differential diagnosis of a space occupying lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging is a sensitive, non-invasive method to diagnose cerebral tuberculoma. Paradoxical enlargement or development of new tuberculomas during antituberculous therapy is a documented phenomenon which can be overcome by continuation of antituberculous treatment. Twelve months of antituberculous treatment is considered to be adequate to resolve intracranial tuberculoma.
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder is one of the increasing psychological disorders. If not detected early and treated properly, obsessive-compulsive disorder usually becomes an incapacitating illness adversely affecting almost all aspects of the patient`s life. Outpatient behavioral and pharmacotherapies frequently fail. This is a report on a severe case of obsessive-compulsive disorder that was treated as an in-patient with both behavior and pharmacotherapies, she was then followed up for 5 years with no relapse. The case reflects the importance and the need for in-patient units for severe resistant obsessive compulsive cases especially in Saudi Arabia where we have an increasing number of such cases.
We present the clinical and radiological features of pseudallescheria boydii infection in a middle aged woman who presented with right frontal pseudallescheria abscess after two years use of prednisolone for rheumatoid arthritis. Despite early surgical excision and intravenous antifungal treatment she died after 7 weeks despite aggressive therapy.
We report 3 cases with generalized neuromuscular weakness and Type II hypercapnoeic respiratory failue as a result of respiratory muscle weakness. This proved to be due to intoxication with organophosphate insecticides.
We report a case of a middle aged patient with middle fossa arachnoid cyst that was complicated by subdural hematoma. This was demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging that remain the most useful diagnostic tool, and providing excellent tissue specificity. Patient was treated by irrigating the hematoma through burrholes. Magnetic resonance imaging in the postoperative period showed a reduction in size of the arachnoid cyst.



The goal of this article is to review childhood enuresis, which is a common behavioral condition reported in millions of children worldwide. An online computer search was made, and the literature up to 1997 was screened in order to include relevant data for this review. The prevalence of childhood enuresis varies across reviewed studies. This was attributed to a variety of sociodemographic and cultural dynamics of societies. Similarly, the pathophysiology of this ubiquitous symptom is determined by multiple risk factors including biological, psychological, social, and cultural, but the developmental/maturational delay influenced by genetics remains the most plausible explanation. Although a variety of pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment modalities are traced in the literature, there is yet no agreement on a single strategy. A general agreement about behavioral therapy as the first choice of treatment of this minor malady began to emerge. Additionally, tricyclic antidepressants are the most frequently prescribed drugs for the treatment of childhood enuresis. Enuresis is a pediatric public health problem and concerted efforts at all levels, ie, professional, promotional, educational and public should be made to address its multiple domains such as preventive, etiological and curative.
Echo planar imaging was initially introduced as a technique to reduce the magnetic resonance imaging exam to a single shot (snap-shot) acquisition, much like a conventional radiograph. This vision, of course, created a good deal of speculation about the clinical impact of an echo planar imaging-equipped magnetic resonance imaging device. From completing the entire magnetic resonance exam in a matter of seconds to expanding the applications field of magnetic resonance imaging into territories traditionally claimed by other modalities, the perceived potential of echo planar imaging was indeed great. It was not until this decade, however, that the technical challenges involved with developing echo planar imaging into a clinical tool have been overcome.
The necessity of a therapy allowing aphasics to be rehabilitated quickly in social life urged us to adapt a therapeutic strategy developed in the USA and implemented in France under `therapie melodique et rythmee`. This model of language therapy has been destined to aphasics with good auditory comprehension and emotional stability despite severe language impairment. A careful evaluation of the patient is necessary to select the candidates for exposure to this therapy. Our evaluation is based on an examination battery (made of repetition, naming, auditory comprehension), items inspired by the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination and adapted to Tunisian context. This method relies on the prosodic features of Tunisian Arabic (melody patterns, rhythm, pitch, stress ....) and proceeds from non verbal exercises. The latter are realised by a corpus of texts of various length and structure. Applying Arabic melodic and rhythmic therapy allowed patients to recover the capacity to communicate to different degrees with others.
The Department of Neurosurgery of the Royal Melbourne Hospital (RMH) is a major neurosurgery program and academic leader in Australasia. In 1998, the RMH marked its 150th anniversary. The department of neurosurgery was established in 1945 under the direction of R.S. Hooper and has produced many distinguished neurosurgeons since its founding. The department is currently directed by Andrew Kaye, who is also the James Stewart Professor of Surgery at the University of Melbourne. In 1997-1998, the neurosurgery department received 2930 admissions and performed 2225 operations, with 11 neurosurgeons on staff and a strong focus on subspecialization. The neurosurgeons have varying time commitments to the hospital and to research, but many are on site full-time. The RMH is a university teaching hospital as well as a public hospital; therefore, there is no financial burden for any patient. The RMH is closely linked to the adjacent Melbourne Private Hospital, where privately insured patients are treated. The department of neurosurgery maintains close links with the departments of neurology, ophthalmology, and neuropsychiatry, which together form the Melbourne Neuroscience Centre. There is a strong emphasis on undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, as well as clinical and laboratory research. Neurosurgery trainees are encouraged to undertake laboratory research and pursue higher academic degrees. Despite economic restraints, the department continues to grow in strength, and we remain optimistic of exciting times ahead for neurosurgery at the RMH in the new millennium.
Peripheral nerve injury results in sympathetic sprouting around large diameter sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). The mechanism underlying this pathological phenomenon is not known. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is up-regulated in large sensory neurons and ensheathing satellite cells following a sciatic nerve injury. In the present study, we investigated the effects of BDNF on the sympathetic sprouting in the DRG, by delivering BDNF antibody or antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to injured DRGs, or by delivering exogenous BDNF to intact DRGs. The sheep antibody to BDNF, characterized by bioassays and dot blots, specifically reacted with BDNF but not other neurotrophins. Noradrenergic fibers were visualized by immunostaining of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and quantified by an NIH Imaging program. Two weeks following L5 spinal nerve lesion, a dramatic increase in TH-immunoreactive (-ir) fibres was observed in both ipsi- and contralateral DRGs in normal sheep IgG treated rats. BDNF antibody significantly reduced the sprouting of sympathetic nerves in both ipsi- and contra-lateral DRGs by 67% and 42% respectively. BDNF antisense oligodeoxynucleotide, by inhibiting BDNF synthesis in DRGs, also significantly suppressed the sprouting by 67% and 60% respectively in the ipsi- and contra-lateral DRGs. Delivery of exogenous BDNF into an intact L5 DRGs resulted in an increase in the sprouting by 4.2-fold. Our results clearly indicate that BDNF, synthesized in and secreted from the DRGs, is involved in the sympathetic sprouting in the DRG following the peripheral nerve injury.
Epidemiological studies have shown a reduced incidence of cancer in Parkinson's disease. Since nearly all parkinsonian patients with clinical impairment are treated with L-beta-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and dopamine (DA)ergic agonists, a possibility exists that these therapeutic agents can influence the risk of cancer. We studied the antiproliferative effect of these therapeutic agents (and substances structurally correlated) on Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cell growth. Among the compounds tested, apomorphine proved to be the most potent inhibitor of CHO-K1 cell growth, with an EC(50) of 3.35 +/- 0.12 micro M. The apomorphine analogues, apocodeine and hydroxyethylnorapomorphine, were less active as inhibitors of CHO-K1 cell growth. The activity of DA, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), phenylethylamine (PEA), L-DOPA and bromocriptine as antiproliferative was one order of magnitude lower than that of apomorphine while pergolide was ineffective. To test whether or not the oxidative potential of these compounds was important for their antiproliferative effect, several antioxidants were assayed. Among them glutathione (GSH) and dithiothreitol (DTT) were effective in reversing the anti-proliferative effect of apomorphine, DA, 6-OHDA and PEA, conversely they did not work with bromocriptine. GSH and DTT are sulphydryl-reducing agents; while their effect could explain the efficacy against apomorphine, DA and 6-OHDA, it is difficult to understand why they should have any effect on PEA as this substance does not react with sulphydryl groups. The oxidative potential as a mechanism of action was also questioned by the results obtained with dihydrorhodamine 123, a probe that changes its fluorescent emission wave when oxidized. None of the compounds, with the exception of 6-OHDA, had any effect on the fluorescent emission wave of the probe at the maximal concentrations used to inhibit CHO-K1 cell growth. At concentrations five times higher, apomorphine and DA generated reactive oxygen species but PEA and bromocriptine did not. These data demonstrate that the antiproliferative effect of these compounds is not due to their oxidative potential, but another mechanism must be postulated.
Nitric oxide (NO) is produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in activated microglia and has been shown to participate in host defense mechanisms. However, the role of NO produced by constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) in microglia is poorly understood. In this report, NO was found to regulate phagocytosis in murine BV-2 microglial cells as quantified by flow cytometry. Addition of NO-generating compounds caused impaired phagocytosis as compared to untreated microglia. The addition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors to microglial cells resulted in potentiation of phagocytosis, suggesting that constitutive NO was participating in the regulation of phagocytosis. The inverse correlation between NO production and phagocytosis was also observed when Alzheimer's beta-amyloid peptide was added. With beta-amyloid treatment, constitutive NO production decreased while phagocytosis increased. Cell extracts prepared from untreated microglia were found to contain both neuronal and endothelial NOS isoforms, but not the inducible form. The correlation of spontaneous NO production with attenuated phagocytosis suggests that constitutive NOS enzymes participate in microglial regulation.
The aim of this paper is to study the synergistic anti-analgesic effect of angiotensin II (Ang II) plus cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8). Our previous studies have shown that both CCK-8 and Ang II are potent anti-opioid substances. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of CCK-8 or Ang II dose-dependently antagonizes morphine-induced analgesia (MIA). In the present study, we observed the combined effect of CCK-8 and Ang II in antagonizing MIA. CCK-8 and Ang II were injected intracerebroventricularly to rats in various proportions and doses. The results were analyzed with isobolographic analysis. Combined injection of CCK-8 and Ang II in a ratio of 1 ng: 2.5 microg or 1 ng: 5 microg produced significantly greater effect in antagonizing MIA. The ED(50) of the two ratios are only 18.5% and 27.5%, respectively, of the theoretical dose of simple addition. We conclude that CCK-8 and Ang II used in such dose ratios may antagonize MIA synergistically.
The present study directly compared the antinociceptive and toxic effects of the neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist ABT-594 ((R)-5-(2-azetidinylmethoxy)-2-chloropyridine) with (-)-nicotine and (+)-epibatidine. Like (-)-nicotine (0.8 and 1.6 mg/kg s.c.) and (+)-epibatidine (0.005 and 0.01 mg/kg s.c.), ABT-594 (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg s.c.) increased response latencies in the hot-plate test in rats, indicating that it has antinociceptive activity. In contrast to (-)-nicotine and (+)-epibatidine, ABT-594 did not cause rotarod impairment at antinociceptive doses but did cause hypothermia and life-threatening adverse effects including seizures. ABT-594 (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg i.v.) also produced a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure resembling that observed with (-)-nicotine (0.03, 0.1 and 0. 03 mg/kg i.v.) and (+)-epibatidine (0.001 and 0.003 mg/kg i.v.). Both the antinociceptive and toxic effects (convulsions and hypertension) were abolished by pretreatment with the brain penetrant neuronal nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (1 mg/kg s.c.; i.v. for cardiovascular studies), demonstrating that these actions of ABT-594 were mediated via activation of neuronal nicotinic receptors. Continuous infusion of ABT-594 (0.2 mg/kg per day s.c.) to rats for 7 days followed by challenge with mecamylamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) induced a nicotine-like abstinence syndrome suggesting that ABT-594 has nicotine-like dependence liability. These findings indicate that the acute safety profile of ABT-594 is not significantly improved over other nicotinic analgesics.

The concept of aggression was long relegated to the shadow of the libido in psychoanalytic theory, placed among the negative affects by some theoreticians, denied the role of a primary drive among leading writers in clinical psychology, brought to the fore as an adaptive force in ethology, and proved to be a decisive factor in the development of psychosomatic ailments. The second part of the paper reviews experiments using projective techniques, showing that highly creative subjects as opposed to ones low in creativity seem inclined to accept their aggressive impulses. A total denial of these impulses has been typical of women with breast cancer.
The smelling behavior of 52 right-handed subjects was videotaped during tasks involving identification and recognition of different odors. Analysis showed that men more often used the right nostril than the left whatever the odor. There was no significant difference for the women. These results support a more marked cerebral asymmetry in men than in women and a main involvement of the right cerebral hemisphere in the olfactory processes at least by right-handed men.
We have discovered an apparent contraction illusion of acute angles in a special form of the Zllner figure at the intersecting angles between 36 degrees and 83 degrees (i.e., a reversal of the Zllner illusion). The necessary condition for this illusion is that inducing lines are long enough and the induced line (test line) is single. When an illusory line is used as the induced line, the magnitude of contraction increases. Short inducing lines give no illusion or a slight expansion of acute angles at the intersecting angle of 45 degrees. We have ascertained that the source of this expansion is the narrow region in the vicinity of the induced line, whereas the source of the contraction is much broader regions. Furthermore, we have discovered another expansion mechanism, which is generated by the symmetrical configuration of the standard Zllner figure.
We have cloned human TREK-1, one of the newly emerging mammalian family of 2-P domain potassium channels. The channel has 411 amino acids with a 41-amino-acid extension at the C-terminus when compared with the cloned mouse TREK-1 channel. Expression of hTREK-1 produced a substantial hyperpolarising shift in resting membrane potential accompanied by the induction of large, outwardly rectifying, non-inactivating currents which were potassium selective. Pharmacologically, hTREK-1-mediated currents were only blocked to a limited extent by classic potassium channel blockers or open channel pore blockers known to potently inhibit other channels. The channel was reversibly potentiated by arachidonic acid. CNS distribution of hTREK-1 is widespread with higher levels being observed in caudate, putamen, amygdala, thalamus and spinal cord. Only low levels of expression were seen in the majority of peripheral regions. Thus, hTREK-1, although functionally and pharmacologically similar to mouse TREK-1, appears to have a more CNS-specific distribution.
Repeated injections of a subconvulsant dose of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ, 30 mg/kg IP three times weekly for 13 injections) in Wistar and hooded Lister rats resulted in kindled seizures, the extent of which varied between strains. Wistar rats achieved stage 4 of clonic-tonic seizures, whereas hooded Lister rats only reached stage 2 of convulsive waves axially through the body. Rats were killed 10 days after their final injection, and radioligand binding was used to measure the expression of NMDA receptors in cortex and hippocampus using [3H]MK-801 and [3H]L-689,560, the latter binding specifically to the NR1 subunit. [3H]Ro 15-1788 measured expression of GABA(A)-benzodiazepine binding sites containing alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, or alpha5 subunits. Specific analysis of GABA(A) receptors containing the alpha5 subunit, which are preferentially localized in the hippocampus, was assessed with [3H]L-655,708. In the cortex, there was no effect of strain or treatment on the K(D) or B(max) of any of the ligands. Similarly, there was no effect of strain or treatment on hippocampal [3H]L-689,560 or [3H]Ro 15-1788 binding. However, in the hippocampus there was a significant, albeit modest, effect of treatment on the B(max) of [3H]MK-801 binding and the B(max) and K(D) of [3H]L-655,708 binding, i.e., PTZ-treated rats had fewer [3H]MK-801 and [3H]L-655,708 binding sites (NMDA and alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors, respectively), but, these reductions were significant only in the relatively seizure-insensitive hooded Lister strain. This suggests that the increased susceptibility to kindling in Wistar rats is not directly related to alterations in the expression of NMDA or GABA(A) receptors.
The idea that neurons might use stochastic resonance (SR) to take advantage of random signals has been extensively discussed in the literature. However, there are a few key issues that have not been clarified and thus it is difficult to assess that whether SR in neuronal models occurs inside plausible physiology parameter regions or not. We propose and show that neurons can adjust correlations between synaptic inputs, which can be measured in experiments and are dynamical variables, to exhibit SR. The benefit of such a mechanism over the conventional SR is also discussed.
Over the 2 decades that have elapsed since Robert Erickson first published his pioneering work on across-fiber patterns in the gustatory system, the idea that information is represented by a population code has become almost universally accepted among neuroscientists. Although the concept of a population code is an implicit theoretical assumption underlying most of the work done in neuroscience today, the details of how population codes operate in specific systems remain unclear in many respects. This article reviews electrophysiological studies of the auditory system of echolocating bats that show that information about sound is initially represented across both space and time by relative amounts of activity in populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurons with different discharge patterns, different sensitivity functions, and different latencies. At the next level, each neuron in the auditory midbrain receives convergent input from a specific population of these lower brainstem neurons and acts as a &quot;readout&quot; of activity within this population. As a result, midbrain neurons become selectively tuned to stimulus features, for example, signal duration, to which neurons at lower levels respond indiscriminately. Intracellular recordings from auditory midbrain neurons show some of the mechanisms by which population input is processed. The known projection patterns of the midbrain &quot;readout&quot; neurons indicate that they, in turn, must become part of a new spatio-temporal population code that is transmitted to neurons at the thalamus, where additional forms of selectivity and patterns of output arise.
Historically, taste research has often been guided by the concept that there are only four (or possibly five) basic taste qualities (sweet, sour, salty, and bitter, and possibly &quot;umami&quot;). All other tastes have been presumed to be combinations of these basic tastes. This psychophysical concept has been extended to electrophysiological data. That is, the neural code for each basic taste is hypothesized to be coded by a dedicated channel of neurons (the &quot;Labeled-Line&quot; theory); i.e., one group of neurons signals &quot;salty&quot; and another separate group signals &quot;sweet.&quot; Numerous psychophysical and electrophysiological findings, however, cannot be accomodated by this quadripartite theory, which limits taste to four basic qualities and four basic neuron types. Rather, the data described in this article suggest that the range of taste is more extensive than four or five basic tastes, and that this breadth of taste quality results initially from the activation of a broad array of ion channels, receptors, and second messengers associated with taste cell membranes. These findings have implications for neural organization and provide support for the &quot;Across-Fiber Pattern&quot; theory in which the neural code for taste is represented by the pattern of activity across all of the neurons, i.e., neurons are not exclusively labeled for a particular sensation but cooperate with the others in the ensemble to encode taste quality.
The experiments reported here were designed to study the orosensory factors contributing to the ingestion of sucrose/corn oil mixtures. When a flavor aversion was conditioned to the sucrose/corn oil mixture, the subsequent aversion to the mixture strongly generalized to the corn oil but very little to the sucrose. Rats conditioned with corn oil show a more profound aversion to the sucrose/corn oil mixture than rats conditioned with sucrose, indicating that the salient feature of the sucrose/corn oil mixture is the oil. Aversion to the sucrose/corn oil mixture does not generalize to a sucrose/mineral oil mixture, giving evidence that the textural aspects of the oil do not play a major role in its perception. This flavor aversion to the mixture is further illustrated in very short-term tests where postingestive factors are minimized, indicating a role for the gustatory system in the detection of the sucrose/corn oil mixture. Preliminary experiments are reported where conditioning tests were run with mixtures of sucrose and linoleic acid, one of the fatty acids that is possibly derived from a breakdown of the corn oil in the oral cavity by lingual lipase from von Ebner's Gland.
The basic issues of gustatory neural coding are revisited. Questions addressed and conclusions drawn are: (1) what is the physical dimension across which gustatory neurons are sensitive, and upon which taste perceptions are based? The dimension that unites the various taste qualities is not physical, but physiological: a dimension of well-being, bounded by toxins at one extreme and nutrients at the other. (2) How broadly tuned are taste cells across the dimension? There are instances of specificity, but most mammalian taste cells respond to a range of qualities. (3) Are there basic taste qualities? Sweet, salty, sour, and bitter are widely accepted as basic tastes. Umami and starch tastes are considered basic by some. (4) Is taste topographically organized? There is some degree of physical separation among neurons most responsive to different taste qualities, but this does not appear to be sufficient precision to act as a meaningful coding mechanism. (5) Are there gustatory neuron types? Neurons, separated into categories according to their response profiles, respond as members of their category to the challenges of conditioned aversions and preferences, sodium deprivation, hyperglycemia, and receptor blockade, while cells from other categories react differently. This indicates the existence of functionally distinct types of taste cells. (6) Is the quality signal coded within the activity of the single most appropriate category of neurons, or is it carried by the pattern of response across neuronal categories? Both the breadth of responsiveness and the logical ambiguity of the signal in any one category of neurons argue that the taste message is carried by a pattern of activity across gustatory neuron types.
Nerve terminals are specific sites of action of a very large number of toxins produced by many different organisms. The mechanism of action of three groups of presynaptic neurotoxins that interfere directly with the process of neurotransmitter release is reviewed, whereas presynaptic neurotoxins acting on ion channels are not dealt with here. These neurotoxins can be grouped in three large families: 1) the clostridial neurotoxins that act inside nerves and block neurotransmitter release via their metalloproteolytic activity directed specifically on SNARE proteins; 2) the snake presynaptic neurotoxins with phospholipase A(2) activity, whose site of action is still undefined and which induce the release of acethylcholine followed by impairment of synaptic functions; and 3) the excitatory latrotoxin-like neurotoxins that induce a massive release of neurotransmitter at peripheral and central synapses. Their modes of binding, sites of action, and biochemical activities are discussed in relation to the symptoms of the diseases they cause. The use of these toxins in cell biology and neuroscience is considered as well as the therapeutic utilization of the botulinum neurotoxins in human diseases characterized by hyperfunction of cholinergic terminals.
The ribonucleoprotein, telomerase, is responsible for the maintenance of telomere length in most immortal and cancer cells. Telomerase appears to be a marker of human malignancy with at least 85% of human cancers expressing its activity. In the present study, we examined a series of tumor-derived and in vitro immortalized cell lines for telomerase activity levels, telomere lengths, and expression levels of the RNA and catalytic components of telomerase. We found significant variability in both telomere lengths and telomerase activity in clones from tumor cells. In addition, the levels of telomerase components or telomerase activity were not predictive of telomere length. Data from clonally derived cells suggest that critically shortened telomeres in these tumor-derived cell lines may signal activation of telomerase activity through an increase in the expression of the catalytic subunit of telomerase. Although clones with low telomerase shorten their telomeres over time, their subclones all have high levels of telomerase activity with no telomere shortening. In addition, analysis of early clones for telomerase activity indicates substantial variability, which suggests that activity levels fluctuate in individual cells. Our data imply that cell populations exhibit a cyclic expression of telomerase activity, which may be partially regulated by telomere shortening.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a major signaling molecule in the immune, cardiovascular and nervous systems. The synthesizing enzyme, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) occurs in three forms: endothelial (e), neuronal (n) and inducible (i) NOS. The first two are constitutively expressed. We surmise that in many tissues there is a basal level of NO and that the actions of several signaling molecules initiate increases in cNOS-derived NO to enhance momentary basal levels that exerts inhibitory cellular actions, via cellular conformational changes. It is our contention that much of the literature concerning the actions of NO really deal with i-NOS-derived NO. We make the case that cNOS is responsible for a basal or 'tonal' level of NO; that this NO keeps particular types of cells in a state of inhibition and that activation of these cells occurs through disinhibition. Furthermore, naturally occurring signaling molecules such as morphine, anandamide, interleukin-10 and 17-beta-estradiol appear to exert, in part, their beneficial physiological actions, i.e., immune and endothelial down regulation by the stimulation of cNOS. In regard to opiates, we demonstrate the presence of a human endothelial mu opiate receptor by RT-PCR and sequence determination, further substantiating the role of opiates in vascular coupling to NO release. Taken together, cNOS derived NO enhances basal NO actions, i.e., cellular activation state, and these actions are further enhanced by iNOS derived NO.
1. Subjects demonstrating high, average, or low schizotypal traits participated in saccade tasks of eye movements and attention including: a simple saccade task, an antisaccade task, and/or a cued saccade task measuring both facilitatory effects of cuing and inhibition of return (IOR). 2. Subjects were recruited based on their scores on the Rust Inventory of Schizotypal Cognitions (RISC) and then were given Raine's Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) (1991). 3. Subjects scoring high in schizotypy demonstrated increased errors on the voluntary eye movement task (antisaccade task) (p&lt;0.05). Performance on the reflexive saccade task was not impaired in high compared to low schizotypals, but may have been enhanced as demonstrated by a negative correlation between scores on the SPQ and performance on this task. For the cued saccade task, there were no overall differences in cueing effects between schizotypal groups, however there was a laterality difference between low versus high scoring schizotypal subjects. 4. These results indicate distinct differences in tasks of overt orienting (saccade and antisaccade tasks) and covert orienting tasks (cued saccade task). The patterns of performance by our schizotypy subjects, including impaired voluntary saccade, enhanced reflexive saccade, and lateralized performance on the cued saccade task, are consistent with the performance of schizophrenic patient populations. Thus, our study supports the previous findings of a physiological relationship between schizotypal personality and schizophrenia.
A biological marker for normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is beneficial for evaluation of its severity and of indications for shunt operation. Tau protein was initially considered as a biological marker in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from Alzheimer's patients. Recently, it has been demonstrated that degeneration in the brain causes elevation of tau in CSF. Therefore, the tau level in CSF from NPH patients was evaluated. Tau levels in CSF from NPH patients were significantly higher than that in controls. The tau levels were correlated with the severity of dementia, urinary incontinence, and gait disturbance in NPH. These results suggest that CSF tau may be useful as a biological marker for NPH to determine the level of neuronal degeneration.
Sex differences in a variety of non-reproductive behaviors have been indicated to occur in seasonally breeding polygynous promiscuous rodents such as the meadow vole, Microtus pennsylvanicus. The present study was designed to assess the effects of reproductive and hormonal status on the locomotor responses of meadow voles following brief exposure to the odors of a natural predator, the Red fox (Vulpes vulpes). Adult male and female meadow voles, which are seasonal photoperiodically-induced breeders, were housed in either mixed sex pairs under a long, reproductively stimulatory photoperiod (simulating breeding: long light cycle, paired: LLC + P) or in same-sex pairs under a short, reproductively inhibitory photoperiod (simulated non-breeding: short light cycle, non-paired: SLC-NP). On 2 consecutive days following 1 day of baseline activity monitoring, voles were exposed individually for 3 min to fox odor and a novel pungent control odor (extract of almond). The levels of various measures of activity that were displayed by the voles were assessed by an automated Digiscan activity monitoring system. LLC + P (simulated breeding) voles displayed higher basal levels of activity relative to SLC + NP (simulated non-breeding) voles, with males displaying greater activity than females. LLC + P (simulated breeding) males displayed a significant reduction in activity levels following exposure to fox odor relative to control odor. The reductions in activity following fox odor exposure were related to plasma testosterone levels such that a larger behavioral response (i.e. greater reduction) was associated with higher levels of testosterone. Furthermore, dividing males into high and low testosterone groups based on the median levels of testosterone revealed that high but not low testosterone males displayed reductions in activity following exposure to fox odor relative to control odor. No changes in activity levels following exposure to fox odor were noted in SLC-NP males, and either SLC-NP or LLC + P females. These results show that this sexually dimorphic non-reproductive behavior is significantly influenced by reproductive condition and gonadal hormone levels.
This paper summarizes recent findings on the amygdala's role in mediating acute effects of glucocorticoids on memory consolidation in rats. Posttraining activation of glucocorticoid-sensitive pathways involving glucocorticoid receptors (GRs or type II) enhances memory consolidation in a dose-dependent inverted-U fashion. Selective lesions of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) or infusions of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists into the BLA block the memory-modulatory effects of systemic injections of glucocorticoids. Additionally, posttraining infusions of a specific GR agonist administered directly into the BLA enhance memory consolidation, whereas those of a GR antagonist impair. These findings indicate that glucocorticoid effects on memory consolidation are mediated, in part, by an activation of GRs in the BLA and that the effects require beta-adrenergic activity in the BLA. Other findings indicate that the BLA interacts with the hippocampus in mediating glucocorticoid-induced modulatory influences on memory consolidation. Lesions of the BLA or inactivation of beta-adrenoceptors within the BLA also block the memory-modulatory effects of intrahippocampal administration of a GR agonist or antagonist. These findings are in agreement with the general hypothesis that the BLA integrates hormonal and neuromodulatory influences on memory consolidation. However, the BLA is not a permanent locus of storage for this information, but modulates consolidation processes for explicit/associative memories in other brain regions, including the hippocampus.


The acquired demyelinating polyneuropathies with either acute or chronic clinical presentation are considered autoimmune disorders. The Guillain-Barr syndrome is viewed as an acutely reactive and self-limited autoimmune disease, triggered by preceding bacterial or viral infections. There is a particularly strong association with the gastroenteric pathogen, Campylobacter jejuni, and with Cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus. It is likely that immune response directed towards the infecting organisms are involved in the pathogenesis of Guillain-Barr syndrome by cross-reaction with neural tissues. In the susceptible individual, the infecting organism induces humoral and cellular immune responses that, because of the sharing of homologous epitopes (molecular mimicry), cross-react with ganglioside surface components of peripheral nerve. Immune reactions against target epitopes in the Schwann cell surface membrane or myelin result in acute inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy (90% of cases); reactions against epitopes contained in the axonal membrane cause the acute axonal forms of Guillain-Barr syndrome. Immunomodulation with infusions of IgG or plasma exchange treatments effectively foreshorten the disease course. The immunopathogenesis of the chronic disease forms, chronic inflammatory demyelinating peripheral neuropathy and multifocal motor neuropathy are less well-known. Immunomodulatory treatments with corticosteroid or cytotoxic drug treatments, infusion of Ig or therapeutic plasma exchanges are variably effective. The article outlines the principles and practices of an individualized approach to therapy.
Intrigued by a newspaper ad in the Argus Leader, placed by The Sioux Falls Children's Home Society in their hope of reuniting adults formerly institutionalized there as children, I wondered what we might learn from the experiences of people having grown up as &quot;orphans.&quot; After exploration, I was invited to attend their reunion to facilitate some of the discussion of former residents who were &quot;welcomed home&quot; from various parts of the country. The participants expressed a wide range of emotions as they rediscovered one another--sometimes from childhood memory, sometimes contrasting childhood faces in old photos with the faces of people now present in middle or old age. As the group reminisced, one man told of his calling out the home's upper-story window each evening to his older sister who lived a floor below. He recalled his sadness on the day when there was silence in response, as she had been sent to a foster home. A woman &quot;alumni&quot; sang word for word, with others joining in, an old Christian hymn that they had sung decades before. And, an elderly woman described how the church across the street from the original children's home facility on tenth street, had a large stain glass window depicting the outstretched arms of God. She told how every night, when it was time for her to go to bed, the window would be lit up. Movingly, she related how she would lie in her bed and look through the window of her room, feeling &quot;held&quot; until she fell asleep. Over the many months that followed, men and women who had been institutionalized there throughout childhood entrusted to me their life stories. This article is a summary of their narratives. In general, it seemed that the participants were set apart by the enormity of the poverty of their early years, the enduring quality of their losses, and by a certain tenacity, decency, and striving for restoration.


This article reviews the literature relevant to improving our understanding of the neural underpinnings of delirium. That the characteristic symptoms of delirium occur as a result of a wide diversity of causes supports the concept of a &quot;final common pathway. &quot; What constitutes this may involve certain brain regions or circuits and certain neurotransmitters. Neuroanatomical data derived from neuroimaging and lesion reports suggest the importance of pathways in prefrontal cortex, thalamus, fusiform cortex, posterior parietal cortex, and basal ganglia. Neurotransmitters most implicated in delirium that could be candidates to mediate the characteristic symptoms of delirium, as well as the electroencephalogram changes, are acetylcholine and dopamine. Acetylcholine deficiency and dopamine excess---absolute and/or relative to each other---appear to be critical in the final common pathway. These neurotransmitters affect each other, depending on the receptor subtype, and their receptor distribution among layers of cortex in areas such as prefrontal cortex and temporal lobe suggests that cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons could interact with each other during delirium. Electroconvulsive therapy is described as a special situation in which excess dopamine and delirium may have a therapeutic effect on depression recovery, in contrast with the usual association of delirium with negative effects.

This article discusses the theoretical foundation and potential clinical application of the suicidal mode, a cognitive behavioral theory of suicidality. The model presented represents a specific elaboration of Beck's modal theory of psychopathology. In addition to discussing the fundamental requirements of a theory of suicidality, the theoretical assumptions of the suicidal mode are identified, its component parts defined, its inherent strengths emphasized, and its application in clinical settings detailed. Definition of a modal theory of suicidality represents the growing influence of cognitive-behavioral theory in efforts at psychotherapeutic integration in clinical suicidology.
Dopamine (DA) has been demonstrated to play an important role in regulating cortical activity in both neocortical and periallocortical regions. However, marked differences between these two types of cortices in the laminar pattern of DA axons, the types and distribution of DA receptors, and the postnatal development of the DA innervation suggest that DA may have region-specific effects. Such regional specialization may also include the types of cortical cells apposed to DA terminals. In neocortical regions, such as the prefrontal and motor cortices, the majority of structures apposed to DA terminals appear to be the dendritic spines and shafts of pyramidal cells, and a minority are dendrites immunoreactive for gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA). However, the identity of the neural elements apposed to DA terminals in the entorhinal cortex, a periallocortical region, is unknown. In this study, we used immunocytochemical techniques and antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and GABA, visualized with preembedding immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver labels, respectively, to examine DA terminals and their targets with electron microscopy. In the superficial layers of the monkey entorhinal cortex, TH-immunoreactive (IR) terminals varied greatly in size and formed thin, symmetric synapses. The majority of dendritic structures apposed to these TH-terminals were not GABA-IR, and included both dendritic shafts (64%) and spines (14%). A minority (22%) of the apposed dendrites were GABA-IR. A similar distribution of targets was observed for the subset of TH-IR terminals with identifiable synaptic specializations. In addition, the proportions of GABA-labeled and unlabeled dendrites apposed to TH terminals did not differ from those previously reported for monkey prefrontal cortex. These findings indicate that DA terminals provide direct input to both excitatory and inhibitory cells in the monkey entorhinal cortex and suggest that the effects of DA are mediated through a set of targets that are common to both neo- and periallocortex.
Opiates active at the mu-opiate receptor (MOR) produce antinociception, in part, through actions involving substance P (SP), a peptide present in both unmyelinated primary afferents and interneurons within the dorsal horn. We examined potential functional sites for interactions between SP and MOR by using dual electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of antisera against SP and a sequence-specific antipeptide antibody against MOR in rat cervical spinal dorsal horn. The distribution was compared with that of the functionally analogous dorsal horn of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. Many of the SP-immunoreactive terminals in the dorsal horn contacted dendrites that contain MOR (53% in trigeminal; 70% in cervical spinal cord). Conversely, within the cervical spinal dorsal horn 79% of the MOR-labeled dendrites that received any afferent input were contacted by at least one SP-containing axon or terminal. Although SP-immunoreactive dendrites were rare, many of these (48%) contained MOR, suggesting that the activity of SP-containing spinal interneurons may be regulated by MOR ligands. A few SP-labeled terminals also contained MOR (12% in trigeminal; 6% in cervical spinal cord). These data support the idea that MOR ligands produce antinociception primarily through modulation of postsynaptic second-order nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horns of spinal cord and spinal trigeminal nuclei, some of which contain SP. They also suggest, however, that in each region, MOR agonists can act presynaptically to control the release of SP and/or glutamate from afferent terminals. The post- and presynaptic MOR sites are likely to account for the potency of MOR agonists as analgesics.

In the past few years it has become apparent that mitochondria have an essential role in the life and death of neuronal and non-neuronal cells. The central mitochondrial bioenergetic parameter is the protonmotive force, Deltap. Much research has focused on the monitoring of the major component of Deltap, the mitochondrial membrane potential Deltapsim, in intact neurones exposed to excitotoxic stimuli, in the hope of establishing the causal relationships between cell death and mitochondrial dysfunction. Several fluorescent techniques have been used, and this article discusses their merits and pitfalls.
Alessandro Volta invented the electric battery at the end of 1799 and communicated his invention to the Royal Society of London in 1800. The studies that led him to develop this revolutionary device began in 1792, after Volta read the work of Luigi Galvani on the existence of an intrinsic electricity in living organisms. During these studies, Volta obtained a series of results of great physiological relevance, which led him to anticipate some important ideas that marked the inception of modern neuroscience. These results have been obscured by a cultural tradition that has seen Volta exclusively as a physicist, lacking interest for biological problems and opposed in an irreversible way to the physiologist, Luigi Galvani.
A review of modern data on genetic knockout strategy application to study the brain neurotransmitters and their role in the regulation of behavior. Advantages and shortcomings of genetic knockout of receptors and the enzymes of neurotransmitters metabolism models in comparison to other methods are discussed. Data on the effect of genetic knockout of various types of opioid, dopamine, serotonin and adrenoreceptors as well as enzymes in biosynthesis of catecholamines and serotonin on physiology and behavior is adduced. The data provide evidence that genetic knockout reproduces a principal effects of the lack of receptors and enzymes and allows to find new yet unknown properties. Mouse strains with genetic knockout represent unique models of hereditary neuropathology. At the same time the data presented clearly demonstrated that the lack of a single type of receptor or enzyme does not lead usually to disorganization of regulated by them physiological functions and behavior. The data witness to the complexity and multifactoriality of their regulations and evidenced the great compensatory potentials of organism.

When ATP or the related stable analogue, betagamma-imidoATP, were applied to rat hippocampal slices showing population spikes larger than 5 mV peak-to-peak amplitude, a depression of spike size was obtained, which showed a marked fade during the 10-min period of superfusion. The inhibitory responses were prevented by adenosine deaminase or 8-phenyltheophylline. Adenosine responses showed no fade. alphabeta-MethyleneADP enhanced the fade, while suramin at 50 micrometer prevented the early component of the responses. The results suggest that in slices with large population spikes, inhibitory responses to nucleotides are partly due to their conversion to adenosine, and partly due to the activation of P2 receptors which trigger the release of endogenous adenosine.
The amygdaloid complex is thought to be a major site of action of anxiolytic benzodiazepine agonists. To investigate whether activity in the amygdaloid complex is altered with anxiolytic effects of diazepam, mRNA expression of the immediate-early gene EGR-1 was examined in the amygdala following blockade of fear conditioning by diazepam. It was previously shown that mRNA expression of EGR-1 (also called, NGFI-A, Zif 268, Krox 24) increases in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) shortly following contextual fear conditioning. It was therefore hypothesized that diazepam would block both contextual fear and the concomitant increase in EGR-1 mRNA expression in the LA induced by fear conditioning. Rats administered systemic diazepam before fear conditioning displayed both anxiolytic effects during the post-shock period and amnesic effects during a retention test 24 h later. Diazepam blocked the fear-conditioning-induced increase in EGR-1 expression in the LA. In addition, diazepam significantly increased EGR-1 mRNA expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in a dose-dependent manner. The results reveal differential regulation of EGR-1 by diazepam in the central and lateral nuclei of the amygdala suggesting that these two amygdala nuclei act in a reciprocal manner during the anxiolytic and amnesic action of the benzodiazepine agonist.
Anti-convulsant drug administration or recurrent seizures can impact functional recovery following brain insult. The nature of that impact depends on a variety of factors, including timing of drug administration and drug mechanism of action, as well as seizure number, timing, and severity. The objective of this study was to determine the functional consequences of anti-convulsant administration directed against seizure activity in brain-damaged animals. To this end, phenobarbital was coupled with daily electrical kindling of the amygdala beginning 48 h after a unilateral anteromedial cortex lesion. Recovery from somatosensory deficits was assessed, as was regional atrophy and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) expression. Animals receiving phenobarbital prior to daily kindling failed to recover within 2 months of testing. In contrast, animals receiving saline prior to kindling as well as phenobarbital-treated non-kindled animals recovered within 2 months after the lesion. Though the exact mechanisms underlying these behavioral phenomena remain uncertain, patterns of bFGF expression among the groups provide some insight. Taken together, results from the present study suggest that anti-convulsant drug administration directed against subclinical seizure activity can be more detrimental to functional recovery than seizures alone or anti-convulsant drug treatment after seizure activity has occurred.
We examined the role of the gamma(2) subunit of G proteins (Ggamma(2)) in the antinociception produced by c[D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5)]enkephalin (DPDPE) in mice. DPDPE produced 84.0+/-9.0% antinociception in vehicle-treated mice. After intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) treatment with an antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide to the Ggamma(2) subunit, DPDPE-mediated antinociception decreased to 24.4+/-7.4%. The mismatch phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide-treated mice showed 65.1+/-10.3% antinociception, while the missense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide-treated mice showed 76.4+/-23.6% antinociception by DPDPE. The reduction of analgesia in antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide-treated mice was significant in comparison with vehicle-treated (P&lt;0.001), mismatch phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide-treated (P&lt;0.01) and missense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide-treated (P&lt;0.05) mice. These results suggest that the G protein gamma(2) subunit is involved in the transduction pathway leading to antinociception by DPDPE.
Recombinant fractalkine possesses both chemoattractive and adhesive properties in vitro. Previous studies have demonstrated an upregulation of this molecule on the membranes of activated human endothelial cells and hypothesised that fractalkine plays a role in the recruitment and adherence of monocytes to the activated endothelium. Here we present data analysing both the adhesive and chemoattractive properties of this chemokine expressed by activated human umbilical vein endothelial cells. We demonstrate that both recombinant fractalkine and endogenously produced fractalkine function as adhesion molecules, tethering monocytes to the endothelium. However, our data demonstrate that although recombinant fractalkine has the potential to function as a potent monocyte chemoattractant, the endogenous fractalkine cleaved from activated human umbilical vein endothelial cells is not responsible for the observed chemotaxis in this model. Instead, we show that monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), secreted from the activated human umbilical vein endothelial cells, is responsible for the chemotaxis of these monocytes.
The rat neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor gene contains a cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element, and gene transcription may be activated upon binding of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB). If pCREB contributes to increased expression of NK1 receptors, pCREB should increase in neurons that express NK1 receptors under conditions that increase NK1 receptor mRNA. Evidence for this relationship was found following injection of formalin into one hindpaw of rats. Immunohistochemistry was employed to visualize NK1 receptors and pCREB in spinal cord sections. Formalin injection produced an increase in pCREB-immunofluorescence within NK1 receptor-immunoreactive neurons from segments L4 and L5. No change occurred in pCREB-immunofluorescence within NK1 receptor-immunoreactive neurons from segment T11. These data support the hypothesis that transcription factor pCREB contributes to increased expression of spinal NK1 receptors during persistent pain.
In the adult mammal, retinal ganglion cell axon arbors are restricted to eye-specific layers in the lateral geniculate nucleus. Blocking neuronal activity early in development prevents this segregation from occurring. To test whether activity is also required to maintain eye-specific segregation, ganglion cell activity was blocked after segregation was established. This caused desegregation, so that both eyes' axons became concentrated in lamina A, normally occupied only by contralateral afferents. These results show that an activity-dependent process is necessary for maintaining eye-specific segregation and suggest that activity-independent cues may favor lamina A as the target for arborization of afferents from both eyes.
Neurofibrillary lesions and senile plaques that are composed mainly of hyperphosphorylated tau protein and the amyloid-beta peptide derived from the amyloid precursor protein, respectively, are classical hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. A number of studies strongly suggests that amyloid-beta formation and amyloid depositions are linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Recent findings suggest that very low concentrations of the amyloid-beta can inhibit various cholinergic neurotransmitter functions independently of apparent neurotoxicity. Many factors have been shown to influence the processing of amyloid precursor protein, including activation of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. This review focus on some recent studies concerning the regulation of amyloid precursor protein processing and modulation of tau phosphorylation by acetylcholine receptor stimulation and how cholinergic deficits and amyloid-beta might be related to one another.
The effects of nicotine administration into the dorsal hippocampus and lateral septum provide further evidence that different neurochemical and neuroanatomical substrates control behaviour in different animal tests. Thus, in the social interaction test (a model of generalised anxiety disorder), bilateral administration of nicotine (1-4 microg) into both regions has anxiogenic effects in test conditions that generate moderate anxiety. The anxiogenic effects are mediated by a nicotine-evoked increase in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release and are reversed by co-administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, N-(2-(6-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2-pyridyl)-cyclohex -ane carboxamide trichloride (WAY 100,635). On trial 1 in the elevated plus-maze (which models the escape components of panic disorder), nicotine is without effect when administered to the dorsal hippocampus, but has anxiogenic effects after lateral septal administration. On trial 2 in the elevated plus-maze (a model of specific phobia), nicotine (1 microg) has anxiolytic effects when administered to the dorsal hippocampus, but is ineffective (4 and 8 microg) in the lateral septum.
Micturition is achieved through complex neurological mechanisms involving somatic, autonomic and central components. This article briefly reviews recent findings on the autonomic control of urinary bladder function. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediate fast synaptic transmission in autonomic ganglia, and activation of nicotinic receptors in parasympathetic bladder neurons produces contraction of the detrusor muscle. Autonomic ganglia contain transcripts for the alpha(3), alpha(4), alpha(5), alpha(7), beta(2) and beta(4) nicotinic subunits, which can assemble to form multiple nicotinic receptor subtypes, but the exact nicotinic receptor subunit composition in bladder ganglia is unknown. Mutant mice lacking the alpha(3) or the beta(2) and the beta(4) nicotinic subunits have enlarged bladders with dribbling urination and develop urinary infection and bladder stones. Bladder strips from alpha(3) null mice do not respond to nicotine but contract when stimulated with a muscarinic agonist or electric field stimulation. Mice lacking the beta(2) subunit have no overt bladder phenotype, and their bladders contract in response to nicotine. Surprisingly, bladder strips from beta(4) mutant mice do not respond to nicotine despite the absence of major bladder dysfunction in vivo. These findings suggest that nicotinic receptors containing the alpha(3) and the beta(4) subunits are necessary for normal bladder function.
Receptors assembled from the products of a neuronal beta4alpha3alpha5 NAChR gene cluster depend on these genes being coordinately regulated in particular populations of neurons. Little is known, however, about the transcriptional mechanisms that are likely to underlie their co-expression in correct neuronal cell types. We have identified several regulatory elements and transcription factors that influence transcription of the alpha3 and beta4 genes. The promoters of these genes appear to contain a common cis element that binds Sp1 transcription factors. They can be activated by the POU-domain factor SCIP and activation does not require SCIP binding sites. Between these two promoters is a cell type specific enhancer called beta43'. This enhancer has little activity in non-neuronal cells and is preferentially active in particular populations of central neurons. The clustered genes are potential targets of ETS factors as the ETS domain factor, Pet-1 can activate beta43'-dependent transcription. The neuron-selective properties of beta43' and its location suggest that it is a component of the cis regulatory information required to control expression of the beta4 and alpha3 genes in specific populations of neurons.
This study addresses two issues arising from the desensitization of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors from the hippocampus, ventral tegmental area, and substantia nigra. First, biophysical studies can find potent and complete desensitization of nicotinic receptors; but in vivo studies often find that desensitization affecting a behavior is less than complete, or that desensitization is important over a different nicotine concentration range. Our results show that there can be significant differences in desensitization when comparing nearby neurons from the same area of the brain. Thus, nicotinic receptors on a minority of neurons may remain active and maintain a behavior under conditions that can produce significant desensitization. Second, agonist applications that are intended to active nicotinic receptors also cause desensitization. The prevailing conditions and the rate of agonist application and removal will control the degree of activation vs. desensitization. These and other factors regulate the efficacy of nicotinic agonists experimentally and physiologically.
We have shown previously that chronic exposure to submicromolar concentrations of nicotine permanently inactivates alpha4beta2 and alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors while alpha3beta2 acetylcholine receptors are resistant to inactivation. Phosphorylation of the large cytoplasmic domain has been proposed to mediate functional inactivation. Chimeric subunits consisting of human alpha4 sequence from their N-terminus to either the beginning of the first transmembrane domain or the large cytoplasmic domain and alpha3 sequences thereafter formed acetylcholine receptors with beta2 subunits which were as susceptible to nicotine-induced inactivation as wild-type alpha4 acetylcholine receptors. The converse chimeras, containing the N-terminal parts of the alpha3 subunit and the C-terminal parts of the alpha4 subunit, formed acetylcholine receptors with beta2 subunits which were as resistant to nicotine-induced inactivation as wild-type alpha3beta2 acetylcholine receptors. Thus, inactivation of acetylcholine receptors produced by chronic exposure to nicotine results primarily from effects of the agonist on the extracellular and transmembrane domains of the alpha subunit.
Glutamate transporters play an important role in the re-uptake of glutamate after its release from glutamatergic synapses. So far five of such transporters subtypes have been cloned from rodent and human brains. The densities of glutamate transporters are recognised to be developmentally regulated, but the role of glutamate transporters in the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of neuronal traumatic injury has not been widely studied. In the present study quantitative Western blotting and immunohistochemical technique were employed to study the expression of GLT-1/EAAT2 in the facial nuclei of adult rats following unilateral facial nerve axotomy. The total content of GLT-1 protein decreased in the ipsilateral axotomised rat facial nucleus. However, activated microglia surrounding motoneurons showed high expression of GLT-1 after facial nerve axotomy. Parallel studies revealed that primary cultured microglial cells also showed GLT-1-immunoreactivity. To our knowledge, this is the first direct demonstration of the expression of GLT-1 protein in activated microglial cells, suggesting a neuroprotective role of microglia against glutamate excitotoxicity following nerve axotomy.
When the axon of motoneurons is transected, the number of synaptic boutons contacting the cell body is decreased, and the recovery of synapses depends on muscle reinnervation. Post-synaptic density-95 (PSD-95) is a protein which is located at the post-synaptic density (PSD) and it plays a pivotal role in regulating synaptic plasticity and synaptogenesis. In addition, PSD-95 binds with neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), which is competitively inhibited by carboxy-terminal PDZ ligand of nNOS (CAPON) and, thereby, nNOS activity is thought to be regulated by PSD-95 and CAPON. We investigated the changes in mRNA for PSD-95, CAPON and nNOS in the facial motor nucleus of adult rats following axotomy, by in situ hybridization, in combination with the time course of muscle reinnervation, by retrograde tracing and nNOS protein expression, by examining nicotinamide adenine nucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity. Signals of mRNA for PSD-95 and CAPON were initially expressed in the facial motoneurons, transiently decreased following axotomy and gradually recovered to the control level. When reinnervation of the axotomized nerve into muscle was observed, mRNA expression of PSD-95 and CAPON started to recover in the facial motoneurons. It was also found that mRNA and protein expression of nNOS started to increase in the axotomized facial motoneurons just prior to the recovery of mRNA expression of PSD-95 and CAPON. These results suggest that PSD-95 and CAPON are involved in synaptogenesis and/or recovery of synaptic function in motoneurons after axotomy.
Fibronectin is composed of multiple homologous repeats and contains many functional domains. Two major heparin-binding domains have previously been identified: the Hep I site near the amino terminus and the Hep II site near the carboxyl terminus. The Hep II site has been considered the high-affinity heparin-binding site based on studies of fibronectin fragments. However, few studies have been carried out on heparin binding by intact fibronectin. We imaged single fibronectin molecules as well as heparin-coated gold particles bound to whole dimeric plasma fibronectin molecules with tapping mode atomic force microscopy. We observed heparin-gold particles preferentially bound at two locations that correspond to the Hep I and Hep II sites. Quantitative analysis of images of individual fibronectin-heparin-gold complexes showed that almost twice as many heparin-gold particles bound to the N-terminal Hep I site compared to the Hep II site. In contrast to previous findings with fibronectin fragments, these results suggest that the Hep I site has a binding affinity higher than or comparable to the Hep II site in the intact fibronectin molecule.

The cloned vanilloid receptor VR1 has attracted recent attention as a molecular integrator of painful stimuli on primary sensory neurons. The existence of vanilloid-sensitive neurons in the brain is, however, controversial. In this study, we have used an antibody and a complementary RNA probe to explore the distribution of neurons that express VR1 in rat and in certain areas of human brain. In the rat, we observed VR1-expressing neurons throughout the whole neuroaxis, including all cortical areas (in layers 3 and 5), several members of the limbic system (e.g., hippocampus, central amygdala, and both medial and lateral habenula), striatum, hypothalamus, centromedian and paraventricular thalamic nuclei, substantia nigra, reticular formation, locus coeruleus, cerebellum, and inferior olive. VR1-immunopositive cells also were found in the third and fifth layers of human parietal cortex. Reverse transcription-PCR performed with rat VR1-specific primers verified the expression of VR1 mRNA in cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamus. In the central nervous system, neonatal capsaicin treatment depleted VR1 mRNA from the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, but not from other areas such as the inferior olive. The finding that VR1 is expressed not only in primary sensory neurons but also in several brain nuclei is of great importance in that it places VRs in a much broader perspective than pain perception. VRs in the brain (and putative endogenous vanilloids) may be involved in the control of emotions, learning, and satiety, just to name a few exciting possibilities.
Estrogen replacement therapy in women is associated with improvement of cognitive deficits and reduced incidence of Alzheimer's disease. The present study indicates that estrogen is neuroprotective against N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)- and kainate-mediated neurotoxicity, an effect mediated by tyrosine kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. Estrogen also stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDA receptors via an src tyrosine kinase/MAPK pathway. Finally, estrogen-mediated enhancement of long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices is mediated by activation of an src tyrosine kinase pathway. Thus, estrogen, by activating an src tyrosine kinase and the extracellular signal-related protein kinase/MAPK signaling pathway, both enhances NMDA receptor function and long-term potentiation and retains neuroprotective properties against excitotoxicity. These findings warrant further evaluation of the usefulness of estrogenic compounds for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Kainic acid (KA)-induced status epilepticus in adult rats leads to delayed, selective death of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3. Death is preceded by down-regulation of glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) mRNA and protein [the subunit that limits Ca(2+) permeability of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors] in CA1 and CA3, as indicated by in situ hybridization, immunolabeling, and quantitative Western blotting. GluR1 mRNA and protein are unchanged or slightly increased before cell death. These changes could lead to formation of GluR2-lacking, Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors and increased toxicity of endogenous glutamate. GluR2 immunolabeling is unchanged in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, which are resistant to seizure-induced death. Thus, formation of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors may be a critical mediator of delayed neurodegeneration after status epilepticus.
Working memory (WM) refers to the temporary storage and processing of goal-relevant information. WM is thought to include domain-specific short-term memory stores and executive processes, such as coordination, that operate on the contents of WM. To examine the neural substrates of coordination, we acquired functional magnetic resonance imaging data while subjects performed a WM span test designed specifically to measure executive WM. Subjects performed two tasks (sentence reading and short-term memory for five words) either separately or concurrently. Dual-task performance activated frontal-lobe areas to a greater extent than performance of either task in isolation, but no new area was activated beyond those activated by either component task. These findings support a resource theory of WM executive processes in the frontal lobes.
One feature shared by all Shaker-type voltage-gated K(+) channels is a highly conserved domain (T1) located in the cytoplasmic N terminus. The T1 domain is a key determinant of which subtypes can form heteromultimeric channels, suggesting that T1 functions during channel assembly. To better define the role of T1 during channel assembly and separate this function from potential contributions to channel permeation and gating, we replaced the T1 domain (residues 96-183) of ShakerB with a coiled-coil sequence (GCN4-LI) that forms parallel tetramers. Deleting T1 dramatically, but not completely, abolished channel formation under most expression conditions. Channels lacking T1 are functional and K(+)-selective, although they activate at more hyperpolarized membrane potentials and inactivate less completely. Insertion of the artificial tetramerization domain (GCN4-LI) restored efficient channel formation, suggesting that tetramerization of the cytoplasmic T1 domain promotes transmembrane channel assembly by increasing the effective local subunit concentration for T1 compatible subunits. We propose that T1 tetramerization promotes subfamily-specific assembly through kinetic partitioning of the assembly process, but is not required for subsequent steps in channel assembly and folding.
Gonadal steroid feedback to oxytocin neurons during pregnancy is in part mediated via the neurosteroid allopregnanolone (3alpha-OH-DHP), acting as allosteric modulator of postsynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors. We describe here a form of nongenomic progesterone signaling by showing that 3alpha-OH-DHP not only potentiates GABA(A) receptor-channel activity but also prevents its modulation by protein kinase C (PKC). Application of oxytocin or stimulation of PKC suppressed the postsynaptic GABA responses of oxytocin neurons in the absence, but not in the presence of 3alpha-OH-DHP. This finding was true at the juvenile stage and during late pregnancy, when the GABA(A) receptor is sensitive to 3alpha-OH-DHP. In contrast, after parturition, when the GABA(A) receptors expressed by oxytocin neurons are less sensitive to 3alpha-OH-DHP, this neurosteroid no longer counteracts PKC. The change in GABA(A)-receptor responsiveness to 3alpha-OH-DHP helps to explain the onset of firing activity and thus the induction of oxytocin release at parturition.
To investigate the organization of the dorsal pulvinar complex, patterns of neurochemical staining were correlated with cortico-pulvinar connections in macaques (Macaca mulatta). Three major neurochemical subdivisions of the dorsal pulvinar were identified by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry, as well as immunostaining for calbindin-D(28K) and parvalbumin. The dorsal lateral pulvinar nucleus (PLd) was defined on histochemical criteria as a distinct AChE- and parvalbumin-dense, calbindin-poor wedge that was found to continue caudally along the dorsolateral edge of the pulvinar to within 1 mm of its caudal pole. The ventromedial border of neurochemical PLd with the rest of the dorsal pulvinar, termed the medial pulvinar (PM), was sharply defined. Overall, PM was lighter than PLd for AChE and parvalbumin and displayed lateral (PMl) and medial (PMm) histochemical divisions. PMm contained a central &quot;oval&quot; (PMm-c) that stained darker for AChE and parvalbumin than the surrounding region. The neurochemically defined PLd was labeled by tracer injections in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex but not the superior temporal gyrus (STG). Label within PMl was found after prefrontal and IPL and, to a lesser extent, after STG injections. The PMm was labeled after injections of the IPL and STG, but only sparsely following prefrontal injections. The histochemically distinct subregion or module of PMm, PMm-c, was labeled only by STG injections. Overlapping labeling was found in dorsal pulvinar divisions PMl and PLd following paired IPL/prefrontal, but not IPL/STG or these particular STG/prefrontal, injections. Thus, PLd may be a visuospatially related region whereas PM appears to contain several types of territories, some related to visual or auditory inputs, and others that receive directly converging input from posterior parietal and prefrontal cortex and may participate in a distributed cortical network concerned with visuospatial functions.
Autoregulation of cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental (LDT) and pedunculopontine (PPT) nuclei has been implicated in many functions, most importantly in drug reinforcement and in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This autoregulation is attributed to the release of acetylcholine, but neither the storage or release sites are known. To determine these sites, we used electron microscopy for the immunocytochemical localization of antipeptide antiserum raised against the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT) that is responsible for the uptake of acetylcholine into storage vesicles. The cellular and subcellular distribution of VAchT was remarkably similar in the two regions by by using each of two methods, immunogold and immunoperoxidase. In both PPT and LDT nuclei, VAchT labeling was seen mainly on membranous organelles including the trans-Golgi network in many somata. VAchT-immunoreactive tubulovesicles resembling saccules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum were often seen near the plasma membrane in dendrites. The VAchT-containing dendrites comprised almost 50% of the labeled profiles (1027/2129) in PPT and LDT nuclei. The remaining VAchT-immunoreactive profiles were primarily small unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. In axon terminals, VAchT was densely localized to membranes of small synaptic vesicles. The VAchT-immunoreactive axon terminals formed either symmetric or asymmetric synapses. The postsynaptic targets of these axon terminals included dendrites that were with (36/110) or without (74/110) VAchT immunoreactivity. Our results suggest that dendrites, as well as axon terminals, have the potential for storage and release of acetylcholine in the LDT and PPT nuclei. The released acetylcholine is likely to play a major role in autoregulation of mesopontine cholinergic neurons.
Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), a selective agonist for the BB(2) subtype of bombesin receptor, is reported to depolarise GABAergic interneurons in the stratum oriens layer of the hippocampus. Such an action might lead to increased extracellular levels of GABA in the hippocampus, and result in an anti-convulsant effect with this peptide. We have tested this hypothesis by determining the effect of GRP on extracellular levels of GABA in the ventral hippocampus of the freely moving rat using in vivo microdialysis, and by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of GRP to audiogenic seizure-prone DBA/2 mice prior to exposure to the noise of an electric bell. Following local perfusion in the ventral hippocampus by reverse dialysis GRP (10 microM) significantly raised levels of GABA in the recovered dialysates by approximately 40%. In the seizure studies, GRP (30-300 ng) increased the latency to tonic seizure, the number of mice convulsing and reduced the incidence of lethality. In both dialysis and seizure studies, the effects of GRP were blocked by the selective BB(2) receptor antagonist, [D-Phe(6), Leu-NHEt(13)]bombesin (6-13). These experiments provide further functional evidence that activation of the BB(2) receptor may modulate neurotransmission in the hippocampus, and that this action may confer anti-convulsant properties on agonists acting at the BB(2) receptor in the brain.
To date, relatively little progress has been made in the treatment of spinal cord injury (SCI)-related neurological impairments. Until now, methylprednisolone (MP) is the only agent with clinically proven beneficial effect on functional outcome after SCI. Although the mechanism of action is not completely clear, experimental data point to protection against membrane peroxidation and edema reduction. The melanocortin melanotropin is known to improve axonal regeneration following sciatic nerve injury, and to stimulate corticospinal outgrowth after partial spinal cord transection. Recently, we showed that intrathecally administered alphaMSH had beneficial effects on functional recovery after experimental SCI. Since both drugs have shown their value in intervention studies after (experimental) spinal cord injury (ESCI), we decided to study the effects of combined treatment. Our results again showed that alphaMSH enhances functional recovery after ESCI in the rat and that MP, although not affecting functional recovery adversely by itself, abolished the effects observed with alphaMSH when combined. Our data, thus, suggest that the mechanism of action of MP interferes with that of alphaMSH.
Polyamines were implicated as either neurotoxic or neuroprotective in several models of stroke. Spermine augments the excitotoxicity mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor because this receptor is activated at micromolar spermine concentrations. However, at higher concentrations, spermine could be neuroprotective because it blocks the NMDA receptor and voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels. In this work, acute hippocampal slices were exposed to 1 mM spermine and either 10 min of anoxia or 0.5 mM NMDA. The percent recovery of population spikes was the measure of neuroprotection. One millimolar spermine was robustly neuroprotective; however, 0.1 mM spermine and 1 mM putrescine were not. The neuroprotective concentration of spermine was higher than the physiological concentration of free spermine. However, during an excitotoxic episode, extracellular Ca(2+) is decreased, enabling the inhibitory activity of lower spermine concentration. In addition, several noxious stimuli trigger the release of intracellular spermine and could raise local levels of spermine. Therefore, it is possible that spermine has a neuroprotective role in vivo.
We have examined the motor responses to the dopamine D(3) receptor-preferring agonist, S(+)-(4aR,10bR)-3,4,4a, 10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-1-benzopyranol[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin+ ++-9-ol ((+)-PD128,907), by non-habituated male rats during postnatal development. (+)-PD128,907 (0.025 and 0.1 mg/kg) increased motor activity (rearing, motility and locomotion) in 14-day-old rats without inducing oral stereotypies. However, in 21-, 28- and 70-day-old rats, (+)-PD128,907 caused a significant reduction in motor activity. This reduction was most pronounced in 70-day-old rats. In addition, the stimulatory effects of (+)-PD128,907 in 14-day-old rats were fully blocked by the dopamine D(3) receptor antagonist 5,6-dimethoxy-2-(di-u-propylamino) indan (U99194A). These results suggest that the motor inhibition mediated by the activation of the dopamine D(3) receptors develops between the second and the third postnatal weeks.
We have examined the activity of a range of kinins on recombinant human bradykinin receptors, using a high throughput functional assay which measures intracellular Ca(2+) responses. The most potent agonist for Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing recombinant human bradykinin B(1) receptors were Des-Arg(9)-bradykinin (EC(50)=7.9 nM) and Des-Arg(10)-kallidin (EC(50)=8.6 nM), while the most potent agonist for CHO cells expressing human bradykinin B(2) receptors was bradykinin (EC(50)=2.0 nM). These findings confirm the validity of the recombinant system and the microtitre plate imaging-based characterization system when compared to known agonist properties of the native receptors. The concentration-response relationship for bradykinin at bradykinin B(2) receptors was potently inhibited by [D-Arg(0),Hyp(3), beta-(2-thienyl)-Ala(5),D-Tic(7),Oic(8)]-bradykinin (Hoe140) (IC(50)=71 nM), which was 500-fold more potent against the B(2)-expressing cells than the B(1) cells. Bradykinin B(1) receptor-mediated responses activated by Des-Arg(10)-kallidin were fully antagonized by Des-Arg(9)-[Leu(8)]bradykinin (IC(50)=59 nM), Des-Arg(10)-Hoe140 (IC(50)=211 nM) and most potently by Lys-Lys-Arg-Pro-Hyp-Gly-Igl-Ser-D-Igl-Oic (B9858) (IC(50)=14 nM), none of which displayed any activity against the bradykinin B(2) receptor cell line up to 3 microM. None of the antagonists displayed partial agonism activity in these cell lines. All bradykinin B(1) and B(2) receptor antagonists tested acted in an apparently non-competitive manner that is likely to be due in part to their kinetics and to the nature of the functional assay used.
To delineate the role of the cytoplasmic tail in the distinct binding and coupling properties of human dopamine D1-like receptors, chimeric receptors were generated in which the entire tail region of wild-type human D1A (or D1) and D1B (or D5) receptors was exchanged. The hD1A-D1BT, but not hD1B-D1AT, receptor expression was dramatically reduced compared with wild-type receptor expression. Swapping the cytoplasmic tail resulted in a full switch of dopamine binding affinity and constitutive activity, while dopamine potency decreased and agonist-mediated maximal activation of adenylyl cyclase increased for both chimeras. Hence, the cytoplasmic tail plays a crucial role in D1-like receptor expression, agonist binding affinity and constitutive activation but regulates in a distinct fashion the formation of D1A and D1B receptor active states upon dopamine binding.
To study relations between neural and immune activity in patients with chronic pain, we correlated regional cerebral blood flow measured with [(15)O]butanol positron emission tomography to immune function in five patients with fibromyalgia. Partly replicating previous data in healthy volunteers, natural killer cell activity correlated negatively with right hemisphere activity in the secondary somatosensory and motor cortices as well as the thalamus. Moreover, natural killer cell activity was negatively and bilaterally related to activity in the posterior cingulate cortex. Thus, immune parameters were related to activity in brain areas involved in pain perception, emotion, and attention. Implicated from a small study population, these strong neuro-immune associations are discussed in view of recent findings concerning mechanisms and adaptive values in immuno-cortical communication and regulation.
We describe the incidence of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons after post-embedding immunocytochemistry on semithin sections of the claustrum, putamen and lateral, dorsal and medial cortical areas. Twelve percent of the neurons counted in the claustrum of 11 rabbits were GABAergic. This incidence was significantly higher in the dorsal halves of both the insular and endopiriform claustra than in the ventral (13 vs. 10%). The incidence of GABAergic cells was 4% in the putamen, 14% in the insular cortex, 15% in areas 17 and 18 and 13% in area 29d. Thus, our results indicate that in contrast to the putamen the incidence of GABAergic cells was similar in the claustrum and cortical areas. We interpret this in the light of the pallial origin of the claustrum, which has recently been substantiated.
To investigate the physiological significance of microglia-derived plasminogen (PGn) in the central nervous system, we determined the effects of rat PGn on the secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) in cultured rat astrocytes by reverse zymography and Western blotting. The cultured astrocytes normally produce only a limited amount of PAI-1. After stimulation with PGn, however, the amount of active PAI-1 in the astrocyte-conditioned medium was significantly increased in a time-dependent manner. PGn was also proved to activate p38 MAP kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase in these astrocytes. Taken together, these results suggest that microglia-derived PGn increases the secretion of PAI-1 in astrocytes through the activation of MAP kinases, and that enhanced PAI-1 regulates various physiological phenomena including tissue remodeling, neuronal plasticity and neurotoxicity.
A cortical motor region that represented the cutaneous muscles on the back was identified on the medial wall of the frontal lobe in the macaque monkey. In this region, neurons responded to somatosensory stimuli such as light touch or squeezing of the back skin, and intracortical microstimulation elicited contraction of the back skin. Such a region was located primarily on the dorsal bank of the cingulate sulcus, corresponding to the dorsal cingulate motor area.
Handwriting is a classic example of how the details of movement can be scale and plane invariant: letter forms reflecting personal style are unchanged, whether one is writing on a piece of paper, on a blackboard or in the sand using the foot. Recent research points to a role for the parietal cortex in such motor equivalence.
The regioselective dibenzylphosphorylation of 2 followed by catalytic reduction in the presence of N-methyl-D-glucamine afforded 2-(S)-(1-(R)-(3, 5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)ethoxy)-3-(S)-(4-fluoro)phenyl-4-(5-(2- phosphoryl-3-oxo-4H,-1,2,4-triazolo)methylmorpholine, bis(N-methyl-D-glucamine) salt, 11. Incubation of 11 in rat, dog, and human plasma and in human hepatic subcellular fractions in vitro indicated that conversion to 2 would be expected to occur in vivo most readily in humans during hepatic circulation. Conversion of 11 to 2 occurred rapidly in vivo in the rat and dog with the levels of 11 being undetectable within 5 min after 1 and 8 mg/kg doses iv in the rat and within 15 min after 0.5, 2, and 32 mg/kg doses iv in the dog. Compound 11 has a 10-fold lower affinity for the human NK-1 receptor as compared to 2, but it is functionally equivalent to 2 in preclinical models of NK-1-mediated inflammation in the guinea pig and cisplatin-induced emesis in the ferret, indicating that 11 acts as a prodrug of 2. Based in part on these data, 11 was identified as a novel, water-soluble prodrug of the clinical candidate 2 suitable for intravenous administration in humans.

Synaptotagmins represent a family of neuronal proteins thought to function in membrane traffic. The best characterized synaptotagmin, synaptotagmin I, is essential for fast Ca2+-dependent synaptic vesicle exocytosis, indicating a role in the Ca2+ triggering of membrane fusion. Synaptotagmins contain two C2 domains, the C2A and C2B domains, which bind Ca2+ and may mediate their functions by binding to specific targets. For synaptotagmin I, several putative targets have been identified, including the SNARE proteins syntaxin and SNAP-25. However, it is unclear which of the many binding proteins are physiologically relevant. Furthermore, more than 10 highly homologous synaptotagmins are expressed in brain, but it is unknown if they execute similar binding reactions. To address these questions, we have performed a systematic, unbiased study of proteins which bind to the C2A domains of synaptotagmins I-VII. Although the various C2A domains exhibit similar binding activities for phospholipids and syntaxin, we found that they differ greatly in their protein binding patterns. Surprisingly, none of the previously characterized binding proteins for synaptotagmin I are among the major interacting proteins identified. Instead, several proteins that were not known to interact with synaptotagmin I were bound tightly and stoichiometrically, most prominently the NSF homologue VCP, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion, and an unknown protein of 40 kDa. Point mutations in the Ca2+ binding loops of the C2A domain revealed that the interactions of these proteins with synaptotagmin I were highly specific. Furthermore, a synaptotagmin I/VCP complex could be immunoprecipitated from brain homogenates in a Ca2+-dependent manner, and GST-VCP fusion proteins efficiently captured synaptotagmin I from brain. However, when we investigated the tissue distribution of VCP, we found that, different from synaptic proteins, VCP was not enriched in brain and exhibited no developmental increase paralleling synaptogenesis. Moreover, binding of VCP, which is an ATPase, to synaptotagmin I was inhibited by both ATP and ADP, indicating that the native, nucleotide-occupied state of VCP does not bind to synaptotagmin. Together our findings suggest that the C2A-domains of different synaptotagmins, despite their homology, exhibit a high degree of specificity in their protein interactions. This is direct evidence for diverse roles of the various synaptotagmins in brain, consistent with their differential subcellular localizations. Furthermore, our results indicate that traditional approaches, such as affinity chromatography and immunoprecipitations, are useful tools to evaluate the overall spectrum of binding activity for a protein but are not sufficient to estimate physiological relevance.
The upregulation of endogenous utrophin in skeletal muscle may lead to a new approach to the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). We found that injection of an E1, E3-deleted adenovirus vector expressing beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal) or green fluorescent protein (GFP) into the skeletal muscle of neonatal dystrophin-deficient mdx mice alleviated dystrophic pathology. In the adenovirus-infected muscles, an evaluation of sarcolemma stability showed low permeability and immunohistochemistry revealed utrophin upregulation at the extrasynaptic sarcolemma of mature muscle fibers. This utrophin upregulation was concomitant with endomysial cellular infiltration from a host immune reaction. There was no evidence of active muscle regeneration. In normal C57BL/10 mice, utrophin was also upregulated in adenovirus-injected skeletal muscles, where upregulated utrophin often coexisted with dystrophin. FK506 and anti-CD4 antibody administration decreased utrophin expression in adenovirus-injected mdx muscles and prevented the dystrophic phenotype from being mitigated, suggesting that an immune reaction is involved in utrophin upregulation. This is the first report demonstrating the improvement of the dystrophic phenotype as a result of the acquired overexpression of endogenous utrophin. Our findings provide an important clue to understanding the mechanism of utrophin expression and the development of an effective treatment for DMD.
We have examined the gene expression of two radial glia intermediate filament proteins, transitin and vimentin, in the developing chick CNS. Despite global similarities in their mRNA distributions, marked regional differences are observed. Most notably, we show that transitin mRNA is localized along radial glial processes and is localized to radial glia endfeet, whereas vimentin mRNA is not localized in radial glia. Localization of transitin mRNA is best shown in the diencephalic radial glia, as well as cerebellar Bergmann glia. In addition, in the early embryonic optic tectum, telencephalon, and retina, transitin mRNA is highly localized to radial glia endfeet, which is suggestive of its transport in these cells. These in vivo demonstrations of transitin mRNA localization are confirmed by in situ hybridization analysis of cultured chick brain radial glia, which demonstrates the presence of granular staining for transitin mRNA in glial processes. Transitin mRNA distribution in developing muscle also shows a highly regulated expression pattern, especially along the Z-lines of myofibrils. As further support for the transport and localization of transitin mRNA in radial glia and muscle, we have identified a consensus RNA transport signal in transitin mRNA that is absent from vimentin. These data suggest that the local regulation of transitin protein synthesis may contribute to its function as an intermediate filament protein in radial glia.
The effects of electromagnetic fields (EMF) emitted by cellular phones on the ERD/ERS of the 4-6 Hz, 6-8 Hz, 8-10 Hz and 10-12 Hz EEG frequency bands were studied in 16 normal subjects performing an auditory memory task. All subjects performed the memory task both with and without exposure to a digital 902 MHz EMF in counterbalanced order. The exposure to EMF significantly increased EEG power in the 8-10 Hz frequency band only. Nonetheless, the presence of EMF altered the ERD/ERS responses in all studied frequency bands as a function of time and memory task (encoding vs retrieval). Our results suggest that the exposure to EMF does not alter the resting EEG per se but modifies the brain responses significantly during a memory task.
It is now well established that nerve growth factor (NGF) plays a key role in inflammation-induced hyperalgesia. It was also reported that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), another member of neurotrophins, contributed to the pain pathway as a neurotransmitter in the CNS. The present work demonstrated a down-regulation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mRNA expression in dorsal spinal cord in complete Freund's adjuvant-induced unilateral arthritic rats serving as a chronic pain model. The fast occurring and long lasting down-regulations suggest that GDNF might contribute to pain pathway in a way different from neurotrophins and might play a role in the maintenance of chronic pain status.
Motor imagery is known to involve brain regions vital to the performance of motor skills including primary motor cortex. The present results show that, following cerebral vascular accidents (CVAs) affecting a variety of these regions, many adults with left or right upper-limb paralysis (i.e. hemiparesis/hemiplegia) retain the ability to accurately represent prehensile movements involving the impaired limb. This suggests that during the acute phase of recovery many CVA patients can use motor imagery to activate partially damaged motor networks; a process that may facilitate functional reorganization. This ability was, however, compromised in cases with right posterior parietal or left frontal lesions. This pattern is consistent with the hypothesis that imagined prehension, like actual reaching and grasping, involves a network of highly interconnected areas distributed throughout parietal and frontal cortices.
Underlying impairments in rapid auditory processing may contribute to disrupted phonological processing, which in turn characterizes developmental language impairment (LI). Identification of a neurobiological feature of LI that is associated with auditory deficits would further support this model. Accordingly, we found that adult male rats with induced cortical malformations were impaired in rapid auditory processing. Since 40-60% of BXSB mice exhibit spontaneous focal cerebrocortical ectopias (as seen in dyslexics brains), we assessed auditory gap detection in adult male BXSB mice. Ectopic mice were significantly worse than non-ectopics in detecting a 5 ms silent gap, but were not significantly impaired at longer gap durations (10-100 ms). Our results confirm that focal cortical malformations are associated with impairments in rapid auditory processing.
Widespread synchronous oscillatory activity, particularly in the gamma ('40 Hz') band, has been postulated to exist in the brain as a mechanism underlying binding. A new method of examining phase synchronicity across multiple electrode sites in specific EEG frequency bands as a function of time was employed, in a conventional cognitive ERP paradigm in 40 normal subjects. A significant late post-stimulus gamma synchronicity response occurred for task-relevant stimuli, whereas for task-irrelevant stimuli no such response was evident. However, an early response was seen for both task-relevant and irrelevant stimuli. This is the first empirical demonstration that widespread synchronous high frequency oscillations occur in humans in relation to cognition.
New insights into the understanding of the changes induced in the iron domain of neuromelanin (NM) upon development of Parkinson's disease (PD) have been gained by electron paramagnetic spectroscopy (EPR). The results of this study are compared with a previously reported variable temperature analysis of X-band EPR spectra of a NM specimen obtained from control brain tissues. The availability of high sensitivity instruments operating in the Q-band (34.4 GHz) allows us to deal with the low amounts of NM available from PD brains. The organization of iron in NM is in the form of polynuclear superparamagnetic/antiferromagnetic aggregates, but the lack of one or more signals in the EPR spectra of NM from PD suggests that the development of the pathology causes NM to decrease its ability to bind iron. Furthermore, the detection of the Mn(II) signal in the Q-band spectra is exploited as an additional internal probe to assess minor structural differences in iron domains of PD and control NM specimens.
A subclass of patients with classic infantile autism have uric acid excretion which is &gt;2 S.D.s above the normal mean. These hyperuricosuric autistic individuals may comprise approx. 20% of the autistic population. In order to determine the metabolic basis for urate overexcretion in these patients, de novo purine synthesis was measured in the cultured skin fibroblasts of these patients by quantification of the radiolabeled purine compounds produced by incubation with radiolabeled sodium formate. For comparison, de novo purine synthesis in normal controls, in normouricosuric autistic patients, and cells from patients with other disorders in which excessive uric acid excretion is seen was also measured. These experiments showed that de novo purine synthesis is increased approx. 4-fold in the hyperuricosuric autistic patients. This increase was less than that found in other hyperuricosuric disorders. No unusual radiolabeled compounds (such as adenylosuccinate) were detected in these experiments, and no gross deficiencies of radiolabeled nucleotides were seen. However, the ratio of adenine to guanine nucleotides produced by de novo synthesis was found to be lower in the cells of the hyperuricosuric autistic patients than in the normal controls or the cells from patients with other disorders. These results indicate that the hyperuricosuric subclass of autistic patients have increased de novo purine synthesis, and that the increase is approximately that expected for the degree of urate overexcretion when compared to other hyperuricosuric disorders. No particular enzyme defect was suggested by either gross deficiency of a radiolabeled compound or the appearance of an unusual radiolabeled compound, and no potentially neurotoxic metabolites were seen. Although an enzyme defect responsible for the accelerated purine synthesis was not identified, the abnormal ratio of adenine to guanine nucleotides suggests a defect in purine nucleotide interconversion.
We performed transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to elucidate the D- and I-wave components comprising the motor evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited from the leg motor area, especially at near-threshold intensity. Recordings were made from the tibialis anterior muscle using needle electrodes. A figure-of-eight coil was placed so as to induce current in the brain in eight different directions, starting from the posterior-to-anterior direction and rotating it in 45 degrees steps. The latencies were compared with those evoked by transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) and TMS using a double cone coil. Although the latencies of MEPs ranged from D to I3 waves, the most prominent component evoked by TMS at near-threshold intensity represented the I1 wave. With the double cone coil, the elicited peaks always represented I1 waves, and D waves were evoked only at very high stimulus intensities, suggesting a high effectiveness of this coil in inducing I1 waves. Using the figure-of-eight coil, current flowing anteriorly or toward the hemisphere contralateral to the recorded muscle was more effective in eliciting large responses than current flowing posteriorly or toward the ipsilateral hemisphere. The effective directions induced I1 waves with the lowest threshold, whereas the less effective directions elicited I1 and I2 waves with a similar frequency. Higher stimulus intensities resulted in concomitant activation of D through I3 waves with increasing amount of D waves, but still the predominance of I1 waves was apparent. The amount of I waves, especially of I1 waves, was greater than predicted by the hypothesis that TMS over the leg motor area activates the output cells directly, but rather suggests predominant transsynaptic activation. The results accord with those of recent human epidural recordings.
Phytoestrogen [plant estrogenic-like molecule(s)] research has grown rapidly in recent years due to their potential health benefits. However, little is known about phytoestrogen's effects on the CNS. Androgen metabolizing enzymes are known to regulate neuroendocrine functions and reproductive behaviors, while calcium-binding proteins are associated with protecting against neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, we examined aromatase and 5alpha-reductase enzyme activities in the medial basal hypothalamic and preoptic area (mbh-poa) and characterized mbh-poa and amygdala (amy) calbindin and calretinin levels (via Western analysis) from animals fed a phytoestrogen-free (P-free) vs. a phytoestrogen-containing diet [(P-600); that had 600 microg/g of phytoestrogens]. After approximately 5 weeks on the diets, the male rats were killed at 105 days. P-600 plasma phytoestrogen levels were 78-fold higher than the P-free values and the mbh-poa phytoestrogen content was 8-fold higher than the P-free group, demonstrating the passage of phytoestrogens into brain. In general, brain aromatase or 5alpha-reductase activity levels were not significantly altered by the experimental diets. However, independent of brain site (i.e., mbh-poa or amy) the abundance of calbindin from male P-600 rats was significantly lower than P-free animals. Conversely, for calretinin there were no significant alterations in the mbh-poa tissue site, while in the amy a similar pattern of expression was seen to that of the calbindin results. These data suggest that consumption of phytoestrogens via a soy diet for a relatively short interval can significantly: (1) elevate plasma and brain phytoestrogens levels and (2) decrease brain calcium-binding proteins without altering brain androgen metabolizing enzymes.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are critically involved in some types of synaptic plasticity. The NMDAR subunits NR1, NR2A and NR2B are developmentally regulated, and it has been proposed that developmental changes in their expression may underlie developmental changes in cortical plasticity. Age-dependent change in cortical plasticity is most commonly measured by the monocular deprivation effect, which occurs during a critical period between P22 and P50 in the rat. Although the development of NMDAR subunits has been studied from birth through the fourth postnatal week, there is only meager information from older ages when visual plasticity ends. We hypothesized that there will be significant age-dependent change in expression of NR1, NR2A or NR2B between P22, when the cortex is plastic, and P90, when it is not. We applied specific antibodies recognizing NR1, NR2A and NR2B to the primary visual cortex at P14, P22, P30, P45 and P90. We found age-dependent changes in NR1-IR that were negatively correlated with changes in NR2A-IR; these subunits are not regulated in unison. In contrast, NR2A-IR and NR2B-IR were positively correlated. NR2A-IR and NR2B-IR both passed through a developmental minimum around P45, then recovered to approximately their P22 level. NR1-IR passed through a maximum at P45. There were no significant differences between P22 and P90. These results do not support the simple hypothesis that the loss of plasticity corresponds to a simple transition from juvenile levels of NMDAR subunit proteins to new adult levels. On the other hand, the results do confirm the hypothesis that there are significant changes in processing of NMDAR proteins during the time that plasticity is lost. How these changes of IR relate to synaptic transmission and plasticity needs to be clarified.
The axonal projections of the juxtacapsular nucleus of the anterior division of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTju) were examined with the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) method in the adult male rat. Our results indicate that the BSTju displays a relatively simple projection pattern. First, it densely innervates the medial central amygdalar nucleus and the subcommissural zone and caudal anterolateral area of the BST - cell groups involved in visceromotor responses. Second, it provides inputs to the ventromedial caudoputamen (CP) and anterior basolateral amygdalar nucleus - areas presumably modulating somatomotor outflow. Third, the BSTju sends dense projections to the caudal substantia innominata, a distinct caudal dorsolateral region of the compact part of the substantia nigra, and the adjacent mesencephalic reticular nucleus and retrorubral area. And fourth, the BSTju provides light inputs to the prelimbic, infralimbic, and ventral CA1 cortical areas; to the posterior basolateral, posterior basomedial, and lateral amygdalar nuclei; to the paraventricular and medial mediodorsal thalamic nuclei; to the subthalamic and parasubthalamic nuclei of the hypothalamus; and to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. These projections, in part, suggest a role for the BSTju in circuitry integrating autonomic responses with somatomotor activity in adaptive behaviors.
The level of expression of the 5-HT1A receptor in the raphe and limbic systems is implicated in the etiology and treatment of major depression and anxiety disorders. The rat 5-HT1A receptor gene is regulated by a proximal TATA-driven promoter and by upstream repressors that inhibit gene expression. Deletion of a 71-base pair (bp) segment between -1590/-1519 bp of the 5-HT1A receptor gene induced over 10-fold enhancement of transcriptional activity in both 5-HT1A receptor-expressing (RN46A raphe and SN48 septal) cells and receptor-negative (L6 myoblast and C6 glioma) cells. A 31-bp segment of the repressor was protected from DNase I digestion by RN46A or L6 nuclear extracts. Within the 31-bp segment, a single protein complex was present in receptor-expressing cells that bound a novel 14-bp DNA element; in receptor-negative cells, an additional complex bound an adjacent 12-bp sequence. In receptor-positive but not receptor-negative cells, mutation of the 14-bp element to eliminate protein binding abrogated repression to nearly the same extent as deletion of the -1590/-1519 bp segment. Additional mutation of both 14-bp and 12-bp elements abolished protein binding and repressor activity in receptor-negative cells. Thus a single protein-DNA complex at the 14-bp element represses the 5-HT1A receptor gene in 5-HT1A receptor-positive neuronal cells, whereas adjacent DNA elements provide a dual repression mechanism in 5-HT1A receptor-negative cells.
Recent evidence indicates that nerve growth factor (NGF) produces its effects through signaling contributions from both TrkA and the p75 receptor. In contrast to its trophic actions through TrkA, NGF binding to p75 has been shown to activate programmed cell death through a mechanism involving the stress kinase JNK. However, this receptor also activates nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), the role of which has yet to be determined. We investigated the function of p75-mediated NF-kappaB stimulation in regulating cell survival in the rat schwannoma cell line RN22, which expresses p75, but not TrkA. Gel shift assays demonstrated activation of NF-kappaB in response to NGF within 30 min and lasting at least 4 h. NGF also stimulated JNK in the cells (detected by in vitro kinase assays) with a similar time course. Preventing activation of NF-kappaB with the specific inhibitor SN50 resulted in NGF-induced cell loss. Similarly, transfection of the cells with a mutant form of the endogenous NF-kappaB inhibitor (IkappaBalphaDeltaN), which cannot be degraded and therefore remains bound to NF-kappaB, preventing its activation, resulted in a significant increase in the number of apoptotic cells following NGF treatment. These results suggest that NGF activation of NF-kappaB through the p75 receptor promotes survival, counterbalancing the pro-apoptotic signal.
The adult striatum is composed of interlacing compartments known as patches (striosomes) and matrix, which differ with respect to a host of architectonic, biochemical and developmental parameters. We have exploited the 2-phase development of the striatum, employing buoyant-density fractionation to separate proliferating/undifferentiated neural precursors from the differentiated neurons of the E19 striatum. Primary cell cultures were established for the collected fractions, and immunohistochemistry for maturational and compartment-specific markers performed. The results indicate that the least buoyant, striatal precursors concentrate principally in the low buoyancy fraction of the gradient, and in culture express known matrix phenotype markers in an appropriate time frame.
The present study examined the postural effects of unilaterally local injection of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists into the subthalamic nucleus (STN), in rats with haloperidol-induced parkinsonism. In rats which received unilateral microinjections of (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG), a selective, subtype-non-specific antagonist of mGluR, but not the vehicle, into the STN, systemic administration of haloperidol induced ipsiversive dystonic posturing. The severity of the dystonic posturing was dose-dependent. However, subtype-specific antagonists of group I, II, or III mGluRs induced no dystonic posturing. The present findings suggest that the activity of the STN under conditions of dopamine blockade is facilitated by blockade of mGluRs in the STN, suggesting that mGluRs exert inhibitory influence on glutamate release in the STN.
Cholecystokinin (CCK), a hormone secreted from endocrine cells of the small intestine, participates in the control of motility and secretion in the gastrointestinal tract, and in the control of food intake. At least some of the effects of CCK on intestinal function appear to be mediated via activation of intrinsic neurons in the myenteric plexus. However, the distribution of CCK-responsive enteric neurons within the rat small intestine is not known. Neither has the role of CCK-A receptors in the activation of rat myenteric neurons been investigated. Therefore, to determine the distribution of CCK-responsive neurons in the small intestinal myenteric plexus we utilized immunohistochemical detection of Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, to identify neurons that were activated by exogenous CCK. We also monitored Fos expression in the dorsal hindbrain, and examined CCK-induced Fos expression in the presence or absence of a receptor antagonist for the type-A CCK receptor. We found that CCK significantly increased Fos expression in the hindbrain and in myenteric neurons of the duodenum and jejunum, but not the ileum. Neuronal Fos responsiveness in both brain and myenteric neurons was mediated by CCK-A receptors, as CCK-induced Fos expression was eliminated in rats pretreated with a CCK-A receptor antagonist. We conclude that CCK activates small intestinal myenteric neurons, via CCK-A receptors. Activation of these intrinsic intestinal neurons may participate in reflexes and behaviors that are mediated by CCK.

Monocular deprivation during early postnatal development remodels the circuitry of the primary visual cortex so that most neurons respond poorly to stimuli presented to the deprived eye. This rapid physiological change is ultimately accompanied by a matching anatomical loss of input from the deprived eye. This remodeling is thought to be initiated at the thalamocortical synapse. Ocular dominance plasticity after brief (24 hours) monocular deprivation was analyzed by intrinsic signal optical imaging and by targeted extracellular unit recordings. Deprived-eye responsiveness was lost in the extragranular layers, whereas normal binocularity in layer IV was preserved. This finding supports the hypothesis that thalamocortical organization is guided by earlier changes at higher stages.
In the present study, the pharmacological properties of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) in subcellular fractions of rat brain were investigated using palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) and arachidonyl ethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) as substrates. FAAH hydrolysed [(3)H]PEA in crude homogenates with median K(m) and V(max) values of 2.9 microM and 2.14 nmol.(mg protein)(-1).min(-1), respectively. [(3)H]PEA hydrolysis was inhibited both by non-radioactive AEA (with a K(i) value very similar to the K(m) value for [(3)H]AEA as substrate using the same assay) and by R(-)ibuprofen (mixed-type inhibition K(i) and K'(i) values 88 and 720 microM, respectively). FAAH activity towards both [(3)H]PEA and [(3) myelin = cytosol, but there were no differences between the relative activities towards the two substrates in any of the fractions. [(3)H]PEA hydrolysis in mitochondrial, myelin, microsomal, and synaptosomal fractions was inhibited by oleyl trifluoromethylketone, phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride, and the R(-)- and S(+)-enantiomers of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen, with mean IC(50) values in the ranges 0.028-0.041, 0.37-0.52, 67-110, and 130-260 microM, respectively. It is concluded that the pharmacological properties of FAAH in the different subcellular fractions are very similar.
The effect of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)(1-24) and alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) on grooming, stretching, yawning and penile erection was studied after injection into different brain areas. Both peptides induce the above responses when injected into the hypothalamic periventricular region of the third ventricle. This region includes the paraventricular nucleus, the dorsomedial nucleus, the ventromedial nucleus and the anterior hypothalamic area. The minimal effective dose of both peptides was 0.5 microg and the maximal effect was seen with 2 microg, the highest dose tested. Irrespective of the injection site, grooming started 5-7 min after injection of either peptide, while stretching, yawning and penile erection started only after 15-35 min and lasted for 90-120 min. In contrast both peptides were ineffective when injected into the preoptic area, the caudate nucleus or the CA1 field of the hippocampus. Grooming, stretching and yawning, but not penile erection, were prevented by cyclic[AcCys(11), D-Nal(14), Cys(18), AspNH(2)(22)]-beta-MSH (11-22) (HS014), a selective melanocortin 4 receptor antagonist, injected into the same periventricular area 10 min before of ACTH(1-24) or alpha-MSH. The results show that ACTH(1-24) and alpha-MSH act in the hypothalamic periventricular region to induce the above responses and that grooming, stretching and yawning, but not penile erection, are mediated by melanocortin 4 receptors.
We have developed two-, three- and four-compartment models of a mammalian olfactory bulb mitral cell as a reduction of a complex 286-compartment model [1]. A minimum of three compartments, representing soma, secondary (basal) dendrites and the glomerular tuft of the primary dendrite, is required to adequately reproduce the behaviour of the full model over a broad range of firing rates. Adding a fourth compartment to represent the shaft of the primary dendrite gives a substantial improvement. The reduced models exhibit behaviours in common with the full model which were not used in fitting the model parameters. The reduced models run 75 or more times faster than the full model, making their use in large, realistic network models of the olfactory bulb practical.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is thought to regulate multiple aspects of brain development and neural plasticity in vertebrates. We have examined BDNF expression in two telencephalic nuclei (RA and HVC) in the zebra finch brain that control song learning by juvenile males and the production of already-learned song by adults. Using two different antibody-labeling techniques (avidin-biotin complex and horseradish peroxidase), we were unable to detect BDNF-like immunoreactivity in RA of juvenile or adult birds. BDNF-like immunoreactive labeling of somata was detected in HVC, but the density of labeled cells was not different between juvenile and adult birds. Immunocytochemical findings were confirmed by RT-PCR for BDNF mRNA. Thus, in contrast to a previous report (Akutagawa and Konishi, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 (1998) 11429-11434), we did not observe elevated levels of BDNF immunoreactivity in RA and HVC of juvenile birds that were learning to sing. However, RA and HVC of juvenile birds were found to express elevated levels of endogenous biotin (as detected by avidin peroxidase), suggesting a possible role for biotin-regulated mechanisms in songbird vocal learning.
Development of retinal connections to the superior colliculus (SC) requires an activity dependent refinement process in which axons gradually become restricted to appropriate retinotopic locations. Nitric oxide has been implicated in this process. We tested this possibility by studying the refinement of the ipsilateral retinocollicular projections (IRP) in normal C57-BL/6 mice and in double knockout mice in which the genes for the edothelial and neuronal isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (e, nNOS) were disrupted. Mice aged between P19 and adulthood were perfused 44-48 h after anterograde injections of WGA-HRP into one eye in order to measure the distribution of the labeled IRP. In normal mice, segregation of the IRP was complete at P21, with the ipsilateral projection restricted to the rostro-medial SC. By contrast, the ipsilateral projection was spread over much more of the SC in double e, nNOS knockouts at P21 with patches of label distributed across the entire medio-lateral axis of the rostral 700 microm. Although the distribution of the ipsilateral projection became more restricted in knockout animals at later ages, it was still more extensive than that of normal mice of the same age at P28 and P42. In the adult, the distribution of axons was similar in both normal and double knockout animals. These results show that refinement of the IRP is delayed when expression of eNOS and nNOS is disrupted, presumably to axons with uncorrelated activity because nitric oxide serves as a repellant molecule during normal development.
Previous work reported increases in the number of myelinated axons in the splenium of the rat corpus callosum between 25 and 60 days of age. In the present study, we quantified the area occupied by myelinated axons using a light microscopic point counting technique at 60, 120 and 180 days. Myelinated axons increased across these ages (p=0.001). Thus, myelination of the rat corpus callosum persists well into adulthood.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gas involved in neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS) and in vertebrate retinas. This paper describes five types of nitrergic neurons in developing and adult chick retina using the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd) reaction. Three of them, nitrergic types 1, 2 and 3, were observed in the inner nuclear layer, while nitrergic type 4 was observed in the ganglion cell layer; nitrergic type 5 were the retinal photoreceptors. Cell processes formed four nitrergic networks, which could be observed in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), at sublayers 1, 3a, 3b and 4. Another nitrergic network was observed in the outer plexiform layer (OPL). From hatching, the dendritic branches were completely developed in the IPL and in the OPL, forming the mentioned networks. Current evidence suggests that NO is coexpressed with other neurotransmitters in neurons of the CNS. Double-staining procedures, using NADPHd and 5HT immunohistochemistry in chicken retina, in a sequential or in an alternative manner, did not reveal the coexistence of these two neurotransmitters in the same neurons, but their networks matched in sublayers 1 and 4 of the IPL.
Little is known about the behavior of cells within the anterior neural plate or tube in developing mammalian embryos in utero due to technical limitations. Here we labeled neuroepithelial cells with vital dye and traced their siblings for 1 or 2 days using the whole-embryo culture system. The results demonstrated that rostral cell movement from the midbrain to the forebrain in the mouse neural plate was restricted at the boundary by the five-somite stage. Coincident with restriction of cell intermingling, expression of a transcription factor, Pax6, and a cell adhesion molecule, cadherin-6, commmenced to demarcate the forebrain compartment. Within this compartment, we also mapped several prospective regions of the telencephalon and diencephalon to the eyes. The fate map of the mouse prosencephalic neural plate was very similar to those of other vertebrates, providing evidence that mammalian-specific brain structures, represented in the cerebral neocortex, could evenly develop along the conserved framework of neuromeres.
The superior cervical ganglion (SCG) is a well-characterized model of neural development, in which several regulatory signals have been identified. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) has been found to regulate diverse ontogenetic processes in sympathetics, though functional requirements for high peptide concentrations suggest that other ligands are involved. We now describe expression and functions of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) during SCG ontogeny, suggesting that the peptide plays critical roles in neurogenesis. PACAP and PACAP receptor (PAC(1)) mRNA's were detected at embryonic days 14.5 (E14.5) through E17.5 in vivo and virtually all precursors exhibited ligand and receptor, indicating that the system is expressed as neuroblasts proliferate. Exposure of cultured precursors to PACAP peptides, containing 27 or 38 residues, increased mitogenic activity 4-fold. Significantly, PACAP was 1000-fold more potent than VIP and a highly potent and selective antagonist entirely blocked effects of micromolar VIP, consistent with both peptides acting via PAC(1) receptors. Moreover, PACAP potently enhanced precursor survival more than 2-fold, suggesting that previously defined VIP effects were mediated via PAC(1) receptors and that PACAP is the more significant developmental signal. In addition to neurogenesis, PACAP promoted neuronal differentiation, increasing neurite outgrowth 4-fold and enhancing expression of neurotrophin receptors trkC and trkA. Since PACAP potently activated cAMP and PI pathways and increased intracellular Ca(2+), the peptide may interact with other developmental signals. PACAP stimulation of precursor mitosis, survival, and trk receptor expression suggests that the signaling system plays a critical autocrine role during sympathetic neurogenesis.
Lhx9 is a LIM-homeodomain (LIM-hd) transcription factor expressed in the embryonic mouse brain. We report the isolation of Lhx9alpha, a cDNA encoding a truncated isoform of Lhx9 that lacks the recognition helix of the homeodomain and differs from Lhx9 cDNA in its 3'-coding and 3'-UTR sequences. Isolation of the Lhx9 gene showed that Lhx9 and Lhx9alpha are coded by six exons spanning 10 kb of genomic sequence and that Lhx9alpha is an isoform generated by alternative splicing of the fifth exon. Lhx9 was mapped to the subtelomeric region of chromosome 1. Further molecular analysis showed that Lhx9 is a new candidate gene for the unidentified dreher (dr) mutation in mouse. The comparison of genomic structure and molecular phylogenetic analysis led to the identification of six groups of LIM-hd proteins, a basis for further classification and knowledge of their evolutionary relationships. To investigate a possible role for Lhx9alpha, the expression patterns of Lhx9 and Lhx9alpha were compared during embryogenesis. Lhx9alpha was expressed at lower levels than Lhx9, with a similar but distinct pattern in the brain, especially in the neocortex. We suggest that Lhx9alpha could function as an endogenous dominant-negative form of Lhx9 during development, both to regulate in space and time the transcriptional effects of Lhx9 and to add a degree of refinement to the LIM-hd code.
Three phenotypically different clonal human glioma cell lines were injected stereotactically into nude-rat brains, to determine their individual growth potential and to establish an in vivo system in which different therapeutic modalities could be tested. As assessed by serial sectioning, microscopic evaluation, and computer analysis, the mean approximate tumour volume after 3-7 weeks in vivo was 0.42 mm(3) for U-343 MG, 2.6 mm(3) for U-343 MGa Cl2:6, and 50.3 mm(3) for U-343 MGa 31L. When compared with the initial injected cell volume, only U-343 MGa 31L had increased in size, U-343 MGa Cl2:6 remained approximately the same but showed a certain proliferative potential, and U-343 MG regressed. Thus, only U-343 MGa 31L cells had high tumorigenic potential, invaded and replaced brain tissue in every direction, while U-343 MGa Cl2:6 cells grew in sheet-like tumour extensions along white-matter nerve-fibre tracts, in this respect mimicking foetal astrocytes. The tumorigenic potential of the U-343 MGa 31L cell clone was associated with a variable phenotype, as observed when the in vivo and in vitro characteristics were compared. The in vivo phenotype was characterized by the loss of GFAP immunoreactivity, the gain of heterogeneously distributed cellular tenascin, fibronectin, and laminin, but absence of extracellularly deposited material, and by the formation of irregular vessels. It appears that the intrinsic capacity of glioma cells to adapt to in vivo conditions is decisive for their tumorigenicity in the brain, rather than any single phenotypic property in itself. Moreover, the 2 glioma cell clones best suited for in vitro growth were no longer tumorigenic.
The present study was performed to determine how sympathetic function is altered by simulated microgravity, dry immersion for 3 days, and to elucidate the mechanism of post-spaceflight orthostatic intolerance in humans. Six healthy men aged 21-36 years old participated in the study. Before and after the dry immersion, subjects performed head-up tilt (HUT) test to 30 degrees and 60 degrees (5 min each) with recordings of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA, by microneurography), electrocardiogram, and arterial blood pressure (Finapres). Resting MSNA was increased after dry immersion from 23.7+/-3.2 to 40.9+/-3.0 bursts/min (p&lt;0.005) without significant changes in resting heart rate (HR). MSNA responsiveness to orthostasis showed no significant difference but HR response was significantly augmented after dry immersion (p&lt;0. 005). A significant diastolic blood pressure fall at 5th min of 60 degrees HUT was observed in five orthostatic tolerant subjects despite enough MSNA discharge after dry immersion. A subject suffered from presyncope at 2 min after 60 degrees HUT. He showed gradual blood pressure fall 10 s after 60 degrees HUT with initially well-maintained MSNA response and then with a gradually attenuated MSNA, followed by a sudden MSNA withdrawal and abrupt blood pressure drop. In conclusion, dry immersion increased MSNA without changing MSNA response to orthostasis, and resting HR, while increasing the HR response to orthostasis. Analyses of MSNA and blood pressure changes in orthostatic tolerant subjects and a subject with presyncope suggested that not only insufficient vasoconstriction to sympathetic stimuli, but also a central mechanism to induce a sympathetic withdrawal might play a role in the development of orthostatic intolerance after microgravity exposure.
Barrington's nucleus (BN) has been considered a pontine center related exclusively to the control of pelvic parasympathetic activity. The present study demonstrates an anatomical linkage between BN and autonomic outflow to visceral targets innervated exclusively by the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. Temporal analysis of infection after injection of pseudorabies virus (PRV), a retrograde transynaptic tracer, into two sympathetically innervated organs, the spleen and the kidney, revealed the presence of infected neurons in BN at early post-inoculation survival intervals. Immunohistochemical localization of PRV after spleen injections showed that a small subpopulation of BN neurons became labeled in a time frame coincident with the appearance of infected neurons in other brain regions known to project to sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) in the thoracic spinal cord; a larger number of infected neurons appeared in BN at intermediate intervals after PRV injections into the spleen or kidney. Coinjection of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold i.p. and PRV into the spleen demonstrated that parasympathetic preganglionic neurons in the caudal medulla or lumbo-sacral spinal cord were not infected, indicating that infected BN neurons were not infected via a parasympathetic route. Thus, BN neurons become infected after PRV injections into the spleen or kidney either directly through BN projections to SPNs, or secondarily via BN projections to infected pre-preganglionic neurons. These results demonstrate an anatomical linkage, either direct or indirect, between BN and sympathetic activity. Because BN receives numerous inputs from diverse brain regions, the relation of BN with both branches of the autonomic nervous system suggests that this nucleus might play a role in the integration of supraspinal inputs relevant to the central coordination of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity.
To establish the underlying cause of hyper-IgM syndrome in one female patient, B cell function was examined in response to CD40- and IL-4-mediated pathways. When CD40-induced functional responses were measured in unfractionated B cells, CD80 up-regulation, de novo Cmu-Cgamma recombination, and Igamma transcription were all found to be relatively unaffected. However, CD40- and IL-4-mediated CD23 up-regulation and VDJ-Cgamma transcription were clearly diminished compared to control cells. IL-4-induced CD23 expression was measurably reduced in the CD20- population as well. These results suggested that the patient's defect is positioned downstream of CD40 contact and affects both CD40- and IL-4 signal transduction pathways. Further analysis of B cell function in CD19+ B cells revealed a clear B cell defect with respect to Igamma and mature VDJ-Cgamma transcription and IgG expression. However, under the same conditions Iepsilon transcription was relatively normal. Partial restoration of B cell function occurred if PBMC or CD19+ B cells were cultured in vitro in the presence of CD154 plus IL-4. Because addition of IL-4 to cocultures containing activated T cells failed to induce B cells to undergo differentiation, the ability of the patient's B cells to acquire a responsive phenotype correlated with receiving a sustained signal through CD40. These findings support a model in which the patient expresses an intrinsic defect that is manifested in the failure of specific genes to become transcriptionally active in response to either CD154 or IL-4 and results in a functionally unresponsive B cell phenotype.
A number of peptide toxins derived from marine snails and various spiders have been shown to potently inhibit voltage-dependent calcium channels. Here, we describe the effect of calcicludine, a 60 amino-acid peptide isolated from the venom of the green mamba (Dendroaspis angusticeps), on transiently expressed high voltage-activated calcium channels. Upon application of calcicludine, L-type (alpha(1)(C)) calcium channels underwent a rapid, irreversible decrease in peak current amplitude with no change in current kinetics, or any apparent voltage-dependence. However, even at saturating toxin concentrations, block was always incomplete with a maximum inhibition of 58%, indicating either partial pore block, or an effect on channel gating. Block nonetheless was of high affinity with an IC(50) value of 88 nm. Three other types of high voltage activated channels tested (alpha(1)(A), alpha(1)(B), and alpha(1)(E)) exhibited a diametrically different response to calcicludine. First, the maximal inhibition observed was around 10%, furthermore, the voltage-dependence of channel activation was shifted slightly towards more negative potentials. Thus, at relatively hyperpolarized test potentials, calcicludine actually upregulated current activity of (N-type) alpha(1)(B) channels by as much as 50%. Finally, the use of several chimeric channels combining the major transmembrane domains of alpha(1)(C) and alpha(1)(E) revealed that calcicludine block of L-type calcium channels involves interactions with multiple structural domains. Overall, calcicludine is a potent and selective inhibitor of neuronal L-type channels with a unique mode of action.
The fish auditory system provides important insights into the evolution and mechanisms of vertebrate hearing. Fish have relatively simple auditory systems, without a cochlea for mechanical frequency analysis. However, as in all vertebrates, the primary auditory afferents of fish represent sounds as stimulus-entrained spike trains. Thus, fish provide important models for studying how temporal spiking patterns are used in higher level neural computations. In this paper we demonstrate that one of the fundamental transformations of information in the auditory system of a sound-producing fish, Pollimyrus, takes place in the auditory medulla. We discovered a class of neurons in which evoked spiking patterns were relatively independent of the stimulus fine structure and appeared to reflect intrinsic properties of the neurons. These neurons generated sustained responses but were poorly phase-locked to tones compared with the primary afferents. The interval histograms showed that spike timing was regular. However, in contrast to primary afferents, the mode of the interspike interval distribution was independent of the period of tonal stimuli. The tuning of the neurons was broad, with best sensitivity in the same spectral region where these animals concentrate energy in their communication sounds. The physiology of these neurons was similar to that of the chopper neurons known in the auditory brainstem of mammals. Our findings suggest that this medullary transformation, from phase-locked afferent input to chopper-like physiology, is basic to vertebrate auditory processing, even within lineages that have not evolved a cochlea.
In mammals, two recent studies have shown recently that one odor molecule can be recognized by several molecular olfactory receptors (ORs), and a single OR can recognize multiple odor molecules. In addition, one olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) may respond to different stimuli chosen as representative of distinct odor qualities. The aim of the present study was to analyze quality and intensity coding abilities of rat single ORNs, comparing them with previous extensive data gathered in the frog to get insight into the generality of olfactory coding mechanisms over vertebrates. Response properties of 90 rat ORNs to different odors or to one odor at different concentrations were analyzed. In the rat and the frog, odor quality appears to be specified through the identity of activated ORNs. However, rat ORNs have higher response thresholds. This lower sensitivity may be interpreted as an increase in selectivity of rat ORNs for low or medium odor intensities. In these conditions, the lower proportion of activated ORNs could be counterbalanced by their number, as well as by their higher glomerular convergence ratio in the olfactory bulb. From amphibians to mammals, the olfactory system appears to use universal mechanisms based on a combinatorial-coding mode that may allow quasi-infinite possibilities of adaptation to various olfactory environments.
Repeated amphetamine administration is known to produce changes in corticoaccumbens function that persist beyond termination of drug administration. We have found previously that long-term alteration in dopamine systems leads to changes in gap junction communication, expressed as dye coupling, between striatal neurons. In this study, the cellular bases of amphetamine-induced changes were examined using in vivo intracellular recordings and dye injection in ventral prefrontal-accumbens system neurons of control and amphetamine-treated rats. Rats that had been withdrawn from repeated amphetamine displayed a significant increase in the incidence of dye coupling in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, which persisted for up to 28 d after withdrawal. The increased coupling was limited to projection neurons in both prefrontal cortical and accumbens brain regions, as identified by their axonal trajectory or the absence of interneuron-selective immunocytochemical markers. These changes occurred with no substantial loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals in these cortical and accumbens regions, ruling out dopamine degeneration as a precipitating factor. Previous studies showed that nitric oxide plays a role in the regulation of coupling; however, amphetamine-withdrawn rats had fewer numbers of neurons and processes that stained for nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. In amphetamine-treated rats, a higher proportion of cortical cells fired in bursts, and a larger proportion of accumbens and prefrontal cortical neurons exhibited bistable membrane oscillations. By increasing corticoaccumbens transmission, amphetamine withdrawal may lead to neuronal synchronization via gap junctions. Furthermore, this adaptation to amphetamine treatment persists long after the drug is withdrawn.
The myelin-associated proteins NI-35/250 exert a powerful inhibition on axon regeneration, but their function exerted on intact neurons is still unclear. In the adult CNS these proteins are thought to regulate axon growth processes to confine plasticity within restricted regions and to prevent the formation of aberrant connections. We have recently shown that application of neutralizing IN-1 antibody Fab fragment against NI-35/250 proteins to the adult cerebellum induces the expression of injury/growth-associated markers in intact Purkinje cells. Here, we asked whether these cellular modifications are accompanied by growth phenomena of Purkinje neurites. A single intraparenchymal application of IN-1 Fab fragment to the adult cerebellum induces a profuse sprouting of Purkinje axons along their intracortical course. The newly formed processes spread to cover most of the granular layer depth. A significant axon outgrowth is evident 2 d after injection; it tends to increase at 5 and 7 d, but it is almost completely reversed after 1 month. No axonal modifications occur in control Fab-treated cerebella. The IN-1 Fab fragment-induced cellular changes and axon remodeling are essentially reproduced by applying affinity-purified antibody 472 raised against a peptide sequence of the recombinant protein NI-220, thus confirming the specificity of the applied treatments on these myelin-associated molecules. Functional neutralization of NI-35/250 proteins induces outgrowth from uninjured Purkinje neurites in the adult cerebellum. Together with previous observations, this suggests that these molecules regulate axonal plasticity to maintain the proper targeting of terminal arbors within specific gray matter regions.
So-called 200 Hz ripples occur as transient EEG oscillations superimposed on physiological sharp waves in a number of limbic regions of the rat, either awake or anesthetized. In CA1, ripples have maximum amplitude in stratum pyramidale. Many pyramidal cells fail to fire during a ripple, or fire infrequently, superimposed on the sharp wave-associated depolarization, whereas interneurons can fire at high frequencies, possibly as fast as the ripple itself. Recently, we have predicted that networks of pyramidal cells, interconnected by axon-axon gap junctions and without interconnecting chemical synapses, can generate coherent population oscillations at &gt;100 Hz. Here, we show that such networks, to which interneurons have been added along with chemical synaptic interactions between respective cell types, can generate population ripples superimposed on afferent input-induced intracellular depolarizations. During simulated ripples, interneurons fire at high rates, whereas pyramidal cells fire at lower rates. The model oscillation is generated by the electrically coupled pyramidal cell axons, which then phasically excite interneurons at ripple frequency. The oscillation occurs transiently because rippling can express itself only when axons and cells are sufficiently depolarized. Our model predicts the occurrence of spikelets (fast prepotentials) in some pyramidal cells during sharp waves.
The single-channel properties of AMPA receptors can affect information processing in neurons by influencing the amplitude and kinetics of synaptic currents, yet little is known about the unitary properties of native AMPA receptors in situ. Using whole-cell and outside-out patch-clamp recordings from granule cells in acute cerebellar slices, we found that migrating granule cells begin to express AMPA receptors before they arrive in the internal granule cell layer and receive synaptic input. At saturating agonist concentrations, the open probability of channels in outside-out patches from migrating cells was very high, allowing us to identify patches that contained only one or two active channels. Analysis of the single-channel activity in these patches showed that individual AMPA receptors exhibit as many as four distinguishable conductance levels. The conductance levels observed varied substantially for different channels, although on average the values fell within the range of unitary conductances estimated previously for synaptic AMPA receptors. In contrast to patches from migrating granule cells, we rarely observed directly resolvable single-channel currents in patches excised from the somata of granule cells in the internal granular layer, even though these cells gave large AMPA receptor whole-cell currents. We did, however, detect AMPA receptors with apparent unitary conductances of &lt;1 pS in patches from both migrating and mature granule cells. Our results suggest that granule cells express a heterogeneous population of AMPA receptors, a subset of which are segregated to postsynaptic sites after synaptogenesis.
A method for making a fine carbon-fibre microelectrode is suggested here. The diameter of the recording tip of the proposed microelectrode at the borderline of glass insulation is 2-4 microm. The method uses tapering and trimming the tip of a factory-made carbon-fibre with pulsed electric current. The treated fibre is introduced into a glass micropipette of desired parameters and is fixed in it. The proposed microelectrodes have good characteristics for extracellular recording of action and synaptic potentials. The fine tip of the microelectrode can pick out a firing activity of a small single unit better and injures the nerve tissue less in comparison with the ordinary carbon-fibre microelectrode.
We analyze the locomotor behavior of the rat during exploration, and show that digitally collected data (time series of positions) provide a sufficient basis for establishing that the rat uses several distinct modes of motion (first, second, third, and sometimes fourth gear). The distinction between these modes is obtained by first segmenting the time series into sequences of data points occurring between arrests (as ascertained within the resolution of the data acquisition system). The statistical distribution of the maximal amount of motion occurring within each of these episodes is then analyzed and shown to be multi modal. This enables us to decompose motion into distinct modes. In one application of this decomposition we show that the ethological ad hoc notion of stopping behavior corresponds to progression without leaving first gear. We do so by showing that the spatial spread of such progressions is confined to a small 20-50 cm range in a 6.5 m diameter arena. This provides a justification for a construct of 'staying in place'. This construct is not defined in terms of position in objective space, but purely in terms of the rat's own behavior. We test the generality of our method by applying it to mouse exploratory behavior.
A method for quantitatively measuring measuring multicomponents of otoacoustic emissions (OAE) was developed in this study. The method is based on the rationale that, if the acoustic emission is a vector sum of multicomponents coming from different locations in the cochlea, each component will show a delay. The proposed method consists of the following steps: (1) the amplitude and phase of the emission is measured when the emission frequency is swept; (2) the real part of the spectrum is obtained based on the amplitude and phase spectra; and (3) the real part of the emission spectrum is then analyzed using a Fourier transform to extract the multiple components. The theoretical basis and practical procedure of this method are described, and in vitro and in vivo tests are used to demonstrate the validity of the method. Preliminary data demonstrate the multicomponents of the extracochlear electrically evoked otoacoustic emission (EEOAE).
The aim of this study was to compare different methods for the evaluation of functional nerve recovery. Three groups of adult male Wistar rats were studied. In group A, a 12-mm gap between nerve ends was bridged by an autologous nerve graft; in rats of group B we performed a crush lesion of the sciatic nerve and group C consisted of non-operated control rats. The withdrawal reflex, elicited by an electric stimulus, was used to evaluate the recovery of sensory nerve function. To investigate motor nerve recovery we analyzed the walking pattern. Three different methods were used to obtain data for footprint analysis: photographic paper with thickened film developer on the paws, normal white paper with finger paint, and video recordings. The footprints were used to calculate the sciatic function index (SFI). From the video recordings, we also analyzed stepcycles. The withdrawal reflex is a convenient and reproducible test for the evaluation of global sensory nerve recovery. Recording walking movements on video and the analysis of footplacing is a perfect although time-consuming method for the evaluation of functional aspects of motor nerve recovery.
Adhesion responses triggered by integrin-class matrix receptors have been implicated in the synaptic reorganization events necessary for certain types of neuronal plasticity. Hippocampal slice cultures were used to test whether the related structural transformations elicited by NMDA receptor stimulation are regulated by integrin-type signals. Infusing the slices with NMDA for a short period induced the expected disassembly of the cytoskeletal network, measured with antibodies that selectively recognize spectrin cleavage sites targeted by the protease calpain. Marked levels of the 150-kDa breakdown product (BDP) were produced, whereas concentrations of the parent spectrin were not changed. Interestingly, the calpain cleavage events were attenuated by 60% when integrin-type signaling was disrupted with the antagonist Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser-Pro (GRGDSP). This effect was RGDS-dependent, was largely evident in synapse-dense dendritic areas, particularly in subfield CA1, and was abolished when the NMDA exposure period was &gt;5 min. These findings suggest that only those cytoskeletal alterations associated with brief synaptic activity are regulated by intact contact zones. AMPA-type glutamate receptors also were tested because, like spectrin, they are targets for calpain. Brief NMDA treatment caused a 15% loss of AMPA receptor GluR1 carboxytermini and this modification was augmented to 32% in the presence of GRGDSP. Thus, although blockage of matrix recognition signals decreased spectrin's susceptibility to disassembly, it increased the susceptibility of AMPA receptors to proteolysis. These data indicate that integrin-type signaling complexes are appropriately positioned to govern cytoskeletal reconfiguration while stabilizing the structural nature of AMPA receptors.
RC3 (neurogranin; BICKS) is a neuron-specific calmodulin-binding protein kinase C substrate. Thus far, immunohistochemical studies on the localization of RC3 revealed its presence in all neuronal phenotypes, which were restricted to specific areas in the neostriatum, the neocortex, and the hippocampus. RC3 was mostly found in cell bodies and dendrites, with some infrequent presence in axonal profiles, i.e. in the internal capsule. Until now, RC3 expression was reported to be absent in the adult rat spinal cord. RC3 might, however, act as an intermediate of protein kinase C-mediated signaling pathways during synaptic development and plasticity. We hypothesized a role for this 78-amino-acid protein in dendritic plasticity occurring after spinal cord injury. To our surprise, an immunohistological analysis of the uninjured adult rat spinal cord revealed the presence of RC3-positive cell bodies and dendrites in specific regions in the gray matter. Interestingly, axon-containing structures, such as the dorsal and ventral corticospinal tract, were also found to be RC3-positive. This axonal labeling was confirmed by preembedding electron microscopy. In conclusion, we demonstrate here that RC3 is present in the adult rat spinal cord in pre- and postsynaptic structures.
A modulation of the expression of immediate-early genes (IEGs) such as c-fos is likely involved in the long-term influence of dopaminergic ligands on the activity of basal ganglia neurons. The roles of individual dopamine receptor types in this regard remain unclear, and the present study employed primary cultures of rat striatal neurons to examine the potential modulation of c-fos expression by D(3) receptors. Neurons were treated with the preferential D(3) receptor agonists, (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT and PD 128,907, which showed, respectively, 16-fold and 56-fold selectivity for recombinant rat D(3) vs. D(2) receptors (K(i) values, rD(2)/rD(3) = 59.5/3.7 nM and 251/4.5 nM, respectively). At concentrations of 3 and 30 nM, respectively, (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT and PD 128,907 significantly increased the expression of c-fos mRNA. The action of (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT was expressed stereospecifically; its (+)-isomer (K(i) values, D(3)/D(2) = 1.6/56.7 elicited a 26% +/- 7.6% increase in c-fos expression whereas its (-)-isomer (K(i) values, D(3)/D(2) = 59/1,060 nM) was ineffective. Further, stimulation of c-fos mRNA expression by PD 128,907 (20 nM) was markedly and significantly (P &lt; 0.05) attenuated (-91.8% +/- 5.3%) by 30 nM of the selective D(3) receptor antagonist, (+)-S 14297 (K(i) values, D(3)/D(2) = 11/401 nM). In contrast, the action of PD 128,907 was significantly less affected (-24.5% +/- 7.8%) by 30 nM of its less active distomer, (-)-S 17777 (K(i) values, D(3)/D(2) = 294/3,191 nM). An examination of the concentration-response relationship revealed that (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT and PD 128,907 both produced bell-shaped dose-response curves for c-fos induction. The sequential activation of D(2) receptors-which inhibit striatal c-fos expression (Simpson and Morris [1995] Neuroscience 68:97-106)-by higher concentrations of (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT and PD 128,907 is presumably involved in the inflexion at higher doses. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate that activation of D(3) receptors results in a selective induction of c-fos mRNA expression in cultured striatal neurons. These data show that neuronal D(3) receptors control the expression of IEGs and suggest that D(3) receptors may mediate long-term adapative changes in the activity of neurons in the basal ganglia.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from neurons in the superfused retina-eyecup preparation of the rabbit under dark-adapted conditions. Neurotransmitter agonists and antagonists were applied exogenously via the superfusate to dissect the synaptic pathways pharmacologically and thereby determine those pathways responsible for the generation of the on-centre/off-surround receptive fields of AII amacrine cells. 2. Application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, APB, reversibly blocked both the on-centre and off-surround responses of AII cells. These data were consistent with the idea that both the centre- and surround-mediated responses are derived from inputs from the presynaptic rod bipolar cells. 3. Whereas rod bipolar cells showed on-receptive fields approximately 100 microm across, we found no evidence for an antagonistic off-surround response using light stimuli which effectively elicited the off-surrounds of AII amacrine cells. These results indicated that the surrounds of AII cells are not derived from rod bipolar cell inputs. 4. Application of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists CNQX or DNQX enhanced the on-centre responses of AII cells but attenuated the off-surround responses. These data indicated that the centre- and surround-mediated responses could not both be derived from signals crossing the rod bipolar-to-AII cell synapse. 5. Application of the glycine antagonist, strychnine, had only minor and variable effects on AII cell responses. However, the GABA antagonists picrotoxin and bicuculline enhanced the on-centre response but attenuated or completely blocked the off-surround response of AII cells. The GABA antagonists had no effect on the responses of horizontal cells indicating that their effects on AII cell responses reflected actions on inner retinal circuitry rather than feedback circuitry in the outer plexiform layer. 6. Application of the voltage-gated sodium channel blocker TTX enhanced the on-centre responses of AII cells but attenuated or abolished their off-surround responses. 7. Taken together, our results suggest that the on-centre responses of AII cells result from the major excitatory drive from rod bipolar cells. However, the surround receptive fields of AII cells appear to be generated by lateral, inhibitory signals derived from neighbouring GABAergic, on-centre amacrine cells. A model is presented whereby the S1 amacrine cells produce the surround receptive fields of AII amacrine cells via inhibitory, feedback circuitry to the axon terminals of rod bipolar cells.
1. Local inhibition in the deep layers of the superior colliculus plays a crucial role in sensorimotor integration. Using intracellular and extracellular recording techniques, we studied the organization of inhibitory circuits in the deep layers of the superior colliculus in anaesthetized rabbits. 2. We identified a new cell type in the deep superior colliculus that showed a characteristic burst response to stimulation of both the predorsal bundle and optic chiasm. The response had a jittering latency and failed to follow high frequency stimuli, indicating trans-synaptic (orthodromic) events. Moreover, the predorsal bundle stimulation-evoked orthodromic response could be made to collide with the response to a preceding stimulation of the optic chiasm, suggesting that burst-firing cells received excitatory inputs from the axonal collaterals of predorsal bundle-projecting cells. 3. Stimulation of the predorsal bundle could evoke an IPSP in predorsal bundle-projecting cells. The latency of the IPSP was 0.5-1.0 ms longer than the orthodromic response in burst-firing cells. Simultaneous recordings showed that the IPSP in predorsal bundle-projecting cells was preceded by a burst of extracellular spikes from burst-firing cells with short latency ( approximately 0.9 ms), indicating an inhibitory monosynaptic connection from burst-firing cells to predorsal bundle-projecting cells. 4. Burst-firing cells exhibited a prolonged depression after the predorsal bundle or optic chiasm stimulation due to an inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Latency analysis implies that burst-firing cells may form mutual inhibitory connections. 5. Together our results suggest that burst-firing cells and predorsal bundle-projecting cells form reciprocal excitatory and inhibitory connections and burst-firing cells may function as the recurrent inhibitory interneurons in the deep layers of the rabbit superior colliculus.
1. Effects of external pH on the human P2X4 purinoceptor, an ATP-activated ion channel, were studied using the Xenopus oocyte expression system. 2. Changing the external pH from 7.4 to 6.5 significantly reduced, whilst an increase to pH 8 enhanced, maximum ATP-activated current amplitude, without changing the current- voltage relationship of the ATP-activated current. 3. Diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC; 10 mM) treatment of P2X4-injected oocytes had no effect on the pH sensitivity of the ATP-activated current. 4. Site-directed mutagenesis of histidine 286 (H286) to alanine completely abolished the pH sensitivity of the P2X4 receptor at all agonist concentrations. ATP potency showed a small (fourfold) leftward shift. Mutagenesis of the other three histidines present in the P2X4 sequence had no effect on pH sensitivity. 5. The results show that pH modulation of P2X4 in the pathophysiological range is mediated by protonation of H286. This provides direct confirmation that pH sensitivity resides in the P2X4 channel protein rather than the agonist species.
1. Capsaicin and ATP can activate ligand-gated cation channels in nociceptive rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones. We have studied cross-desensitization between these two agents in rat isolated DRG neurones using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. 2. ATP (10 microM) activated an inward current in DRG neurones at a holding potential of -60 mV. ATP evoked 'fast' responses that underwent rapid activation and desensitization, 'slow' responses that activated and desensitized more slowly, or responses that displayed a mixture of these two characteristics. The time course of the response to ATP was not related obviously to capsaicin sensitivity. 3. Prior application of capsaicin (0.5 microM) increased the proportion of cells displaying only fast responses to ATP (10 microM) suggesting that cross-desensitization had occurred between capsaicin and the slow component of the ATP response. Prior desensitization to ATP had no apparent effect on the inward current response to capsaicin (0.5 microM). 4. Cross-desensitization between capsaicin and ATP was Ca2+ dependent. 5. Changing the membrane holding potential (Vh) to +40 mV for brief period before applying ATP at -60 mV had a similar effect to capsaicin, i.e. the proportion of cells displaying only fast responses to ATP was increased significantly. This effect of depolarization was not Ca2+ dependent. 6. The heterogenity of responses to ATP is probably due to co-expression of homomeric P2X3 receptors and heteromeric receptors comprising P2X3 subunits with other P2X subunits. We propose that the change in time course of the ATP response produced by prior desensitization to capsaicin is due to selective cross-desensitization with the heteromeric P2X receptors.
The glutamatergic projection from the anterior cingulate cortex to the medial caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) has been implicated in motor and cognitive functions, many of which are potently modulated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDARs). To determine the functional sites for NMDAR activation within this circuitry, we combined anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) from deep layers of the rat anterior cingulate cortex with immunogold labeling of NMDAR subunit, NMDAR1, in the dorsomedial CPN. BDA-containing axons were seen in patch-like clusters in a neuropil that showed more uniform immunogold-silver labeling for NMDAR1. Electron microscopy of these regions showed that BDA-labeling was present exclusively in axons and terminals, 23% (98 of 421) of which also contained NMDAR1-immunoreactivity (IR). BDA-labeled terminals often apposed NMDAR1-immunoreactive neuronal and glial profiles. These terminals also formed asymmetric excitatory-type synapses with dendritic spines. Of 155 anterogradely labeled axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses, 34% were with NMDAR1-labeled, and 66% with unlabeled dendritic spines. These results provide ultrastructural evidence for the involvement of NMDARs in presynaptic regulation of glutamate transmission, and in postsynaptic modulation of the excitability of spiny neurons in patch-like compartments of the dorsomedial CPN. These dual NMDAR-mediated actions are likely to play a major role in the acquisition of new behaviors and reward-related processes that have been associated with cortical input to the striatal patch compartments.
We investigated the effects of a schizophrenomimetic drug, phencyclidine (PCP), on substance P (SP) contents in the discrete rat brain areas using an enzyme-immunoassay for SP. The acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of PCP (10 mg/kg), which is a noncompetitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptor and a dopamine uptake inhibitor, reduced the concentration of the peptide in the prefrontal cortex, limbic forebrain, striatum, and substantia nigra, but not in the ventral tegmental area, at 60 or 120 min postinjection. A selective noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, dizocilpine hydrogen maleate ((+)-MK-801) (1 mg/kg, i.p.), also caused a decrease in the SP content in the prefrontal cortex and limbic forebrain but failed to alter the content in the other areas studied 30 min thereafter. Dopamine agonists, methamphetamine (4.8 mg/kg, i.p.) and apomorphine (4.4 mg/kg, i.p.), diminished the SP contents in the striatum and substantia nigra 60 min after their injection without effects in the prefrontal cortex, limbic forebrain, and ventral tegmental area. Furthermore, pretreatment with haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.), a D2 preferable dopamine receptor antagonist and a typical antipsychotic, blocked the ability of PCP to decrease the SP concentrations in the substantia nigra but not in the prefrontal cortex. PCP, therefore, might diminish the SP levels by NMDA receptor-mediated and dopamine-independent mechanisms in the prefrontal cortex and limbic forebrain, but by NMDA receptor-independent and dopamine-dependent mechanisms in the striatum and substantia nigra. The haloperidol-insensitive reduction of the frontal SP could be involved in certain neuroleptic-resistant symptoms of PCP-treated animals, PCP psychosis, or schizophrenia.



Communication-incompetent cell lines were transfected with connexin (Cx) 43 fused with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) to examine the relation between Cx distribution determined by fluorescence microscopy and electrical coupling measured at single-channel resolution in living cell pairs. Cx43-EGFP channel properties were like those of wild-type Cx43 except for reduced sensitivity to transjunctional voltage. Cx43-EGFP clustered into plaques at locations of cell-cell contact. Coupling was always absent in the absence of plaques and even in the presence of small plaques. Plaques exceeding several hundred channels always conferred coupling, but only a small fraction of channels were functional. These data indicate that clustering may be a requirement for opening of gap junction channels.
Using in vivo microdialysis, we measured hippocampal extracellular glucose concentrations in rats while they performed spontaneous alternation tests of spatial working memory in one of two mazes. Extracellular glucose levels in the hippocampus decreased by 32% below baseline during the test period on the more complex maze, but by a maximum of 11% on the less complex maze. Comparable decreases were not observed in samples taken from rats tested on the more complex maze but with probes located near but outside of the hippocampus. Systemic glucose fully blocked any decrease in extracellular glucose and enhanced alternation on the more complex maze. These findings suggest that cognitive activity can deplete extracellular glucose in the hippocampus and that exogenous glucose administration reverses the depletion while enhancing task performance.

The nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) receives descending connections from several forebrain targets of the gustatory system, including the insular cortex. Many taste-responsive cells in the NST are inhibited by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In the present study, we investigated the effects of cortical stimulation on the activity of gustatory neurons in the NST. Multibarrel glass micropipettes were used to record the activity of NST neurons extracellularly and to apply the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BICM) into the vicinity of the cell. Taste stimuli were 0.032 M sucrose (S), 0.032 M NaCl (N), 0.00032 M citric acid (H), and 0.032 M quinine hydrochloride (Q), presented to the anterior tongue. Each of 50 NST cells was classified as S-, N-, H-, or Q-best on the basis of its response to chemical stimulation of the tongue. The ipsilateral insular cortex was stimulated both electrically (0.5 mA, 100 Hz, 0.2 ms) and chemically (10 mM DL-homocysteic acid, DLH), while the spontaneous activity of each NST cell was recorded. The baseline activity of 34% of the cells (n=17) was modulated by cortical stimulation: eight cells were inhibited and nine were excited. BICM microinjected into the NST blocked the cortical-induced inhibition but had no effect on the excitatory response. Although the excitatory effects were distributed across S-, N-, and H-best neurons, the inhibitory effects of cortical stimulation were significantly more common in N-best cells. These data suggest that corticofugal input to the NST may differentially inhibit gustatory afferent activity through GABAergic mechanisms.
Electrophysiologically complex glial cells have been widely identified from different regions of the central nervous system and constitute a dominant glial type in juvenile mice or rats. As these cells express several types of ion channels and neurotransmitter channels that were thought to be only present in neurons, this glial cell type has attracted considerable attention. However, the actual classification of these electrophysiologically complex glial cells remains unclear. They have been speculated to be an immature astrocyte because, although these cells show positive staining for the predominantly astrocytic marker S 100beta, it has not been possible to show staining for the commonly accepted mature astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). To address the question of whether these cells might express GFAP at the transcript level, we combined patch-clamp electrophysiological recording with single cell RT-PCR for GFAP mRNA in glial cells acutely isolated from 4 to 12 postnatal day rats. In fresh cell suspensions from the CA1 region, complex glial cells were found to be the dominant cell type (65% total cells). We found that the majority of these electrophysiologically complex cells (74%) were positive for GFAP mRNA. We also showed that the complex cells responded to AMPA and GABA application, and these were also GFAP mRNA positive. We also fixed and stained the preparations for GFAP without electrophysiological recording to better preserve GFAP immunoreactively. In agreement with other studies, only 1.5% of these presumed electrophysiologically complex cells, based on morphology, showed immunoreactivity for GFAP. The expression of GFAP at the transcript level indicates GFAP (-)/GFAP mRNA (+) glial cells have an astrocytic identity. As single cell RT-PCR is able to detect both GFAP (-)/GFAP mRNA (+) and GFAP (+)/GFAP mRNA (+) astrocytic subtypes, the present study also suggests it is a feasible approach for astrocytic lineage studies.
The two inbred Fischer and Lewis rat strains display differences in acquisition of drug self-administration, suggesting genetic factors controlling the vulnerability to drugs of abuse. In this study, we analyzed the effects of acute and chronic cocaine and morphine on mRNAs encoding the NGFI-B/Nur77 family of nuclear orphan receptors in reward pathways in Fischer and Lewis rats. After a single injection of cocaine, a similar upregulation of NGFI-B mRNA in striatal subregions and cortex cinguli was seen in both Fischer and Lewis rats. In contrast, Nor1 mRNA was only significantly upregulated by cocaine in the Fischer rats. Morphine increased NGFI-B mRNA in medial caudate putamen and cortex cinguli in Lewis rats and Nor1 mRNA in medial caudate putamen in Fischer rats. Chronic cocaine upregulated NGFI-B mRNA in nucleus accumbens core, lateral caudate putamen and cingulate cortex in Fischer rats, whereas no effect was seen in Lewis rats. In contrast, Nor1 mRNA levels were upregulated in Lewis rats in medial caudate putamen and cingulate cortex after chronic cocaine and in cingulate cortex after chronic morphine. No effect on Nor1 mRNA levels was seen in Fischer rats after chronic treatments. Our results demonstrate different responses in addiction-prone Lewis rats as compared to the less addiction-prone Fischer rats with respect to NGFI-B and Nor1 mRNA regulation after acute and repeated administration of cocaine and morphine. Thus, we suggest that the transcription factors NGFI-B and Nor1 might be involved in the control of behaviors such as sensitized locomotor response, craving and aversion that appears after repeated administration of abused drugs.
Kainate receptors are ionotropic receptors, also reported to couple to G(i)/G(o) proteins, increasing neuronal excitability through disinhibition of neuronal circuits. We directly tested in hippocampal synaptosomes if kainate receptor-mediated inhibition of GABA release involved a metabotropic action. The kainate analogue, domoate (3 microM), inhibited by 24% [(3)H]GABA-evoked release, an effect reduced by 76% in synaptosomes pre-treated with pertussis toxin. Protein kinase C inhibition attenuated by 82% domoate-induced inhibition of GABA release whereas protein kinase C activation did not change kainate receptor binding. Thus, domoate inhibition of GABA release recruits G(i)/G(o) proteins and a protein kinase C pathway.
To determine the intracellular signaling mechanism of the 5-HT(2C) receptor endogenously expressed in choroid plexus epithelial cells, we implemented a strategy of targeted disruption of protein-protein interactions. This strategy entails the delivery of conjugated membrane-permeable peptides that disrupt domain interaction at specific steps in the signaling cascade. As proof of concept, two peptides targeted against receptor-G protein interaction domains were examined. Only G(q)CT, which targets the receptor-G(q) protein interacting domain, disrupted 5-HT(2C) receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositide hydrolysis. G(s)CT, targeting the receptor-G(s) protein, disrupted beta2 adrenergic receptor-mediated activation of cAMP but not 5-HT(2C) receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositide hydrolysis. The peptide MPS-PLCbeta1M, mimicking the domain of phospholipase Cbeta1 (PLCbeta1) interacting with active Galpha(q), also blocked 5-HT(2C) receptor activation. In contrast, peptides PLCbeta2M and Phos that bind to and sequester free Gbetagamma subunits were ineffective at blocking 5-HT(2C) receptor-mediated phosphoinositol turnover. However, both peptides disrupted Gbetagamma-mediated alpha(2A) adrenergic receptor activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase. These results provide the first direct demonstration that active Galpha(q) subunits mediate endogenous 5-HT(2C) receptor activation of PLCbeta and that Gbetagamma subunits released from Galpha(q) heterotrimeric proteins are not involved. Comparable results were obtained with metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 expressed in astrocytes. Thus, conjugated, membrane-permeable peptides are effective tools for the dissection of intracellular signals.
Ca(2+)-sensitive adenylyl cyclases may act as early integrators of the two major second messenger-signaling pathways mediated by Ca(2+) and cAMP. Ca(2+) stimulation of adenylyl cyclase type I (ACI) and adenylyl cyclase type VIII (ACVIII) is mediated by calmodulin and the site on these adenylyl cyclases that interacts with calmodulin has been defined. By contrast, the mechanism whereby Ca(2+) inhibits adenylyl cyclase type V (ACV) and adenylyl cyclase type VI (ACVI) is unknown. In this study, Ca(2+), Sr(2+), and Ba(2+) were compared to probe the involvement of E-F hand-like domains in both Ca(2+) stimulation and inhibition of ACVIII and ACVI, respectively. HEK 293 cells transfected with ACVIII cDNA and C6-2B glioma cells (where the endogenous adenylyl cyclases is predominantly ACVI) were used to compare the effects of these three cations in in vitro and in vivo measurements. The in vitro data identified two Ca(2+) regulatory sites for both ACVIII and ACVI. Strikingly different potency series for these cations at mediating high affinity stimulation and inhibition of ACVIII and ACVI, respectively, effectively rule out the possibility that calmodulin or proteins utilizing similar Ca(2+)-binding motifs mediate inhibition of ACVI. On the other hand, the low affinity inhibition that is common to both ACVIII and ACVI showed virtually identical potency profiles for the IIa cation series, indicating a common site of action. Remarkably, whereas Sr(2+) was rather ineffective at regulating these cyclases (particularly ACVI) in vitro, adequate concentrations accumulated in the vicinity of these enzymes as a consequence of capacitative cation entry to partially regulate both of these activities in vivo. This latter finding consolidates earlier observations that Ca(2+)-sensitive adenylyl cyclases detect and respond to capacitative cation entry rather than global cytosolic cation concentrations.
The effect of muscimol and baclofen injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) was studied in male rats. Muscimol (20-200 ng), but not baclofen (200 ng), injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus 10 min before apomorphine (50 ng), oxytocin (10 ng) or NMDA (50 ng) reduced penile erection and yawning induced by the above compounds given into the paraventricular nucleus. Bicuculline (250 ng) injected into the paraventricular nucleus 5 min before muscimol (100 ng) prevented the inhibitory effect of muscimol on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and NMDA. The present results show that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibits penile erection and yawning by acting on GABA(A) receptors in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
Male anoles extend a bright red throat fan, called a dewlap, during both courtship and aggressive encounters. Female anoles perform this behavior less often than males and only in aggression towards both sexes. The cartilage, muscle fibers, and motoneuron somata controlling the display are larger in males than females. In the present study, we used the Golgi technique in an effort to characterize more completely the morphology of these dewlap motoneurons, and to investigate whether the dendritic arborization is different between the sexes. In addition to describing the morphology, we report that the length of processes, and numbers of primary processes and branch points are comparable in males and females. This similarity in arborization represents an intriguing contrast to other sexually dimorphic neuromuscular systems.
Glucose metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) kinetics have been shown to decline in brain with age in various animal species. This study examined TCA cycle kinetics and age in Brown-Norway Fischer 344 rats. Using [1-(13)C]glucose infused over 10, 30, 60 or 100 min, and following the label through the TCA cycle using (1)H(13)C spin-echo difference magnetic resonance spectroscopy, groups of 2 (n=18), 12 (n=16), and 24 (n=16) month old rats were evaluated. Unexpectedly, TCA cycle kinetics did not change with age. Observed decreases in glutamate, glutamine and N-acetyl aspartate levels are consistent with an age-related decrease in neuronal numbers. The possible link between this observation and increased longevity, together with a decreased incidence of neoplasia in the Brown-Norway Fischer 344 rat is discussed.
Drosophila exhibits a circadian rest-activity cycle, but it is not known whether fly rest constitutes sleep or is mere inactivity. It is shown here that, like mammalian sleep, rest in Drosophila is characterized by an increased arousal threshold and is homeostatically regulated independently of the circadian clock. As in mammals, rest is abundant in young flies, is reduced in older flies, and is modulated by stimulants and hypnotics. Several molecular markers modulated by sleep and waking in mammals are modulated by rest and activity in Drosophila, including cytochrome oxidase C, the endoplasmic reticulum chaperone protein BiP, and enzymes implicated in the catabolism of monoamines. Flies lacking one such enzyme, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, show increased rest after rest deprivation. These results implicate the catabolism of monoamines in the regulation of sleep and waking in the fly and suggest that Drosophila may serve as a model system for the genetic dissection of sleep.
The transcription factor Engrailed (En) controls the topography of axonal projections by regulating the expression of cell-adhesion molecules [1] [2] [3] [4] but it is not known whether it also controls the choice of individual synaptic target cells. In the cercal sensory system of the larval cockroach (Periplaneta americana), small numbers of identified wind-sensitive sensory neurons form highly specific synaptic connections with 14 identified giant interneurons [5] [6], and target-cell choice is independent of the pattern of axonal projections [6]. En is a putative positional determinant in the array of cercal sensory neurons [7]. In the present study, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) interference [8] was used to abolish En expression. This treatment changed the axonal arborisation and synaptic outputs of an identified En-positive sensory neuron so that it came to resemble a nearby En-negative cell, which was itself unaffected. We thus demonstrate directly that En controls synaptic choice, as well as axon projections.

Many of the protein precursors traversing the secretory pathway undergo cleavage at multibasic sites to generate their bioactive forms. The proprotein convertases (PCs), a family of subtilisin-like proteases, are the major endoproteases that serve this function. Genes encoding seven distinct members of this family have so far been characterized in vertebrates: furin, PC2, PC1/PC3, PC4, PACE4, PC5/PC6 and PC7/PC8/LPC. Multiple PC genes have also been cloned from a number of invertebrates, including Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. These findings suggest that gene duplication and diversification of the PCs have occurred throughout metazoan evolution. To investigate the structural and functional changes which have occurred during vertebrate development, we have analyzed the expression of PC genes in the protochordate amphioxus. We have previously shown that amphioxus express homologous PC2 and PC1/PC3 genes [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92 (1995) 3591]. Here we report the characterization of amphioxus cDNAs encoding proteases with a high degree of similarity to mammalian PC6. Three cDNAs encoding three PC6 isoforms differing only in their carboxy-terminal sequences were found, derived by alternative splicing. Two isoforms appear to be soluble enzymes, whereas the third contains a transmembrane hydrophobic segment and thus is likely to be membrane-bound. All three variants contain many repeats of a cysteine-rich motif that is found in several other PC family members. Thus, amphioxus, like the vertebrates, expresses two types of PCs, e.g., PC2 and PC1/PC3 which function in the regulated secretory pathway in neuroendocrine cells, and the more widely expressed PC6 which functions mainly in the constitutive pathway.
The lower esophageal sphincter is innervated by both parasympathetic (vagus) and sympathetic (primarily splanchnic) nerves; however, the vagal pathways are the ones that are essential for reflex relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), such as that which occurs during transient LES relaxations. Vagal afferent sensory endings from the distal esophagus and LES terminate in the hindbrain nucleus tractus solitarius. The preganglionic motor innervation of the LES arises from the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Together these nuclei comprise the dorsal vagal complex within which there is a neural network coordinating reflex control of the sphincter. Vagal efferent preganglionic neurons to the gastrointestinal tract are organized viscerotopically in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Stimulation of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus caudal to the opening of the fourth ventricle results in relaxations, whereas stimulation in the rostral portion of the nucleus evokes contractions of the LES. Few details are known about the neural circuitry that links sensory information from the stomach and esophagus within the nucleus tractus solitarius to these separate populations of neurons within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The motor vagal preganglionic output is primarily cholinergic, which ultimately stimulates excitatory or inhibitory motor neurons that control the smooth muscle tone. Excitatory neurons evoke muscarinic receptor-mediated muscle contraction. Inhibitory neurons evoke nitric oxide or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-mediated relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter. However, other neurotransmitters are found in vagal preganglionic neurons, including norepinephrine/dopamine and nitric oxide. A subpopulation of nitric oxide synthase-containing vagal preganglionic neurons innervate the upper gastrointestinal tract and mediate relaxation. The neurotransmitters and circuitry controlling lower esophageal sphincter pressure are important to characterize, because part of the dorsal vagal complex is outside of the blood-brain barrier and is a potential target for pharmacologic intervention in the treatment of such disorders as gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Activation of the extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) cascade may be involved in the promotion of neurite outgrowth by a variety of stimuli. For example, we have previously shown that laminin (LN) and N-cadherin activate ERK2 in chick retinal neurons, and that pharmacological inhibition of MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK), the major upstream ERK2 activator, severely impairs neurite growth induced by these proteins. We have therefore hypothesized that ERK activation through MEK is required for optimal induction of neurite growth by these proteins. Here we show that expression of mutant MEK in transfected retinal neurons alters neuronal responses to LN in a manner consistent with this hypothesis. Neurons expressing a constitutively active MEK construct extended longer neurites on LN than controls, while neurons transfected with a dominant negative construct extended shorter neurites. Further, experiments in which transfected neurons were replated onto polylysine substrates suggest that activation of MEK is sufficient for neurite promotion on a non-inducing substrate, and neurons replated onto LN confirm the pharmacological data that inhibition of MEK activation inhibits LN-induced neurite growth. We conclude that ERK activation plays a direct role in the promotion of neurite outgrowth from retinal neurons by LN.
We present the developmental changes of peroxisomal enzymes, catalase, L-bifunctional protein (L-BF) and D-bifunctional protein (D-BF), in the normal brains, and patients with D-BF deficiency, a new peroxisomal disease. D-BF immunoreactivity was observed in controls as early as 13 gestational weeks (GW) and increased with maturation. The adult pattern with fine granule staining of somata and dendrites became apparent in adolescence. L-BF appeared at 20 GW in the cerebral cortex and Purkinje cells and positive glia appeared early in the white matter at 17 GW, and then increased with age. Catalase-positive neurons were identified in the same manner as L-BF, D-BF deficiency in both fetus and infant showed markedly diminished enzyme immunoreactivity. Patients demonstrate reduced D-BF expression. Zellweger syndrome shows decreased expression for the three proteins. This study shows that the peroxisomal enzymes may be closely related to neuronal maturation and gliogenesis in human brain and to disturbance of neuronal migration as seen in Zellweger syndrome significant. D-BF deficiency may exhibit a range of symptoms during the neonatal and early infantile periods some of which may be similar to Zellweger syndrome.
Hemichannels in the overlapping regions of apposing cells plasma membranes join to form gap junctions and provide an intercellular communication pathway. Hemichannels are also present in the nonjunctional regions of individual cells and their activity is gated by several agents, including calcium. However, their physiological roles are unknown. Using techniques of atomic force microscopy (AFM), fluorescent dye uptake assay, and laser confocal immunofluorescence imaging, we have examined the extracellular calcium-dependent modulation of cell volume. In response to a change in the extracellular physiological calcium concentration (1.8 to &lt;/=1.6 mM) in an otherwise isosmotic condition, real-time AFM imaging revealed a significant and reversible increase in the volume of cells expressing gap-junctional proteins (connexins). Volume change did not occur in cells that were not expressing connexins. However, after the transient or stable transfection of connexin43, volume change did occur. The volume increase was accompanied by cytochalasin D-sensitive higher cell stiffness, which helped maintain cell integrity. These cellular physical changes were prevented by gap-junctional blockers, oleamide and beta-glycyrrhetinic acid, or were reversed by returning extracellular calcium to the normal level. We conclude that nongap-junctional hemichannels regulate cell volume in response to the change in extracellular physiological calcium in an otherwise isosmotic situation.
This report investigated mechanisms responsible for failed Schwann cell myelination in mice that overexpress P(0) (P(0)(tg)), the major structural protein of PNS myelin. Quantitative ultrastructural immunocytochemistry established that P(0) protein was mistargeted to abaxonal, periaxonal, and mesaxon membranes in P(0)(tg) Schwann cells with arrested myelination. The extracellular leaflets of P(0)-containing mesaxon membranes were closely apposed with periodicities of compact myelin. The myelin-associated glycoprotein was appropriately sorted in the Golgi apparatus and targeted to periaxonal membranes. In adult mice, occasional Schwann cells myelinated axons possibly with the aid of endocytic removal of mistargeted P(0). These results indicate that P(0) gene multiplication causes P(0) mistargeting to mesaxon membranes, and through obligate P(0) homophilic adhesion, renders these dynamic membranes inert and halts myelination.

The daily pattern of spontaneous eye-blink rate (BR), a non-invasive peripheral measure of central dopamine activity, was investigated in 24 healthy subjects. The spontaneous eye-blink rate showed a stable pattern in morning, midday and afternoon hours. A significant increase was found at the evening time point (20.30 h). The finding is suggestive of a late evening increase of central dopamine activity. An increased level of subjective sleepiness was also found at the same evening point, at a time corresponding to the 'evening wake maintenance zone' or the 'forbidden zone for sleep'. A possible hypothesis is that the 'forbidden zone for sleep' may reflect a dopamine-mediated activation that counteracts a rising sleep drive. The role of diurnal variation of dopamine function should be considered both in the choice of the drug treatment regimen, and in the evaluation of biological and neuropsychological parameters.
Using the phage P1-derived Cre/loxP recombination system, we have created a line of cre-transgenic mice in which the Cre-mediated gene deletion is restricted to granule cells of cerebellum and dentate gyrus of hippocampus. Low levels of deletion were also present in pyramidal cells of hippocampal CA1 and CA3 fields. The Cre/loxP recombination occurred prenatally. The recombination efficiencies in the granular layer of the cerebellum, the granular layer of the dentate gyrus, and the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus were 34.0%, 23.1%, 3.0%, and 9.8%, respectively. This line of cre-transgenic mice should be conducive to studies of the effect of a gene mutation upon brain development and plasticity.
We investigated the effect of pre-training on the improvement of spatial navigation performance provided by a cholinesterase inhibitor, tetrahydroaminoacridine (3 mg/kg, i.p.), and a positive modulator of NMDA receptor, D-cycloserine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), or their combination in aged rats. Pre-training consisted of spatial or non-spatial conditions and took place in either the same or a separate room. We found that any kind of pre-training was able to eliminate the enhancing effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine and D-cycloserine on spatial navigation. However, none of these pre-training conditions was able to block the age-related deficit in spatial navigation. These results indicate that tetrahydroaminoacridine and D-cycloserine, separately or in combination, do not themselves alleviate the age-related spatial memory deficit, but may enhance procedural aspects of water maze learning in aged rats.
The binding affinity of olanzapine, clozapine and atropine for muscarinic receptor subtypes in clonal Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines was compared in intact cells in physiological media to disrupted cells in hypotonic buffer. The affinity of olanzapine and clozapine, but not atropine, for muscarinic receptor subtypes (M(1)-M(5)) was significantly reduced in intact cells in physiological medium compared to disrupted cells in hypotonic buffer. The affinity of olanzapine for muscarinic M(1) receptors was most affected with a reduction of K(i) value from 2.5 to 73 nM in intact cells. These data suggest that the affinity of olanzapine and clozapine for muscarinic receptors have been significantly overestimated.
The role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway in the hyperphosphorylation of tau was investigated in SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Wortmannin, an inhibitor of PI3K, induced transient (after 1 h) activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), hyperphosphorylation of tau and dose-dependent cytotoxicity. However, continuous inactivation of protein kinase (PK) B was observed from 1 to 24 h, suggesting the involvement of protein kinase(s) other than PKB in the phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK-3 after 3 h. In cells treated with wortmannin, PKC delta fragments were observed, and the PKC activity increased after 3 h, whereas treatment of cells with z-DEVD-fmk, an inhibitor of caspase 3, also inhibited fragmentation of PKC delta and induced continuous activation of GSK-3. It is suggested that fragmentation of PKC delta during the process of apoptosis results in the phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK-3 and consequently inhibition of the phosphorylation of tau.
We used mRNA subtraction of differentiated and dedifferentiated smooth muscle cells (SMCs) to reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying the phenotypic modulation of SMCs. With this approach, we found that a 10 kb mRNA encoding a homotypic cell adhesion molecule, cadherin 6B, was strongly expressed in differentiated vascular and visceral SMCs, but not in the dedifferentiated SMCs derived from them. In vivo, cadherin 6B was expressed in vascular and visceral SMCs, in addition to brain, spinal cord, retina and kidney, at a late stage of chicken embryonic development. These results suggest that cadherin 6B is a novel molecular marker for vascular and visceral SMC phenotypes and is involved in the late differentiation of SMCs.
Cas (Crk-associated substrate) and HEF1 (human enhancer of filamentation) are related adaptor proteins that function in integrin-mediated cell adhesion and antigen receptor signaling pathways. We report here a molecular cloning of Chat (Cas/HEF1-associated signal transducer) that associates with Cas and HEF1. Chat is a 78-kDa signaling molecule with an N-terminal SH2 domain and is expressed in a wide range of tissues. In hematopoietic cells, a 115-kDa isoform of Chat (Chat-H) was specifically expressed. Chat is associated with Cas in brain, and Chat-H is associated with HEF1 in splenocytes. Deletion analyses revealed that Chat and Cas are associated with each other by their C-terminal domains. Treatment of PC12 cells with epidermal growth factor or nerve growth factor increased the phosphorylation level of Chat. This increase was suppressed by an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase, PD98059, suggesting the phosphorylation of Chat by MAP kinase. In Chat-overexpressed COS7 cells, the activity of c-Jun N-terminal kinase was up-regulated. After the epidermal growth factor stimulation, Chat and Cas were colocalized with actin filaments at ruffling membranes. These findings suggest that Chat transduces signals of tyrosine kinases and MAP kinase to Cas signaling pathway.
Communication between membranes and the actin cytoskeleton is an important aspect of neuronal function. Regulators of actin cytoskeletal dynamics include the Rho-like small GTP-binding proteins and their exchange factors. Kalirin is a brain-specific protein, first identified through its interaction with peptidylglycine-alpha-amidating monooxygenase. In this study, we cloned rat Kalirin-7, a 7-kilobase mRNA form of Kalirin. Kalirin-7 contains nine spectrin-like repeats, a Dbl homology domain, and a pleckstrin homology domain. We found that the majority of Kalirin-7 protein is associated with synaptosomal membranes, but a fraction is cytosolic. We also detected higher molecular weight Kalirin proteins. In rat cerebral cortex, Kalirin-7 is highly enriched in the postsynaptic density fraction. In primary cultures of neurons, Kalirin-7 is detected in spine-like structures, while other forms of Kalirin are visualized in the cell soma and throughout the neurites. Kalirin-7 and its Dbl homology-pleckstrin homology domain induce formation of lamellipodia and membrane ruffling, when transiently expressed in fibroblasts, indicative of Rac1 activation. Using Rac1, the Dbl homology-pleckstrin homology domain catalyzed the in vitro exchange of bound GDP with GTP. Kalirin-7 is the first guanine-nucleotide exchange factor identified in the postsynaptic density, where it is positioned optimally to regulate signal transduction pathways connecting membrane proteins and the actin cytoskeleton.
The direct modulation of N-type calcium channels by G protein betagamma subunits is considered a key factor in the regulation of neurotransmission. Some of the molecular determinants that govern the binding interaction of N-type channels and Gbetagamma have recently been identified (see, i.e., Zamponi, G. W., Bourinet, E., Nelson, D., Nargeot, J., and Snutch, T. P. (1997) Nature 385, 442-446); however, little is known about cellular mechanisms that modulate this interaction. Here we report that a protein of the presynaptic vesicle release complex, syntaxin 1A, mediates a crucial role in the tonic inhibition of N-type channels by Gbetagamma. When syntaxin 1A was coexpressed with (N-type) alpha(1B) + alpha(2)-delta + beta(1b) channels in tsA-201 cells, the channels underwent a 18 mV negative shift in half-inactivation potential, as well as a pronounced tonic G protein inhibition as assessed by its reversal by strong membrane depolarizations. This tonic inhibition was dramatically attenuated following incubation with botulinum toxin C, indicating that syntaxin 1A expression was indeed responsible for the enhanced G protein modulation. However, when G protein betagamma subunits were concomitantly coexpressed, the toxin became ineffective in removing G protein inhibition, suggesting that syntaxin 1A optimizes, rather than being required for G protein modulation of N-type channels. We also demonstrate that Gbetagamma physically binds to syntaxin 1A, and that syntaxin 1A can simultaneously interact with Gbetagamma and the synprint motif of the N-type channel II-III linker. Taken together, our experiments suggest a mechanism by which syntaxin 1A mediates a colocalization of G protein betagamma subunits and N-type calcium channels, thus resulting in more effective G protein coupling to, and regulation of, the channel. Thus, the interactions between syntaxin, G proteins, and N-type calcium channels are part of the structural specialization of the presynaptic terminal.
This paper presents a comprehensive assessment of sensorimotor deficits in the mouse after focal ischaemia induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Twenty four hours after induction of middle cerebral artery occlusion, mice showed deficits in a range of sensory and motor tasks as assessed by the SHIRPA protocol. In addition they exhibited a decrease in rotarod performance and locomotor activity. Some behaviours, such as locomotor activity, were also impaired in sham operated animals compared to normal controls, although these impairments were not as marked as those exhibited by the ischaemic mice. This is the first comprehensive analysis of the short term effects of permanent focal ischaemia in mice. In a second series of experiments in the rat, rates of recovery over time were examined. Simple (neurological grades, rotarod) and complex (sticky label test) tasks were examined in rats after middle cerebral artery occlusion up to 7 days post-ischaemia. Ischaemic rats had a profound deficit in contralateral performance on the sticky label task with no evidence of recovery. A less marked deficit was also observed in ipsilateral performance of this task. These deficits were still present 7 days after ischaemia. Ischaemic rats also exhibited a deficit on rotarod performance but this had recovered 7 days post-ischaemia. Thus different sensorimotor tasks have different rates of recovery after focal cerebral ischaemia in the rat. Further characterisation of these tasks will enhance their utility meaningful preclinical means of assessing functional recovery of the administration of potential neuroprotective and regenerative therapies.
Damage to the motor cortex of the rat (Rattus norvegicus) impairs skilled movements used in reaching for food with the contralateral forepaw. Nevertheless, there is substantial recovery in success over a two-week postsurgical period. The profile of behavioral recovery is believed to reflect the eventual normalization of behavior, but this idea has not been explicitly examined. The present experiments examined postsurgical reaching success and reaching movements as a function of (1) lesion type, (2) lesion size, (3) lesion location, (4) depletion of forebrain noradrenaline, and (4) presurgical and postsurgical experience. The results show that at least two separate processes contribute to recovery in postsurgical performance. The early postsurgical period was characterized by extreme difficulties in making reaching movements. The experiments suggest that this initial impairment was due to the loss of the innate cortical engram that supports the action patterns used for skilled movements. Subsequent recovery in reaching success was not due to the reacquisition of normal movements, but was due rather to the use of compensatory movements. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that true recovery from motor cortex injury will require that damaged neurons and their connections be rescued or replaced.
We have reviewed a battery of useful tests for evaluating sensorimotor function and plasticity acutely and chronically in unilateral rat models of central nervous system injury. These tests include forelimb use for weight shifting during vertical exploration in a cylindrical enclosure, an adhesive removal test of sensory function, and forelimb placing. These tests monitor recovery of sensorimotor function independent of the extent of test experience. Data are presented for four models, including permanent focal ischemia, focal injury to the forelimb area of sensorimotor cortex, dopaminergic neurodegeneration of the nigrostriatal system, and cervical spinal cord injury. The effect of the dendrite growth promoting factor, Osteogenic Protein-1 (OP-1) on outcome following permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion was used as an example to illustrate how the tests can be applied preclinically. OP-1 showed a beneficial effect on limb use asymmetry in the cylinder test.
The size of cortical removal was varied in rats that were given medial frontal lesions on postnatal day 2. In adulthood, the animals were trained on the Morris water task and Whishaw reaching task following which the brains were harvested and dendritic arborization and spine density was examined in the layer III pyramidal cells in Zilles' area Par1. There was a small relationship between lesion size and behavioral outcome as smaller lesions produced somewhat smaller deficits. In contrast, both small and large lesions produced large reductions in brain weight, dendritic arborization, and spine density. The cortex of newborn rats appears to be especially vulnerable to even restricted injury. This contrasts to the effects of similar injury a week later when animals show extensive functional recovery and anatomical compensation.
We hypothesized that the relationship between resting levels of sympathetic vasoconstrictor nerve traffic and dilator substance nitric oxide (NO) release is altered after exposure to microgravity, resulting in abnormal peripheral resistance. To examine the hypothesis, we assessed muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) (microneurography), an indicator of NO release (plasma nitrite/nitrate concentrations) and leg vascular resistance (venous occlusion plethysmography) in 20 healthy male volunteers before and after 14 days of 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR), the ground-based analogue of microgravity. MSNA increased, while plasma nitrite/nitrate concentrations decreased after HDBR. A significant positive correlation observed between MSNA and plasma nitrite/nitrate concentrations before HDBR disappeared after HDBR. Leg vascular resistance increased after HDBR. In conclusion, an imbalance between sympathetic vasoconstrictor traffic and NO release might contribute to elevated peripheral vascular resistance following HDBR.
Despite growing interest in temporal aspects of auditory neural processing, little is known about large-scale timing patterns of brain activity during the perception of auditory sequences. This is partly because it has not been possible to distinguish stimulus-related activity from other, endogenous brain signals recorded by electrical or magnetic sensors. Here we use amplitude modulation of unfamiliar, approximately 1-minute-long tone sequences to label stimulus-related magnetoencephalographic neural activity in human subjects. We show that temporal patterns of activity recorded over particular brain regions track the pitch contour of tone sequences, with the accuracy of tracking increasing as tone sequences become more predictable in structure. In contrast, temporal synchronization between recording locations, particularly between sites over the left posterior hemisphere and the rest of the brain, is greatest when sequences have melody-like statistical properties, which may reflect the perceptual integration of local and global pitch patterns in melody-like sequences. This method is particularly well suited to studying temporal neural correlates of complex auditory sequences (such as speech or music) which engage multiple brain areas as perception unfolds in time.
AIS1 neck injuries are the most frequent disabling injuries among car occupants in road traffic accidents. Although neck injury is mostly regarded as resulting from rear end collisions, almost one third of all neck injuries occur in frontal impacts. The injury mechanisms in both rear-end and frontal impacts are still not known, although different hypotheses exist. Since 1992, approx. 100,000 vehicles on the Swedish market have been equipped with crash recorders to measuring frontal impacts. This paper analyses the influence of different characteristics derived from the acceleration time history on the risk of short- and long-term disability to the neck in frontal impacts. The study includes injury outcomes from 187 restrained front seat occupants in 143 frontal collisions with an overlap exceeding 25%, where the crash pulses have been recorded using crash pulse recorders. The results show that the shape of the crash pulse influences the risk of long-term disability to the neck. The vehicle accelerations in the mid and last third of the crash pulse seem to be important. It is also shown how change of velocity and mean and peak accelerations influence the neck-injury risk. It is suggested that the risk of sustaining an AIS1 neck injury in frontal impacts could be reduced by using more effective pretensioners and more advanced belt-load limiters. These results may also have implications for neck injury mechanisms in rear-end impacts.
alpha-Synuclein is a presynaptic terminal protein that accumulates abnormally in plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD), in Lewy bodies in Lewy body disease (LBD) and in filamentous inclusions in multiple system atrophy. Since it has been previously shown that proteinase K or formic acid pretreatment enhances alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity in Lewy bodies and plaques, we hypothesized that the immunoreactivity in tangles, glial cells and Pick bodies might be revealed by such pretreatment. Brain sections from patients with AD, LBD, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and Pick's disease were pretreated with proteinase K or formic acid and immunostained with antibodies against the N-terminal, C-terminal or non-amyloid beta component of AD amyloid (NAC) regions of alpha-synuclein. This study showed that after proteinase K (but not formic acid) pretreatment the anti-C terminus antibody immunostained neurofibrillary tangles of AD, PSP and CBD, and glial inclusions of PSP and CBD, as well as Pick bodies. Western blot analysis confirmed that in cases other than LBD, the anti-C terminus antibodies also recognized the native alpha-synuclein band and no cross-reactive bands were observed. In contrast, in LBD, after formic acid pretreatment with the anti-NAC antibody astroglial cells and granular neurons were immunostained. The N-terminal region antibody only recognized the lesions in LBD cases and not those of other neurodegenerative disorders. These results support the view that different fragments of alpha-synuclein might play an important role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders.
The present study aimed to test whether central, across-channel, informational auditory processing abilities are altered by hearing loss. The informational masking effect exerted on a 1 kHz tone-pip by a simultaneous four-tone masker, whose spectral content changed within as well as across trials, was measured in the left and right ears of normal-hearing subjects and hearing-impaired subjects with either symmetrical or asymmetrical hearing loss between the two ears. In the subjects with normal-hearing or symmetrical hearing loss, the level of the masker was set to 40 dB SL in each ear, in the subjects with asymmetrical hearing loss, the masker was set to 40 dB SL in the best ear and loudness-balanced in the other ear. The results failed to reveal significant differences in informational masking between normal-hearing and hearing-impaired subjects. However, in subjects with asymmetric hearing loss, less informational masking was observed in the ear with the more elevated absolute thresholds than in the opposite ear. Since the latter finding can be explained in terms of across-ear differences in loudness recruitment, it is suggested that central, across-channel, informational processing abilities are not substantially different in hearing-impaired than in normal-hearing ears.


Recent studies show that nonamidated gastrins (Gly-gastrin and progastrin) stimulate colonic proliferation. However, the role of nonamidated vs. amidated gastrins in colon carcinogenesis has not been defined. We measured intermediate markers of carcinogenesis in transgenic mice overexpressing either progastrin (hGAS) or amidated gastrin (INS-GAS) in response to azoxymethane (AOM). The hGAS mice showed significantly higher numbers of aberrant crypt foci (140-200% increase) compared with that in wild-type (WT) and INS-GAS mice (P &lt; 0.05) after AOM treatment. The bromodeoxyuridine-labeling index of colonic crypts also was significantly elevated in hGAS mice vs. that in WT and INS-GAS mice. The results therefore provide evidence for a mitogenic and cocarcinogenic role of nonamidated gastrins (progastrin), which is apparently not shared by the amidated gastrins. Although nonamidated gastrins are now believed to mediate mitogenic effects via novel receptors, amidated gastrins mediate biological effects via different receptor subtypes, which may explain the difference in the cocarcinogenic potential of nonamidated vs. amidated gastrins. In conclusion, our results provide strong support for a cocarcinogenic role for nonamidated gastrins in colon carcinogenesis.
The present study investigated the effect of area postrema lesions (APX) on stimulated neurohypophysial secretion of vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) in conscious rats. Blunted increases in plasma levels of both pituitary hormones were observed when rats with APX were infused intravenously with 1 M NaCl solution (2 ml/h for 6 h). In contrast, plasma VP and OT increased normally in rats with APX when equivalent increases in plasma osmolality (but not plasma Na(+)) resulted from intravenous infusion of an equiosmotic solution of 1 M mannitol and 0.5 M NaCl. Furthermore, APX did not affect increases in plasma VP and OT stimulated by plasma volume deficits, nor did APX disrupt OT secretion stimulated by intravenous injection of cholecystokinin. These findings suggest that the area postrema plays an important role in mediating secretion of VP and OT in response to an NaCl load, but not in response to an equiosmotic load that does not cause substantial hypernatremia, and not in response to other stimuli of neurohypophysial hormone secretion. Together with previous reports, these results suggest that APX impairs Na(+) regulation in rats.
Opioids have long been known to have an important role in feeding behavior, particularly related to the rewarding aspects of food. Considerable behavioral evidence suggests that sucrose consumption induces endogenous opioid release, affecting feeding behavior as well as other opioid-mediated behaviors, such as analgesia, dependence, and withdrawal. In the present study, rats were given access to a 10% sucrose solution or water for 3 wk, then they were injected with 10 mg/kg naloxone or saline. Brains were subsequently analyzed for c-Fos immunoreactivity (c-Fos-IR) in limbic and autonomic regions in the forebrain and hindbrain. Main effects of sucrose consumption or naloxone injection were seen in several areas, but a significant interaction was seen only in the central nucleus of the amygdala and in the lateral division of the periaqueductal gray. In the central nucleus of the amygdala, naloxone administration to those rats drinking water significantly increased c-Fos-IR, an effect that was significantly enhanced by sucrose consumption, suggesting an upregulation of endogenous opioid tone in this area. The data from this study indicate that the central nucleus of the amygdala has a key role in the integration of gustatory, hedonic, and autonomic signals as they relate to sucrose consumption, if not to food intake regulation in general. Furthermore, the data from this study lend further support to the hypothesis that sucrose consumption induces the release of endogenous opioids.


Twenty percent of cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) have identifiable mutations in the gene for Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) located on the long arm of chromosome 21. SOD1 mutations are thought to cause a yet unknown toxic gain of function resulting in motor neuron damage. Seventy-one mutations, located in all five exons of SOD1, have been reported. Identified mutations are predominantly heterozygous mis-sense mutations, although rare nonsense mutations, deletions, and insertions exist. While gene dosage has an effect on the age of onset, genotoype/phenotype correlation is better defined for progression of symptoms than for disease onset.


It is well known that the diagnostic process in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) may be excessively prolonged, with negative consequences for the patients and their families. The ISIS study assessed the diagnostic process in 201 patients affected by ALS from 6 different countries (Argentina, Brazil, Germany, Italy, Spain and USA). The median time from onset to diagnosis ranged from 12 months in Spain to 17 months in Italy. The median time for patients to have a first consultation with a physician was 2 months (range: 1-1.5 months) and with a neurologist was 6-9 months. The median time needed for the neurologist to confirm the diagnosis was 3-6 months. Electromyography was performed on more than 90% of patients in all countries, and was requested in most cases by the neurologist. False-negative diagnoses were quite frequent (45% of cases with at least one other diagnosis evoked at any time before the ALS diagnosis) and were made by neurologists in 28% of cases, by general practitioners in 29% of cases, by orthopaedic surgeons in 26% of cases and by other specialists in 18% of cases. The reasons for misdiagnoses were: presence of other diseases to which the symptomatology was attributed, misinterpretation of examinations, and lack of familiarity with ALS.
Significant changes in the epidemiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have been observed over the last few years. Based on reports of studies from the 1970s and early 1980s, the incidence of ALS in Europe has been considered to be constant, with only slight differences in the incidence of ALS between different countries. However, flaws in the methodologies of these studies, such as case definition, case ascertainment, selection bias, study design and difficulties in the early diagnosis of cases, have been identified. More recent studies reveal a trend towards an increase in the ALS mortality rate over the past two decades, but the significance of this trend remains unclear. Recent ALS incidence studies, particularly those based on the 'register model', have given new insight into ALS epidemiology. ALS seems to be a uniform problem across Europe, with age-specific incidence rates showing a progressive increase up to the 70-79 age group. False-negative cases are frequent, ranging from 26-42% of cases. The rate of false-positive cases is approximately 10%. In approximately half of the false-positive cases, the possible diagnosis of ALS was withdrawn because the initial symptoms did not progress. No consistent epidemiological clues concerning the cause of ALS have been found in epidemiological studies. The only possible associations that perhaps warrant further investigation include farming, mechanical and electrical traumas, heavy labour and toxins or chemicals.

Generic methodology for the automated preparation and analysis of drug levels in plasma samples within a drug discovery environment was achieved through the redesign of a protein precipitation assay to a microtiter (96-well) plate format and the application of robotic liquid handling for performance of all transfer and pipetting steps. Validation studies revealed that the application of robotics to sample preparation, in general, maintained the analytical accuracy and precision compared with preparing samples manually. The use of rapid gradient LC-MS/MS for analysis coupled with flow diversion of the solvent front allowed the introduction of protein-precipitated samples into the mass spectrometer without the necessity for source cleaning. The problem inherent in automatically pipetting plasma, caused by fibrinogen clots, was overcome by storing samples at -80 degrees C and thus precluding clot formation. The resulting methodology allowed sample preparation for a 96-well plate designed to accommodate 54 unknowns, duplicate 12-point calibration curves, and 6 sets of quality controls at three levels in approximately 2 h. This approach allowed an increase in throughput of sample preparation and analysis to &gt;400 samples per day per LC-MS/MS instrument with minimal manual intervention. Overall, substantial time savings were realized, demonstrating that automation is an increasingly essential tool in a drug discovery bioanalytical environment.
Overexpression of the pluripotent cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) by microglial cells correlates with formation of neuritic beta-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We evaluated polymorphisms in the genes coding for the IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-1 receptor antagonist cytokines, and tested their association with the occurrence and age at onset of sporadic AD. We found a strong association between the IL-1A T/T genotype and AD onset before 65 years of age (odds ratio, 4.86), with carriers of this genotype showing an onset of disease 9 years earlier than IL-1A C/C carriers. A weaker association with the age at onset was also shown for the IL-1B and IL-1RN genes. These data suggest either a direct effect of the IL-1 gene family, mainly IL-1A, on the clinical onset of AD, or a linkage dysequilibrium with an unknown locus relevant to AD on chromosome 2.
We studied recovery-induced changes in the responsiveness of the primary somatosensory cortex in stroke patients with sensory and/or motor symptoms. Somatosensory evoked magnetic fields, in response to median nerve stimulation, were recorded in 14 patients with their first symptomatic unilateral stroke 1 to 15 days from the first symptoms and again 2 to 3 months later. Neuronal activity at the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex was modeled with equivalent current dipoles at the peak latencies of the first two cortical deflections at about 20 msec (N1m) and at 28 to 91 msec (P1m). Twenty-three age-matched healthy volunteers, 9 of whom were tested also in serial recordings, served as control subjects. At follow-up, 6 patients showed a significant increase of P1m amplitude, whereas N1m increased only in 1. Clinical improvement of two-point discrimination ability, but not of other basic somatosensory skills, was significantly correlated with the increase of P1m. We conclude that the recovery of discriminative touch after stroke is paralleled by the growth of the P1m somatosensory evoked magnetic field deflection, and we propose that this may reflect re-establishment of lateral inhibitory functions at the primary somatosensory cortex.
The aim of this report is to summarize current concepts in unilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis (URLNP). Important aspects of laryngeal phylogenesis, physiology and anatomy are reviewed. Recent advances in the neurophysiology of URNLP are discussed. Revised and updated principles of diagnosis and treatment are provided. Glottic configuration and prognosis vary according to the type of neural lesion (neurapraxia, axonotmesis or neurotmesis). Therapeutic indications depend on glottic configuration and prognosis. Treatment options include voice therapy, vocal fold augmentation by intrafold injection, medialization thyroplasty, arytenoid adduction, and laryngeal reinnervation. Each treatment option is summarized, and the results reported in the medical literature are reviewed.

The cytotoxic effect and antitumor activity induced by the novel organotin compound triethyltin(IV)lupinyisulfide hydrochloride, have been investigated. Different patterns of antiproliferative effects have been observed in a panel of human tumor cell lines in vitro. Toxicity studies in mice reported acute toxicity at the doses of 21 and 17.5 mg/kg which progressively disappeared at lower concentrations. On this basis, the doses of 3.5, 7 and 14 mg/kg were selected to assess the antitumor activity in vivo against the P388 leukemic cells xenografted in mice. This compound was able to induce a dose-dependent significant reduction of tumor volume, up to 46%, at the highest concentration (p = 0.0062) without important toxicity, as also confirmed by histological analysis of the main organ tissues. This preliminary study seems to hold interest for further investigations in different tumor models as well as for the evaluation of optimal drug route and schedule.
The association of Gaucher disease, the inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45), and congenital ichthyosis was first noted a decade ago. Subsequently, a null allele type 2 Gaucher mouse was generated that also exhibited ichthyotic skin, confirming that the skin disorder and enzyme deficiency were directly related. This paper details the clinical and molecular characterisation of 6 cases of type 2 Gaucher disease presenting with the collodion baby phenotype. The identified mutant glucocerebrosidase alleles include two novel mutations (S196P and R131L) and two rare point mutations (R120W and R257Q), as well as alleles resulting from recombination with the nearby glucocerebrosidase pseudogene. There is significant genotypic heterogeneity in this rare subset of patients with type 2 Gaucher disease. Gaucher disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of congenital ichthyosis in the newborn period.

The aim of our study was to evaluate the relationship between health-related factors, brain imaging findings and cognitive functioning. We examined 113 neurologically healthy subjects from 55 to 85 years of age. Health-related variables included a clinical health evaluation, cardiovascular diseases, and other systemic diseases. The presence of white matter changes and cerebral and peripheral atrophy were obtained with magnetic resonance imaging. Neuropsychological tests measuring verbal memory, visual memory, intellectual and language functions, visuoconstructional functions, flexibility, and speed and attention were administered. Results showed that overall health status was not related to cognition. Subjects, who had both arterial hypertension and white matter changes had difficulties in flexibility. Cardiac failure and white matter changes were related to impairment in visuoconstructional functions, flexibility and attention. Significant speed and attention deficits were observed in subjects with cardiac failure and central atrophy. In conclusion, this study verifies the relationship between hypertension, white matter changes and cognitive functions. We found also specific patterns in relation with cardiac failure, brain imaging findings and cognitive functioning, the most vulnerable domains were visuoconstructional functions, flexibility and attention.
The awesome burden of treatable yet untreated neurologic disease in the developing world presents a humanitarian crisis to those of us with neurologic expertise from more privileged situations. Although increased economic resources are critically needed, a shortage of personnel to care for these patients is as great a problem. It is neither feasible nor desirable to propose training neurologists to work in these regions. However, COs could be selected to receive additional training and return to their home regions to serve as resources for referrals and as community educators. Such a training program would not require massive financial commitments. A handful of dedicated neurologists could conceivably accomplish this in 6- to 8-week training sessions. Ideally, educational materials, such as posters and pamphlets in both English and the native language of the various regions, would be provided at no cost. Existing textbooks in neurology are written for physicians and often focus on diagnostic evaluations and therapies far beyond the services available in developing countries. A text for practical use by COs and community health workers that discusses the application of available medicines and therapies for common neurologic problems would be invaluable. Similar books exist that address general medical and obstetrical problems (for example, Where There Is No Doctor: A Village Health Care Handbook). Where There Is No Neurologist could be developed as a primary teaching tool and a valuable reference for COs with neurologic expertise. Neuroscience researchers, clinical neurologists, and neurology residents from industrialized countries have much to offer and to gain by working in the Third World. Research to monitor the incidence and resource utilization of emerging problems such as stroke is needed to influence public policy. The economic burden and lost productivity caused by neurologic disease in this part of the world has not been appreciated or explored. Disease beyond the scope of Western experience manifests daily in places like Chikankata. Entities such as tabes neurosyphilis, which previous generations of neurologists used as the basis for their training, still abound in Zambia. Much personal satisfaction can be gained in providing care to this vulnerable and underserved population.

In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study, we measured the effects of low dose lorazepam on attentional and motor factors involved in saccadic and smooth pursuit eye movements. We manipulated the temporal interval between the extinction of the central fixation target and the appearance of a second eccentric target (gap/overlap step paradigm). The second target was either stationary (saccade trial) or moving in a direction opposite to the step (pursuit trial). Gap/overlap effects on the latency of saccadic and smooth pursuit eye movements were measured before and after oral intake of either lorazepam or placebo. Pharmacological effects on the dynamics and the accuracy of both types of eye movements were also investigated. In 14 healthy volunteers, we found that the temporal interval between fixation target offset and eccentric target onset modulates the latency of saccadic and smooth pursuit eye movements in a similar way. As compared to placebo, lorazepam significantly increased the latency of both types of eye movements, but did not modify the gap/overlap effect. Moreover, lorazepam significantly decreased the peak velocity of the first saccade towards the eccentric stationary target, as well as the gain of tracking towards the eccentric moving target. However, the overall accuracy of both behaviors was not significantly affected, indicating that systematic errors in foveating or tracking were detected and corrected by appropriate corrective or catch-up saccades, respectively. Results are discussed in terms of shared/different mechanisms for saccadic and pursuit systems in primates.
EphA receptors and their ephrin-A ligands were previously thought to play a role only in embryonic development of the brain. Recently, however, these proteins were shown to be expressed in the adult mouse brain, primarily in the hippocampus, and were implicated in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning. What aspects of learning EphA receptors mediate have not been studied? Using the fear conditioning paradigm we demonstrate that EphA receptors play roles in memory. We show that post-training surgical anesthesia leads to robust context specific retrograde amnesia in mice, and post-anesthesia activation of EphA receptors induces a significant amelioration of this amnesia. As acquisition was left unaffected and performance factors were found unaltered, we suggest that the amelioration was due to changes in cognition leading to improved memory. Our data represent the first pieces of evidence for the involvement of EphA receptor tyrosine kinase receptors in mammalian memory, a finding that opens a new avenue into the functional analysis of the largest receptor tyrosine kinase subfamily in the brain.
We have investigated cytochrome P450 (P450) and associated monooxygenase activities in human brain mitochondria isolated from eight regions of four human brain samples obtained at autopsy. P450-associated monooxygenase activities including aminopyrine N-demethylase (APD), 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase (ECD), p-nitrophenol hydroxylase (PNPH), and N-nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase (ND-MAD) were detectable in the mitochondria from human brain regions. Immunoblot experiments using antisera to purified rat liver microsomal P450, namely P4502B1/2, P4501A1/2, and P4502E1, revealed immunoreactive bands in isolated mitochondria from different regions of the human brain. The antibody to P4502B1/2 and P4501A1/2 inhibited the human brain mitochondrial APD and ECD activities, respectively. The addition of antiserum to microsomal NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase did not affect the mitochondrial P450-associated monooxygenase activities, although it completely inhibited the corresponding activities in brain microsomes. Overall, the present study demonstrates, in human brain mitochondria, the presence of multiple forms of P450 belonging to the 1A, 2B, and 2E subfamilies that are involved in xenobiotic metabolism.
To test the hypothesis that the primer pheromone responsible for inducing the &quot;male effect&quot; is produced in the sebaceous gland androgen dependently, we examined the correlation between morphological changes of sebaceous glands and the pheromone activity in skin samples taken from castrated goats that had been treated with testosterone. Five castrated goats were implanted s.c. with testosterone capsules to maintain physiological levels of plasma testosterone for four weeks. Skin samples were obtained from the head region on Day 0 (the day of testosterone implant), Day 7, Day 14, Day 28 (the day of testosterone removal), Day 36, Day 42, and Day 56. Matched blood samples were also collected for measurement of testosterone concentration. The pheromone activity of the ether-extracts of the upper dermal layer containing sebaceous glands was assessed by its stimulatory effect on the hypothalamic GnRH pulse generator, which was monitored for changes of specific multiple unit activity (MUA) in ovariectomized estradiol-primed goats as described previously. The sebaceous gland enlarged during the testosterone treatment but reduced in size after testosterone removal. The pheromone activity first appeared in 2 out of 5 goats on Day 7 and in all the 5 goats by Day 28. Fourteen days after testosterone removal (Day 42), the pheromone activity was no longer detectable in any of the 5 goats. In short, the sebaceous gland size and the pheromone activity shifted almost in parallel. The present results provide strong support for the view that the primer pheromone is produced testosterone dependently in the sebaceous gland of the male goat.
Adhesion between the oocyte-cumulus complex and infundibulum plays an important, but poorly understood, role in oocyte pick-up. The purposes of this study were to determine which components of the oocyte-cumulus complex and oviductal epithelium function in adhesion, to measure adhesion under physiological conditions, and to examine the effect of modulation of adhesion on oocyte-cumulus complex pick-up rate. Oocyte-cumulus complexes containing an expanded matrix were readily transported into the oviduct, while unexpanded complexes lacking an extracellular matrix were not picked up, indicating that the matrix is necessary for pick-up. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that during pick-up, adhesion occurred specifically between the ciliary crowns of the oviduct and the granules and filaments of the cumulus matrix. An assay was developed using vacuum from a low-flow peristaltic precision pump, modified for bi-directional flow, to measure the strength of adhesion between the oocyte-cumulus complex and the oviductal epithelium, and adhesion was measured during physiological conditions. The lectin wheat germ agglutinin and the polycation poly-L-lysine were then used to modulate adhesion, and the effects of increasing or decreasing adhesion on oocyte pick-up rate and ciliary beat frequency were examined. The data show that 1) the matrix of the oocyte-cumulus complex and the ciliary crowns of the oviduct function in adhesion during pick-up and that adhesion is necessary for pick-up, 2) adhesion can be assayed quantitatively and is very uniform among control infundibula, and 3) decreasing or increasing adhesion decreases oocyte pick-up rate and in some cases prevents pick-up without affecting ciliary beat frequency.
The ability of endothelin-1 (ET-1) to modulate the cyclic nucleotides, guanosine 3' 5' cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) and adenosine 3' 5' cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) was assessed in the main elastic pulmonary elastic artery (4 - 5 mm i.d.) and the small muscular pulmonary arteries (150 - 200 micrometer i.d.) of the rat. ET-1 caused an increase in cyclic GMP in the larger vessels but had no effect in the smaller arteries. The increase in cyclic GMP was not dependent on an intact endothelium and was inhibited by the ET(A)-receptor antagonist FR139137 (1 microM). ET-1 caused a decrease in cyclic AMP in the main pulmonary arteries, an effect that was partially blocked by FR139317 but not influenced by the ET(B)-receptor antagonist BQ-788 (1 microM) or removal of the vascular endothelium. In contrast, ET-1 caused an increase in cyclic AMP in the small vessels, an effect that was blocked by BQ-788 but unaffected by FR139317. In the main pulmonary arteries, ET-1 caused enhanced incorporation of radiolabelled ADP-ribose by cholera toxin into G(i)2 in the main pulmonary artery, an indicator of its receptor-mediated activation. In summary, we have shown that in the small muscular pulmonary artery of the rat, (where ET(B) mediated vasoconstriction prevails), there is an ET(B)-mediated increase in cyclic AMP with no net effect on cyclic GMP levels. In the large arteries, (where vasoconstriction is mediated via the ET(A) receptor), there is an ET(A)-mediated increase in cyclic GMP (endothelium independent) and an ET(A)-mediated (endothelium independent) decrease in cyclic AMP.

Recent pathological studies have re-emphasized that axonal injury is present in patients with multiple sclerosis, the most common demyelinating disease of the CNS in humans. However, the temporal profile of demyelination and axonal loss in multiple sclerosis patients and their independent contributions to clinical and electrophysiological abnormalities are not completely understood. In this study, we used the Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus model of progressive CNS inflammatory demyelination to demonstrate that demyelination in the spinal cord is followed by a loss of medium to large myelinated fibres. By measuring spinal cord areas, motor-evoked potentials, and motor coordination and balance, we determined that axonal loss following demyelination was associated with electrophysiological abnormalities and correlated strongly with reduced motor coordination and spinal cord atrophy. These findings demonstrate that axonal loss can follow primary, immune-mediated demyelination in the CNS and that the severity of axonal loss correlates almost perfectly with the degree of spinal cord atrophy and neurological deficits.
The neural basis of individual differences in behavior has been studied primarily by analyzing the properties of specific neural areas. However, because of the organization of the nervous system, it is also plausible that differences in behavior are mediated by differences in the interactivity or functional connectivity among brain nuclei in particular neural circuits. In the leopard gecko, Eublepharis macularius, the temperature of the egg during incubation not only determines gonadal sex, but also shapes the sociosexual behaviors, reproductive physiology, and hormone sensitivity of adult animals. In this study the effects of both incubation temperature and gonadal sex on functional connectivity among limbic brain areas were examined. Functional connectivity was assessed by analyzing covariance patterns in metabolic capacity, as revealed by quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. It was hypothesized that incubation temperature and gonadal sex affect the propensity to display aggressive or sexual behaviors by altering the functional connectivity within relevant neural circuits. The correlations of metabolic capacity between the anterior hypothalamus and both the septum and preoptic area were significant only in relatively aggressive individuals, suggesting that these circuits may regulate the phenotypic variation in aggressiveness caused by incubation temperature. The correlations between the ventromedial hypothalamus and both the dorsal ventricular ridge and septum were significant only in females, suggesting that these circuits may modulate female-typical sexual behaviors. Correlations among preoptic, hypothalamic and amygdalar areas tended to be distributed across both sexes, suggesting that there may be shared pathways underlying the expression of male-typical and female-typical behaviors.

A Nobel Symposium, 'Schizophrenia: Pathophysiological Mechanisms' was held in Stockholm, October 1-3, 1998. The topics ranged from etiology, genetics, neuropathology, neurotransmitter, brain imaging, to integrative aspects including cognition and language. The collective amount of information is already enormous and will rapidly increase with advances in molecular pathology, gene transcript profiling and non-invasive imaging techniques. Probably reflecting the complexity is the absence of a disease model that can accommodate the data and explain its roots. In the process of moving from simplistic mechanisms involving single or a few interacting neurotransmitters or circuits and turning to more complex interactive models, there is a need for improved data storage and retrieval. Stochastic search in chemical libraries for potential new drug candidates coupled with rational approaches in their final design may improve therapeutic efficacy.
This article considers the possibility that defective interactions among distributed brain areas may underlie certain dysfunctions of conscious integration such as those seen in schizophrenia. Recent experimental evidence obtained using whole-head magnetoencephalography during binocular rivalry is first reviewed. The results outline a cortical network that underlies conscious integration in the normal brain. This network is not localized to a small part of the brain but it is distributed over frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital areas. Large-scale simulations of the dynamics of thalamocortical integration are then examined. These studies indicate that several factors can affect the rapid integration of the activity of distributed thalamocortical regions and the resulting behavioral performance. These simulations show that an altered dynamics of corticothalamic and corticocortical re-entrant circuits can result from increased conduction delays, blockade of voltage-dependent connections, reduced synaptic density, and disruptions of the local connectivity within a single cortical area. It can also result from alterations in the activity of diffuse ascending systems that lead to defective reinforcement of integrated activity patterns. Finally, the article briefly reviews theoretical measures of the integration of multiple brain areas, such as measures of functional clustering. These measures have been applied to PET data obtained from schizophrenic subjects and controls while performing cognitive tasks. The results show a change in the functional interactions among distributed brain areas in schizophrenics despite the absence of a change in activation patterns. The possibility is raised that disruption of re-entrant interactions among cortical areas may contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Although first thought of as a dopaminergic disorder, there is little direct evidence to support a primary pathology in the dopamine system as the etiological factor in schizophrenia. In contrast, evidence is amassing in support of a cortical disturbance in this disorder; one consequence of which is a disruption in the cortical regulation of subcortical dopamine systems. Our studies show that the hippocampus plays a major role in this interaction, in that, along with the dopamine system, it provides a gating influence over information flow from the prefrontal cortex at the level of the nucleus accumbens. Moreover, chemically-induced disruption of the development of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex were found to lead to pathophysiological changes in these interactions in the limbic system of adult rats. Therefore, schizophrenia is proposed to be a developmentally-related disorder, in which disruption of the hippocampal influence over the limbic system during ontogeny results in a pathological alteration of corticoaccumbens interactions in the adult organism.

The pathophysiology of schizophrenia involves dysfunction of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and this dysfunction may be related to alterations in GABA neurotransmission. Determining the causes and consequences of altered GABA neurotransmission in schizophrenia requires knowledge of which subpopulations of cortical GABA neurons are affected. The chandelier class of GABA neurons are of interest in this regard because their axon terminals form distinctive vertical arrays (termed 'cartridges') which synapse exclusively with the axon initial segments of pyramidal neurons, the principal class of cortical excitatory neurons. We evaluated the integrity of chandelier neuron cell bodies and axon cartridges in PFC areas 9 and 46 of schizophrenic subjects using immunocytochemical techniques and antibodies against parvalbumin and the GABA membrane transporter GAT-1. Schizophrenic subjects did not differ from matched control subjects in the relative density, laminar distribution or size of parvalbumin-containing neurons. In contrast, the density of GAT-1-immunoreactive chandelier neuron axon cartridges was decreased by 40% in schizophrenic subjects compared to both normal controls and subjects with other psychiatric disorders. The axon terminals of other subclasses of GABA neurons did not appear to be similarly affected. These findings suggest that disturbed GABA neurotransmission in the PFC of schizophrenic subjects may be due to a selective alteration of GAT-1 protein in the axon terminals of chandelier neurons.
This paper presents an overview of recent microscopic studies that have sought to define how limbic circuitry may be altered in postmortem schizophrenic brain. The discussion is organized around several basic questions regarding the manner in which interconnections within and between the anterior cingulate cortex and hippocampal formation and involving the glutamate, GABA and dopamine systems may contribute to the pathophysiology of this disorder. The answers to these questions are used to derive several conclusions regarding circuitry changes in schizophrenia: 1) Schizophrenia is not a 'typical' degenerative disorder, but rather it is one in which excitotoxicity may contribute to neuronal pathology, whether or not cell death occurs; 2) Three or more neurotransmitter systems may be simultaneously altered within a single microcircuit; 3) Each transmitter system may show circuitry changes in more than one region, but such changes may vary on a region-by-region basis; 4) The pathophysiology of schizophrenia may involve 'mis-wirings' in intrinsic circuits (microcircuitry) within a given region, but significant changes are probably also present at the level of interconnections between two or more regions within a network (macrocircuitry); 5) While some microscopic findings appear to be selectively present in schizophrenia and be related to a susceptibility gene for this disorder, others may also be present in patients with bipolar disorder; 6) Although some of the circuitry changes seen in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder seem to be associated with neuroleptic exposure, most are not and may reflect the influence of non-specific environmental factors such as pre- and/or postnatal stress; 7) Normal postnatal changes at the level of both macro- and microcircuitry within the limbic system may serve as 'triggers' for the onset of schizophrenia during adolescence. Taken together, these emerging principles can provide a framework for future postmortem studies of schizophrenic brain.
The feasibility of implanting an array of penetrating electrodes into peripheral nerves is studied in acute experiments in the cat sciatic nerve. A novel, silicon-based array of microelectrodes, the Utah Electrode Array, was used, which contains 25 or 100 1-mm long electrodes that project out from a silicon substrate. Electrode arrays of this complexity, when inserted in the peripheral nerve, could cause significant compression of the nerve and block the conduction of action potentials. Using a high velocity insertion technique, the electrode array was implanted into the sciatic nerve. Compound action potentials were evoked by and recorded with cuff electrodes. Compound action potentials recorded 1 h after insertion were only slightly altered from those recorded before insertion. Single units were readily extracted from evoked multiunit neural recordings in response to cutaneous stimulation and limb rotation around joints. Current injections into the nerve through the electrodes evoked muscle twitches with currents in the 10 microA range. Recording and stimulation stability were demonstrated for periods of up to 60 h. We have shown that high density arrays of electrodes can be inserted into the peripheral nerve and can provide a stable recording and stimulating interface to individual peripheral nerve axons. Such an array may be useful in future neuroscience research and potential neuroprosthetic applications.
Several authors have contended that the N400 is a reflection of a post-lexical event such as that proposed by Neely and Keefe [J.H. Neely, D.E. Keefe, Semantic context effects on visual word processing: a hybrid prospective/retrospective processing theory, in: G.H. Bower (Ed.), The Psychology of Learning and Motivation: Advances in Research and Theory, Vol. 23, Academic Press, New York, 1989, pp. 207-248.], whereby the subject compares the word on the current trial to the &quot;context&quot; provided by the word on the preceding trial [M. Besson, M. Kutas, The many facets of repetition: A cued-recall and event-related potential analysis of repeating words in same versus different sentence contexts, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 19 (5) (1993), 1115-1133; C. Brown, P. Hagoort, The processing nature of the N400: Evidence from masked priming. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 5(1) (1993), 34-44; P.J. Holcomb, Semantic priming and stimulus degradation: Implications for the role of the N400 in language processing, Psychophysiology 30 (1993), 47-61; M.D. Rugg, M.C. Doyle, Event-related potentials and stimulus repetition in indirect and direct tests of memory, in: H. Heinze, T. Munte, G.R. Mangun (Eds), Cognitive Electrophysiology, Birkhauser Boston, Cambridge, MA, 1994]. A study which used masked primes to directly test this possibility has been reported by Brown and Hagoort [C. Brown, P. Hagoort, The processing nature of the N400: evidence from masked priming. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 5(1) (1993), 34-44]. When the primes were masked, no priming effect was observed on the N400. When behavioral data were collected in the same paradigm, from another group of subjects, the usual priming effect on RT was obtained. Considered together, the data from the two groups of subjects indicated that activation of semantic representations had occurred without conscious awareness. As no N400 priming effect was observed, it was suggested that N400 must reflect a post-lexical process. This interpretation, however, is at odds with the findings of other studies which have reported N400 priming effects under conditions where post-lexical processes would not be thought to operate[J. Anderson, P. Holcomb, Auditory and visual semantic priming using different stimulus onset asynchronies: an event-related brain potential study. Psychophysiology 32 (1995), 177-190; J. Boddy, Event-related potentials in chronometric analysis of primed word recognition with different stimulus onset asynchronies, Psychophysiology 23 (1986), 232-245; D. Deacon, T. Uhm, W. Ritter, S. Hewitt, The lifetime of automatic priming effects may exceed two seconds, Cognitive Brain Research 7 (1999), 465-472; P.J. Holcomb, Automatic and attentional process: an event-related brain potential analysis of semantic priming. Brain and Language 35 (1998) 66-85]. The present study replicated Brown and Hagoort using a repeated measures design, a shorter SOA (stimulus onset asynchrony), and a slightly different threshold setting procedure. Significant priming effects were obtained on the mean amplitude of the N400 regardless of whether the words were masked or unmasked. The findings imply that the processing subserving the N400 is not postlexical, since the N400 was manipulated without the subjects being aware of the identity of the words.

The gonads are known to produce numerous hormones and also neurotrophins and their receptors. Here we demonstrate expression of glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands and related receptors in adult mice gonads by in situ hybridization. GDNF mRNA was expressed in the ovary, but was not detectable in testis. Neurturin (NTN), another ligand in this family, gave rise to strong mRNA hybridization signals in a mosaic pattern in the seminiferous tubules of the testis at stages IX-XII and I-II of the cycle. NTN mRNA signals were also found in uterus and the oviduct. In testis, the transducing receptor RET as well as GDNF receptor alpha-1 (GFR)alpha-1 and GFRalpha-2 were distributed in complementary and overlapping patterns, the former at stages XI-XII-I and the latter at stages VII and VIII. GFRalpha-3 could not be detected. Expression of these trophic molecules suggests involvement of GDNF family ligands and related receptor components in reproduction.
Transplantation of neural tissue from other species has the potential to improve function in patients with neurodegenerative disorders. We investigated the functional effects of embryonic porcine dopaminergic neurons transplanted in a rat model of Parkinson's disease and the immune responses to the grafts in immunosuppressed and nonimmunosuppressed hosts. Twenty-three rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions received dissociated, 27-day-old embryonic porcine ventral mesencephalic tissue in the right striatum. Eighteen rats received cyclosporine (10 mg/kg, IP, daily) during the whole period of 14 weeks, in combination with prednisolone (20 mg/kg, IP, daily) the first 4 days. Five rats served as nonimmunosuppressed controls. All rats were tested for amphetamine-induced rotational behavior at 3-week intervals. Two immunosuppressed rats were excluded due to severe side effects of the treatment. Functional recovery was seen in 9 of 16 immunosuppressed rats at 12 weeks. Six animals remained functionally recovered at 14 weeks and contained an average of 5750+/-1450 (SEM) dopaminergic neurons. Between 9 and 14 weeks, three immunosuppressed rats rejected their grafts, based on rotation scores and immunohistochemical demonstration of cell infiltrates. One additional immunosuppressed rat showed evidence of ongoing rejection at 14 weeks. The striata in animals with ongoing or recent rejection contained large numbers of CD4- and CD8-positive lymphocytes, NK cells, macrophages, and microglia cells, whereas scar tissue was found in rats with grafts rejected at earlier time points (n = 11). Embryonic porcine ventral mesencephalic tissue matures in the adult rat striatum, reinnervates the host brain, and restores behavioral defects. Immunosuppressive treatment was necessary for long-term graft survival and functional recovery, but did not sufficiently protect from rejection mechanisms. Porcine neural tissue is an interesting alternative to embryonic human tissue for intracerebral transplantation in neurodegenerative diseases. However, to achieve stable graft survival in discordant xenogeneic combinations, an appropriate immunosuppressive treatment or donor tissue modifications are needed.
Neural transplantation is developing into a therapeutic alternative in Parkinson's disease. A major limiting factor is that only 3-20% of grafted dopamine neurons survive the procedure. Recent advances regarding how and when the neurons die indicate that events preceding actual tissue implantation and during the first week thereafter are crucial, and that apoptosis plays a pivotal role. Triggers that may initiate neuronal death in grafts include donor tissue hypoxia and hypoglycemia, mechanical trauma, free radicals, growth factor deprivation, and excessive extracellular concentrations of excitatory amino acids in the host brain. Four distinct phases during grafting that can involve cell death have been identified: retrieval of the embryo; dissection and preparation of the donor tissue; implantation procedure followed by the immediate period after graft injection; and later stages of graft maturation. During these phases, cell death processes involving free radicals and caspase activation (leading to apoptosis) may be triggered, possibly involving an increase in intracellular calcium. We review different approaches that reduce cell death and increase survival of grafted neurons, typically by a factor of 2-4. For example, changes in transplantation procedure such as improved media and implantation technique can be beneficial. Calcium channel antagonists such as nimodipine and flunarizine improve nigral graft survival. Agents that counteract oxidative stress and its consequences, such as superoxide dismutase overexpression, and lazaroids can significantly increase the survival of transplanted dopamine neurons. Also, the inhibition of apoptosis by a caspase inhibitor has marked positive effects. Finally, basic fibroblast growth factor and members of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, such as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, significantly improve the outcome of nigral transplants. These recent advances provide hope for improved survival of transplanted neurons in patients with Parkinson's disease, reducing the need for human embryonic donor tissue and increasing the likelihood of a successful outcome.
Regeneration of injured axons following injury depends on a delicate balance between growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting factors. Overexpression of neurotrophin genes seems a promising strategy to promote regeneration. Trophic genes can be overexpressed at the site of injury at the axonal stumps, or at the perikaryal level of the injured neuron. Transduction of the neural cells can be achieved by applying adenoviral vectors, either directly in vivo or-in the case of neurotransplantation as an ex vivo approach. In both cases it would create a more permissive environment for axonal growth and therefore in functional regeneration. In this article, the feasibility of the use of adenoviral vectors in several neuroregeneration models--in particularly in spinal cord lesion models and the biological clock transplantation model--is illustrated. The results show that the adenoviral vectors can be a powerful tool to study the effects of overexpression of genes in an in vivo paradigm of nerve regeneration or nerve outgrowth. The potential use of adenoviral vectors and ex vivo transduced neurotransplants is discussed.
Profound nitric oxide release associated with cortical spreading depression (SD), has been implicated in stroke, traumatic brain injury and migraine pathophysiology. SB-220453 represents a mechanistically novel, well-tolerated class of compounds which may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of conditions associated with neuronal hyperexcitability and inflammation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of SB-220453 on the nitric oxide (NO) release associated with SD in the anaesthetized cat. In vehicle treated animals, KCl application for 6 min to the cortical suface produced repeated changes in extracellular direct current field potential with associated NO release. This activity was sustained for a median duration of 55 min (25-75% range, 32-59 min) and 59 min (25-75% range, 34-59 min), respectively. SB-220453 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) produced a dose-related inhibition of this activity and at the highest dose tested, the median duration of changes in extracellular field potential and NO release were reduced to 4 min (25-75% range, 4-5 min) and 5 min (25-75% range, 5-5 min), respectively. No effect was observed on basal systemic haemodynamic parameters or resting cerebral laser Doppler blood flux at any of the doses of SB-220453 tested. SB-220453 therefore represents a novel compound to assess the potential benefit of inhibiting SD associated nitric oxide release in neurological disease.
Recent imaging studies show that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is activated during a wide variety of paradigms, including guessing tasks, simple delayed matching tasks and sentence completion. We suggest that, as with other regions of the prefrontal cortex, activity in the OFC is most likely to be observed when there is insufficient information available to determine the appropriate course of action. In these circumstances the OFC, rather than other prefrontal regions, is more likely to be activated when the problem of what to do next is best solved by taking into account the likely reward value of stimuli and responses, rather than their identity or location. We suggest that selection of stimuli on the basis of their familiarity and responses on the basis of a feeling of 'rightness' are also examples of selection on the basis of reward value. Within the OFC, the lateral regions are more likely to be involved when the action selected requires the suppression of previously rewarded responses.
The somatic marker hypothesis provides a systems-level neuroanatomical and cognitive framework for decision making and the influence on it by emotion. The key idea of this hypothesis is that decision making is a process that is influenced by marker signals that arise in bioregulatory processes, including those that express themselves in emotions and feelings. This influence can occur at multiple levels of operation, some of which occur consciously and some of which occur non-consciously. Here we review studies that confirm various predictions from the hypothesis. The orbitofrontal cortex represents one critical structure in a neural system subserving decision making. Decision making is not mediated by the orbitofrontal cortex alone, but arises from large-scale systems that include other cortical and subcortical components. Such structures include the amygdala, the somatosensory/insular cortices and the peripheral nervous system. Here we focus only on the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in decision making and emotional processing, and the relationship between emotion, decision making and other cognitive functions of the frontal lobe, namely working memory.
This article reviews and interprets neuronal activities related to the expectation and delivery of reward in the primate orbitofrontal cortex, in comparison with slowly discharging neurons in the striatum (caudate, putamen and ventral striatum, including nucleus accumbens) and midbrain dopamine neurons. Orbitofrontal neurons showed three principal forms of reward-related activity during the performance of delayed response tasks, namely responses to reward-predicting instructions, activations during the expectation period immediately preceding reward and responses following reward. These activations discriminated between different rewards, often on the basis of the animals' preferences. Neurons in the striatum were also activated in relation to the expectation and detection of reward but in addition showed activities related to the preparation, initiation and execution of movements which reflected the expected reward. Dopamine neurons responded to rewards and reward-predicting stimuli, and coded an error in the prediction of reward. Thus, the investigated cortical and basal ganglia structures showed multiple, heterogeneous, partly simultaneous activations which were related to specific aspects of rewards. These activations may represent the neuronal substrates of rewards during learning and established behavioral performance. The processing of reward expectations suggests an access to central representations of rewards which may be used for the neuronal control of goaldirected behavior.
We examined neuronal activity in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in relation to reward expectancy and compared findings with those of the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) in the monkey. Activity of OFC neurons was examined in a delayed reaction time task where every four trials constituted one block within which three kinds of rewards and no reward were delivered in a fixed order. More than half of OFC delay neurons were related to the expectancy of delivery or nodelivery of a reward as the response outcome, while some neurons showed nature-of-reward-specific anticipatory activity changes. These delay-related activities reflected the preference of the animal for each kind of reward and were modulated by the motivational state of the animal. LPFC neurons are reported to show nature-ofreward-specific anticipatory activity changes in a delayed response task when several different kinds of rewards are used. Such rewarddependent activity is observed in LPFC delay neurons both with and without spatially differential delay (working memory-related) activity. Although reward expectancy-related activity is commonly observed in both OFC and LPFC, it is suggested that the OFC is more concerned with motivational aspects, while the LPFC is related to both the cognitive and motivational aspects of the expectancy of response outcome.
The orbitofrontal cortex has been examined in Alzheimer's disease (AD) from the viewpoint of neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) pathology, its laminar distribution and topography. NFT pathology in the orbitofrontal cortex is extensive in AD. In cases with extensive cortical pathology, NFTs extend from the pole of the frontal lobe to the orbitoinsular junction. In lesser affected cases, the anterior granular part of the orbital cortex is less invested by NFTs. Layers III and V contain the greatest density of NFTs and these are most dense in the dysgranular areas, posterior to the transverse orbital sulcus. Posterior and medial orbitofrontal areas, forming area 13 and the posterior tip of the paraolfactory gyrus, are the most severely damaged, as are the smaller agranular fields that surround the olfactory tract and cortex. The widespread orbitofrontal damage in AD affecting projection neurons suggests that this pathology may contribute heavily to the many non-memory-related behavior changes observed in this disorder.

Transoral protrusion of a peritoneal catheter is rare. Only two cases have been reported in the English literature. We now report the case of a 5-year-old girl who presented with a catheter that had been inserted 4 years previously, protruding from her mouth. Signs of cerebrospinal fluid infection or peritonitis were absent. The peritoneal catheter was cut and externalized at the chest. The distal portion, which had perforated the stomach wall, was removed using endoscopic procedures. After 3 weeks of antibiotic treatment, a new shunt was inserted. Analysis of 50 cases of bowel perforation extracted from the English literature showed that among the suggested factors such as age, gender, nutritional state, history of abdominal surgery, and length and type of the catheter, age was the only predisposing factor. In the treatment of bowel perforation by a peritoneal catheter, suspected shunt infection should be managed properly and contamination be minimized during removal of the peritoneal catheter.

The term &quot;whiplash&quot; commonly refers to symptoms and signs associated with a mechanical event such as a sudden acceleration and deceleration of the neck (due, in the majority of cases, to a road accident), instead of to the mechanism itself. The recent Quebec Classification of Whiplash Associated Disorders (WAD) contributed to define nosographically all the clinical manifestations usually grouped under the terms acute/post-traumatic and late &quot;syndrome&quot;. In the late phase of WAD, neck pain and neck muscle contraction have been reported in all cases, together with headache in over 50%. &quot;Headache stemming from the neck&quot;, despite numerous attempts to classify this entity (i.e. cervicogenic headache) according to the IASP classification (headache associated with neck disorders), is still a subject of debate. An adequate multiparametric procedure is required to study WAD, which takes into account: the patient's principal details; an exact reconstruction of the event; description and analysis of the signs and symptoms, with various complications and correlated dysfunctions; an objective neurological and neck-shoulder examination; and a battery of complementary instrumental tests which are described in this study. These investigations include evaluation of muscle tension (manual palpation, algometry, EMG recording), kinematic analysis of the cervical spine, neuropsychological and psychological evaluation, and evaluation of disability. In order to assess cervical spine mobility in WAD patients, a 3D kinematic analysis by means of the ELITE system and clinical evaluation were performed in our setting. Seventy patients with whiplash injury and 46 healthy volunteers were enrolled in the study. Patients were tested at the time of first consultation and again 6 months and 12 months later. Clinical evaluation of the range of motion was performed both in patients and in 41 healthy volunteers. Furthermore, patients diagnosed according to the WAD Classification as grade 2 (n = 68) or grade 3 (16) underwent a Quality of life (QoL) evaluation, measured using the short form (36-item) Health Survey (SF36) and the migraine-specific questionnaire (MSQ). According to our data, whiplash patients showed an impairment of cervical spine mobility, as well as a poor QoL, compared to a control group population, even though we observed a trend towards improvement over time in cervical ROM.
The concept of headache originating/starting in the neck is revised and considered in the light of previous descriptions of syndromes and entities and with reference to the current diagnostic systems for the classification of headache and other head pain. Cervicogenic headache (CEH), a clinical picture recently described by Sjaastad and coworkers and listed in the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP) Classification, is analyzed, also taking into consideration its diagnostic criteria in terms of sensitivity and specificity. The problem of a differential diagnosis with migraine, tension headache and other well defined forms of unilateral headaches is discussed with reference to a case series of 114 patients who were selected based on their adherence to two fundamental criteria: (i) side-locked unilaterality of pain; and (ii) pain starting in the neck and spreading to the fronto-orbital area. Based on the results, these simple criteria can contribute to a preliminary identification of possible CEH cases that may then undergo a sequence of clinical and instrumental procedures in order to confirm the diagnosis and, possibly, to localize the level(s) of dysfunction in the cervical spine which may be the target for therapeutic investigations, whether invasive or non-invasive.
Phenytoin is widely used for the management of seizures. Fortunately overdosage with this drug is rare. We performed a prospective study to investigate the elimination kinetics of phenytoin in toxic overdose. All patients were only on phenytoin and not on other anticonvulsants. Phenytoin toxicity was defined by clinical features and correlated with drug levels. Daily phenytoin levels were obtained until they were less than or equal to 15 mcg/ml. Nine patients with age ranging from 20 to 66-years-old were recruited. Sex ratio was male:female, 5:4. Initial phenytoin levels ranged from 34 to 57.5 mcg/ml. Serum phenytoin levels of three patients remained relatively constant for 2-5 days before declining in a steady fashion. Phenytoin levels of the remaining patients declined in an almost linear manner. Regression analysis of all patients showed that the slope terms were highly significant (with low P-values) and corresponding R(2) values were close to 1. Different patients have different rates of metabolism; in seven of nine patients, levels declined between 4.6 and 5.9 mcg/ml per day. Knowledge of the rate of elimination assists the clinician in deciding on the best time to reinstitute phenytoin therapy.

The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, on the phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding protein (CREB) in the rat brain. Single administration of paroxetine significantly induces the phosphorylation of CREB in the rat frontal cortex and hippocampus in a time-dependent manner. Repeated administration of paroxetine attenuates CREB phosphorylation in response to acute paroxetine challenge. These findings suggest that the enhancement of intracellular signal transduction after the activation of serotonin receptors may be attenuated after chronic paroxetine treatment, and this attenuation may be, at least in part, involved in the therapeutic efficacy of paroxetine.

Although great progress in neuroanatomy and physiology has occurred lately, we still cannot go directly to those levels to discover the neural mechanisms of higher cognition and consciousness. But we can use neurocomputational methods based on these details to push this project forward. Here we describe vector subtraction as an operation that computes sequential paths through high-dimensional vector spaces. Vector-space interpretations of network activity patterns are a fruitful resource in recent computational neuroscience. Vector subtraction also appears to be implemented neurally in primate frontal eye field activity, which computes dimensions of saccadic eye movements. We use this apparent neural implementation as a model and construct from it a general neurocomputational account of an important type of sequential cognitive and conscious process. We defend the biological plausibility of all components of the general model and show that it yields testable anatomical and physiological predictions. We close by suggesting some interesting consequences for consciousness if our model characterizes correctly the neural mechanisms producing a common type of episode in our conscious streams.

This article summarizes and interprets recent data from our laboratories suggesting that transforming growth factor-ss (TGF-ss1, -ss2, -ss3) is essentially required, in vitro and in vivo, for the neurotrophic signaling of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). TGF-ss, which is synthesized by and released from neurons, also synergizes with neurotrophins and members of the neurokine and fibroblast growth factor families by increasing their efficacies. However, when applied to purified neuron populations without other factors being added, TGF-ss does not promote survival or differentiation. Together, these data suggest that neither TGF-ss nor GDNF fulfil essential criteria of a typical neurotrophic factor, as e.g. nerve growth factor (NGF). Moreover, the neurotrophic activity of NGF and other classic neurotrophic factors is apparently based, to a significant extent, on their co-operativity with TGF-ss. Mechanisms, by which TGF-ss generates neurotrophic effects and synergizes with other cytokines are beginning to emerge. Recruitment and/or stabilization of receptors and cross-talks at different levels of signal transduction are likely to be implied in generating the neurotrophic potential of the TGF-ss/cytokine synergisms. Together, these data outline a novel role of TGF-ss in a key event of nervous system development, ontogenetic neuron death. Conceptually more important, however, may be the broadening of the neurotrophic factor concept, which now has to imply the possibility that two cytokines, each being ineffective by itself, become neurotrophically active when acting in concert.
Whether it is that animals are young so that they can play, or whether it is that they play because they are young, play should be more prevalent in species that have a greater degree of postnatal development. This hypothesis is tested by comparative analyses within two mammalian orders (primates and muroid rodents) using independent contrasts. This technique can account for the relative degree of relatedness among the species. For both orders, the complexity or prevalence of play fighting is compared to the degree of prenatal development (neonatal weight/adult weight). In addition, the prevalence of play in primates is compared to prenatal brain development (neonatal brain weight/adult brain weight). Significant negative regressions show that 30% of the variance in the distribution of play in the rodents is accounted for by the degree of prenatal development of body size, and 60% of the variance in play in the primates is accounted for by prenatal brain growth. The findings are thus consistent with the prediction. Species with a greater proportion of their growth occurring postnatally play more and have more complex play than do species with more of their growth occurring prenatally.
Development of the vertebrate nervous system requires the actions of transcription factors that establish regional domains of gene expression, which results in the generation of diverse neuronal cell types. MATH1, a transcription factor of the bHLH class, is expressed during development of the nervous system in multiple neuronal domains, including the dorsal neural tube, the EGL of the cerebellum and the hair cells of the vestibular and auditory systems. MATH1 is essential for proper development of the granular layer of the cerebellum and the hair cells of the cochlear and vestibular systems, as shown in mice carrying a targeted disruption of Math1. Previously, we showed that 21 kb of sequence flanking the Math1-coding region is sufficient for Math1 expression in transgenic mice. Here we identify two discrete sequences within the 21 kb region that are conserved between mouse and human, and are sufficient for driving a lacZ reporter gene in these domains of Math1 expression in transgenic mice. The two identified enhancers, while dissimilar in sequence, appear to have redundant activities in the different Math1 expression domains except the spinal neural tube. The regulatory mechanisms for each of the diverse Math1 expression domains are tightly linked, as separable regulatory elements for any given domain of Math1 expression were not found, suggesting that a common regulatory mechanism controls these apparently unrelated domains of expression. In addition, we demonstrate a role for autoregulation in controlling the activity of the Math1 enhancer, through an essential E-box consensus binding site.
GAP-43 is an abundant intracellular growth cone protein that can serve as a PKC substrate and regulate calmodulin availability. In mice with targeted disruption of the GAP-43 gene, retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons fail to progress normally from the optic chiasm into the optic tracts. The underlying cause is unknown but, in principle, can result from either the disruption of guidance mechanisms that mediate axon exit from the midline chiasm region or defects in growth cone signaling required for entry into the lateral diencephalic wall to form the optic tracts. Results here show that, compared to wild-type RGC axons, GAP-43-deficient axons exhibit reduced growth in the presence of lateral diencephalon cell membranes. Reduced growth is not observed when GAP-43-deficient axons are cultured with optic chiasm, cortical, or dorsal midbrain cells. Lateral diencephalon cell conditioned medium inhibits growth of both wild-type and GAP-43-deficient axons to a similar extent and does not affect GAP-43-deficient axons more so. Removal or transplant replacement of the lateral diencephalon optic tract entry zone in GAP-43-deficient embryo preparations results in robust RGC axon exit from the chiasm. Together these data show that RGC axon exit from the midline region does not require GAP-43 function. Instead, GAP-43 appears to mediate RGC axon interaction with guidance cues in the lateral diencephalic wall, suggesting possible involvement of PKC and calmodulin signaling during optic tract formation.
The role of psychological trauma (eg, rape, physical assaults, torture, motor vehicle accidents) as an etiological factor in mental disorders, anticipated as early as the 19th century by Janet, Freud, and Breuer, and more specifically during World War I and II by Kardiner, was &quot;rediscovered&quot; some 20 years ago in the wake of the psychological traumas inflicted by the Vietnam war and the discussion &quot;in the open &quot; of sexual abuse and rape by the women's liberation movement, 1980 marked a major turning point, with the incorporation of the diagnostic construct of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) into the 3rd edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III) and the definition of its main diagnostic criteria (reexperiencing of the traumatic event, avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma, and symptoms of increased arousal). Initially described as resulting from a onetime severe traumatic incident, PTSD has now been shown to be triggered by chronic multiple traumas as well. This &quot;state-of-the-art&quot; article discusses past and current understanding of the disorder, with particular emphasis on the recent explosive developments in neuroimaging and other fields of the neurosciences that have highlighted the complex interrelationships between the psychological, psychiatric, biological, and neuroanatomical components of the disorder, and opened up entirely new therapeutic perspectives on how to help the victims of trauma overcome their past.
The term posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has become a household name since its first appearance in 1980 in the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-lll) purblished by the American Psychiatric Association, In the collective mind, this diagnosis is associated with the legacy of the Vietnam War disaster. Earlier conflicts had given birth to terms, such as &quot;soldier's heart, &quot; &quot;shell shock,&quot; and &quot;war neurosis.&quot; The latter diagnosis was equivalent to the nvrose de guerre and Kriegsneurose of French and German scientific literature. This article describes how the immediate and chronic consequences of psychological trauma made their way into medical literature, and how concepts of diagnosis and treatment evolved over time.
Although many studies have indicated information processing deficits in schizophrenic patients, the precise nature and underlying causes of these deficits remain largely uncertain. One prominent hypothesis is that these patients show insufficient attentional inhibition. This deficit to inhibition has been linked to certain cognitive disorders in schizophrenic patients, including attention deficits, as well as to some clinical symptoms, especially those involving delusional thought, hallucinations,and poor contact with reality. The hypothesis of deficient attentional inhibition, although attractive in some ways, is difficult to work with, because it is not easy to directly measure &quot;attentional inhibition&quot;. Several studies involving normal subjects have linked attentional inhibition with performance on a task demanding the suppression of distracting information: the presumption is that efficient attentional inhibition will permit rapid responses because the distracting information will be quickly suppressed, allowing undistracted processing of the target information. The present study measures schizophrenic patients' performance on a task demanding suppression of rapidly-presented visual information. An important methodological feature of this study is that performance is measured in terms of &quot;percent correct responses&quot; rather than the reaction time measures typically used in tasks demanding distractor suppression, such as Stroop-like selective attention tasks. Since reaction times are not considered, the results cannot be interpreted in terms of deficient response organization and execution. Schizophrenic (18) and normal (18) subjects underwent trials in which a visual target was the second of two stimuli presented in rapid succession. Interference produced by a non-target significantly impaired perception of the target for schizophrenic patients. This effect persisted longer in the schizophrenic subjects possibly because of deficient attentional inhibition.
This review will summarize the properties of five variant forms of human growth hormone: a disulfide dimer, a glycosylated form, 20 kD-hGH, and two peptides made up of portions of 22 kD-hGH. The two pituitary peptides (hGH(1-43) and hGH(44-191)) have, respectively, insulin-potentiating and anti-insulin properties. Both have been detected in serum. The shorter peptide may prove to be useful in decreasing the amount of exogenous insulin required by diabetics. The larger, strongly anti-insulin peptide, may be involved in diabetic retinopathy. We believe that this peptide is the long sought after diabetogenic substance of the pituitary gland.
A single injection of estradiol valerate induces a form of cystic ovary resembling some aspects of the human polycystic ovarian syndrome. Preceding the development of follicular cysts, there is an increase in intraovarian synthesis of nerve growth factor (NGF) and the low affinity NGF receptor (p75 NGFR). Selective blockade of NGF actions and p75 NGFR synthesis in the ovary restored estrous cyclicity and ovulatory capacity in estradiol valerate-treated rats, suggesting that an increase in NGF-dependent, p75 NGFR-mediated actions within the ovary contributes to the development of cystic ovarian disease. We have tested this hypothesis by grafting NGF-producing neural progenitor cells into the ovary of juvenile rats that have been induced to ovulate precociously by a single injection of PMSG. The NGF-producing cells, detected by their content of immunoreactive p75 NGFR material, were found scattered throughout the ovary with some of them infiltrating the granulosa cell compartment of large, precystic follicles. Ovarian NGF content was 2-fold higher than in the ovary of rats receiving control cells. Estrous cyclicity was disrupted, with the animals showing prolonged periods of persistent estrus, and an almost continuous background of vaginal cornified cells at other phases of the estrous cycle. Morphometric analysis revealed that the presence of NGF-producing cells neither reduced the total number of corpora lutea per ovary nor significantly increased the formation of follicular cysts. However, the ovaries receiving these cells showed an increased incidence of precystic, type III follicles, accompanied by a reduced number of healthy antral follicles, and an increased size of both healthy and atretic follicles. These changes in follicular dynamics were accompanied by a selective increase in serum androstenedione levels. The results show that an abnormally elevated production of NGF within the ovary suffices to initiate several of the structural and functional alterations associated with the development of follicular cysts in the rat ovary.
The linear Purkinje cell density in the cerebellar vermis was investigated in a small cohort of adult onset schizophrenic men with well-documented hippocampal abnormalities. There were no differences in comparison with age-matched controls. This negative finding indicates that vermian abnormalities undoubtedly seen in some schizophrenic patients may constitute a subsyndrome, possibly related to autistic disorders in which cerebellar abnormalities are well corroborated.
Tobacco use is a global health care problem. Repetitive exposure to nicotine produces neuroadaptation resulting in nicotine dependence. Cigarette smoking is particularly addictive due to the repeated delivery of bolus doses of nicotine to the bloodstream. Although compulsive tobacco use is sustained by nicotine addiction, it is the toxic combustion products in tobacco smoke such as carbon monoxide and oxidant gases that adversely affect the cardiovascular system. Smoking cessation produces significant health benefits and is a very cost-effective intervention. Evidence that nicotine is the addictive component of tobacco provides the rationale for using nicotine replacement therapy to aid cessation. Nicotine replacement therapy doubles successful smoking cessation rates and evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of tobacco addiction recommend routine use of nicotine replacement therapy, particularly in heavily dependent smokers. Success rates of up to 40% can be achieved in specialist clinics. Despite early concerns regarding the safety of nicotine replacement therapy in smokers with heart disease, it is now clear that the health risks of using nicotine replacement therapy to assist such patients to stop, or significantly reduce, smoking far outweigh any treatment-related risks.
We evaluated the efficacy and safety of the centrally acting cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine tartrate, for patients with mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) with or without concurrent vascular risk factors (VRF). Patients (45-90 years of age) were randomized to placebo (n = 235), low-dose rivastigmine (1-4 mg/day, n = 233), or high-dose rivastigmine (6-12 mg/day, n = 231) for 26 weeks. Efficacy measures included the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog), the Clinician's Interview Based Impression of Change (CIBIC-Plus), the Progressive Deterioration Scale (PDS), the Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). For efficacy and safety analysis, patients were categorized by baseline Modified Hachinski Ischemic Score (MHIS) for the determination of VRF (MHIS &gt; 0: presence of VRF; MHIS = 0: absence of VRF). As early as 12 weeks, the mean change from the baseline ADAS-Cog score was significantly different for those patients treated with high-dose rivastigmine compared with placebo controls in both MHIS categories. However, the treatment difference between high-dose rivastigmine and placebo at each time-point was larger for patients with MHIS &gt; 0. The proportion of responders was significantly greater in the high-dose rivastigmine group for each level of improvement. No differences were noted between treatment groups regarding safety evaluations. Rivastigmine is effective in both categories of patients, and those with VRF experience greater clinical benefit (cognition, activities of daily living, and disease severity).
We used reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to detect the expression of the central and peripheral cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2, respectively) mRNA, and Western blotting to show the presence of the CB1 protein in subregions of the human eye. CB2 mRNA transcripts were undetectable, while levels of CB1 mRNA were significantly expressed in the human retina (25.8 +/- 2.46%), ciliary body (210 +/- 11.55%) and iris (62.7 +/- 5.94%) when compared with those of the normalizing reference gene beta2 microglobulin. The CB1 gene encodes a functional protein which is detected in its glycosylated (63 kDa) and unglycosylated (54 kDa) form in the same areas by a specific purified antibody raised against the amino terminus (residues 1-77) of the CB1 receptor. These results further support the proposed role of the CB1 receptor in controlling intraocular pressure, helping to explain the antiglaucoma properties of marijuana.
The neuropeptide galanin has been identified as a potential neurotransmitter/neuromodulator within the central nervous system. In the present study, the role of endogenous galanin in nociceptive processing in the nervous system has been analysed by using mice carrying a targeted mutation in the galanin gene. Supporting this, the effect of chronic administration of exogenous galanin on nociceptive sensory inputs has been assayed in adult rats. In the absence of peripheral nerve injury, the sensitivity to threshold noxious stimuli is significantly higher in galanin mutant mice than wild-type controls. Following peripheral nerve injury, in conditions under which endogenous galanin levels are elevated, spontaneous and evoked neuropathic pain behaviours are compromised in mutant mice. Conversely, chronic intrathecal delivery of exogenous galanin to nerve-intact adult rats is associated with persistent behavioural hypersensitivity, a significant increase in c-fos expression and an increase in PKCgamma immunoreactivity within the spinal cord dorsal horn. The present results demonstrate that a relationship exists between the degree of nerve injury-induced galanin expression and the degree of behavioural hypersensitivity, and show that galanin may play a role in nociceptive processing in the spinal cord, with interrelated inhibitory and excitatory effects.
The recently developed radioligand [123I]FP-CIT is suitable for clinical single-photon emission tomography (SPET) imaging of the dopamine (DA) transporter in vivo. To date it has remained unclear whether dopaminergic medication influences the striatal [123I]FP-CIT binding. The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of this medication on [123I]FP-CIT binding in the brain. We used an animal model in which we administered dopaminomimetics, antipsychotics and an antidepressant. In vivo [123I]FP-CIT binding to the DA and serotonin transporters was evaluated after subchronic and acute administration of the drugs. The administered medication induced small changes in striatal [123I]FP-CIT binding which were not statistically significant. As expected, the DA reuptake blocker GBR 12,909 induced a significant decrease in [123I]FP-CIT binding. [123I]FP-CIT binding in the serotonin-rich hypothalamus was decreased only after acute administration of fluvoxamine. The results of this study suggest that dopaminergic medication will not affect the results of DA transporter SPET imaging with [123I]FP-CIT.

The present paper reviews the evidence for anxiolytic activity of 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists in animal models of anxiety and in clinical trials in humans. Compared to the established anxiolytics (benzodiazepine receptor agonists and, to a lesser extent, 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists) 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists display a different anxiolytic profile. They are anxiolytic in a limited number of animal anxiety models. If active, they often are very potent and display bell-shaped dose response curves, whereas the ratio between therapeutic activity and side effects appears remarkably large. 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists remain active after chronic dosing and no indications for tolerance, dependence or rebound effects were found, which seems to make these drugs an attractive alternative to the benzodiazepines. However, the large body of animal data indicating a complete lack of psychotropic activity of 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists weakens the prediction of anxiolytic activity in these drugs. Human data are also controversial; some investigators have reported positive effects in anxiety disorders (panic disorder, GAD), others did not. It can be concluded that 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists do not represent a breakthrough in the treatment of various anxiety disorders, as initially suggested.
The active transport of D-glucose from the vascular to the neural compartment requires the presence of a carrier molecule at the blood-brain and the blood-nerve barrier. The glucose transporter 1 (Glut-1) seems to be the main carrier in blood-tissue barriers of endothelial and perineurial type. The distribution of Glut-1 was assessed in the normal central and peripheral nervous system of young and adult animals and compared with changes after nerve injury. Immuno-histochemistry, in situ hybridization, and perfusions with Evans Blue were carried out. Glut- I was not expressed in the perineurium of peripheral nerves at birth, but appeared in the perineurium of peripheral nerves, spinal roots, in the capsule of dorsal-root ganglia, and in the pia mater of adult animals. The perineurium of peripheral nerves subjected to Wallerian degeneration presented a faint Glut-1 immunoreaction, which was restored after regeneration. Glut-1 was expressed in capillaries of the gray substance of the spinal cord. Perineurial-derived lamellar cells of Pacinian corpuscles exhibited a strong Glut-1-like immunoreactivity in response to denervation and during development. Merkel cells and Meissner corpuscles were found to be Glut-1 negative. Glut-1 seems to reflect the quality of an adult, mature perineurial and blood-nerve barrier.
Proliferation of glial cells is one of the hallmarks of CNS responses to neural injury. These responses are likely to play important roles in neuronal survival and functional recovery after central or peripheral injury. The boundary between the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and CNS in the dorsal roots, the dorsal root transitional zone (DRTZ), marks a distinct barrier for growth by injured dorsal root axons. Regeneration occurs successfully in the PNS environment, but ceases at the PNS-CNS junction. In order to understand the role of different glial cells in this process, we analysed the proliferation pattern of glial cells in central (CNS) and peripheral (PNS) parts of the dorsal root and the segmental white and grey spinal cord matter after dorsal rhizotomy or sciatic nerve transection in adult rats 1-7 days after injury. Monoclonal antibody MIB-5 or antibodies to bromodeoxyuridine were used to identify proliferating cells. Polyclonal antibodies to laminin were used to distinguish the PNS and CNS compartments of the dorsal root. Dorsal root lesion induced glial cell proliferation in the CNS as well as PNS beginning at 1 day, with peaks from 2 to 4 days postoperatively. After sciatic nerve injury, cell proliferation occurred only in the CNS, was minimal at 1 day, and peaked from 2 to 4 days postoperatively. Double immunostaining with specific glial cell markers showed that after dorsal root transection 60% of the proliferating cells throughout the postoperative period examined were microglia, 30% astrocytes and 10% unidentified in the CNS, while in the PNS 40% were Schwann cells, 40% macrophages and 20% unidentified. After sciatic nerve injury virtually all proliferating cells were microglia. These findings indicate that non-neuronal cells in the CNS and PNS are extremely sensitive to the initial changes which occur in the degenerating dorsal root axons, and that extensive axonal degeneration is a prerequisite for astroglial and Schwann cell, but not microglial cell, proliferation.
In this short review, we consider the application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the study of cognitive function. Following an introduction to the technique, we consider its possible mechanisms of action. We then review the studies that have applied TMS to the investigation of cognition. In the majority of these investigations, TMS has been applied to disrupt function and demonstrate that a particular cortical area is essential for performance of the task under study. Finally, we highlight pertinent design and procedural issues and consider other types of questions that can be addressed by future TMS studies of cognitive function.
Physiologically responsive grafts of embryonic (E16) occipital neurons placed into the visual cortex of adult rats were shown previously (Gaillard et al., 1998, Restor. Neurol. Neurosci. 12: 13-25) to receive a predominant (93-97%) cortical input from the infragranular layers V-VI. The present paper examines whether this specific pattern of connections is related to some process of maturation of the host cortex. Pieces of embryonic (E16) occipital cortical tissue were grafted into the visual cortex of neonate (P0), 1-week-old (P7), and adult (P120) subjects. Four months later, graft responsiveness was assessed through field potential recordings and host-to-graft afferents were labeled with a retrograde tracer (cholera toxin subunit B). The data show first that afferents to physiologically active grafts originate about equally from both supra- and infragranular cortical layers in newborn subjects and second that supragranular neurons contribute only 20 and 1.5% of these inputs in P7 and P120 recipients, respectively. This strong upside-down laminar shift of afferents may correlate with the layout of subsets of host neurons that at a given developmental stage would have the intrinsic capacity to regrow an axon. Substantial axogenesis and synaptic stabilization of host-to-graft cortical afferents appear possible only within the critical period for the supragranular neurons but may occur throughout life for the infragranular neurons.
Nervous system deficits account for the third largest group of fatal birth defects (after heart and respiratory problems) in North America. Although considerable advance has been made in neuroscience research, the early events involved in neurogenesis remain to be elucidated. More specifically, the effects of signaling molecules on intercellular communication during neurodevelopment have not yet been studied. The development of the central nervous system is regulated, at least in part, by signaling molecules such as bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). In this study, we have used the embryonal mouse P19 cell line to examine the effects of BMP2 and BMP4 on gap junctional communication as well as neuronal and astrocytic differentiation. The undifferentiated P19 cells show high levels of the gap junction protein, connexin43 (Cx43), and functional intercellular coupling. However, Cx43 expression and dye coupling decrease as these cells differentiate into neurons and astrocytes. In contrast, cells treated with BMP2 or BMP4 lose their capacity to differentiate into neurons but not astrocytes, while they maintain extensive gap junctional communication. The very few neurons that remain in the BMP-treated cultures are coupled (a characteristic not seen in the control neurons). Together, our data suggest that BMPs may play a critical role in morphogenesis of P19 cells while they affect gap junctions.
Here we highlight just a few of the outstanding questions in the field of neurohypophysial hormones that we envisage will be addressed successfully in the new millennium. To begin, we focus on the regulation of receptors. Despite intensive investigation with new drugs, molecular modelling and transgenic models, the determinants of receptor selectivity remain elusive; there may even be more vasopressin or oxytocin receptor subtypes to be discovered. We discuss the controversy over the interesting studies that indicate modulation of oxytocin receptor-binding by steroids. Oxytocin and vasopressin release and action in the brain are discussed from several aspects. Dendritically released oxytocin acting locally is important for the milk ejection reflex, and similarly released vasopressin is important in regulating patterning of vasopressin neurone activity. Such dendritically released oxytocin and vasopressin is likely to be important in paracrine modulation of neural circuitry involved in neuroendocrine control, and for a range of behaviours. Is it possible that the whole range of behaviours that comprise 'social' (or 'anti-social') or 'maternal' behaviour can be engineered by modifying the expression of just these one or two peptides and their receptors? However, whether gene expression and knockout approaches will answer all the open questions about the real functions of oxytocin and vasopressin remains to be shown.
Release of the peptide hormone oxytocin in the brain has been shown to influence both maternal, sexual and social bonding behaviours although there are a number of species differences. This review summarizes findings on the distributions of oxytocin and oxytocin receptors in the brain, together with factors governing their expression, release of the peptide in the brain and its behavioural actions. A model of how oxytocin may act to alter maternal and socio-sexual behaviours is proposed which initially involves activation of oxytocin neurones in a single brain site, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), following vaginal and cervical stimulation. This causes a co-ordinated release of the peptide in the PVN and its terminal projection regions for up to 1 h and this promotes different behavioural components, primarily through modulation of classical transmitter systems.
Much is now known about the electrophysiological properties of the magnocellular neurones of the hypothalamus. Oxytocin neurones are characterized by an intermittent high frequency discharge during suckling that leads to the pulsatile release of oxytocin into the blood and to subsequent milk ejection. Vasopressin neurones are characterized by their asynchronous phasic activity (bursting) during maintained vasopressin release and the subsequent regulation of water balance. In both cases, it is the clustering of spikes, albeit with different time courses for each peptide, that facilitates hormone release. The mechanism underlying this differential facilitation is one of the major unanswered questions in neuroendocrinology. This paper considers recent evidence that indicates that ATP, co-secreted with vasopressin and oxytocin, may play a key role in the regulation of stimulus-secretion coupling in the neurohypophysis. The activity of the type (II) Ca2+-activated K+ (K(Ca)) channel found in the nerve terminals was significantly increased in the presence of ATP on the cytoplasmic side of the channel. Extracellular ATP, in contrast, inhibited the type II K(Ca) current in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, intracellular and extracellular ATP exert opposite effects on the type II K(Ca) channel of neurohypophysial terminals. Furthermore, ATP opens P2X2 channels to increase intracellular [Ca2+] in the nerve terminals and subsequent arginine vasopressin (AVP) release. In contrast, adenosine, acting via A1 receptors, specifically inhibits only the N-type Ca2+ channel, thus decreasing neuropeptide release. These multiple, conflicting effects of ATP and its metabolite adenosine could explain the patterns of AVP release observed during physiological stimulation in vivo.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors mediate a variety of physiological responses including feeding and vasoconstriction. To investigate the evolutionary events that have generated this receptor family, we have sequenced and determined the chromosomal localizations of all five presently known mammalian NPY receptor subtype genes in the domestic pig, Sus scrofa (SSC). The orthologs of the Y(1) and Y(2) subtypes display high amino acid sequence identities between pig, human, and mouse (92%-94%), whereas the Y(4), Y(5), and y(6) subtypes display lower identities (76%-87%). The lower identity of Y(5) is due to high sequence divergence in the large third intracellular loop. The NPY1R, NPY2R, and NPY5R receptor genes were localized to SSC8, the NPY4R to SSC14, and NPY6R to SSC2. Our comparisons strongly suggest that the tight cluster of NPY1R, NPY2R, and NPY5R on human chromosome 4 (HSA4) represents the ancestral configuration, whereas the porcine cluster has been split by two inversions on SSC8. These 3 genes, along with adjacent genes from 14 other gene families, form a cluster on HSA4 with extensive similarities to a cluster on HSA5, where NPY6R and &gt;13 other paralogs reside, as well as another large cluster on HSA10 that includes NPY4R. Thus, these gene families have expanded through large-scale duplications. The sequence comparisons show that the NPY receptor triplet NPY1R-NPY2R-NPY5R existed before these large-scale duplications.
To understand the regulation, evolution, and genetics of lp(A2)/Edg4, a second lysophosphatidic acid receptor gene, we characterized its complete cDNA sequence, genomic structure, and chromosomal location. The full-length mouse transcript sequence was determined using rapid amplification of cDNA ends. Southern blot and restriction fragment length polymorphism segregation analyses revealed that the mouse gene was present as a single copy and located at the middle of Chromosome 8 near the mutations for myodystrophy (myd) and &quot;kidney-anemia-testes&quot; (kat). This region is syntenic with human chromosome 19p12, where the human genomic clone containing the lp(A2) gene (EDG4) was mapped. Sequence analysis of genomic clones demonstrated that both mouse and human transcripts were encoded by three exons, with an intron separating the coding region for transmembrane domain VI. Reverse transcriptase-PCR demonstrated that the three exons were spliced in all mouse tissues shown to express the transcript. Finally, in a comparison of all human lp(A2) sequences present in the database, we identified several sequence variants in multiple tumors. One such variant (a G deletion) in the initially characterized Edg4 cDNA clone (derived from an ovarian tumor) results in a frameshift mutation near the 3' end of the coding region. In addition to increasing our understanding of the mechanisms underlying lysophosphatidic acid signaling and lysophospholipid receptor gene evolution, these results have important implications regarding the genomic targeting and oncogenic potential of lp(A2).
Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) can induce rapid breakdown and removal of myelin from the adult mammalian CNS. In this paper we report the detailed characterization of the immune cell response as well as changes in the expression of cell adhesion molecules and the permeability of the blood-brain barrier after microinjection of LPC into the adult mouse spinal cord. T cells and neutrophils were seen in the spinal cord 6-12 h after LPC injection, but not in PBS-injected mice. Mac-1+ monocytes were also seen at 6 h and 12 h in the white and gray matter of mice injected with LPC and PBS but were significantly greater in the white matter after LPC injections. At later time points LPC induced an increase in the number of activated Mac-1+ macrophages that displayed a variety of morphologies in the white and gray matter. These cells were not present in PBS-injected control mice. LPC also induced widespread microglial activation in the white and gray matter. The number of these Mac-1+ microglia reduced drastically at 96 h after LPC injection suggesting that they may have transformed into Mac-1+ phagocytic cells with a different morphology. These LPC-induced changes in immune cells were accompanied by significant increases in VCAM-1+ and ICAM-1+ blood vessels in the spinal cord. In addition, LPC induced a rapid and widespread disruption of the blood-brain barrier, as compared to PBS injected mice. Therefore, LPC can induce an early and transient T cell and neutrophil response in the CNS. These cells likely promote the rapid influx of monocytes followed by widespread and effective activation of macrophages that mediate rapid phagocytosis of myelin debris.
Chemokine receptors dictate the cellular responses to chemokines on target cells. Therefore, the regulation of expression of chemokine receptors is likely a crucial point for the regulation of chemokine action. Here we show that CC chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) expression by primary mouse astrocytes is increased after transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) stimulation. TGFbeta1 caused a pronounced up-regulation of CCR1 mRNA in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. TGFbeta1-mediated increase of CCR1 mRNA accumulation resulted in increased CCR1 protein expression and augmented cell migration to a physiological ligand, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha). The half life of CCR1 mRNA in the presence and absence of TGFbeta1 stimulation was comparable, suggesting that TGFbeta1-induced CCR1 mRNA accumulation occurred at the transcriptional level. TGFbeta1 did not affect CCR1 mRNA expression in hematopoietic cells, indicating that TGFbeta1 effect on CCR1 expression in primary astrocytes is cell-type specific. This is the first evidence that TGFbeta1 may modulate central nervous system (CNS) inflammation in part by affecting chemokine receptor expression on astrocytes.

Recent demonstration that the level of sympathetic nervous drive to the failing heart in patients with severe heart failure is a major determinant of prognosis, and that mortality in heart failure is reduced by beta-adrenergic blockade, indicate the clinical relevance of heart failure neuroscience research. The cardiac sympathetic nerves are preferentially stimulated in severe heart failure, with the application of isotope dilution methods for measuring cardiac norepinephrine release to plasma indicating that in untreated patients cardiac norepinephrine spillover is increased as much as 50-fold, similar to levels of release seen in the healthy heart during near maximal exercise. This preferential activation of the cardiac sympathetic outflow contributes to arrhythmia development and to progressive deterioration of the myocardium, and has been linked to mortality in both mild and severe cardiac failure. Although the central nervous system mechanisms involved in the sympathetic nervous activation at present remain uncertain, increased intracardiac diastolic pressure seems to be one peripheral reflex stimulus, and increased forebrain norepinephrine turnover an important central mechanism.Additional neurophysiological abnormalities present in the failing human heart include release of the sympathetic cotransmitters, epinephrine and neuropeptide Y, at high levels more typical of their release during exercise in healthy subjects, and the possible presynaptic augmentation of norepinephrine release from the cardiac sympathetic nerves by the regionally released epinephrine. Following on the demonstrable benefit of beta-adrenergic blockade in heart failure, additional antiadrenergic measures (central suppression of sympathetic outflow with imidazoline binding agents such as clonidine, blocking of norepinephrine synthesis by dopamine-beta-hydroxylase inhibition, antagonism of neuropeptide Y) are now under active investigation.
Recent studies suggest that progestin receptors may be activated in vivo by neurotransmitters in the absence of ligand. More specifically, vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS) can influence sexual behavior by activating progestin receptors in the absence of progesterone. Another way to test if progestin receptors are influenced by particular stimuli is to examine progestin receptor immunostaining. We report that progestin receptor immunoreactivity is decreased in the forebrain of estradiol-primed ovariectomized (OVX) rats within 1 h after a subcutaneous injection of progesterone, a time by which rapid down-regulation of progestin receptors does not seem to have occurred. In estradiol-primed OVX rats, VCS also decreased progestin receptor immunoreactivity within 1 h in the medial preoptic area, but not in any other area examined. To determine if the decrease in immunoreactivity by VCS was due to adrenal secretions or by ligand-independent activation of progestin receptors, we repeated the experiment in estradiol-primed OVX/adrenalectomized rats. Prior removal of the adrenal glands blocked the rapid decrease in progestin receptor immunoreactivity, even though data from other experiments suggest that progestin receptors are activated by VCS at this time. These studies suggest the possibility that progestin receptors may be affected differentially by progesterone-dependent or by progesterone-independent pathways. This raises the possibility that activation of progestin receptors by these two distinct pathways may lead to different neuronal consequences.
fMRI, a noninvasive technique to measure brain activation, is gaining clinical interest, because its sensitivity enables individual assessments. However, more insight in the reproducibility of these measurements during higher cognitive tasks is necessary. We performed an fMRI study involving within- and between-subject reproducibility during encoding of complex visual pictures. Ten healthy subjects were studied on three occasions: twice in the same scanning session (study 1 and 2), and a third time, 3-24 days later (study 3). On all 30 occasions but one, activation was found in areas expected on the basis of previous studies, including the fusiform and lingual gyri, occipital and parietal areas, the (para)hippocampal area, and the frontal inferior sulcus. The reproducibility of the number of activated voxels in the whole brain was 72% and 63% (respectively, studies 1 and 2, and 1 and 3). The reproducibility of anatomical identical pixels that supplement these results was 49% and 36%. These reproducibility measures increase about 5-15% when only areas of expected activation are included. The quantitative measurements indicate that there is substantial variation in the volume of activation. The recognition of pictures as tested afterward explains part of this variation between subjects. Our findings indicate that whereas consistent patterns of activation exist, more insight is needed into what determines the volume of activation, especially to assess cognitive alterations in patients over time.
Recently, we presented a method (the CS method) for estimating the probability distributions of the sizes of supra threshold clusters in functional brain images [Ledberg A, Akerman S, Roland PE. 1998. Estimating the significance of 3D clusters in functional brain images. NeuroImage 8:113-128]. In that method, the significance of the observed test statistic (cluster size) is assessed by comparing it with a sample of the test statistic obtained from simulated statistical images (SSIs). These images are generated to have the same spatial autocorrelation as the observed statistical image (t-image) would have under the null hypothesis. The CS method relies on the assumptions that the t-images are stationary and that they can be transformed to have a normal distribution. These assumptions are not always valid, and thus limit the applicability of the method. The purpose of this paper is to present a modification of the previous method, that does not depend on these assumptions. This modified CS method (MCS) uses the residuals in the linear model as a model of a dataset obtained under the null hypothesis. Subsequently, datasets with the same distribution as the residuals are generated, and from these datasets the SSIs are derived. These SSIs are t-distributed. Thus, a conversion to normal distribution is no longer needed. Furthermore, no assumptions concerning the stationarity of the statistical images are needed. The MCS method is validated on both synthetical images and PET images and is shown to give accurate estimates of the probability distribution of the cluster size statistic.
Gender differences in the incidence of many cardiovascular diseases may be due to the effects of sex hormones. Both alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors produce vasoconstriction in peripheral blood vessels and have demonstrated gender effects in previous studies. In addition, race has been shown to influence the effects of some alpha-adrenergic stimuli. We therefore sought to determine the effects of the menstrual cycle and race on peripheral blood flow responses to the intra-arterial infusion of phenylephrine (alpha(1)-agonist) and clonidine (alpha(2)-agonist). Ten white and 8 black women were studied during the early luteal phase and the follicular phase; these phases were verified in each woman through measurements of plasma estradiol and progesterone. Plasma norepinephrine was measured with HPLC. During phenylephrine infusion, there was significantly greater vasoconstriction in the luteal phase versus the follicular phase (P&lt;0.05). There were no differences (P&gt;0.8) between white and black women. During clonidine infusion, white women showed significantly more vasoconstriction in the follicular phase than during the luteal phase (P&lt;0.006). For black women, the responses for both phases did not differ (P&gt;0.9). Blood pressures were significantly higher in the black women (diastolic P&lt;0.005, systolic P&lt;0.05). The luteal-phase elevation of alpha(1)-adrenergic responses may be due to elevated levels of estradiol, progesterone, or both. The lack of luteal-phase reduction in alpha(2)-adrenergic vasoconstriction in black women may contribute to their increased pressor responses to adrenergic stimuli.
We investigated the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram after 6-8 weeks and 6 months of treatment on clinical and peripheral indexes for central serotonergic function: platelet [14C]serotonin uptake and [3H]paroxetine- and [3H]LSD-binding to platelets membranes in 33 patients with panic disorder. Basal data from patients were compared with data from a control material consisting of 33 healthy volunteers. Bmax for platelet [3H]paroxetine binding was significantly lower in patients than in controls. There were no differences in serotonin uptake or [3H]LSD-binding between patients and controls. The degree of anxiety and depression was assessed using the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Beck Depression Inventory self-assessment scales, and the Clinical Anxiety Scale and the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale for clinical evaluation. Complete remission was found in one third of the patients after 6-8 weeks and in two-thirds after 6 months of treatment. The reduction in assessment scores was parallelled with similar reductions in platelet 5-HT2-receptor density, [3H]LSD affinity variable (Kd) and Vmax for platelet [14C]5-HT uptake. Citalopram treatment did not alter Bmax and Kd for platelet [3H]paroxetine-binding. A positive correlation was found between Vmax for the platelet [14C]5-HT uptake and BAI after 6 months citalopram treatment. The present study shows that citalopram has a therapeutic effect in panic disorders. A prerequisite of responding to treatment might be plasticity in the serotonergic system.
The Src family of proto-oncogenes is a highly conserved group of non-receptor tyrosine kinases with very similar, but not identical, tissue distributions and functions. Yrk is a recently discovered new member of this family. Here we report the patterns of expression of this kinase in a variety of chicken tissues during development and after hatching, and experiments that correlate some of the observed patterns of expression with potential functions. The results show that the Yrk protein is primarily found in neuronal and epithelial cells and in monocyte/macrophages. In neuronal tissues of hatched chicks, Yrk is expressed in Purkinje cells, in the gigantocellularis of the brain-stem, and in retinal ganglion cells. In addition, staining for this kinase is also seen as thread-like and punctate patterns suggesting staining in neurites and growth cones. Epithelial cells express Yrk in the stomach during late developmental stages and after hatching but, in other epithelia such as in the peridermis, intestine and kidney, expression is high during development but low (skin) or undetectable (intestine and kidney) after hatching. These results suggest that Yrk may have several functional roles, specifically in cell migration and or differentiation during neuronal and epithelial cell development and in maintenance of the differentiated phenotype. In this study we also show that significant levels of Yrk are detected in monocytes of the blood and in tissue macrophages. Analysis of chicken hematopoietic cell lines confirmed the expression of Yrk in cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage and show for the first time in experimentally-induced inflammation that Yrk kinase activity is high during the period of monocyte infiltration, raising the possibility that this kinase plays a role in inflammation and/or response to injury.
Loneliness is a complex set of feelings encompassing reactions to unfulfilled intimate and social needs. Although transient for some individuals, loneliness can be a chronic state for others. Prior research has shown that loneliness is a major risk factor for psychological disturbances and for broad-based morbidity and mortality. We examined differences between lonely and socially embedded individuals that might explain differences in health outcomes. Satisfying social relationships were associated with more positive outlooks on life, more secure attachments and interactions with others, more autonomic activation when confronting acute psychological challenges, and more efficient restorative behaviors. Individuals who were chronically lonely were characterized by elevated mean salivary cortisol levels across the course of a day, suggesting more discharges of corticotropin-releasing hormone and elevated activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocorticol axis. An experimental manipulation of loneliness further suggested that the way in which people construe their self in relation to others around them has powerful effects on their self concept and, possibly, on their physiology.


Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) are used widely in humans to assess cochlear function. It is well known that 2f1-f2 DPOAE amplitude increases as the f2/f1 ratio increases from 1.0 to about 1.20, and then decreases as the f2/f1 ratio increases above 1.20, showing an amplitude ratio function, which is thought to be related to cochlear filtering properties. Different lower sideband DPOAEs are believed to show the same amplitude ratio functions as the 2f1-f2 DPOAE, with a magnitude peak situated at a constant DPOAE frequency relative to f2. More recently, several studies have suggested the involvement of a DPOAE component coming from its own distortion product place as well as the DPOAE component coming from the f2 place. To investigate DPOAE generation sites and the importance of the DPOAE frequency place, amplitude ratio functions of 2f1-f2, 3f1-2f2, 4f1-3f2 and 2f2-f1, 3f2-2f1, 4f2-3f1 DPOAE components have been systematically studied in 18 normally hearing subjects, using an f2 fixed, f1 sweep method, and an f1 fixed, f2 sweep method, at ten different f2 frequencies. Results show a dependency of the distortion magnitude peak on f2 frequency for each lower sideband DPOAE, and a small frequency shift of the distortion peak for the high order lower sideband DPOAE components. Strong correlation between the different lower sideband DPOAE amplitude were obtained, whether they were recorded with the same f1 (and a different f2) or with the same f2 (and a different f1), suggesting that lower side-band DPOAE amplitude does not depend on small variations in the f2 frequency. Moreover, correlations between DPOAE amplitude and tone-burst evoked otoacoustic emissions (TBOAEs) are highly significant for TBOAEs centered at the f2 frequency and at 1/2 octave below the f2 frequency, suggesting some degree of importance of the cochlear status at frequencies below f2 in DPOAE amplitude. Subjects presenting spontaneous otoacoustic emissions showed a greater lower sideband DPOAE amplitude recorded for low f2/f1 ratios, and a distortion magnitude peak shifted towards higher frequencies. The best correlation between upper sideband DPOAE amplitude and lower sideband DPOAE amplitude occurred for lower sideband DPOAEs generated by an f2 frequency 1/2 octave to 1 octave below the primaries used to generate upper sideband DPOAEs, suggesting a site of generation basal to f2 for the upper sideband DPOAEs. Correlations between TBOAE amplitude and upper sideband DPOAE amplitude agreed with a site of upper sideband DPOAE generation basal to f2, and which would move with the DPOAE frequency itself.
Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) are used widely in humans to assess cochlear function. The standard procedure consists of recording the 2f1-f2 DPOAE amplitude as a function of the f2 frequency, using a fixed f2/f1 ratio (DPOAE-gram), close to 1.20. DPOAE amplitude, as recorded in the DPOAE-gram, shows a wide range of values in normal-hearing subjects, which can impair the predictive value of the DPOAE-gram for hearing thresholds. This study is aimed at comparing intersubject variability in 2f1-f2 DPOAE amplitude according to three paradigms: a fixed f2/f1 ratio, such as the DPOAE-gram, a variable ratio DPOAE-gram (f2/f1 adapted to frequency) and an &quot;optimum&quot; DPOAE-gram, where the f2/f1 is adapted both to subject and frequency. The 2f1-f2 DPOAE amplitude has been investigated on 18 normally hearing subjects at ten different f2 frequencies (from 0.75 to 6 kHz), using an f2 fixed, f1 sweep paradigm, and allowed to define, for each frequency, the f2/f1 ratio giving the greatest 2f1-f2 DPOAE amplitude (or optimum ratio). Results showed a large intersubject variability of the optimum ratio, especially at frequencies below 1.5 kHz, and a significant decrease of the optimum ratio with frequency. The optimum DPOAE-gram was underestimated by up to 5.8 dB on average (up to 14.9 dB for an individual subject) by the fixed ratio DPOAE-gram, and by up to 3 dB on average (up to 10.6 dB for an individual subject) by the variable ratio DPOAE-gram. Intersubject variability was slightly but significantly reduced in the optimum DPOAE-gram versus the fixed-ratio DPOAE-gram. Lastly, correlations between tone-burst evoked otoacoustic emission (TBOAE) amplitudes and maximum DPOAE amplitudes were significantly greater than correlations between TBOAE amplitudes and fixed-ratio DPOAE amplitudes.
'We, not them and us?' Views on the relationships and interactions between staff and relatives of older people permanently living in nursing homes This study describes relatives' and staffs' experiences of each other in their relationships and interactions in connection with the care of old people with dementia living in nursing homes. The aim was to identify obstacles and promoters concerning these interactions. A qualitative method was used. Data were collected from 27 hours of observations of group discussions about relatives' and staffs' communication, interactions and experiences. Three different groups, with eight participants, relatives, staff and a group leader in each, met six times during a period of 3 months. Findings indicate that the experiences that relatives and staff have of each other are related to issues about influence, participation, trust and measures to avoid conflicts. These conclusions build on concrete descriptions about care, activities, competence, communication and visits given by research participants. Experiences of situations were sometimes contradictory between relatives and staff. This implies that the potential for cooperation between relatives and staff in care of the elderly is not fully utilized. Suggestions for enhancing the relationships between relatives and staff are: pre-planned informal, individual conversations between relatives and staff; development of ways to give regular two-way feedback about matters concerning the resident and the relationship between staff and relatives; giving staff credit for measures taken to facilitate relatives' involvement in the nursing home care; measures to improve documentation about families' involvement; and working together with minor practical tasks.
Epidemiological studies have indicated that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) may have some therapeutic effect in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and experimental studies have shown that microglia activation by Abeta-peptide (Abeta-peptide. Furthermore, our results indicate that regular NSAID use is associated with significantly lower counts of astrocytes and a trend of lower counts of activated microglia in the brain tissue. The influence of NSAID use was noted in all ApoE genotypes however the trend of lower counts of glial cells with regular NSAID use was more marked in patients carrying the ApoE varepsilon 4/4 alleles. Based on our results one would anticipate that regular NSAID dosing could have a beneficial effect on the progression of the disease. However, the fact that we failed to observe significant differences for activated microglia might indicate an age or stage dependent difference in the glial response i.e. in their activation rate. More studies into age and stage related factors influencing the glial response are required if one is to devise novel pharmacological treatment strategies for AD.
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) is a water channel expressed abundantly at the apical pole of choroidal epithelial cells. The protein expression was quantified by immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy in adult rats adapted to altered gravity. AQP1 expression was decreased by 64% at the apical pole of choroidal cells in rats dissected 5.5-8 h after a 14-day spaceflight. AQP1 was significantly overexpressed in rats readapted for 2 days to Earth's gravity after an 11-day flight (48% overshoot, when compared with the value measured in control rats). In a ground-based model that simulates some effects of weightlessness and alters choroidal structures and functions, apical AQP1 expression was reduced by 44% in choroid plexus from rats suspended head down for 14 days and by 69% in rats suspended for 28 days. Apical AQP1 was rapidly enhanced in choroid plexus of rats dissected 6 h after a 14-day suspension (57% overshoot, in comparison with control rats) and restored to the control level when rats were dissected 2 days after the end of a 14-day suspension. Decreases in the apical expression of choroidal AQP1 were also noted in rats adapted to hypergravity in the NASA 24-ft centrifuge: AQP1 expression was reduced by 47% and 85% in rats adapted for 14 days to 2 G and 3 G, respectively. AQP1 is downregulated in the apical membrane of choroidal cells in response to altered gravity and is rapidly restored after readaptation to normal gravity. This suggests that water transport, which is partly involved in the choroidal production of cerebrospinal fluid, might be decreased during spaceflight and after chronic hypergravity.

The stimulus-transcriptional coupling during ischemia/hypoxia was examined for ATP-stimulated expression of immediate early genes (IEGs; c-fos, zif268, c-myc and nur77) in a rat brain-derived type 2 astrocyte cell line, RBA-2. Incubation of cells with 1 mM of extracellular ATP stimulated time-dependent expression of c-fos and zif268. ATP induced the largest increases in zif268 mRNA and a lesser one in c-fos mRNA. ATP also induced a slight increase in nur77 mRNA but was ineffective in inducing c-myc expression in these cells. Brief exposure of cells to potassium cyanide to simulate chemical hypoxia induced 9-fold and 7-fold transient increases in c-fos and zif268 expression, respectively, but did not affect c-myc or nur77 expression. When cyanide and ATP were added together, the expression of c-fos and zif268 expression was inhibited, and the effect was mimicked by simulating chemical hypoxia with sodium azide. To elucidate the mechanism involved, the effect of cyanide on ATP-stimulated increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations, [Ca(2+)](i), and phospholipase D (PLD) activities were measured. Cyanide induced an increase in [Ca(2&amp;plus);](i) and further enhanced the ATP-stimulated increases in [Ca(2+)](i) and PLD activities. Nevertheless, metabolic inhibitor, iodoacetate, blocked the ATP-induced c-fos and partially inhibited zif268 expression, and deprivation of cells with glucose also inhibited the ATP-induced c-fos expression. Taken together, these results demonstrate that both extracellular ATP and chemical hypoxia induce c-fos and zif268 expression in RBA-2 type 2 astrocytes. The chemical hypoxia inhibited ATP-stimulated c-fos and zif268 expression is not due to alterations in Ca(2+) and PLD signaling, and is at least partially related to metabolic disturbance in these cells.
Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) is a multisubunit transcription factor that when activated induces the expression of genes encoding acute-phase proteins, cell adhesion molecules, cell surface receptors, and cytokines. NF-kappaB is composed of a variety of protein subunits of which p50-and p65-kDa (RelA) are the most widely studied. Under resting conditions, these subunits reside in the cytoplasm as an inactive complex bound by inhibitor proteins, IkappaB alpha and IkappaB beta. On activation, IkappaB is phosphorylated by IkappaB kinase and ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteasome; simultaneously, the active heterodimer translocates to the nucleus where it can initiate gene transcription. In the periphery, NF-kappaB is involved in inflammation through stimulation of the production of inflammatory mediators. The role of NF-kappaB in the brain is unclear. In vitro, NF-kappaB activation can be either protective or deleterious. The role of NF-kappaB in ischemic neuronal cell death in vivo was investigated. Adult male rats were subjected to 2 hours of focal ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). At 2, 6, and 12 hours after reperfusion, the expression and transactivation of NF-kappaB in ischemic versus nonischemic cortex and striatum were determined by immunocytochemistry and by electrophoretic mobility gel-shift analysis. At all time points studied, p50 and p65 immunoreactivity was found exclusively in the nuclei of cortical and striatal neurons in the ischemic hemisphere. The contralateral nonischemic hemisphere showed no evidence of nuclear NF-kappaB immunoreactivity. Double immunofluorescence confirmed expression of p50 in nuclei of neurons. Increased NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in nuclear extracts prepared from the ischemic hemisphere was further substantiated by electrophoretic mobility gel-shift analysis. Because the activation of NF-kappaB by many stimuli can be blocked by antioxidants in vitro, the effect of the antioxidant, LY341122, previously shown to be neuroprotective, on NF-kappaB activation in the MCAO model was evaluated. No significant activation of NF-kappaB was found by electrophoretic mobility gel-shift analysis in animals treated with LY341122. These results demonstrate that transient focal cerebral ischemia results in activation of NF-kappaB in neurons and supports previous observations that neuroprotective antioxidants may inhibit neuronal death by preventing the activation of NF-kappaB.
The telencephalic nucleus HVc (sometimes referred to as the high vocal center) plays a key role in the production and perception of birdsong. Although many afferent and efferent connections to this nucleus have been described, it has been clear for many years, based on chemical neuroanatomical criteria, that there are projections to this nucleus that remain undescribed. A variety of methods including high performance liquid chromatography, immunohistochemistry and receptor autoradiography have identified high levels of catecholamine transmitters, the presence of enzymes involved in the synthesis of catecholamines such as tyrosine hydroxylase and a variety of catecholamine receptor sub-types in the HVc of several songbird species. However, no definitive projections to HVc have been described from cells groups known to synthesize catecholamines. These projections were analyzed in the present study by retrograde tract tracing combined with immunocytochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase. The origin of the catecholaminergic inputs to HVc were determined based exclusively on birds in which injections of the retrograde tracer (latex fluospheres) were confined within the cytoarchitectonic boundaries of the nucleus. Retrogradely transported latex fluospheres were found mainly in cells of two dopaminergic nuclei, the mesencephalic central gray (A11) and, to a lesser extend, the area ventralis of Tsai (A10; homologous to the ventral tegmental area of mammals). A few retrogradely-labelled cells were also found in the noradrenergic nucleus subceruleus (A6). Most of these retrogradely-labelled cells were also tyrosine hydroxylase-positive. Other catecholaminergic nuclei were devoid of retrograde label. These data converge with others studies to indicate that HVc receives discrete dopaminergic and noradrenergic inputs. These inputs may influence the steroid regulation of HVc, attentional processes related to song and modulate sensory inputs to the song system.
This review outlines the rationale for the use of magnetoencephalography (MEG) or magnetic source imaging (MSI), a noninvasive functional imaging technique, and the features that any imaging method should display to make a substantial contribution to cognitive neuroscience. After a brief discussion of the basic experimental approach used in the authors' studies, the use of early sensory components of brain magnetic responses is reviewed to address issues of the functional organization of the primary sensory cortices, followed by a comment on the clinical use of these components. Second, normative studies focusing on the late components of magnetic responses for establishing the validity and reliability of MSI maps of the language-specific cortex in normal subjects are reviewed. Third, the authors' investigations of fine spatiotemporal features of brain activation maps, specific to receptive language and to reading, are reviewed. Fourth, experience with presurgical mapping of the language-specific cortex in neurosurgery candidates and in patients undergoing the &quot;Wada&quot; procedure is summarized followed by a comment on the perfect agreement of the MSI maps with those derived by more direct invasive brain mapping procedures. Fifth. MSI-derived evidence of often dramatic, functional reorganization of brain areas subserving both simple sensory and linguistic functions is summarized along with comments on the use of MSI as a means for investigating brain plasticity. Finally, in the sixth section of this review, the authors relate their experience with the use of MSI in deriving brain activation profiles during silent reading of real words and pseudowords that are specific to dyslexic children. The review concludes with a discussion on the further use of MSI in assessing, among other issues, the effectiveness of intervention strategies designed to improve reading fluency in dyslexic children.
Rasmussen's syndrome, a syndrome of chronic focal encephalitis, is usually considered to be a disease of childhood. Typical features include intractable focal seizures and progressive unilateral neurological deficits with radiological evidence of focal cortical atrophy. This report documents the case of the oldest patient yet described in the literature with Rasmussen's syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed gadolinium enhancing tissue, not previously described in this condition.


An important problem in cognitive and systems neuroscience concerns the extent to which perceptual organization can be explained by &quot;local,&quot; peripheral physiological mechanisms, or rather by more &quot;global,&quot; central, and higher-level processes. Though central in vision research, this issue has received little attention in the field of audition. One claim is that auditory-perceptual grouping mechanisms, possibly related to visual figure-from-ground segregation or &quot;pop-out,&quot; are low level, resulting from local processing in the frequency domain. However, no experiments have been performed specifically to test this question. We examined the effects of perceptual grouping on detection for reversal of two repeated target tones, one constant in frequency (1030 Hz), the other free to vary between trials (1045-8580 Hz). Detection was examined in the presence of a 1000-Hz background tone that repeated between target presentations. By varying the frequency of the high-target tone, this task was designed to modulate grouping between the background and low-target tones, thereby affecting reversal detection. We predicted that at large target frequency differences (deltaf), the high-target tone would segregate from the background and low-target tones, and so render the background and low-target tones less distinct. We found that reversal detection declined from optimal levels with increasing deltaf, and that performance was improved by spatially separating the location of the target and background sounds by at least 32 degrees. These results demonstrate that global frequency integration over at least three octaves occurs through grouping, and that grouping is affected by source location. This implies that auditory-perceptual grouping involves global neural processing, i.e., the participation of neurons with very broad frequency input that are also sensitive to spatial location.
The functional equivalence of overt movements and dynamic imagery is of fundamental importance in neuroscience. Here, we investigated the participation of the neocortical motor areas in a classic task of dynamic imagery, Shepard and Metzler's mental rotation task, by time-resolved single-trial functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). The subjects performed the mental-rotation task 16 times, each time with different object pairs. Functional images were acquired for each pair separately, and the onset times and widths of the activation peaks in each area of interest were compared to the response times. We found a bilateral involvement of the superior parietal lobule, lateral premotor area, and supplementary motor area in all subjects; we found, furthermore, that those areas likely participate in the very act of mental rotation. We also found an activation in the left primary motor cortex, which seemed to be associated with the right-hand button press at the end of the task period.

Previous experiments have demonstrated that presenting independently established discriminative stimuli in compound can substantially increase operant responding maintained by food reinforcement or shock avoidance. Recently, this phenomenon was also shown to occur with cocaine self-administration. The present study further assessed the generality of these stimulus-compounding effects by systematically replicating them with heroin self-administration. Rats' nose-poke responses produced intravenous heroin (0.025 mg/kg per infusion) on a variable-ratio schedule when either a tone or a light was present. In the absence of these stimuli, responding was not reinforced. Once discriminative control by the tone and light had been established, the stimuli were presented in compound under extinction (with heroin discontinued) or maintenance conditions (with heroin available during test-stimulus presentations). In extinction, the tone-light compound increased responding approximately threefold compared to tone or light alone. Under maintenance conditions, compounding increased heroin intake approximately twofold. These effects closely matched those obtained earlier with cocaine. This consistency across pharmacological classes and across drug and nondrug reinforcers further confirms that (a) self-administered drugs support conditioning and learning in a manner similar to that supported by other reinforcers; and (b) multiple drug-related cues interact in lawful and predictable ways to affect drug seeking and consumption.
The depressed mood and specific burdens experienced by spouses of patients in treatment for depression were examined. Forty-nine wife-depressed couples and 30 husband-depressed couples were administered the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (M. B. First, R. L. Spitzer, M. Gibbon, &amp; J. B. W. Williams, 1995), and spouses completed measures of depressed mood and burden. Overall, spouses living with a depressed patient reported significantly more depressed mood than general population norms and numerous specific burdens. Regression analyses showed that these burdens as well as gender of the spouse accounted for the spouses' depressed mood that would otherwise be attributed to mood contagion. It is suggested that as an alternative to an exclusive therapeutic focus on patient outcomes, attention might profitably be directed to the distress and burden experienced by spouses.
Rate equations for mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake and release and plasma membrane Ca2+ transport were determined from the measured fluxes in the preceding study and incorporated into a model of Ca2+ dynamics. It was asked if the measured fluxes are sufficient to account for the [Ca2+]i recovery kinetics after depolarization-evoked [Ca2+]i elevations. Ca2+ transport across the plasma membrane was described by a parallel extrusion/leak system, while the rates of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake and release were represented using equations like those describing Ca2+ transport by isolated mitochondria. Taken together, these rate descriptions account very well for the time course of recovery after [Ca2+]i elevations evoked by weak and strong depolarization and their differential sensitivity to FCCP, CGP 37157, and [Na+]i. The model also leads to three general conclusions about mitochondrial Ca2+ transport in intact cells: (1) mitochondria are expected to accumulate Ca2+ even in response to stimuli that raise [Ca2+]i only slightly above resting levels; (2) there are two qualitatively different stimulus regimes that parallel the buffering and non-buffering modes of Ca2+ transport by isolated mitochondria that have been described previously; (3) the impact of mitochondrial Ca2+ transport on intracellular calcium dynamics is strongly influenced by nonmitochondrial Ca2+ transport; in particular, the magnitude of the prolonged [Ca2+]i elevation that occurs during the plateau phase of recovery is related to the Ca2+ set-point described in studies of isolated mitochondria, but is a property of mitochondrial Ca2+ transport in a cellular context. Finally, the model resolves the paradoxical finding that stimulus-induced [Ca2+]i elevations as small as approximately 300 nM increase intramitochondrial total Ca2+ concentration, but the steady [Ca2+]i elevations evoked by such stimuli are not influenced by FCCP.
We studied how mitochondrial Ca2+ transport influences [Ca2+](i) dynamics in sympathetic neurons. Cells were treated with thapsigargin to inhibit Ca2+ accumulation by SERCA pumps and depolarized to elevate [Ca2+(i); the recovery that followed repolarization was then examined. The total Ca2+ flux responsible for the [Ca2+](i) recovery was separated into mitochondrial and nonmitochondrial components based on sensitivity to the proton ionophore FCCP, a selective inhibitor of mitochondrial Ca2+ transport in these cells. The nonmitochondrial flux, representing net Ca2+ extrusion across the plasma membrane, has a simple dependence on [Ca2+](i), while the net mitochondrial flux (J(mito)) is biphasic, indicative of Ca+) accumulation during the initial phase of recovery when [Ca2+](i) is high, and net Ca2+ release during later phases of recovery. During each phase, mitochondrial Ca2+ transport has distinct effects on recovery kinetics. J(mito) was separated into components representing mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake and release based on sensitivity to the specific mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca2+ exchange inhibitor, CGP 37157 (CGP). The CGP-resistant (uptake) component of J(mito) increases steeply with [Ca2+](i), as expected for transport by the mitochondrial uniporter. The CGP-sensitive (release) component is inhibited by lowering the intracellular Na(+) concentration and depends on both intra- and extramitochondrial Ca2+ concentration, as expected for the Na(+)/Ca2+ exchanger. Above approximately 400 nM [Ca2+](i), net mitochondrial Ca2+ transport is dominated by uptake and is largely insensitive to CGP. When [Ca2+](i) is approximately 200-300 nM, the net mitochondrial flux is small but represents the sum of much larger uptake and release fluxes that largely cancel. Thus, mitochondrial Ca2+ transport occurs in situ at much lower concentrations than previously thought, and may provide a mechanism for quantitative control of ATP production after brief or low frequency stimuli that raise [Ca(2+)](i) to levels below approximately 500 nM.

This study demonstrates that the photochemically induced model of stroke is an extremely viable method of inducing cerebral infarction in old animals. The lesions are reproducible both in terms of location and size and compatible with long-term survival of the animal. With this model we demonstrated, one week following surgery, a significantly larger infarct in rats 20 and 24 months of age compared to 4-month-old rats. The older rats also sustained greater neurologic deficits as assessed on a rotarod task. Older rats also were characterized by a glial response that was far less intense than in young animals. While the precise relationship between glia activation and cerebral damage remains to be determined, it would appear that a better understanding of those factors that contribute to the astrocytic response in the aged rat may be of particular benefit in designing therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing the pathologic consequences of cerebral infarction in elderly humans.
Protein tyrosine kinase activation is one of the first biochemical events in the signaling pathway leading to activation of NK cell cytolytic machinery. Here we investigated whether proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), the nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinase belonging to the focal adhesion kinase family, could play a role in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Our results demonstrate that binding of NK cells to sensitive target cells or ligation of beta2 integrins results in a rapid induction of Pyk2 phosphorylation and activation. By contrast, no detectable Pyk2 tyrosine phosphorylation is found upon CD16 stimulation mediated by either mAb or interaction with Ab-coated P815 cells. A functional role for Pyk2 in natural but not Ab-mediated cytotoxicity was demonstrated by the use of recombinant vaccinia viruses encoding the kinase dead mutant of Pyk2. Finally, we provide evidence that Pyk2 is involved in the beta2 integrin-triggered extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, supporting the hypothesis that Pyk2 plays a role in the natural cytotoxicity by controlling extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation.
In this study, we investigated 2 possible mechanisms by which interhemispheric interaction (IHI) might facilitate performance. Twenty university students performed 3- and 4-item versions of a less complex physical identity (PI) task in which they decided whether 2 letters were perceptually identical (e.g., 'A' and 'A') and a more complex name identity (NI) task in which they decided whether 2 letters had the same name (e.g., 'A' and 'a'). Consistent with prior work, IHI facilitated performance more for the relatively complex NI task than for the simpler PI task regardless of how many items were in the display. However, for each task IHI facilitated performance less in the 4-item displays than in the 3-item displays. These results indicate that IHI facilitates performance by allowing (1) a division of processing across the hemispheres, and (2) task-relevant information to be processed by a hemisphere that receives a relatively light processing load.
Individuals given a series of words to memorize normally show better immediate recall for items from the beginning and end of the list than for mid-list items. This phenomenon, known as the serial position effect, is thought to reflect the concurrent contributions of secondary and primary memory, respectively, to recall performance. The present study compared the serial position effects produced on Trial 1 of the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) in mildly demented (N = 25; M MMSE = 20.0) and very mildly demented (N = 25; M MMSE = 25.5) patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and age- and education-matched normal control (NC) participants (N = 50). In addition, the serial position effects of the very mildly demented AD patients were compared to those of patients with a transient, circumscribed amnesia arising from a prescribed series of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) treatments for the relief of depressive illness (N = 11). While the NC group exhibited the typical serial position effect, AD patients recalled significantly fewer words than NC participants overall, and exhibited a significantly reduced primacy effect (i.e., recall of the first 2 list items) with a normal recency effect (i.e., recall of the last 2 list items). Patients with circumscribed amnesia due to ECT were as impaired as the very mildly demented AD patients on most standard CVLT measures of learning and memory, but exhibited primacy and recency effects, which were within normal limits. These results suggest that a reduction in the primacy effect, but not the recency effect, is an early and ubiquitous feature of the memory impairment of AD. It is not, however, a necessary feature of all causes of memory impairment.
Synaptic transmission was examined between identified neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) of the freshwater mollusk, Lymnaea stagnalis. Four identified neurons were used: Right Pedal Dorsal one (RPeD1; a dopaminergic respiratory interneuron), Visceral Dorsal two and three (VD2/3), and Visceral Dorsal four (VD4; a cardiorespiratory interneuron). Neuron RPeD1 synapses onto both VD2/3 and VD4, while VD4 makes a reciprocal synapse onto RPeD1. When compared from animal to animal, the connections were variable in sign. Previously, we demonstrated that, in a given animal, the RPeD1 --&gt; VD4 synapse could be either inhibitory, biphasic, or undetectable. The present study now expands this concept of variability by showing that the RPeD1 --&gt; VD2/3 synapse was either excitatory or undetectable from animal to animal, while the synapse from VD4 to RPeD1 was observed as inhibitory, biphasic, depolarizing, excitatory, or undetectable. Next, we used 1-day organ culture to determine if the variability observed between animals is a product of ongoing change to the sign of these identified synapses and whether or not the extent of change could be influenced by the culture conditions. Changes to the sign of transmission occurred within minutes and, more commonly, after 24-h organ culture. All three synapses were investigated before and after 1-day organ culture, in either defined medium (DM) or brain-conditioned medium (CM). Regardless of culture conditions, the RPeD1 --&gt; VD2/3 synapse showed no change of sign, i.e., it was relatively stable. However, the synapses between RPeD1 and VD4 did change sign, and when cultured in CM, the VD4 --&gt; RPeD1 synapse changed significantly more than in DM. These data indicate that variability of some synapses reflects changes at these synapses. This is the first report that specific synapses in an adult CNS can change sign, and that the sign of transmission can be modulated by environmental conditions.
Several metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes have been identified in the cerebellar cortex that are targeted to different compartments in cerebellar cells. In this study, preembedding immunocytochemical methods for electron microscopy were used to investigate the subcellular distribution of the mGluR1b splice variant in the rat cerebellar cortex. Dendritic spines of Purkinje cells receiving parallel fiber synaptic terminals were immunoreactive for mGluR1b. With a preembedding immunogold method, approximately 25% of the mGluR1b immunolabeling was observed perisynaptically within 60 nm from the edge of the postsynaptic densities. Values of extrasynaptic gold particles beyond the first 60 nm were maintained at between 10 and 18% along the whole intracellular surface of the dendritic spine membranes of Purkinje cells. For comparison, the distribution of mGluR1a was studied. A predominant (approximately 37%) perisynaptic localization of mGluR1a was seen in dendritic spines of Purkinje cells, dropping the extrasynaptic labeling to 15% in the 60-120-nm bin from the edge of the postsynaptic specialization. Our results reveal that mGluR1b and mGluR1a are localized to the same subcellular compartments in Purkinje cells but that the densities of the perisynaptic and extrasynaptic pools were different for both isoforms. The compartmentalization of mGluR1b and mGluR1a might serve distinct requirements in cerebellar neurotransmission.
The debate about the toxicity of L-DOPA to dopaminergic neurons has not been resolved. Even though enzymatic and nonenzymatic metabolism of L-DOPA can produce hydrogen peroxide and oxygen free radicals, there has been controversy as to whether L-DOPA generates an oxidant stress in vivo. This study determined whether acute or repeated administration of L-DOPA caused in vivo production of hydroxyl radicals in striatum and other brain regions in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projections. Salicylate trapping combined with in vivo microdialysis provided measurements of extracellular 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in striatum following L-DOPA administration systemically (100 mg/kg, i.p.) or by intrastriatal perfusion (1 mM, via the microdialysis probe). Tissue concentrations of 2,3-DHBA and salicylate were also measured in striatum, ventral midbrain, and cerebellum following repeated administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 16 days). In each instance, treatment with L-DOPA did not increase 2,3-DHBA concentrations, regardless of the nigrostriatal dopamine system's integrity. When added to the microdialysis perfusion medium, L-DOPA resulted in a significant decrease in the striatal extracellular concentration of 2,3-DHBA. These results suggest that administration of L-DOPA, even at high doses, does not induce hydroxyl radical formation in vivo and under some conditions may actually diminish hydroxyl radical activity. Furthermore, prior damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system does not appear to predispose surviving dopaminergic neurons to increased hydroxyl radical formation following L-DOPA administration. Unlike L-DOPA, systemic administration of methamphetamine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a significant increase in the concentration of 2,3-DHBA in striatal dialysate, suggesting that increased formation of hydroxyl radicals may contribute to methamphetamine neurotoxicity.
Ser55 of neurofilament L (NF-L) is reported to be partly phosphorylated in neurons and to be phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Bovine NF-L was phosphorylated by PKA in a low concentration of MgCl2 (0.3 mM) and digested by trypsin. Trypsin-digested fragments were assigned by MALDI/ TOF (matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization/ time-of-flight) mass spectrometry. Phosphorylation sites were found at Ser41, Ser55, and Ser62 in the head region, with Ser55 considered the preferred site. A site-specific phosphorylation-dependent antibody against Ser55 rendered NF-L phosphorylated at Ser55 detectable in primary cultured rat neurons. One-hour treatment with 20 nM okadaic acid increased the phosphorylation level of Ser55, and co-treatment with 10 microM forskolin enhanced it. However, forskolin alone did not elevate the phosphorylation level. As a consequence, NF-L may be phosphorylated at Ser55 by PKA or by a PKA-like kinase in vivo; however, the phosphorylation level of Ser55 may be modulated by certain phosphatases sensitive to okadaic acid.
A fundamental step in neuronal development is the acquisition of a polarized form, with distinct axons and dendrites. Although the ability to develop a polarized form appears to be largely an intrinsic property of neurons, it can be influenced by environmental cues. For example, in cell cultures substrate and diffusible factors can enhance and orient axonal development. In this study we examine the effects of growth on each of two cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), NgCAM and N-cadherin, on the development of polarity by cultured hippocampal neurons. We find that although the same pattern of development occurs on control substrates and the CAMs, the CAMs greatly accelerate the rate and extent of development of axons-axons from sooner and grow longer on the CAMs than on the control substrate. In contrast, the CAMs have opposite effects on dendritic development-N-cadherin enhances, but NgCAM reduces dendritic growth compared to control. These results provide further evidence that the development of polarity is largely determined by a cell-autonomous program, but that environmental cues can independently regulate axonal and dendritic growth.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), an important factor for developing and lesioned pre- and postganglionic sympathetic neurons, and its congeners signal through a receptor complex consisting of the tyrosine kinase c-Ret and a lipid-anchored alpha receptor (GFR alpha 1-4). Using in situ hybridization we show now that the mRNA for GFR alpha-2 is abundant in the adult rat adrenal medulla and its chromaffin cells. Coexpression of c-Ret and GFR alpha-1 mRNA's is restricted to a scarce subpopulation of medullary sympathetic neurons. Both GFR alpha-1 and GFR alpha-2 mRNA's are associated with preganglionic nerve trunks in the adrenal cortex. It is conceivable therefore that GDNF and related factors may activate chromaffin and preganglionic Schwann cells through a GFR-alpha receptor in absence of c-Ret.
The objective was to identify the different subtypes of symptomatic CNS tumours that are encountered in Singapore. Our hospital pathology and operative records from 1994 to 1998 were reviewed and information regarding all patients who underwent biopsy or resection as part of their diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation was extracted. Only histologically confirmed tumours were included in this analysis. Meningiomas made up the largest subgroup of tumours, accounting for 35.1% of all tumours. In order of decreasing frequency, the remaining most often reported histologies were pituitary adenomas (11.8%), secondary neoplasms (10%), tumours of nerve sheath (9.4%), glioblastoma multiforme (9.3%), astrocytomas including anaplastic, diffuse and pilocytic (9.2%), primary CNS lymphomas (2.9%), oligodendrogliomas (2.2%), hemangioblastomas (2. 2%), craniopharyngiomas (1.7%), and embryonal tumours (1.2%). Genetic and environmental factors may be responsible for the proportionately higher than expected percentage of meningiomas seen and further study is required to identify these factors.


Stroke causes a vast amount of death and disability throughout the world, yet for many healthcare professionals it remains an area of therapeutic nihilism, and thus uninteresting. This negative perception is shared by the general public, who often have a poor understanding of the early symptoms and significance of a stroke. Yet within the past few years there have been many important developments in the approach to caring for stroke patients, for both the acute management and secondary prevention. After the completion of numerous clinical trials, there is now robust evidence to either support or discredit various interventions. Even more exciting is the prospect of yet more data becoming available in the near future, testing a whole array of treatments, as clinical interest in stroke expands exponentially. In this review an evidence based approach to the management of acute stroke within the first few days is presented, including ischaemic and haemorrhagic events, but not subarachnoid haemorrhage. It is explained why stroke is regarded as a medical emergency, and the importance of a rational, methodic approach to the initial assessment, which is the key to accurate diagnosis and subsequent management, is emphasised. The potential early problems associated with stroke are identified and specific interventions for different stroke types are discussed. The review ends with a brief discussion of the implications that the evolving treatments have for the organisation of modern stroke services.
This work was designed to localize the Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels underlying the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Cell-attached patches on the proximal 100 microm of the apical dendrite contained K(+) channels, but not sAHP channels, activated by backpropagating action potentials. Amputation of the apical dendrite approximately 30 microm from the soma, while simultaneously recording the sAHP whole cell current at the soma, depressed the sAHP amplitude by only approximately 30% compared with control. Somatic cell-attached and nucleated patches did not contain sAHP current. Amputation of the axon &gt;/=20 microm from the soma had little effect on the amplitude of the sAHP recorded in cortical pyramidal cells. By this process of elimination, it is suggested that sAHP channels may be concentrated in the basal dendrites of CA1 pyramids.
Attention is the mechanism with which we select specific aspects of our environment for processing. Psychological experiments have shown that attention can be directed to a spatial location or to a particular object. Electrophysiological studies in trained macaque monkeys have found that attention can strengthen the responses of neurons in cortical area V4. Some of these studies have attributed these effects to spatial attention, whereas others have suggested that feature-directed attention may modulate the neuronal response. Here we report that neuronal correlates for both spatial and feature-directed attention exist in individual neurons in area V4 of behaving rhesus monkeys.
We examined which motor areas would participate in the coding of a simple opposition of the thumb triggered by auditory, somatosensory and visual signals. We tested which motor areas might be active in response to all three modalities, which motor structures would be activated specifically in response to each modality, and which neural populations would be involved in the speed of the reaction. The subjects were required to press a button with their right thumb as soon as they detected a change in the sensory signal. The regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured quantitatively with (15)O-butanol and positron emission tomography (PET) in nine normal male subjects. Cytoarchitectural areas were delimited in 10 post mortem brains by objective and quantitative methods. The images of the post mortem brains subsequently were transformed into standard anatomic format. One PET scanning for each of the sensory modalities was done. The control condition was rest with the subjects having their eyes closed. The rCBF images were anatomically standardized, and clusters of significant changes in rCBF were identified. These were localized to motor areas delimited on a preliminary basis, such as supplementary motor area (SMA), dorsal premotor zone (PMD), rostral cingulate motor area (CMAr), and within areas delimited by using microstructural i.e., cytoarchitectonic criteria, such as areas 4a, 4p, 3a, 3b, and 1. Fields of activation observed as a main effect for all three modalities were located bilaterally in the SMA, CMAr, contralateral PMD, primary motor (M1), and primary somatosensory cortex (SI). The activation in M1 engaged areas 4a and 4p and expanded into area 6. The activation in SI engaged areas 3b, 1, and extended into somatosensory association areas and the supramarginal gyrus posteriorly. We identified significant activations that were specific for each modality in the respective sensory association cortices, though no modality specific regions were found in the motor areas. Fields in the anterior cingulate cortex, rostral to the CMAr, consistently showed significant negative correlation with mean reaction time (RT) in all three tasks. These results show that simple reaction time tasks activate many subdivisions of the motor cortices. The information from different sensory modalities converge onto the common structures: the contralateral areas 4a, 4p, 3b, 1, the PMD, and bilaterally on the SMA and the CMAr. The anterior cingulate cortex might be a key structure which determine the speed of reaction in simple RT tasks.
In leech mechanosensory neurons, action potentials reverse direction, or reflect, at central branch points. This process enhances synaptic transmission from individual axon branches by rapidly activating synapses twice, thereby producing facilitation. At the same branch points action potentials may fail to propagate, which can reduce transmission. It is now shown that presynaptic action potential reflection and failure under physiological conditions influence transmission to the same postsynaptic neuron, the S cell. The S cell is an interneuron essential for a form of nonassociative learning, sensitization of the whole body shortening reflex. The P to S synapse has components that appear monosynaptic (termed &quot;direct&quot;) and polysynaptic, both with glutamatergic pharmacology. Reflection at P cell branch points on average doubled transmission to the S cell, whereas action potential failure, or conduction block, at the same branch points decreased it by one-half. Each of two different branch points affected transmission, indicating that the P to S connection is spatially distributed around these branch points. This was confirmed by examining the locations of individual contacts made by the P cell with the S cell and its electrically coupled partner C cells. These results show that presynaptic neuronal morphology produces a range of transmission states at a set of synapses onto a neuron necessary for a form of learning. Reflection and conduction block are activity-dependent and are basic properties of action potential propagation that have been seen in other systems, including axons and dendrites in the mammalian brain. Individual branch points and the distribution of synapses around those branch points can substantially influence neuronal transmission and plasticity.
The effects of functional, reversible ablation and potential recruitment of the most irregular otolith afferents on the dynamics and sensitivity of the translational vestibuloocular reflexes (trVORs) were investigated in rhesus monkeys trained to fixate near and far targets. Translational motion stimuli consisted of either steady-state lateral and fore-aft sinusoidal oscillations or short-lasting transient lateral head displacements. Short-duration (usually &lt;2 s) anodal (inhibitory) and cathodal (excitatory) currents (50-100 microA) were delivered bilaterally during motion. In the presence of anodal labyrinthine stimulation, trVOR sensitivity and its dependence on viewing distance were significantly decreased. In addition, anodal currents significantly increased phase lags. During transient motion, anodal stimulation resulted in significantly lower initial eye acceleration and more sluggish responses. Cathodal currents tended to have opposite effects. The main characteristics of these results were simulated by a simple model where both regularly and irregularly discharging afferents contribute to the trVORs. Anodal labyrinthine currents also were found to decrease eye velocity during long-duration, constant velocity rotations, although results were generally more variable compared with those during translational motion.
To maintain binocular fixation on near targets during fore-aft translational disturbances, largely disjunctive eye movements are elicited the amplitude and direction of which should be tuned to the horizontal and vertical eccentricities of the target. The eye movements generated during this task have been investigated here as trained rhesus monkeys fixated isovergence targets at different horizontal and vertical eccentricities during 10 Hz fore-aft oscillations. The elicited eye movements complied with the geometric requirements for binocular fixation, although not ideally. First, the corresponding vergence angle for which the movement of each eye would be compensatory was consistently less than that dictated by the actual fixation parameters. Second, the eye position with zero sensitivity to translation was not straight ahead, as geometrically required, but rather exhibited a systematic dependence on viewing distance and vergence angle. Third, responses were asymmetric, with gains being larger for abducting and downward compared with adducting and upward gaze directions, respectively. As frequency was varied between 4 and 12 Hz, responses exhibited high-pass filter properties with significant differences between abduction and adduction responses. As a result of these differences, vergence sensitivity increased as a function of frequency with a steeper slope than that of version. Despite largely undercompensatory version responses, vergence sensitivity was closer to ideal. Moreover, the observed dependence of vergence sensitivity on vergence angle, which was varied between 2.5 and 10 MA, was largely linear rather than quadratic (as geometrically predicted). We conclude that the spatial tuning of eye velocity sensitivity as a function of gaze and viewing distance follows the general geometric dependencies required for the maintenance of foveal visual acuity. However, systematic deviations from ideal behavior exist that might reflect asymmetric processing of abduction/adduction responses perhaps because of different functional dependencies of version and vergence eye movement components during translation.
The dynamics and three-dimensional (3-D) properties of the primate translational vestibuloocular reflex (trVOR) for high-frequency (4-12 Hz, +/-0.3-0.4 g) lateral motion were investigated during near-target viewing at center and eccentric targets. Horizontal response gains increased with frequency and depended on target eccentricity. The larger the horizontal and vertical target eccentricity, the steeper the dependence of horizontal response gain on frequency. In addition to horizontal eye movements, robust torsional response components also were present at all frequencies. During center-target fixation, torsional response phase was opposite (anticompensatory) to that expected for an &quot;apparent&quot; tilt response. Instead torsional response components depended systematically on vertical-target eccentricity, increasing in amplitude when looking down and reversing phase when looking up. As a result the trVOR eye velocity vector systematically tilted away from a purely horizontal direction, through an angle that increased with vertical eccentricity with a slope of approximately 0.7. This systematic dependence of torsional eye velocity tilt on vertical eye position suggests that the trVOR might follow the 3-D kinematic requirements that have been shown to govern visually guided eye movements and near-target fixation.
There is accumulating evidence to suggest that cholinergic neurotransmission may play an important role in visuospatial attention, but the brain sites at which acetylcholine modulates attention are not well understood. The present work tested the hypothesis that the cholinergic influences within the intraparietal cortex are necessary for normal attentional shifting (covert orienting) in nonhuman primates. Two rhesus monkeys were trained to perform a visual, cued target detection task for liquid reinforcement. The animals pressed a lever to produce a visual display in which a central fixation point was flanked by two circles. Shortly after fixation was established, one of the circles brightened (cue), and a target appeared subsequently within one of the circles. Detection was signaled by a manual response and the reaction time to the appearance of the target was recorded. Four types of trials were presented. For valid cue trials, the cue and target were at the same spatial location; for invalid cues, cue and target were in opposite hemifields; for double cues, both cues were brightened but the target appeared in either the left or right circle; in no-cue trials, the cue was omitted. We localized the intraparietal region by recording attention-related, cellular activity with intracerebral microelectrodes. Among visually responsive cells in this area, valid cues presented to the receptive fields of visual neurons enhanced the responses to target stimuli in about half the cells and inhibited those responses in the remainder. In addition, some cells showed longer response latencies to invalid cues than to valid cues. We then infused scopolamine into attention-related activity sites and assessed its effect on performance. Scopolamine produced a dose-dependent increase in reaction times and decrease in performance accuracy that lasted more than 1 h. Neither vehicle injections in the same locations nor scopolamine outside the physiologically defined area produced any significant change in behavior. Under our conditions of measurement, we conclude that activity mediated by muscarinic cholinergic receptors within the intraparietal cortex is necessary for normal covert orienting.
A number of mechanisms have been proposed to play a role in the regulation of activity-dependent variations in extracellular potassium concentration ([K(+)](o)). We tested possible regulatory mechanisms for [K(+)](o) during spontaneous recurrent epileptiform activity induced in the dentate gyrus of hippocampal slices from adult rats by perfusion with 8 mM potassium and 0-added calcium medium in an interface chamber. Local application of tetrodotoxin blocked local [K(+)](o) changes, suggesting that potassium is released and taken up locally. Perfusion with barium or cesium, blockers of the inward rectifying potassium channel, did not alter the baseline [K(+)](o), the ceiling level of [K(+)](o) reached during the burst, or the rate of [K(+)](o) recovery after termination of the bursts. Decreasing gap junctional conductance did not change the baseline [K(+)](o) or the half-time of recovery of the [K(+)](o) after the bursts but did cause a decrease in the ceiling level of [K(+)](o). Perfusion with furosemide, which will block cation/chloride cotransporters, or perfusion with low chloride did not change the baseline [K(+)](o) or the half-time of recovery of the [K(+)](o) after the bursts but did increase the ceiling level of [K(+)](o). Bath or local application of ouabain, a Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor, increased the baseline [K(+)](o), slowed the rate of [K(+)](o) recovery, and induced spreading depression. These findings suggest that potassium redistribution by glia only plays a minor role in the regulation of [K(+)](o) in this model. The major regulator of [K(+)](o) in this model appears to be uptake via a Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, most likely neuronal.
Binaural responses of single neurons in the rat's central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) were recorded before and after local injection of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists (either 1,2, 3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium [NBQX], (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid [CPP], 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione [CNQX], or (+/-)-2amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid [APV]) into the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL). Responses were evoked by clicks delivered separately to the two ears at interaural time delays between -1.0 and +30 ms (positive values referring to ipsilateral leading contralateral click pairs). The neurons in our sample were excited by contralateral stimulation and inhibited by ipsilateral stimulation, and the probability of action potentials was reduced as the ipsilateral stimulus was advanced. Binaural inhibition resulted in response suppression that lasted up to 30 ms. Injection of excitatory amino acid antagonists into the DNLL contralateral to the recording site reduced the strength of binaural inhibition in the ICC. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist NBQX preferentially affected responses at small interaural time intervals (0-1.0 ms), whereas the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist CPP preferentially affected responses at longer intervals (1-30 ms). Both CNQX and APV produced a release from binaural inhibition, but neither drug was selective for specific intervals. The data support the idea that binaural inhibition in the rat ICC is influenced by both AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory events in the contralateral DNLL. The results suggest that the AMPA receptors contribute selectively to the initial component of binaural inhibition and the NMDA receptors to a longer lasting component.
Escape swimming in the predatory sea slug Pleurobranchaea is a dominant behavior that overrides feeding, a behavioral switch caused by swim-induced inhibition of feeding command neurons. We have now found distinct roles for the different swim interneurons in acute suppression of feeding during the swim and in a longer-term stimulation of excitability in the feeding network. The identified pattern-generating swim neurons A1, A3, A10, and their follower interneuron A-ci1, suppress feeding motor output partly by excitation of the I1 feeding interneurons, which monosynaptically inhibit both the feeding command neurons, PC(P), PSE, and other major interneurons, the I2s. This mechanism exerts broad inhibition of the feeding network suitable to an escape response; broader than feeding suppression in learned and satiation-induced food avoidance and acting through a different presynaptic pathway. Four intrinsic neuromodulatory neurons of the swim network, the serotonergic As1-4, add little to direct suppression of feeding. Rather, they monosynaptically excite the serotonergic metacerebral giant (MCG) neurons of the feeding network, themselves intrinsic neuromodulators of feeding, as well as a cluster of adjacent serotonergic feeding neurons, with both fast and slow EPSPs. They also provide mild neuromodulatory excitation of the PC(P)/PSE feeding command neurons, and I1 and I2 feeding interneurons, which is masked by inhibition during the swim. As1-4 also excite the serotonergic pedal ganglion G neurons for creeping locomotion. These observations further delineate the nature of the putative serotonergic arousal system of gastropods and suggest a central coordinating role to As1-4.
Interstitial ionic shifts that accompany ouabain-induced spreading depression (SD) were studied in rat hippocampal and cortical slices in the presence and absence of extracellular Ca(2+). A double-barreled ion-selective microelectrode specific for H(+), K(+), Na(+), or Ca(2+) was placed in the CA1 stratum radiatum or midcortical layer. Superfusion of 100 microM ouabain caused a rapid, negative, interstitial voltage shift (2-10 mV) after 3-5 min. The negativity was accompanied by a rapid alkaline transient followed by prolonged acidosis. In media containing 3 mM Ca(2+), the alkalosis induced by ouabain averaged 0.07 +/- 0.01 unit pH. In media with no added Ca(2+) and 2 mM EGTA, the alkaline shift was not significantly different (0.09 +/- 0.02 unit pH). The alkaline transient was unaffected by inhibiting Na(+)-H(+) exchange with ethylisopropylamiloride (EIPA) or by blocking endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) uptake with thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid. Alkaline transients were also observed in Ca(2+)-free media when SD was induced by microinjecting high K(+). The late acidification accompanying ouabain-induced SD was significantly reduced in Ca(2+)-free media and in solutions containing EIPA. The ouabain-induced SD was associated with a rapid but relatively modest increase in [K(+)](o). In the presence of 3 mM external Ca(2+), the mean peak elevation of [K(+)](o) was 12 +/- 0.62 mM. In Ca(2+)-free media, the elevation of [K(+)](o) had a more gradual onset and reached a significantly larger peak value, which averaged 22 +/- 1.1 mM. The decrease in [Na(+)](o) that accompanied ouabain-induced SD was somewhat greater. The [Na(+)](o) decreased by averages of 40 +/- 7 and 33 +/- 3 mM in Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)-free media, respectively. In media containing 1.2 mM Ca(2+), ouabain-induced SD was associated with a substantial decrease in [Ca(2+)](o) that averaged 0.73 +/- 0. 07 mM. These data demonstrate that in comparison with conventional SD, ouabain-induced SD exhibits ion shifts that are qualitatively similar but quantitatively diminished. The presence of external Ca(2+) can modulate the phenomenon but is irrelevant to the generation of the SD and its accompanying alkaline pH transient. Significance of these results is discussed in reference to the propagation of SD and the generation of interstitial pH changes.
Extracellular calcium is critical for many neural functions, including neurotransmission, cell adhesion, and neural plasticity. Experiments have shown that normal neural activity is associated with changes in extracellular calcium, which has motivated recent computational work that employs such fluctuations in an information-bearing role. This possibility suggests that a new style of computing is taking place in the mammalian brain in addition to current 'circuit' models that use only neurons and connections. Previous computational models of rapid external calcium changes used only rough approximations of calcium channel dynamics to compute the expected calcium decrements in the extracellular space. Using realistic calcium channel models, experimentally measured back-propagating action potentials, and a model of the extracellular space, we computed the fluctuations in external calcium that accrue during neural activity. In this realistic setting, we showed that rapid, significant changes in local external calcium can occur when dendrites are invaded by back-propagating spikes, even in the presence of an extracellular calcium buffer. We further showed how different geometric arrangements of calcium channels or dendrites prolong or amplify these fluctuations. Finally, we computed the influence of experimentally measured synaptic input on peridendritic calcium fluctuations. Remarkably, appropriately timed synaptic input can amplify significantly the decrement in external calcium. The model shows that the extracellular space and the calcium channels that access it provide a medium that naturally integrates coincident spike activity from different dendrites that intersect the same tissue volume.
The peptide LqhalphaIT is an alpha-scorpion toxin that shows significant selectivity for insect sodium channels over mammalian channels. We examined the symptoms of LqhalphaIT-induced paralysis and its neurophysiological correlates in the house fly (Musca domestica). Injection of LqhalphaIT into fly larvae produced hyperactivity characterized by continuous, irregular muscle twitching throughout the body. These symptoms were correlated with elevated excitability in motor units caused by two physiological effects of the toxin: 1) increased transmitter release and 2) repetitive action potentials in motor nerves. Increased transmitter release was evident as augmentation of neurally evoked synaptic current, and this was correlated with an increased duration of action potential-associated current (APAC) in loose patch recordings from nerve terminals. Repetitive APACs were observed to invade nerve endings. The toxin produced marked inhibition of sodium current inactivation in fly central neurons, which can account for increased duration of the APAC and elevated neurotransmitter release at the neuromuscular junction. Steady-state inactivation was shifted significantly to more positive potentials, whereas voltage-dependent activation of the channels was not affected. The shift in steady-state inactivation provides a mechanism for inducing repetitive activity in motoneurons. The effects of LqhalphaIT on sodium channel inactivation in motor nerve endings can account both for increased transmitter release and repetitive activity leading to hyperactivity in affected insects.
The high density of cannabinoid receptors in the cerebellum and the degradation of motor coordination produced by cannabinoid intoxication suggest that synaptic transmission in the cerebellum may be strongly regulated by cannabinoid receptors. Therefore the effects of exogenous cannabinoids on synapses received by Purkinje cells were investigated in rat cerebellar slices. Parallel fiber-evoked (PF) excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were strongly inhibited by bath application of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55212-2 (5 microM, 12% of baseline EPSC amplitude). This effect was completely blocked by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716. It is unlikely that this was the result of alterations in axonal excitability because fiber volley velocity and kinetics were unchanged and a cannabinoid-induced decrease in fiber volley amplitude was very minor (93% of baseline). WIN 55212-2 had no effect on the amplitude or frequency of spontaneously occurring miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), suggesting that the effect of CB1 receptor activation on PF EPSCs was presynaptically expressed, but giving no evidence for modulation of release processes after Ca(2+) influx. EPSCs evoked by climbing fiber (CF) stimulation were less powerfully attenuated by WIN 55212-2 (5 microM, 74% of baseline). Large, action potential-dependent, spontaneously occurring inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) were either severely reduced in amplitude (&lt;25% of baseline) or eliminated. Miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) were reduced in frequency (52% of baseline) but not in amplitude, demonstrating suppression of presynaptic vesicle release processes after Ca(2+) influx and suggesting an absence of postsynaptic modulation. The decrease in mIPSC frequency was not large enough to account for the decrease in sIPSC amplitude, suggesting that presynaptic voltage-gated channel modulation was also involved. Thus, while CB1 receptor activation reduced neurotransmitter release at all major classes of Purkinje cell synapses, this was not accomplished by a single molecular mechanism. At excitatory synapses, cannabinoid suppression of neurotransmitter release was mediated by modulation of voltage-gated channels in the presynaptic axon terminal. At inhibitory synapses, in addition to modulation of presynaptic voltage-gated channels, suppression of the downstream vesicle release machinery also played a large role.
We investigated the mechanisms of long-lasting depolarizing potentials (LLDs) generated in mitral cells with whole-cell patch recordings in the rat olfactory bulb slice. LLDs occur spontaneously and are evoked by either orthodromic stimulation of the olfactory nerve or antidromic stimulation of mitral and tufted (M/T) cells. LLDs are followed by a long refractory period, limiting LLD generation to approximately 1 Hz. LLD production does not appear to involve either intrinsic voltage-activated or metabotropic mechanisms. The initiation of LLDs requires activation of non-NMDA but not NMDA receptors. Dual recordings from the apical dendrites and somata of mitral cells show that LLDs are generated in the distal portion of the apical dendrite, most likely in the glomerulus. The rising phase of LLDs shows characteristics of polyneuronal input, including a high variability and sensitivity to charge screening. Paired recordings from adjacent mitral cells suggest that LLDs occur synchronously only in cells whose apical dendrites ramify in the same glomerulus. These findings suggest that LLDs involve recurrent, intraglomerular dendrodendritic interactions among M/T cells.
Dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been implicated as mediating the rewarding effects of stimulant drugs; however, recent studies suggest that 5-HT release may also contribute. In an effort to assess the role of 5-HT in drug-mediated reward, this study analyzed the serotonergic innervation of NAc using immunocytochemistry for 5-HT and the 5-HT transporter (SERT). We report that in control rats the NAc receives two distinct types of 5-HT axons that differ in regional distribution, morphology, and SERT expression. Most regions of the NAc are innervated by thin 5-HT axons that express SERT, but in the caudal NAc shell nearly all 5-HT axons lack SERT and have large spherical varicosities. Two weeks after methamphetamine or p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) treatment, most 5-HT axons in dorsal striatum and NAc have degenerated; however, the varicose axons in the shell appear intact. These drug-resistant 5-HT axons that lack SERT densely innervate the caudal one-third of the accumbens shell, the same location where dopamine axons are spared after methamphetamine. Moreover, 4 hr after PCA, the varicose axons in the caudal shell retain prominent stores of 5-HT, whereas 5-HT axons in the rest of the NAc are depleted of neurotransmitter. The results demonstrate that two functionally different 5-HT projections innervate separate regions of the NAc and that selective vulnerability to amphetamines may result from differential expression of SERT. We postulate that action potentials conducted from the raphe nuclei can release 5-HT throughout the NAc, whereas transporter-mediated release induced by stimulant drugs is more restricted and unlikely to occur in the caudal NAc shell.
The purpose of this study is to elucidate the integrative input mechanisms of pyramidal cells receiving horizontally projecting axon collaterals (horizontal projection) and vertical input from layer IV. We performed whole-cell recordings from pyramidal cells in layer II/III and focally activated other single pyramidal cells monosynaptically connected via long-distance horizontal (LH) projections (the distance between presynaptic and postsynaptic cells was 350-1200 micrometer) in slice preparations of the kitten primary visual cortex. In addition, presynaptic single fibers in layer IV (vertical input) and/or short-distance horizontal (SH) inputs from neighboring single pyramidal cells (distance within 100 micrometer) in layer II/III were activated. Unitary EPSPs evoked by the activation of LH and SH connections had smaller amplitude and larger coefficient of variation than those evoked by stimulating the vertical input. Paired-pulse stimulation of the LH and SH inputs caused the depression of the second EPSP, whereas that of vertical inputs caused either facilitation or depression of the second EPSP. The EPSPs evoked by simultaneous activation of LH and vertical inputs summated linearly at the resting membrane potential. However, the EPSPs evoked by stimulation of the two inputs were nonlinearly (supralinearly) summated when the postsynaptic membrane was depolarized to a certain level. Similar EPSP interaction was observed in response to simultaneous activation of the LH and SH inputs.
Neuronal activity is necessary for the normal development of visual cortical cell receptive fields. When neuronal activity is blocked, cortical cells fail to develop normal ocular dominance and orientation selectivity. Patterned activity has been shown to play an instructive, rather than merely permissive, role in the segregation of geniculocortical afferents into ocular dominance columns. To test whether normal patterns of activity are necessary to instruct the development of cortical orientation selectivity, we studied ferrets raised without ON-center retinal ganglion cell activity. The ON-center blockade was produced by daily intravitreal injections of DL-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB). Effects of this treatment on the development of orientation selectivity in primary visual cortex were assessed using extracellular electrode recordings and optical imaging. In animals raised with an ON-center blockade starting after visual cortical cells are visually driven but still poorly tuned for orientation, cortical cell responsivity was maintained, but no maturation of orientation selectivity was seen. No recovery of orientation tuning was seen in animals treated with APB during the normal period of orientation development and then allowed several months of development without treatment. These results suggest that patterns of neuronal activity carried in the separate ON- and OFF-center visual pathways are necessary for the development of orientation selectivity in visual cortical neurons of the ferret and that there is a critical period for this development.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is expressed by many primary sensory neurons that no longer require neurotrophins for survival, indicating that BDNF may be used as a signaling molecule by the afferents themselves. Because many primary afferents also express glutamate, we investigated the possibility that BDNF modulates glutamatergic AMPA responses of newborn second-order sensory relay neurons. Perforated-patch, voltage-clamp recordings were made from dissociated neurons of the brainstem nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS), a region that receives massive primary afferent input from BDNF-containing neurons in the nodose and petrosal cranial sensory ganglia. Electrophysiological analysis was combined in some experiments with anterograde labeling of primary afferent terminals to specifically analyze responses of identified second-order neurons. Our data demonstrate that BDNF strongly inhibits AMPA-mediated currents in a large subset of nTS cells. Specifically, AMPA responses were either completely abolished or markedly inhibited by BDNF in 73% of postnatal day (P0) cells and in 82% of identified P5 second-order sensory relay neurons. This effect of BDNF is mimicked by NT-4, but not NGF, and blocked by the Trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a, consistent with a requirement for TrkB receptor activation. Moreover, analysis of TrkB expression in culture revealed a close correlation between the percentage of nTS neurons in which BDNF inhibits AMPA currents and the percentage of neurons that exhibit TrkB immunoreactivity. These data document a previously undefined mechanism of acute modulation of AMPA responses by BDNF and indicate that BDNF may regulate glutamatergic transmission at primary afferent synapses.
In this study, we highlight a role for the nitric oxide-cGMP-dependent protein kinase (NO-G-kinase) signaling pathway in glial intercellular Ca(2+) wave initiation and propagation. Addition of the NO donor molsidomine (100-500 microM) or puffing aqueous NO onto primary glial cell cultures evoked an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in individual cells and also local intercellular Ca(2+) waves, which persisted after removal of extracellular Ca(2+). High concentrations of ryanodine (100-200 microM) and antagonists of the NO-G-kinase signaling pathway essentially abrogated the NO-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i), indicating that NO mobilizes Ca(2+) from a ryanodine receptor-linked store, via the NO-G-kinase signaling pathway. Addition of 10 microM nicardipine to cells resulted in a slowing of the molsidomine-induced rise in [Ca(2+)](i), and inhibition of Mn(2+) quench of cytosolic fura-2 fluorescence mediated by a bolus application of 2 microM aqueous NO to cells, indicating that NO also induces Ca(2+) influx in glia. Mechanical stress of individual glial cells resulted in an increase in intracellular NO in target and neighboring cells and intercellular Ca(2+) waves, which were NO, cGMP, and G-kinase dependent, because incubating cells with nitric oxide synthase, guanylate cyclase, and G-kinase inhibitors, or NO scavengers, reduced Delta[Ca(2+)](i) and the rate of Ca(2+) wave propagation in these cultures. Results from this study suggest that NO-G-kinase signaling is coupled to Ca(2+) mobilization and influx in glial cells and that this pathway plays a fundamental role in the generation and propagation of intercellular Ca(2+) waves in glia.
Inputs from glutamatergic excitatory interneurons (EIN) to motor neurons in the lamprey spinal cord locomotor network exhibit activity-dependent depression during spike trains. The mechanism underlying this depression has been examined here, and its relevance to transmitter release during rhythmic activity has been investigated. The depression of EIN inputs was greater after larger initial EPSPs and reduced in low-calcium Ringer's solution, effects that are consistent with depression caused by depletion of releasable transmitter stores. However, the depression was greater at lower stimulation frequencies and could be reversed by increasing the stimulation frequency. In addition, high-calcium Ringer's solution and the slow intracellular calcium chelator EGTA-AM, which both failed to affect the amplitude of low frequency-evoked EPSPs, reduced and increased the depression, respectively. These results are inconsistent with a simple depletion mechanism but suggest that ongoing activity and calcium-dependent mechanisms oppose depletion. The network relevance of this mechanism was examined using physiologically relevant bursts to simulate EIN spiking during rhythmic activity. Although considerably more EPSPs were evoked than during spike trains, burst-evoked EPSPs did not depress. However, single EPSPs evoked at the interburst interval depressed, and burst transmission was disrupted by EGTA-AM, again suggesting the involvement of activity and calcium-dependent mechanisms. By responding to the calcium changes evoked by increased interneuron activity, this mechanism can monitor transmitter requirements caused by EIN spiking, allowing reliable transmission across different patterns of network activity. However, not all types of spinal interneurons exhibit reliable burst transmission, suggesting specificity of this mechanism to a subset of neurons.
Recent studies suggest that the chemokine receptor CXCR4 may be involved in mediating the neurodegenerative process in the brains of patients with acquired immunodeficiency disease (AIDS). In this context, we hypothesize that neurotrophic factors, such as fibroblast growth factor (FGF), might protect against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-mediated neurotoxicity via regulating the expression of CXCR4 in neural cells. For this purpose, levels of CXCR4 were determined in neuronal and glial cell lines after FGF1 and 2 treatment. In addition, levels of CXCR4 immunoreactivity were associated with levels of FGF1 immunoreactivity in the brains of HIV-positive patients. These studies showed that neuronal CXCR4 levels decreased in a dose-dependent manner after exposure to FGF. Conversely, glial CXCR4 was increased in a dose-dependent manner after FGF2 treatment. These effects were dependent on the FGF receptor tyrosine kinase signaling pathway, because FGF-induced effects on CXCR4 were blocked by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, 5'-deoxy-5'methylthioadenosine, or by anti-FGF receptor antibody. Stromal cell-derived factor-1, the ligand for CXCR4, and HIV gp120 neurotoxicity was attenuated by FGF1 in a dose-dependent manner in vitro, further supporting physiological relevance. In the brains of AIDS patients, the levels of neural CXCR4 immunoreactivity were inversely associated with FGF levels. Taken together, these results support the possibility that the neuroactive effects of FGF in HIV encephalitis might be mediated through regulation of the expression of CXCR4.



Cone synaptic terminals couple electrically to their neighbors. This reduces the amplitude of temporally uncorrelated voltage differences between neighbors. For an achromatic stimulus coarser than the cone mosaic, the uncorrelated voltage difference between neighbors represents mostly noise; so noise is reduced more than the signal. Here coupling improves signal-to-noise ratio and enhances contrast sensitivity. But for a chromatic stimulus the uncorrelated voltage difference between neighbors of different spectral type represents mostly signal; so signal would be reduced more than the noise. This cost of cone coupling to encoding chromatic signals was evaluated using a compartmental model of the foveal cone array. When cones sensitive to middle (M) and long (L) wavelengths alternated regularly, and the conductance between a cone and all of its immediate neighbors was 1,000 pS (approximately 2 connexons/cone pair), coupling reduced the difference between the L and M action spectra by nearly fivefold, from about 38% to 8%. However, L and M cones distribute randomly in the mosaic, forming small patches of like type, and within a patch the responses to a chromatic stimulus are correlated. In such a mosaic, coupling still reduced the difference between the L and M action spectra, but only by 2.4-fold, to about 18%. This result is independent of the L/M ratio. Thus &quot;patchiness&quot; of the L/M mosaic allows cone coupling to improve achromatic contrast sensitivity while minimizing the cost to chromatic sensitivity.
Direct imaging of the retina by adaptive optics allows assessment of the relative number of long-wavelength-sensitive (L) and middle-wavelength-sensitive (M) cones in living human eyes. We examine the functional consequences of variation in the relative numbers of L and M cones (L/M cone ratio) for two observers whose ratios were measured by direct imaging. The L/M cone ratio for the two observers varied considerably, taking on values of 1.15 and 3.79. Two sets of functional data were collected: spectral sensitivity measured with the flicker electroretinogram (ERG) and the wavelength of unique yellow. A genetic analysis was used to determine L and M cone spectra appropriate for each observer. Rayleigh matches confirmed the use of these spectra. We determined the relative strength of L and M cone contributions to ERG spectral sensitivity by fitting the data with a weighted sum of L and M cone spectra. The relative strengths so determined (1.06 and 3.38) were close to the cone ratios established by direct imaging. Thus variation in L/M cone ratio is preserved at the sites tapped by the flicker ERG. The wavelength of unique yellow varied only slightly between the two observers (576.8 and 574.7 nm). This small variation indicates that neural factors play an important role in stabilizing unique yellow against variation in the L/M cone ratio.
Intracellular Mg(2+) (Mg(i)(2+)) inhibits the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors in cultured cortical neurons. To examine the effects of Mg(i)(2+) on recombinant NMDA receptors composed of subunit combinations found in cortical neurons, we expressed heteromeric receptors composed of NR1/NR2A and of NR1/NR2B subunits in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. We recorded whole-cell currents from the recombinant receptors in the absence and presence of Mg(i)(2+). The voltage dependence of control (0 Mg(i)(2+)) NMDA-activated currents obtained from CHO cells transfected with NR1/NR2A and with NR1/NR2B receptors showed outward rectification, a property that has been observed previously in native cortical NMDA receptors. The magnitude and voltage dependence of inhibition by Mg(i)(2+) of NMDA-activated currents were similar in CHO cells transfected with NR1/NR2A receptors, CHO cells transfected with NR1/NR2B receptors, and in cultured neurons expressing native NMDA receptors. These observations suggest that Mg(i)(2+) has uniform effects on the native NMDA receptors expressed in cortical neurons. Furthermore, inhibition by Mg(i)(2+) must not depend on intracellular factors or post-translational receptor modifications that are specific to neurons. Finally, the results indicate that the previously observed differences between whole-cell and outside-out patch measurements of Mg(i)(2+) inhibition could not result from poor control of voltage or Mg(i)(2+) concentration in the dendrites of neurons. The most likely alternative explanation is that patch excision causes an alteration in NMDA receptors that results in more effective inhibition by Mg(i)(2+).
Peripheral muscarinic receptors play key roles in the control of heart rate and smooth muscle activity. In this study, bradycardic and smooth muscle contractile responses to the muscarinic agonist carbamylcholine were compared in isolated tissues from M(2) and M(4) muscarinic receptor knockout mice and their wild-type littermates. Carbamylcholine (1 x 10(-8)-3 x 10(-5) M) produced similar concentration-dependent bradycardia in spontaneously beating atria from M(4) receptor knockout and wild-type control mice. In contrast, carbamylcholine did not produce bradycardia in atria derived from M(2) receptor knockout mice, whereas such atria were responsive to adenosine-induced bradycardia. Carbamylcholine-induced contractile responses were similar in stomach fundus, urinary bladder, and tracheal preparations from M(4) receptor knockout mice and their wild-type littermates for each tissue (-logEC(50) values ranging from 6.20 +/- 0.10 to 6.76 +/- 0.08), suggesting that M(4) receptors do not participate in smooth muscle contraction in these tissues. In contrast, approximately 2-fold higher carbamylcholine concentration was required for contraction of stomach fundus, urinary bladder, and trachea from M(2) receptor knockout mice (-logEC(50) = 6.39 +/- 0.05, 6.07 +/- 0.06, and 6.27 +/- 0.12, respectively) than from wild-type littermates (-logEC(50) = 6.68 +/- 0.07, 6.27 +/- 0.07, and 6.56 +/- 0.06, respectively). Furthermore, the affinity of the M(2) &quot;selective&quot; receptor antagonist AF-DX116 in inhibiting carbamylcholine-induced smooth muscle contraction was significantly reduced in M(2) receptor knockout mice compared with tissues from wild-type littermates. Collectively, these results provide direct and unambiguous evidence that M(2) receptors mediate muscarinic receptor-induced bradycardia and play a role in smooth muscle contractility, whereas M(4) receptors are not involved in stomach fundus, urinary bladder, or tracheal contractility.
These studies examined, in vivo, the effect of local intrastriatal perfusion of methamphetamine (MA) on dopamine (DA) and glutamate release in relation to changes in striatal DA and serotonin (5-HT) content measured 1 week after treatment. Interactions between the inhibition of energy metabolism and the direct perfusion of MA on long-term decreases in DA and 5-HT content also were investigated. MA (100 microM), the succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor malonate, or the combination of MA and malonate was reverse-dialyzed into the striatum for 8 h. The continuous local perfusion of MA alone increased DA release by 30-fold, similar to that seen after systemic administration, but did not increase glutamate or body temperature, and did not deplete neurotransmitter content. Malonate perfusion increased both DA and glutamate overflow, and dose dependently decreased DA content. 5-HT content was not as affected by malonate perfusions (200 mM malonate depleted DA by 66% and 5-HT by 40%). When MA was coperfused with 200 mM malonate, DA content was reduced by 80% and to a greater extent compared with malonate alone. Coperfusion of MA and 200 mM malonate did not enhance 5-HT loss. Overall, the present findings provide evidence that energy metabolism plays an important role in MA toxicity and that striatal dopaminergic terminals are more vulnerable than 5-HT terminals to damage after metabolic stress.
1. A postural hand tremor of enhanced size was induced in eleven subjects. There was rhythmic activity in the posturally active extensor muscles synchronised to the tremor oscillation, which implied an oscillatory modulation of motor neurones. 2. The subjects executed single rapid wrist flexion movements in response to a flash of light. The light flash was presented at an instant when the wrist was spontaneously moving in the flexion direction, extension direction or at random. The time taken to generate a movement was not significantly different or more consistent in any of the conditions. 3. Inspection of individual and averaged acceleration and EMG records strongly suggests that the movement is made at a time that is independent of the tremor cycle at the time of stimulus presentation or at the moment of movement initiation. 4. These observations suggest that the central or spinal mechanism generating tremor does not gate the central mechanism that produces voluntary movement.
1. In anaesthetised rats, activity recorded from sympathetic postganglionic neurones innervating the tail circulation has characteristic rhythmicity (0.4-1.2 Hz). At the population level this rhythmicity can be seen as a peak (T-peak) in autospectra of sympathetic activity recorded from ventral collector nerves (VCNs). 2. Here we investigated whether nerves supplying thermoregulatory circulations share common rhythmic discharges at T-peak frequency. Activity was recorded from nerve pairs consisting of left ventral collector nerve (LVCN) and one of the following: right ventral collector nerve (RVCN), left dorsal collector nerve (DCN), left saphenous nerve (SN) or left renal nerve (RN). 3. During central apnoea, T-peak frequencies in RVCN autospectra were similar to those of simultaneously recorded LVCN and these activities were coherent. Similar observations were made for nerve pairs involving LVCN-DCN and LVCN-SN. In contrast, autospectra of RN activity did not contain T-peaks. 4. In comparison to the peaks in autospectra of RN activity, when the frequency of rhythmic phrenic nerve activity was manipulated T-peaks in VCN, DCN and SN autospectra did not show obligatory 1:1 locking. 5. We conclude that T-peaks are a robust feature of autospectra of sympathetic discharges supplying thermoregulatory circulation but not those influencing the kidney. The high coherence demonstrated between the T-peak discharges is consistent with the view that common/coupled oscillators located within the CNS influence cutaneous vasoconstrictor sympathetic activity.
1. A role for P2 purinoceptors in the chemosensory response of respiratory neurones localised in the ventrolateral medulla to changes in arterial CO2 levels was investigated in the anaesthetised rat. Extracellular recordings were made from different classes of respiratory neurone and the effects of P2 receptor blockade on CO2-evoked changes in activity investigated. 2. Increasing inspired CO2 excited 85 % of inspiratory neurones in the pre-Botzinger complex. In all cases, CO2-evoked excitation was blocked by ionophoretic application of the P2 receptor antagonists suramin (0.02 M) and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS; 100 microM), but not the adenosine receptor antagonist 8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT; 100 microM). Suramin and PPADS often reduced ongoing activity, and blocked the excitatory effects of ATP. Inspiratory neurones were also excited by the P2X receptor agonist alphabeta-methyleneATP, suggesting a specific role for P2X receptors. 3. Sixty-six per cent of pre-inspiratory neurones were also excited by CO2. This effect was reduced or abolished by prior application of P2 receptor antagonists. Although post-inspiratory and expiratory neurones were excited by increasing levels of CO2, and also by ionophoretically applied ATP, the CO2-evoked effects were unaffected by P2 receptor blockade. 4. We suggest that ATP, possibly acting via P2X purinoceptors localised within the ventral respiratory group, is involved in central chemoreception. Specifically, these distinctive CO2-P2X-mediated actions were observed only in inspiratory neurones (incrementing inspiratory neurones and pre-inspiratory neurones), which appear to have purinoceptors with pH sensitivity that can account for the actions of CO2 in modifying ventilatory activity.
1. Characterization of P2X receptors on neurons of guinea-pig superior cervical ganglion (SCG) has been carried out using a whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. 2. Application of ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alphabeta-MeATP) produced fast activating inward currents, which desensitized slowly. The maximum response to alphabeta-MeATP was 36 +/- 23 % (range 0.1-100 %) of that evoked by ATP in the same cell. 3. Co-application of alphabeta-MeATP (300 microM) with ATP (300 microM) produced a response that was 97 +/- 1 % of that given by ATP alone. Following desensitization with alphabeta-MeATP, the decrease in response to ATP was equal to the absolute reduction in response to alphabeta-MeATP in the same cell. 4. The concentration-response curve for alphabeta-MeATP had an EC50 of 42 microM and a Hill coefficient of 1.17. For cells where the ratio of alphabeta-MeATP/ATP currents at 100 microM was &lt; 0.1, the ATP concentration-response curve had an EC50 of 56 microM and a Hill coefficient of 1.95. However, in cells where the ratio was &gt; 0.7, the curve had an EC50 of 60 microM and a Hill coefficient of 0.97. 5. The response to 100 microM alphabeta-MeATP was inhibited by 2' (or 3')-O-trinitrophenyl-ATP (TNP-ATP) with an IC50 of 70 nM. However, on cells where the ratio of alphabeta-MeATP/ATP currents was &lt; 0.1, ATP was inhibited by TNP-ATP with an IC50 of 522 nM. 6. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies raised against rat P2X2 and P2X3 epitopes suggested that both subunits were expressed by guinea-pig SCG neurons. 7. We conclude that varying proportions of two distinct P2X receptors coexist on the cell bodies of individual guinea-pig SCG neurons, which may correspond to homomeric P2X2 and heteromeric P2X2/3 receptors.
We describe the case of a patient who developed depression following bilateral orchidectomy for cryptorchidism. He was treated with a conventional selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant, but continued to take St John's wort (hypericum) against medical advice. He subsequently developed a manic episode. We discuss postulated modes of action of St John's wort and the possible aetiological importance of testosterone replacement and abnormal gonadotrophin levels in this case.
Animal and human studies have provided evidence for serotonergic modulation of cognitive processes. However, the exact nature of this relationship is not clear. We used the acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) method to investigate the effects of lowered serotonin synthesis on cognitive functions in 17 healthy young volunteers. The study was conducted according to a placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design. Cognitive performance and mood were assessed at baseline and 5 and 9 h after administration of ATD. A specific impairment of word recognition, without effects on short-term memory, occurred during ATD. No memory deficits were seen if ATD was induced after acquisition of new words. The Stroop Test and dichotic listening task demonstrated a modality independent improvement of focussed attention after ATD. Fluency was also improved after ATD. ATD did not alter speed of information processing, divided attention or planning functions. These results indicate that serotonin is essential in the process of long-term memory consolidation, primarily in the first 30 min after acquisition. Improvement of specific cognitive processes by lowered 5-HT function may be linked to the removal of inhibitory actions of 5-HT in the cortex.



There are several views about the organization of memory functions in the human prefrontal cortex. One view assumes a process-specific brain lateralization according to different memory subprocesses, that is, encoding and retrieval. An alternative view emphasizes content-specific lateralization of brain systems involved in memory processes. This study addresses this apparent inconsistency between process- and content-specific lateralization of brain activity by investigating the effects of verbal and nonverbal encoding on prefrontal activations during encoding and retrieval of environmental novel sounds using fMRI. An intentional memory task was applied in which subjects were required either to judge the sounds' loudness (nonverbal encoding task) or to indicate whether or not a sound can be verbally described (verbal encoding task). Retrieval processes were examined in a subsequent yes/no recognition test. In the study phase the right posterior dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) was activated in both tasks. During verbal encoding additional activation of the left dorsolateral PFC was obtained. Retrieval-related fMRI activity varied as a function of encoding task: For the nonverbal task we detected an activation focus in the right posterior dorsolateral PFC whereas an activation in the left dorsolateral PFC was observed for the verbal task. These findings indicate that the right dorsolateral PFC is engaged in encoding of auditory information irrespective of encoding task. The lateralization of PFC activity during retrieval was shown to depend on the availability of verbal codes, with left hemispheric involvement for verbally and right hemispheric activation for nonverbally coded information.

A process is described for the fabrication of silicon-based microelectrodes for neurophysiology using bonded and etched-back silicon-on-insulator (BESOI) wafers. The probe shapes are defined without high levels of boron doping in the silicon; this is considered as a step towards producing probes with active electronics integrated directly beneath the electrodes. Gold electrodes, of 4 microns by 4 microns to 50 microns by 50 microns are fabricated on shanks (cantilever beams) 6 microns thick and which taper to an area approximately 100 microns wide and 200 microns long, which are inserted into the tissue under investigation. The passive probes fabricated have been successfully employed to make acute recordings from locust peripheral nerve.
The mechanism by which polyglutamine expansions in several proteins lead to neurodegenerative disorders remains largely unknown. The biochemical properties of polyglutamine repeats suggest one possible explanation; endolytic cleavage at a glutaminyl-glutaminyl bond followed by pyroglutamate formation may contribute to the pathogenesis through augmenting the catabolic stability, hydrophobicity, amyloidogenicity, and neurotoxicity of the polyglutaminyl proteins. The hypothesis points out novel therapeutic strategies to delay disease onset in genetically diagnosed presymptomatic patients.
Congenital ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency in humans results in failure to thrive, hypotonia, seizures and mental retardation. Neuropathologic evaluation reveals significant cerebral cortical atrophy, delayed myelination and Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Using an animal model of congenital OTC deficiency, the sparse fur (spf) mouse, studies reveal convincing evidence of a loss of forebrain cholinergic neurons in this condition. Evidence includes (i) reduced activities of the cholinergic nerve terminal enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), (ii) a 25% loss of ChAT immunostaining, (iii) reduced high affinity transport of [3H]choline by cortical synaptosomes and (iv) a selective reduction in densities of presynaptic muscarinic M2 binding sites, in spf mouse brain compared to controls. A partial correction of the cholinergic deficit was observed following treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine. Possible mechanisms responsible for cholinergic neuronal loss in congenital OTC deficiency include decreased synthesis of the ChAT substrate acetyl CoA, impaired cerebral energy metabolism and NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Loss of forebrain cholinergic neurons is consistent with the severe cognitive impairment characteristic of congenital OTC deficiency.
To investigate the pharmacokinetic properties of ibogaine, a putatively anti-addictive alkaloid, levels of this drug were quantified in plasma and tissues for up to 3 h following i.v. infusion in rats. Immediately following a 31-35 min infusion (20 mg/kg), mean plasma ibogaine levels were 373 ng/ml; these values declined rapidly thereafter in a biexponential manner. The plasma time course in 5 of 7 animals demonstrated an excellent fit to a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model, with alpha and beta half-lives of 7.3 min and 3.3 h, respectively. Drug clearance was estimated to be 5.9 l/h (n = 7). Ibogaine levels in brain, liver and kidney 3 h after the end of drug infusion were 143-170 ng/g, close to simulated values for the peripheral pharmacokinetic compartment. However, 3-h drug levels in adipose tissue were much higher (3,328 ng/g), implying the need for a more complex pharmacokinetic model. Mechanisms for the initial, rapid disappearance of plasma ibogaine are thought to include metabolic demethylation as well as redistribution to body stores. The sequestration of ibogaine by adipose tissue probably contributes to a protracted persistence of drug in the body. This persistence may be underestimated by the beta half-life reported in the present study.
Drosophila Argos (Aos), a secreted protein with an epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domain, has been shown to inhibit the activation of the Drosophila EGF receptor (DER). However, it has not been determined whether Aos binds directly to DER or whether regulation of the DER activation occurs through some other mechanism. Using DER-expressing cells (DER/S2) and a recombinant DER extracellular domain-Fc fusion protein (DER-Fc), we have shown that Aos binds directly to the extracellular domain of DER with its carboxyl-terminal region, including the EGF-like domain. Furthermore, Aos can block the binding of secreted Spitz (sSpi), a transforming growth factor alpha-like ligand of DER, to the extracellular domain of DER. We observed that sSpi stimulates the dimerization of both the soluble DER extracellular domain (sDER) and the intact DER in the DER/S2 cells and that Aos can block the sSpi-induced dimerization of both sDER and intact DER. Moreover, we have shown that, by directly interacting with DER, Aos and SpiAos (a chimeric protein that is composed of the N-terminal region of Spi and the C-terminal region of Aos) inhibit the dimerization and phosphorylation of DER that are induced by DER's overexpression in the absence of sSpi. These results indicate that Aos exerts its inhibitory function through dual molecular mechanisms: by blocking both the receptor dimerization and the binding of activating ligand to the receptor. This is the first description of this novel inhibitory mechanism for receptor tyrosine kinases.
beta 1-Adrenergic receptors (beta1-ARs) serve as important regulators of central nervous system (CNS)-mediated behavior and several neural functions, including mood, memory, neuroendocrine control, and stimulation of autonomic function. Using beta 1-AR-luciferase reporter recombinants, we have previously determined that important beta 1-AR genetic elements controlling expression within the C6 glioma cell line are contained within the region -396 to -299, relative to the translational start site. By conducting progressive internal deletions of the rat beta 1-AR 5' flanking region and with the use of beta 1-AR-luciferase recombinants, we have verified that this region contains the primary beta 1-AR promoter and/or major regulatory elements. To begin the identification of protein factors involved in beta 1-AR transcriptional activity conferred by this beta 1-AR region and flanking sequences, we conducted electrophoretic mobility shift assays using defined beta 1-AR DNA subregion probes. One probe (GS-1), encompassing the region -396 to -367, was found to produce two major and two minor mobility shift complexes when bound to nuclear extracts from the beta 1-AR expresser C6 cell line. UV-crosslinking of DNA-protein complexes, coupled with DNase I digestion, indicated that this beta 1-AR region interacts with one major protein of approximately 117 kDa molecular weight and additional minor proteins. GS-1 DNA-protein complexes were observed using beta 1-AR expresser tissues in the CNS, including cortex, hippocampus, and olfactory bulb. No DNA-protein complexes were observed when using nuclear extracts from beta 1-AR nonexpresser tissues; in some cases, using L6 cells, previously characterized to express little or no beta1-ARs, a reduction in intensities of the DNA-protein complexes was observed. Competition experiments indicate that nuclear protein binds to one of two subregions within the GS-1 sequence that contain AP-2-like consensus elements. Recombinant AP-2 protein will bind to both the beta 1-AR GS-1 promoter fragment and commercially available AP-2 consensus element control probes. Interestingly, using antibody supershift and immunoblotting experiments, no supershifts were observed and the major 117-kDa protein was not immunoreactive to antibodies recognizing either AP-2 alpha or AP-2 beta. These results support our contention that this beta 1-AR regulatory region contains AP-2 consensus elements that recognize novel transactivator proteins.
The neuromuscular system provides an excellent model for the analysis of molecular interactions involved in the development and plasticity of synaptic contacts. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is believed to be involved in the development and plasticity of the neuromuscular junction, in particular the axonal sprouting response observed in paralyzed and denervated muscle. In order to explore the role of myofiber NCAM in modulating the differentiation of motor neurons, we generated transgenic mice expressing a GPI-anchored NCAM isoform that is normally found in developing and denervated muscle, under the control of a skeletal muscle-specific promoter. This results in the constitutive expression of NCAM at postnatal ages, a time when the endogenous mouse NCAM is absent from the myofiber. We found that a significant number of neuromuscular junctions in adult transgenic animals displayed terminal sprouting (&gt;20%) reminiscent of that elicited in response to cessation of neuromuscular activity. Additionally, a significant increase in the size and complexity of neuromuscular synapses as a result of extensive intraterminal sprouting was detected. Electrophysiological studies, however, revealed no significant alterations of neuromuscular transmission at this highly efficient synapse. Sprouting in response to paralysis or following nerve crush was also significantly enhanced in transgenic animals. These results suggest that in this ectopic expression model NCAM can directly modulate synaptic structure and motor neuron-muscle interactions. The results contrast with knockout experiments of the NCAM gene, where very limited changes in the neuromuscular system were observed.
Transcription factor AP-2beta is implicated in playing an important role during embryonic development of different parts of the brain, eg, midbrain, hindbrain, spinal cord, dorsal and cranial root ganglia.1,2 The gene encoding AP-2beta contains a polymorphic region which includes a tetranucleotide repeat of [CAAA] four or five times, located in intron 2 between nucleotides 12593 and 12612.3 Since the midbrain contains structures important for variables such as mood and personality, we have investigated if the AP-2beta genotype is associated with personality traits estimated by the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Identification of transcription factor genes as candidate genes in psychiatric disorders is a novel approach to further elucidate the genetic factors that, together with environmental factors, are involved in the expression of specific psychiatric phenotypes. The AP-2beta genotype and KSP scores were determined for 137 Caucasian volunteers (73 females and 64 males). The personality traits muscular tension, guilt, somatic anxiety, psychastenia and indirect aggression were significantly associated with the specific AP-2beta genotype, albeit with significant difference between genders. Based on this result the human AP-2beta gene seems to be an important candidate gene for personality disorders. Moreover, the present results suggest that the structure of the intron 2 region of the AP-2beta gene is one factor that contributes to development of the constitutional component of specific personality traits.

Intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic tissue is a new, experimental approach for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Clinical trials have shown longterm graft survival and therapeutically valuable improvements with decreased L-dopa dose and time spent in the &quot;off&quot;-phase, and reduced rigidity and hypokinesia. We have measured health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) in five patients subjected to bilateral transplantation in the caudate and putamen to explore the influence of intrastriatal grafts on HRQoL and the value of such measures in trials of restorative therapies. The results demonstrate improved HRQoL following transplantation, with individual patients showing striking improvements within different dimensions of the NHP as well as the NHP distress index (NHPD). The most pronounced improvements after grafting were observed for physical mobility along with emotional reactions and energy. These results indicate that intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic tissue can give rise to improvements within most areas of HRQoL, and that HRQoL measurements provide important information additional to that obtained by traditional, symptom-oriented assessment protocols. However, the optimal approach to HRQoL measurement in PD remains to be determined.
Axonal cytoskeletal and cytosolic proteins are synthesized in the neuronal cell body and transported along axons by slow axonal transport, but attempts to observe this movement directly in living cells have yielded conflicting results. Here we report the direct observation of the axonal transport of neurofilament protein tagged with green fluorescent protein in cultured nerve cells. Live-cell imaging of naturally occurring gaps in the axonal neurofilament array reveals rapid, intermittent and highly asynchronous movement of fluorescent neurofilaments. The movement is bidirectional, but predominantly anterograde. Our data indicate that the slow rate of slow axonal transport may be the result of rapid movements interrupted by prolonged pauses.
Neurogenesis persists in the adult mammalian hippocampus. To identify and isolate neuronal progenitor cells of the adult human hippocampus, we transfected ventricular zone-free dissociates of surgically-excised dentate gyrus with DNA encoding humanized green fluorescent protein (hGFP), placed under the control of either the nestin enhancer (E/nestin) or the Talpha1 tubulin promoter (P/Talpha1), two regulatory regions that direct transcription in neural progenitor cells. The resultant P/Talpha1:hGFP+ and E/nestin:enhanced (E)GFP+ cells expressed betaIII-tubulin or microtubule-associated protein-2; many incorporated bromodeoxyuridine, indicating their genesis in vitro. Using fluorescence-activated cell sorting, the E/nestin:EGFP+ and P/Talpha1:hGFP+ cells were isolated to near purity, and matured antigenically and physiologically as neurons. Thus, the adult human hippocampus contains mitotically competent neuronal progenitors that can be selectively extracted. The isolation of these cells may provide a cellular substrate for re-populating the damaged or degenerated adult hippocampus.
Selective visual attention involves dynamic interplay between attentional control systems and sensory brain structures. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a cued spatial-attention task to dissociate brain activity related to attentional control from that related to selective processing of target stimuli. Distinct networks were engaged by attention-directing cues versus subsequent targets. Superior frontal, inferior parietal and superior temporal cortex were selectively activated by cues, indicating that these structures are part of a network for voluntary attentional control. This control biased activity in multiple visual cortical areas, resulting in selective sensory processing of relevant visual targets.
Dot patterns sliding transparently across one another are normally perceived as independently moving surfaces. Recordings from direction-selective neurons in area MT of the macaque suggested that this perceptual segregation did not depend on the presence of two peaks in the population activity. Rather, the visual system seemed to use overall shape of the population response to determine the number and directions of motion components. This approach explained a number of perceptual phenomena, including susceptibility of the motion system to direction metamers, motion patterns combining three or five directions incorrectly perceived by subjects as comprising only two directions. Our findings offer insights into the coding of multi-valued sensory signals and provide constraints for biologically based computational models.


We determine the bandwidth of a model neurone to large-scale synaptic input by assessing the frequency response between the outputs of a two-cell simulation that share a percentage of the total synaptic input. For temporally uncorrelated inputs, a large percentage of common inputs are required before the output discharges of the two cells exhibit significant correlation. In contrast, a small percentage (5%) of the total synaptic input that involves stochastic spike trains that are weakly correlated over a broad range of frequencies exert a clear influence on the output discharge of both cells over this range of frequencies. Inputs that are weakly correlated at a single frequency induce correlation between the output discharges only at the frequency of correlation. The strength of temporal correlation required is sufficiently weak that analysis of a sample pair of input spike trains could fail to reveal the presence of correlated input. Weak temporal correlation between inputs is therefore a major determinant of the transmission to the output discharge of frequencies present in the spike discharges of presynaptic inputs, and therefore of neural bandwidth.
For the integrate-and-fire model with or without reversal potentials, we consider how correlated inputs affect the variability of cellular output. For both models, the variability of efferent spike trains measured by coefficient of variation (CV) of the interspike interval is a nondecreasing function of input correlation. When the correlation coefficient is greater than 0.09, the CV of the integrate-and-fire model without reversal potentials is always above 0.5, no matter how strong the inhibitory inputs. When the correlation coefficient is greater than 0.05, CV for the integrate-and-fire model with reversal potentials is always above 0. 5, independent of the strength of the inhibitory inputs. Under a given condition on correlation coefficients, we find that correlated Poisson processes can be decomposed into independent Poisson processes. We also develop a novel method to estimate the distribution density of the first passage time of the integrate-and-fire model.
This review discusses the experimental and clinical data which indicate that chronic cerebral hypoperfusion can affect metabolic, anatomic, and cognitive function adversely. In aged but not young animals, chronic brain hypoperfusion results in regional pre- and post-synaptic changes, protein synthesis abnormalities, energy metabolic dysregulation, reduced glucose utilization, cholinergic receptor loss, and visuo-spatial memory deficits. Additionally, aging animals that are kept for prolonged periods of time after chronic brain hypoperfusion, also develop brain capillary degeneration in CA1 hippocampus and neuronal damage extending from the hippocampal region to the temporo-parietal cortex where neurodegenerative tissue atrophy eventually forms. All these pathologic events occur in rodents in the absence of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Alzheimer brains reveal similar biochemical and structural changes as those experimentally induced in aging animals. Moreover, regional cerebral hypoperfusion is one of the earlier (if not the earliest) clinical manifestations in both the sporadic and familial forms of Alzheimer's disease. In addition, therapy that improves or increases cerebral perfusion is generally of some benefit to Alzheimer patients. Conversely, a variety of disorders with different etiologies that impair or diminish cerebral perfusion are reported to be risk factors for this dementia. These findings have prompted us to propose the concept that advanced aging in the presence of a vascular risk factor can converge to create a critically attained threshold of cerebral hypoperfusion (CATCH) that triggers regional brain microcirculatory disturbances and impairs optimal delivery of energy substrates needed for normal brain cell function. The outcome of this defect generates a chain of events leading to the progressive evolution of brain metabolic, cognitive and tissue pathology that characterize Alzheimer's disease. The possible role of CATCH in familial and early onset Alzheimer's disease is briefly discussed from a theoretical vantagepoint. The growing and most recent evidence in support of the CATCH concept is the focus of this review.
The epsilon 4 allele of apolipoprotein E (APOE denotes gene; apoE denotes protein) is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). More recent evidence indicates an association with a poor outcome after acute brain injury including that due to head trauma and intracerebral hemorrhage. APOE gene polymorphism also influences the risk of hemorrhage in cerebral amyloid angiopathy. These diverse brain disorders seem to have some mechanisms in common. The multiplicity of the roles of apoE within the central nervous system is currently being unraveled. For example, apoE can interact with amyloid beta-protein and tau, proteins central to the pathogenesis of AD. In addition to these effects, it is proposed that one of the major functions of apoE is to mediate neuronal protection, repair and remodeling. In all of the different roles proposed, there are marked apoE-isoform specific differences. Although it remains to be clarified which is the most important mechanism(s) in each disorder in which apoE is involved, these isoform specific differences seem to underly a genetically determined susceptibility to outcome from acute brain injury and to AD with APOE epsilon 4 conferring relative vulnerability. This review focuses on apoE research, from clinical studies to animal models, in AD, acute brain injury and cerebrovascular disease and explores the common mechanisms that may explain some of the complex underlying neurobiology.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are often subject to vascular dysfunction besides their specific CNS pathology, which warrants further examination of the interaction between vascular factors and the development of dementia. The association of decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) or hypertension with AD has been a target of growing interest. Parallel with physiological changes, the cerebral capillaries in AD are also prone to degenerative processes. The microvascular abnormalities that are the result of such degeneration may be the morphological correlates of the vascular pathophysiology pointing to a compromised nutrient transport through the capillaries. Animal models have been developed to study the consequences of hypertension and reduced CBF. Spontaneously hypertensive rats are widely used in hypertension research whereas ligation of the carotid arteries has become a method to produce cerebral hypoperfusion. Based on these models, we propose a relationship between hypertension, cerebral hypoperfusion, cerebral capillary malformation and cognitive decline as it occurs in AD. We suggest that the above conditions are functionally related and can contribute to the progression of AD.
The objective of this study was to model one of the risk factors for the development of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, decreased cerebral blood flow. Aging rats were tested for visuospatial behavioral deficits after permanent surgical occlusion of both carotid arteries. This was followed after 4 weeks by quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemical mapping of metabolic capacity throughout the brain. The brain regions affected were related to observed deficits in spatial memory (CA1 and posterior parietal cortex), visually guided movements (superior colliculus and secondary visual cortex), motor coordination (red nucleus), and escape behavior (central gray). The results suggest that deficits in visuospatial learning are not exclusively the result of hippocampal dysfunction, but may be directly correlated with altered oxidative energy metabolism in other integrative visuomotor regions identified in this study. It was concluded that chronic cerebrovascular ischemia in this aged rat model produces neurometabolic and behavioral alterations that may be relevant for an increased risk for the development of Alzheimer's disease.
Recent epidemiological studies have shown that vascular risk factors may be involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as dementia in general. To investigate the relation between a vascular disorder and AD pathology, current criteria are defective because most depend on exclusion of a cerebrovascular disorder. Epidemiological studies have indicated the possibilities that arteriosclerosis, abnormal blood pressure, diabetes mellitus and smoking may be related to the pathogenesis of AD. As for the mechanism that vascular disorders influence AD, it is presumed that amyloid deposition may be caused by a vascular disorder. Alternatively, a vascular event may cause progression of subclinical AD to a clinical stage. Insulin resistance and apolipoprotein E may also be involved in these mechanisms. Our studies show that ischemia-induced the Alzheimer-associated gene presenilin 1 (PS1) and endoplasmic reticulum-stress, generated from a vascular disorder, may unmask clinical AD symptoms caused by presenilin mutation, suggesting that a vascular factor might be involved in the onset of familial AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves multiple etiologic factors and a complex pathogenesis. Vascular factors are increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. In this paper we review evidence that AD brain microvessels are biochemically altered and contribute to neuronal injury and death by release of factors directly injurious to neurons. Our data show that when brain microvessels are &quot;injured&quot; by anoxia they produce high levels of reactive oxygen species. Comparisons of isolated brain microvessels from AD and age-matched controls show specific abnormalities in alpha(1) and beta receptors and in protein kinase C and protein kinase A signaling pathways. In AD but not in controls, the cerebral microcirculation expresses the inflammatory mediator CAP37 and over produces nitric oxide. Finally, we demonstrate that AD microvessels secrete toxic factors that cause neuronal cell death in vitro. These latter experiments showing that AD brain microvessels, in co-culture or vessel-conditioned media, cause lethal injury to neurons in culture, establish a direct link between endothelial cell products and neuronal cell death in this disease.
In this study we evaluated the role of adenosine receptor activation on the K+-evoked D-[3H]aspartate release in cultured chick retina cells exposed to oxidant conditions. Oxidative stress, induced by ascorbate (3.5 mM)/Fe2+ (100 microM), increased by about fourfold the release of D-[3H]aspartate, evoked by KCl 35 mM in the presence and in the absence of Ca2+. The agonist of A1 adenosine receptors, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 10 nM), inhibited the K+-evoked D-[3H]aspartate release in control in oxidized cells. The antagonist of A1 adenosine receptor, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX; 50 nM), potentiated the release of D-[3H]aspartate in oxidized cells, and reverted the effect observed in the presence of CPA 10 nM. However, in oxidized cells, when DPCPX was tested together with CPA 100 nM the total release of D-[3H]aspartate increased from 5.1 +/- 0.4% to 11.4 +/- 1.0%, this increase being reverted by 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX; 100 nM), an antagonist of A2A adenosine receptors. In cells of both experimental conditions, the K+-evoked release of D-[3H]aspartate was potentiated by the selective agonist of A2A adenosine receptors, 2-[4-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosin e (CGS 21680; 10 nM), whereas the antagonist of these receptors, DMPX (100 nM), inhibited the release of D-[3H]aspartate in oxidized cells, but not in control cells. Adenosine deaminase (ADA; 1 U/ml), which is able to remove adenosine from the synaptic space, reduced the K+-evoked D-[3H]aspartate release, from 5.1 +/- 0.4% to 3.1 +/- 0.3% in oxidized cells, and had no significant effect in control cells. The extracellular accumulation of endogenous adenosine, upon K+-depolarization, was higher in oxidized cells than in control cells, and was reduced by the inhibitors of adenosine transporter (NBTI) and of ecto-5'-nucleotidase (AOPCP). This suggests that adenosine accumulation resulted from the outflow of adenosine mediated by the transporter, and from extracellular degradation of adenine nucleotide. Our data show that both inhibitory A1 and excitatory A2A adenosine receptors are present in cultured retina cells, and that the K+-evoked D-[3H]aspartate release is modulated by the balance between inhibitory and excitatory responses. Under oxidative stress conditions, the extracellular accumulation of endogenous adenosine seems to reach levels enough to potentiate the release of D-[3H]aspartate by the tonic activation of A2A adenosine receptors.
The modulation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-induced food intake by oxytocin has been evaluated in studies on food intake and by quantitative receptor autoradiography in the hypothalamus and the amygdala of the rat. The effects of lateral intracerebroventricular administration of clonidine and oxytocin were evaluated on food intake in satiated animals. Food consumption was measured at 30, 90, 240 min and 22 h (1,320 min) after injection. The coinjection of oxytocin and clonidine was found to counteract the increase in food intake produced by clonidine (p &lt; 0.001) in satiated rats. Receptor autoradiographic experiments showed that oxytocin significantly increased the K(d) values of [(3)H]p-aminoclonidine alpha(2)-agonist-binding sites in the hypothalamus. Effective oxytocin concentrations ranged between 0.3 and 1 nM (p &lt; 0.05) with a maximal action of 250% at 1 nM. The B(max) value was significantly increased (p &lt; 0.05) for all concentrations of oxytocin. In the amygdala, oxytocin also increased both the K(d) of [(3)H]p-aminoclonidine-binding sites by about 190% at 1 nM and the B(max) values at 1 and 3 nM (p &lt; 0.05). Oxytocin (1 nM) also significantly and substantially (p &lt; 0.01) increased the K(d) and B(max) values of the [(3)H]UK 14.304 alpha(2)-agonist-binding sites in the hypothalamus and amygdala in agreement with the results obtained with the other agonist of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor [(3)H]p-aminoclonidine. This effect was partially blocked by the presence of the specific oxytocin receptor antagonist, CAP. These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic oxytocin/alpha(2)-receptor interaction in the hypothalamus and amygdala that may be of relevance for the demonstrated modulation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-induced feeding responses by oxytocin.
Intramedullary epidermoid cysts of the spinal cord are rare tumours, especially those not associated with spinal dysraphism. Around 50 cases have been reported in the literature. Of these, only seven cases have had magnetic resonance imaging studies. We report two cases of spinal intramedullary epidermoid cysts with MR imaging. Both were not associated with spina bifida. In one patient the tumour was located at D4 vertebral level, while in other within the conus medullaris. The clinical features, MR imaging characteristics and surgical treatment of such rare intramedullary benign tumours are discussed, and the relevant literature reviewed.
The effect of acute normovolemic haemodilution on haemodynamics, serum osmolality and coagulation parameters was studied in 20 patients undergoing intracranial surgical procedures. After induction of anaesthesia, 740+/-153 ml of blood was collected and the same was replaced with an equal volume of 6% hexaethyl starch. Heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), central venous pressure (CVP) and end tidal carbon dioxide tension (Et CO2) were monitored for 45 min. Haemoglobin concentration (Hb), haematocrit (Hct), serum osmolality (Osm), bleeding time (BT), prothrombin time (PT) and platelet count were determined before and 45 min after haemodilution. Hb and Hct were significantly lower following haemodilution (13.1+/-1.8 and 10.3+/-1.7 g/dL for Hb and 38.0+/-4.6%. and 30.1+/-4.5% for Hct). There was no significant change in the HR, BP and Et CO2 throughout the study period. CVP increased marginally from 35 to 45 min but was within normal limits. There was no significant change in serum osmolality, bleeding time and prothrombin time following haemodilution. Platelet count decreased following haemodilution but the values were within normal limits. The brain relaxation, as assessed by a semiquantitative scale, was satisfactory in all cases. None of the patients developed intraoperative brain swelling. In conclusion, acute normovolemic haemodilution with hexaethyl starch is tolerated well haemodynamically. It does not cause changes in serum osmolality which can increase brain oedema. It has no adverse effect on intraoperative haemostasis. It is a safe technique to decrease homologous blood transfusion during intracranial surgery.
Potentially salvageable patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage may rebleed and die after admission to a hospital, awaiting an angiogram or surgery. In an attempt to reduce the number of patients thus lost, we are operating on such patients on an emergency basis. This report is a retrospective analysis of patients operated early after aneurysmal SAH, but during routine working hours, versus patients operated on an emergency basis. During an 18 month period 109 patients underwent surgery for intracranial aneurysm. Fifty two (Group 1) patients were subjected to emergency clipping of the aneurysm, and 57 (Group 2) patients underwent early clipping but during routine working hours. There was no selection bias between the two groups. Another 10 patients in Hunt and Hess Grade II and III rebled and died, after admission, awaiting an angiogram or surgery. The overall mortality for the two groups (Grade I to IV) was 11.9%. Mortality in Groups 1 and 2 was 9.6% and 14.0% respectively. At 1 month, good outcome was recorded in 86.6% patients in grade I, 69.2% patients in grade II and 42.8% patients in grade III in group I compared to 68.7% patients in grade I, 80% patients in grade II and 31.5% patients in grade III in group 2. However, the difference was not statistically significant. There was also no significant difference between the incidence of intraoperative brain swelling and delayed ischaemic neurological deficit between the two groups. Grade IV patients had a poor outcome in both the groups. Angiographic vasospasm was associated with poor out come, in either group, in grade IV patients. Patients in Grades I to III should undergo emergency surgery, if the surgeon is experienced and willing to operate at odd hours and necessary support facilities of neuroradiology and neuroanaesthesiology are available. This would avoid deaths in patients awaiting angiograms or surgery.
A prospective study was done to evaluate the role of short-term Video EEG (VEEG) recording in assessing the nature of clinical behaviour and in classification of seizures in children with frequent intractable seizure episodes. Forty five children upto 12 years of age with frequent intractable seizure episodes (&gt; or =3/week) were included in the study. VEEG was done on an outpatient basis until an event was recorded or for a minimum period of 6 hours. The events were detected in 78% of cases. The seizures were classified in all children with recorded events and seizure classification was changed in 22%. Anti-epileptic drugs could be stopped or reduced in 11%. Short term VEEG monitoring was useful in characterising events and in classification of seizures in children with frequent, intractable seizure episodes. Use of this investigation as a screening procedure for diagnosis in children with frequent episodes is stressed, thereby reducing the cost associated with prolonged VEEG recordings and disability associated with misdiagnosis of epilepsy.
Centronuclear myopathy (CNM), an uncommon condition, is one of the congenital myopathies. It is believed to arise as a result of maturational arrest, with persistence of myotubes postnatally. However, denervation being the basic disease process and its possible influence on central nervous system causing defect in nuclear migration has also been postulated. Keeping in view these existing controversies, we have studied 17 cases of CNM (neonatal - 1, childhood - 13, adulthood - 3) during the last twelve and a half years. Diagnosis was based on histological and enzyme histochemical findings of muscle biopsy along with clinical data. Ultrastructural characterstics of muscle have been studied in 10 cases. The affected muscle fibres showed a central nucleus (40-99%) with perinuclear halo. Type I fibre predominance with hypoplasia was consistently seen. Fibre type disproportion was noticed in 7 cases. The neonatal form revealed dense oxidative enzyme reaction product in the centre. The morphological features of CNM were compared with foetal skeletal muscles obtained at gestational ages ranging from 9 weeks - 36 weeks (n = 18). In the severe neonatal form th myofibres resembled the foetal myotubes. In the less severe childhood and adult form of CNM, aberrant organization of cytoskeletal network might have played a pathogenetic role in causing the disease.
We propose a novel parameter, namely, the skewness, or asymmetry, of the shape of a receptive field to characterize two properties of hippocampal place fields. First, a majority of hippocampal receptive fields on linear tracks are negatively skewed, such that during a single pass the firing rate is low as the rat enters the field but high as it exits. Second, while the place fields are symmetric at the beginning of a session, they become highly asymmetric with experience. Further experiments suggest that these results are likely to arise due to synaptic plasticity during behavior. Using a purely feed forward neural network model, we show that following repeated directional activation, NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation/long-term depotentiation (LTP/LTD) could result in an experience-dependent asymmetrization of receptive fields.

In a recent study, we demonstrated that cytochrome-c oxidase (COX), an indicator of neuronal activity, is increased in several brain regions from chronic, medicated schizophrenics. In the present study, to address the functional significance of those findings, we have measured COX activity in a group of schizophrenics in whom antemortem geriatric measures of motor, intellectual, and emotional impairment had been assessed. COX activity in the putamen was strongly negatively correlated with emotional (r = -.76; p &lt; .005) and intellectual impairment (r = -0.76; p &lt; .005), but not with motor impairment (r = 0.01). No significant correlations could be found in the frontal cortex, thalamus, caudate nucleus, globus pallidus, mesencephalon, or nucleus accumbens. Dopamine D2 receptor density in the putamen, measured with [3H]raclopride, was elevated in schizophrenics as compared to controls, as were Kd values. In contrast to COX activity, D2 receptor binding was moderately, but significantly positively correlated with intellectual impairment (r = 0.64; p &lt; .05) but not with motor impairment. Results expose a unique anomaly in the effects of neuroleptics in terms of increasing neuronal signaling in the putamen, which may underlie a reversal of cognitive deficits in schizophrenics, while at the same time, elevating D2 receptor density that seems to be detrimental.
The hedonic impact of taste is reflected in affective facial reactions made by human infants, other primates, and even rats. Originally studied in human infants, affective reactions to taste have also been used by affective neuroscience to identify hedonic brain systems in studies of animals (via application of neural stimulation, pharmacological activation, and neural lesion manipulations). The chief limitation of measuring affective reactions is that it is difficult for experimenters to know how to interpret them, and therefore how to interpret changes produced by brain manipulations. This paper notes guidelines to interpretation. It examines the phylogenetic continuity between humans, other primates, and rats in terms of the microstructure of taste-elicited affective reactions. It reviews evidence that affective taste reactivity patterns truly reflect a 'core hedonic process' of palatability or affect, rather than being an ingestion measure, consummatory behavior measure, or a sensory reflex measure. It reviews affective neuroscience studies of taste reactivity that have identified true hedonic brain substrates, and discriminated them from false hedonic brain substrates. It considers the neural bases of incentive 'wanting' versus 'liking'. Finally, it notes the difference between human subjective affective ratings of pleasure and 'core hedonic processes' reflected by behavioral affective reactions.



In recent years, an increasing number of cases of neuropathy have been reported as a result of accidental or occupational exposure to chemicals. Acrylamide (Acr), a widely used industrial chemical, is known to produce peripheral neuropathy that resembles diabetic neuropathy in many ways. However, the interaction between diabetes and Acr has not been studied. The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes on Acr-induced neurotoxicity in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 300 +/- 10 g were divided into four groups of 10 animals each. The rats in group 1 served as control, and received normal saline. The animals in group 2 were given Acr dissolved in physiological saline (50 mg/kg IP 3 days/week) for 2 weeks. The rats in group 3 and 4 were made diabetic by administering a single IP injection of STZ (50 mg/kg). The animals in group 3 served as diabetic control, whereas the rats in group 4 received Acr in the same dose regimen as in group 2, a week after induction of diabetes. Neurobehavioral responses including foot print length, hind limb function, landing foot splay, and the ability to stay on an inclined plane were assessed 48 h after the last dose of Acr followed by electrophysiological measurements. The animals were then sacrificed, and sciatic nerves were collected for biochemical analysis. The results of this study clearly showed a significant deterioration of neurobehavioral and electrophysiological responses in Acr-treated rats. Although no significant change in these parameters was observed in the diabetic (only) group, Acr-induced functional deficiency was significantly reduced in diabetic animals. However, the difference in electrophysiological response in Acr-treated diabetic and nondiabetic rats was not found to be statistically significant (p 0.05). The precise mechanism by which Acr induced neurobehavioral toxicity is reduced in diabetic animals warrants further investigations.

We investigated the effects of breeding conditions on neurochemical markers, muscarinic receptor (mAChR), beta-adrenoreceptor (beta-AdrR), imipramine binding sites (IMBS), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity in aged rat brains. An increase of affinity (Kd) and the decrease in the number (Vmax) of mAChR were found in the individual aged rats. Concerning IMBS, Kd and Vmax values increased in the individual aged rats. However, no significant changes were observed in the beta-AdrR. The increases of ChAT and MAO activity were found in the aggregated aged rats to compare with in the individual aged rats, while AChE activity decreased in the aggregated aged rats. These changes were also particularly seen in the forebrain of aged rats. These results indicate that the functions of the central nervous system may be reduced in the individual aged rats to compare with in the aggregated aged rats under the breeding conditions.
The deposition of amyloid beta peptides (A beta) in one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A beta are composed of 40-42 amino acid peptides that are proteolytically cleaved from beta amyloid precursor proteins (beta APP). The deposition as diffuse plaques of a species of A beta ending at the 42nd residue residue (A beta 42) is one of the earliest pathological changes of AD. Importantly, mutations in beta APP genes located in positions flanking the A beta sequences have been shown to cosegregate with the clinical manifestations of AD in a subset of familial AD (FAD) pedigrees. Moreover, mutations in presenilin (PS) 1 and 2, novel polytropic membrane proteins that were identified as causative molecules for the majority of early onset FAD, also increase the secretion and deposition of A beta 42. These results support the notion that A beta 42 plays a key role in the pathogenesis of AD. Recently, it was suggested that PS1 is a coactivator of gamma-cleavage of beta APP as well as gamma-like cleavage of Notch protein which plays an essential role in morphogenesis and development. In addition, the pathogenic role of tau in neuronal death is highlighted based on the identification of mutations in tau gene in a dominantly-inherited neurodegenerative dementia FTDP-17. These novel findings regarding the protein aggregates and causative genes for AD and related disorders will facilitate our understanding of the pathogenesis of AD, as well as development of therapeutic strategies against it.

The aim of the study was to illuminate very old persons' experiences of feeling old in order to get a nuanced understanding of the ageing process in later life. Fifteen persons 85-96 years of age, living in their own homes, were interviewed in-depth. Data were analysed utilising a phenomenological-hermeneutic approach. Eight persons reported that they felt old. The experience of feeling old entailed four characteristics: being able to date the beginning of feeling old, fear of helplessness and of being unable to manage one's life situation, not recognising one's former self, and feeling different from others. These characteristics corresponded to the main properties of a transition process. The comprehensive understanding was that the very old persons who also felt old were in a phase of transition. The distinguishing qualities of those that felt old were also found to be in line with the dystonic dominance in the ninth stage designated by Joan Erikson of the previously described life cycle. Knowledge about transition processes and sensitivity to very old people's experiences of feeling old are of great importance to nursing in order to provide adequate health care services and prevent unhealthy transitions.
A total of 68 neurons were recorded from the ventro-postero-lateral nucleus of thalamus (VPL) in rats with a unilateral chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve (n=20), sham operation (n=24) and naive rats (n=24), and effects of the lesion of dorsal column (DC) pathway [DC lesion or DC+gracile nucleus lesions] on VPL nucleus neuronal activities were studied. In the VPL nucleus contralateral to the CCI (receiving input from the injured nerve), response latencies of low threshold mechanoreceptive (LTM) and wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons to electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve were significantly longer than that in the contralateral VPL nucleus receiving input from the sham-operated side (P&lt;0.05). In contrast, response latencies of LTM and WDR neurons to DC stimulation were not different between the sham operated and CCI sides (0.05). Background activity of WDR neurons was significantly higher in the VPL nucleus contralateral to the CCI side when compared to neurons in the VPL nucleus contralateral to the sham operated side and in naive animals. Responses of LTM and WDR neurons to innocuous mechanical stimulation of the receptive fields were significantly decreased after DC and DC+gracile nucleus lesions in all animals. However, the responses of WDR neurons to noxious stimuli were selectively reduced only in rats with CCI by DC and DC+gracile nucleus lesions (P&lt;0.05). The decrease in noxious stimulus-evoked responses of WDR neurons in the VPL nucleus contralateral to the CCI side after DC and DC+gracile nucleus lesions was greater than that in the VPL nucleus contralateral to the sham operated side and naive animals. These results indicated that DC and DC+gracile nucleus lesions produced selective and stronger effect on noxious responses of VPL nucleus WDR neurons receiving input from the site of nerve injury. The findings suggest that the gracile nucleus-thalamic pathway conveys, or modulates, nociceptive information to the VPL nucleus following peripheral nerve injury, resulting in an increase in VPL nucleus response to noxious stimuli that contributes to the development of mechanical hyperalgesia.
The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) is critical for the modulation of dorsal horn nociceptive transmission. Three classes of RVM neurons (ON, OFF, and NEUTRAL) have been described that have distinct responses to noxious stimuli and mu opioid receptor (MOR) agonists. The present study in barbiturate anesthetized rats investigated the effects of the delta 2 opioid receptor (DOR2) agonist, [D-Ala2]deltorphin II (DELT), microinfused into the RVM on the tail flick reflex and activity of RVM neurons. Tail flick latencies increased dose-dependently after administration of DELT (0.6 nmol and 1.2 nmol). Furthermore, DELT inhibited the tail flick related increase in ON cell activity and shortened the tail flick related pause in OFF cell activity. The activity of NEUTRAL cells was not affected. The antinociceptive effects and corresponding changes in ON and OFF cell activity produced by DELT were antagonized by the DOR2 antagonist, naltriben methanesulfonate, administered at the same site. These DOR2 mediated effects on noxious stimulation-evoked changes in RVM neuronal activity are similar to those reported for MOR agonists and suggest that both DOR2 and MOR produce analgesia through activation of OFF cells.
The neuromodulatory interactions of sex steroids with the opioid system may result in sex differences in pain and analgesia. Dynorphin is an endogenous kappa-opioid peptide that is upregulated in an animal model of peripheral inflammation and hyperalgesia and is possibly regulated by circulating levels of sex steroids. The present study compared behavioral responses of male, cycling female, and gonadectomized Sprague-Dawley rats in a model of persistent pain. Cycling female rats were behaviorally tested over a 14-day period, and their estrous cycles were monitored by daily vaginal smears. Thermal hyperalgesia was measured by paw withdrawal latencies taken prior to and 24-72 h after rats received a unilateral hindpaw injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Prior to CFA administration, there was no significant difference in paw withdrawal latencies between male rats, cycling female rats, and ovariectomized female rats. Following CFA administration, female rats in proestrus exhibited significantly increased hyperalgesia compared with male rats, ovariectomized female rats, and female rats in other estrous stages (P&lt;/=0.05). Levels of spinal preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA induction in the L4-L5 segments were assessed by Northern blot analysis. PPD mRNA expression ipsilateral to the injected paw was significantly higher in female rats in diestrus (P&lt;/=0.05) and proestrus (P&lt;/=0.01) compared with rats in estrus and intact male rats. Ovariectomized rats had significantly higher levels of PPD mRNA expression compared with intact male rats (P&lt;/=0.05). However, castrated male rats had significantly lower levels of PPD mRNA expression than intact male rats (P&lt;/=0.05). PPD mRNA expression was not altered on the contralateral side of the spinal cord in any group. These results suggest a hormonal regulatory influence on the response of spinal cord dynorphin neurons to chronic inflammation and furthermore, that the association of the endocrine and opioid systems have the ability to influence an animal's sensitivity to pain.
Pain management in temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) often involves pharmacotherapy; however, the site of action for drugs that reduce TMD pain is not known. To determine possible central neural targets of analgesic drugs relevant in TMD pain, morphine or the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801, was given alone or in combination prior to TMJ injury. The number of neurons expressing the immediate early gene, c-fos, was quantified in the lower brainstem and upper cervical spinal cord as an index of neural activation. It was hypothesized that those neuronal groups most necessary for the sensory-discriminative aspects of acute TMJ injury should display the greatest reduction in c-fos expression after drug treatment. Barbiturate-anesthetized male rats were given morphine or MK-801 15 min prior to injection of mustard oil into the TMJ region. Morphine given centrally (i.c.v.) or peripherally (i.v.) caused a marked dose-related reduction in Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in laminae I-II at the middle portions of subnucleus caudalis (mid-Vc) and at the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord (Vc/C2) transition. Higher doses of morphine also reduced Fos-LI in the dorsal paratrigeminal region (dPa5) and at the subnucleus interpolaris/subnucleus caudalis (Vi/Vc-vl) transition. MK-801 given i.v. reduced Fos-LI only in laminae I-II at the Vc/C2 transition. Combined subthreshold doses of morphine and MK-801 reduced c-fos expression in the dPa5, mid-Vc, and the Vc/C2 transition region, below that predicted from the effects of either drug alone. These results suggest that neurons in laminae I-II of the mid-Vc and Vc/C2 transition and, to a lesser extent, in the dPa5 region play a critical role in mediating the sensory and/or reflex aspects of pain after acute injury to the TMJ region.
The tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) voltage-gated sodium channel SNS/PN3 and the newly discovered NaN/SNS2 are expressed in sensory neurones, particularly in nociceptors. Using specific antibodies, we have studied, for the first time in humans, the presence of SNS/PN3 and NaN/SNS2 in peripheral nerves, including tissues from patients with chronic neurogenic pain. In brachial plexus injury patients, there was an acute decrease of SNS/PN3- and NaN/SNS2-like immunoreactivity in sensory cell bodies of cervical dorsal root ganglia (DRG) whose central axons had been avulsed from spinal cord, with gradual return of the immunoreactivity to control levels over months. In contrast, there was increased intensity of immunoreactivity to both channels in some peripheral nerve fibers just proximal to the site of injury in brachial plexus trunks, and in neuromas. These findings suggest that the expression of these sodium channels in neuronal cell bodies is reduced after spinal cord root avulsion injury in man, but that pre-synthesized channel proteins may undergo translocation with accumulation at sites of nerve injury, as in animal models of peripheral axotomy. The latter may contribute to positive symptoms, as our patients all showed a positive Tinel's sign. Nerve terminals in distal limb neuromas and skin from patients with chronic local hyperalgesia and allodynia all showed marked increases of SNS/PN3-immunoreactive fibers, but little or no NaN/SNS2-immunoreactivity, suggesting that the former may be related to the persistent hypersensitive state. Axonal immunoreactivity to both channels was similar to control nerves in sural nerve biopsies in a selection of neuropathies, irrespective of nerve inflammation, demyelination or spontaneous pain, including a patient with congenital insensitivity to pain. Our studies suggest that the best target for SNS/PN3 blocking agents is likely to be chronic local hypersensitivity.
It has previously been suggested that the activity in sensory regions of the brain can be modulated by attentional mechanisms during parallel cognitive processing. To investigate whether such attention-related modulations are present in the processing of pain, the regional cerebral blood flow was measured using [(15)O]butanol and positron emission tomography in conditions involving both pain and parallel cognitive demands. The painful stimulus consisted of the standard cold pressor test and the cognitive task was a computerised perceptual maze test. The activations during the maze test reproduced findings in previous studies of the same cognitive task. The cold pressor test evoked significant activity in the contralateral S1, and bilaterally in the somatosensory association areas (including S2), the ACC and the mid-insula. The activity in the somatosensory association areas and periaqueductal gray/midbrain were significantly modified, i.e. relatively decreased, when the subjects also were performing the maze task. The altered activity was accompanied with significantly lower ratings of pain during the cognitive task. In contrast, lateral orbitofrontal regions showed a relative increase of activity during pain combined with the maze task as compared to only pain, which suggests the possibility of the involvement of frontal cortex in modulation of regions processing pain.
CD44, a cell adhesion molecule, mediates cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. In the central nervous system, CD44 is expressed in astrocytic processes, predominantly in white matter and subpial regions, suggesting its involvement in the maintenance of a stable central nervous system cytoarchitecture. In this study, we investigated immunohistochemically the expression of CD44 and glial fibrillary acidic protein in neurosurgically resected specimens of patients with or without tuberous sclerosis. In controls, CD44 immunoreactivity was noted in the processes of astrocytes close to blood vessels and subpial cortex. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was noted in both cell bodies and cytoplasmic processes of astrocytes in white matter. In tubers, CD44 antigen was also noted in the processes of astrocytes close to blood vessels and pial surface, and in abundance in the network of astrocyte processes. Moreover, CD44 antigen showed immunoreactive halos around balloon cells in tubers and around tumor cells in subependymal lesions. Glial fibrillary acidic protein antigen was noted in both cell bodies and cytoplasmic processes of some balloon cells in tubers, but not in tumor cells. In Western blot analyses, the CD44 immunoreactive band was more intense in tubers or subependymal giant-cell tumors than in control tissue. This increase in CD44 antigen seemed to correlate with the degree of astrogliosis. Immunoreactivity surrounding the cell surfaces of balloon or tumor cells suggests that the clustering of these cells may be due to the expression of CD44. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive band was detected in tubers, but not in subependymal giant cell tumors.

It is known that stimulus-evoked oscillatory synchronization among neurones occurs in widely separated cortical regions. In this paper we provide a possible mechanism to explain the phenomenon. When a common, random input is presented, we find that a group of neurones-of Stein's (integrate-and-fire) model type with or without reversal potentials-are capable of quickly synchronizing their firing. Interestingly the optimal average synchronization time occurs when the common input has a high coefficient of variation of interspike intervals (greater than 0.5) for this model with or without reversal potentials. The model with reversal potentials more quickly synchronizes than that without reversal potentials.
Filial imprinting in the domestic chick occurs during a sensitive period of development. The exact timing of this period can vary according to the methods used to measure imprinting. Using our imprinting paradigm, we have shown that normal, dark-reared chicks lose the ability to imprint after the second day post-hatching. Further, we reported that chicks treated 10 h after hatching with a mixture of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine (55 mg/kg) and the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist xylazine (6 mg/kg) were able to imprint on day 8 after hatching, whereas controls treated with saline did not imprint. We now show that the effect of the ketamine-xylazine mixture can be mimicked by treating chicks with ketamine alone or with another noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (5 mg/kg). Treating chicks with a single dose of ketamine (55 mg/kg) or with a single dose of xylazine (6 mg/kg) failed to produce the effect on the sensitive period. However, prolonging the action of ketamine by treating chicks with two doses of ketamine (at 10 and 12 h after hatching) did allow imprinting on day 8. In contrast, prolonging the action of xylazine had no effect on the sensitive period for imprinting. Chicks treated with MK-801 were also able to imprint on day 8. Thus, we have evidence that the NMDA receptor system is involved in the mechanisms that control the sensitive period for imprinting.
Abnormalities of 5-HT and noradrenergic functioning have been implicated in aggressive impulsivity, SIB, and suicidal behavior. The role of DA and GABA in human studies of these behaviors requires further investigation. Most studies suggest that impulsive aggression is related to lower levels of CNS 5-HT. Some studies demonstrate that increasing NE correlates to impulsive aggression, whereas other studies demonstrate an opposite relationship. The role of NE in impulsive aggressive behavior is still unclear. Self-injurious behavior is similar to impulsive aggression in that it seems to be mediated by the neurotransmitter systems previously mentioned. For example, the presence of lower levels of 5-HT and abnormalities in the DA system are related to SIB in patients with BPD and depression. SIB severity also seems to be influenced by neglect (e.g., severe isolation during rearing). As animal studies suggest, increasing the amount of isolation and an earlier onset of isolation increase the severity of SIB. Suicidal behaviors and the lethality of suicide attempts may also be linked to the abnormalities in neurotransmitter systems similar to those found in patients with impulsive aggression and SIB, namely, lowered 5-HT transmission and enhanced DA and NE functioning. Understanding the biological triggers of impulsive aggression or SIB may allow for the evaluation of suicidal attempts and completion from a different perspective and, in conjunction with genetic predictors, may eventually help with the early prediction and prevention of suicidal behaviors. Additional studies of live subjects and postmortem brains will assist in clarifying the neurobiology of suicidal behaviors that are common to many disorders and are clinically relevant to BPD.
Contingency management procedures have proven effective in the treatment of drug-dependent patients. These procedures, however, often require frequent urine testing, which is too costly for community treatment programs. To make urine-testing procedures more cost effective, the feasibility of reinforcing accurate predictions of urine drug screen (UDS) results was evaluated. Participants made extremely accurate UDS predictions, particularly when they made drug-positive predictions, regardless of whether predictions were reinforced. However, self-reports of recent drug use had poor correspondence with predictions of UDS results. Results suggested that if programs only tested samples predicted to be drug free, considerable cost savings could be incurred. Further research is needed to determine if validity would be enhanced by using a proportion of costs saved to provide nominal reinforcement when samples were verified to be drug free.







Dropout from epilepsy programmes is a serious problem in developing countries and has not been systematically studied before. We set up a community-based programme for children with epilepsy in rural India. The aim of this study was to assess reasons for dropout. We assessed medical and sociodemographic variables for their effect on dropout at 12 months using an unmatched case-control design on 32 cases and 62 controls. We also interviewed the parents of 32 children who dropped out of treatment, using a topic schedule. Two-thirds of the dropouts occurred within the first 6 months of treatment. Severely impaired children were more likely to drop out (odds ratio 4.60, 95% CI: 1.0-21.0) and families who had tried AEDs before were less likely to do so (odds ratio 0.12, 95% CI: 0.015-0.88). Denial of diagnosis, access problems and symptom resolution were the other main reasons underlying attrition. Active ascertainment methods should be reconsidered in community programmes. Very poor families without a male head or with long journey times are at high risk of dropout. People with severe impairments need appropriate integrated rehabilitation.





Hereditary gelsolin-related amyloidosis (AGel amyloidosis) is a systemic disorder caused by a G654A or G654T mutation in the gene coding for gelsolin, an actin-modulating protein. Altered platelet shape change has been demonstrated in gelsolin-deficient knock-out mice, but this has not been studied in humans with gelsolin deficiency. We measured platelet shape change, characterized by maximal decrease in light transmission (D) and reaction time (T), and aggregation, associated with stimulation of platelets with different agonists in platelet rich plasma, as well as coagulation factor VIII and ristocetin cofactor activities in 20 patients, 10 healthy sibs and 20 healthy control subjects. Statistically significant alterations of parameters describing platelet shape change (D, T) were observed after stimulation with adenosine diphosphate and collagen in patients when compared to healthy subjects, but not in maximal aggregation responses, platelet counts, coagulation factor VIII or ristocetin cofactor activity levels. Patients had more haemostatic derangements. Our results suggest that, in addition to amyloid deposition, the G654A gelsolin gene defect causes altered gelsolin-mediated cellular mechanisms, which may contribute, e.g., to bleeding tendency in AGel amyloidosis patients.
The emergence of brain imaging has had a major impact on research into the cognitive and neural bases of human memory. An area in which this impact has been particularly strong is retrieval processing - the processes engaged when attempting to retrieve information during a memory test. Several different classes of retrieval process - such as 'mode', 'effort' and 'success' - have been invoked to account for findings from neuroimaging studies of episodic retrieval. In this article we discuss how these different kinds of process, along with a fourth kind associated with 'retrieval orientation', can be investigated in brain imaging experiments. We then review studies of retrieval processing, and assess how well their designs match up to our proposed criteria for dissociating the neural correlates of different classes of retrieval process. We conclude that few studies have used designs that permit these different kinds of process to be independently identified, and that presently there is little evidence to indicate which kinds of processing can be fractionated in terms of their neural correlates.

Substantial death of migrating and differentiating neurons occurs within the developing CNS of mice that are deficient in genes required for repair of double-stranded DNA breaks. These findings suggest that large-scale, yet previously unrecognized, double-stranded DNA breaks occur normally in early postmitotic and differentiating neurons. Moreover, they imply that cell death occurs if the breaks are not repaired. The cause and natural function of such breaks remains a mystery; however, their occurrence has significant implications. They might be detected by histological methods that are sensitive to DNA fragmentation and mistakenly interpreted to indicate cell death when no relationship exists. In a broader context, there is now renewed speculation that DNA recombination might be occurring during neuronal development, similar to DNA recombination in developing lymphocytes. If this is true, the target gene(s) of recombination and their significance remain to be determined.
In normal adult cats, a monoclonal antibody directed toward the NR-1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (Pharmingen, clone 54.1) produced dense cellular and neuropil labeling throughout all layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and adjacent thalamic nuclei, including the thalamic reticular, perigeniculate, medial intralaminar, and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei. Cellular staining revealed well-defined somata, and in some cases proximal dendrites. NMDAR-1 cell labeling was also evident in the LGN of early postnatal kittens, suggesting that developing LGN cells possess this receptor subunit at or before eye opening. Within the A-layers of the adult LGN, staining encompassed a wide range of soma sizes. Soma size comparisons of NMDAR-1 stained cells with those stained with an antibody directed toward a nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI-32), which selectively stains Y-relay cells (Bickford et al., 1998), or an antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), which stains for GABAergic interneurons, suggested that NMDA receptors are utilized by relay cells and interneurons. NMDAR-1 staining was also observed in the LGN of cats with early monocular lid suture. Although labeling was apparent in both deprived and nondeprived A-layers of LGN, the distribution of soma sizes was significantly different. In the deprived A-layers of LGN, staining was limited to small- and medium-sized cells. Cells with relatively large soma were lacking. However, cell density measurements as well as soma size comparisons with cells stained for Nissl substance suggested these differences were due to deprivation-induced cell shrinkage and not to a loss of NMDAR-1 staining in Y-cells. Taken together, these results suggest that NMDA receptors are utilized by both relay cells and interneurons in LGN and that alterations in early visual experience do not necessarily affect the expression of NMDA receptors in the LGN.
Late-in-life immigrants are often at risk for psychological stress and social isolation because of language problems, small social networks, and cultural differences from the host society. Community intervention programs can reduce such stress and isolation. In this article, the authors describe a Swedish municipality's culturally appropriate intervention program for elderly Iranian immigrants based on ethnographic data gathered during a 12 month period. The description includes the activities provided by the program and the experiences of the elderly Iranian immigrants who participate regularly in these activities. The findings document the positive impact of regular participation in the center's activities on the elders' well-being and health.

Bacteriophage display of antibodies provides a method for the generation of immunological reagents against rare and uncharacterized antigens. To ascertain the usefulness of this approach for the characterization of inner-ear proteins, we produced a bacteriophage-displayed antibody-fragment library directed against proteins from the bullfrog's sacculus. This library was probed for bacteriophage that bound to proteins present in a lysate of hair cells, the sensory receptors of the inner ear. The predominant bacteriophage clone after selection expressed an antibody fragment that recognized a single protein in the inner ear. This antigen occurred in both the nonsensory and sensory epithelia of the sacculus. The specificity of the antibody fragment indicates that our bacteriophage-displayed library provides a useful source of immunological tools that should facilitate the identification and biochemical characterization of novel proteins in the inner ear.
Neurons are continually added at a low rate to the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus during adulthood in rats. The functional significance of this unusual feature is not completely understood, although recent studies suggest continued granule cell neurogenesis is essential for normal learning and memory. We report here that, in the adult rat, stimulation of the granule cell mossy fibers sufficient to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) increases the number of newly formed granule cells in the dentate gyrus, indicating that granule cell neurogenesis is regulated by efferent activity and, possibly, the induction of LTP.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the major psychoactive constituent of marijuana, on ischemic neuronal injury. A 12-min ischemic insult was induced by a reduction in systolic blood pressure to a mean of 50 mm Hg, followed by bilateral carotid artery occlusion at a middle ear temperature of 37.5 degrees C. THC at either a low (0.1 mg/kg; n=8) or high (10 mg/kg; n=8) dose was injected i.p. every 12 h for 7 days prior to ischemia. Non-treated ischemic (n=8) animals formed the control group. The animals were sacrificed 3 weeks post-ischemia for quantitative histopathology. THC at either dose did not significantly reduce ischemic neuronal damage in the hippocampus. The high dose THC-treated group showed significantly less neocortical injury, compared to either the control or low-dose THC groups (p&lt;0.05). The striatum was markedly protected by both low and high dose THC (p&lt;0.001). This regionally specific protection implies that either the hippocampus undergoes suprathreshold ischemic injury or that mechanisms of ischemic injury vary in different brain regions.
Cannabinoids have been used for millennia through various preparations of Cannabis sativa. Despite this long history of use, the physiological significance of cannabinoid signaling in the vertebrate CNS is not well understood. High CB1 cannabinoid receptor densities in mammalian telencephalon and the results of behavioral studies suggest that cannabinoids play a role in cognitive function, learning, and memory. Since a network of discrete brain regions in zebra finch telencephalon controls song learning, we hypothesized that cannabinoid signaling may be relevant to songbird vocal development and behavior. Radioligand binding experiments using the cannabinoid agonist [3H]CP-55940 allowed identification of a dense population of high-affinity cannabinoid binding sites in zebra finch neuronal membranes. Northern blotting and RT-PCR experiments demonstrated expression of a predominant zebra finch CB1 mRNA of approximately 5.5 kb. Expression of this CB1 mRNA appears to change over the course of vocal development within the caudal telencephalon. As zebra finch caudal telencephalon contains the higher vocal center (HVC) and the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA), regions involved in song learning and production, we further investigated CB1 expression in these areas using in situ hybridization. In situ hybridization revealed that CB1 mRNA is expressed at high levels within both HVC and RA. Overall, these data demonstrate the presence of CB1 signaling systems within songbird telencephalon, notably within regions known to be involved in song learning and production. High-level CB1 expression in song regions suggests a potential role for cannabinoid signaling in zebra finch vocal development.
The maturation of cortical circuitry critically depends on experience. Recently, a model of silent synapse has been proposed as a mechanism of activity-mediated transition of immature synapse to mature synapse. It is not clear, however, how activity could regulate this transition. Here, we show the evidence that endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is required for the maturation of glutamatergic synapse in developing mouse somatosensory cortex. Field potential recordings of thalamocortical glutamatergic synaptic activity with brain slices from the BDNF mutant mice showed that AMPA receptor responses are low, but NMDA receptor responses remain high in layer 4, thus, the relative contribution of AMPA receptor response is significantly lower compared to the age-matched wild-type mouse. Furthermore, optical images of development of thalamocortical connectivity with a voltage-sensitive dye showed that NMDA receptor-dominant synapse is established first in layer 4 and layer 5/6 then AMPA receptor response appears later in concomitant with reduction of NMDA receptor response in layer 4 and that the maturation of the silent synapse is impaired in the BDNF mutant mice. In layer 5/6, NMDA receptor response was suppressed without upregulation of AMPA receptor response. This process also required BDNF function. Interestingly, whisker-trimming of the wild-type mouse from just after birth showed quite similar results with the homozygous mutant of their whiskers left intact. Therefore, we would propose that BDNF is a critical mediator for the maturation of glutamatergic synapse in developing mouse somatosensory cortex.
Disruption of intracellular calcium homeostasis is thought to play a role in neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease (HD). To study different aspects of putative pathogenic mechanisms in HD, we aimed to establish an in vitro model of calcium-induced toxicity in striatal neurons. The calcium ionophore A23187 induced a concentration- and time-dependent cell death in cultures of embryonic striatal neurons, causing both apoptosis and necrosis. Cell death was significantly reduced by the cell-permeant antioxidant manganese(III)tetrakis(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin (MnTBAP). Cyclosporin A and its analogue N-MeVal-4-cyclosporin also reduced the incidence of cell death, suggesting the participation of mitochondrial permeability transition in this process. Furthermore, addition of either of two types of caspase inhibitors, Ac-YVAD-CHO (acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-aldehyde) and Ac-DEVD-CHO (acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-aldehyde), to the striatal cells blocked A23187-induced striatal cell death in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that oxidative stress, opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore and activation of caspases are important steps in A23187-induced cell death.
The human somatosensory cortex in the Sylvian fissure was examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging to describe the number and internal organization of cortical fields present. Somatic stimuli were applied to the lips, face, hand, trunk, and foot of 18 human subjects. Activity patterns were transposed onto three-dimensional magnetic resonance images of the brain so that the location of activity associated with the different stimuli could be related to specific regions of the cortex. There were several consistent findings. First, there were three regions of activity in the lateral sulcus associated with stimulation of the contralateral body. The most consistent locus of activation was on the upper bank of the lateral sulcus, continuing onto the operculum. The other two areas, one rostral and one caudal to this large central area, were smaller and were activated less consistently. Second, when activity patterns in the large central area resulting from stimulation of all body parts were considered, this region appeared to contain two fields that corresponded in location and somatotopic organization to the second somatosensory area (SII) and the parietal ventral area (PV). Finally, patterns of activation within SII and PV were somewhat variable across subjects. Repeated within-subject stimulus presentation indicated that differences across subjects were not due to inconsistent stimulus presentation. Comparisons with other mammals suggest that some features of organization are found only in primates. It is hypothesized that these features may be associated with manual dexterity and coordination of the hands, a characteristic generally restricted to the primate lineage.
Cultured and transplanted adrenal medullary cells respond to ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) with neurite formation and improved cell survival although the presence of the CNTF receptor-alpha (CNTFRalpha) has been unclear. This study show that CNTFRalpha mRNA was expressed in the postnatal day 1 as well as in the adult rat adrenal medulla. The highest CNTFRalpha mRNA signal was found in the ganglion cells of the adrenal medulla. After transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue the CNTFRalpha mRNA levels were down-regulated in the chromaffin cells. CNTF treatment of grafts did not normalize the receptor levels, but treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF) did. Thus, we demonstrate that CNTFRalpha mRNA is expressed in adrenal medulla, the levels becomes down-regulated after transplantation, but normalized after treatment with NGF.
Developmental dyslexia has been separately associated with the presence of ectopic collections of neurons in layer I of neocortex (ectopias) and with alterations in processing rapidly changing stimuli. We have used BXSB/MpJ-Yaa mice, some of which have neocortical ectopias, to directly test the hypothesis that ectopias may alter auditory processing. Auditory event related potentials (AERPs) were elicited by pairs of 10.5 kHz tones separated by silence, 0.99 kHz, or 5.6 kHz tones of variable duration. Half of the mice tested had 1-3 ectopias in frontal or parietal cortex, and half had no ectopias. Mice with ectopias showed a reduced response to the second 10.5 kHz stimuli only when it was preceded by short duration 5.6 kHz tones. These results indicate that BXSB mice are an excellent model for determining how focal neocortical anomalies alter sensory processing.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether galanin-(1-16) of the rat and porcine type and rat galanin-(1-29) can modulate the 5-HT1A receptors, using [3H]8-OH-DPAT as a radioligand, in membrane preparations from the ventral limbic cortex of the rat. Galanin-(1-16) produced a concentration dependent increase in the Kd value of [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding sites with a maximal effect of approximately 61% at 30 nM without changing the Bmax values. The galanin antagonist M35 blocked these effects. Rat galanin produced the same pattern of response but was less potent and effective. These results indicate the existence of a galanin receptor subtype in the ventral limbic cortex mainly recognizing N-terminal galanin fragments and capable of more strongly modulating 5-HT1A receptors than cloned galanin receptors.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the selective loss of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigral brain region. Currently, there is no cure or treatment that prevents such neuronal loss. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been found to support the survival of DA neurons in animal models and in primary cell cultures. However, the large molecular size of BDNF, coupled with the blood brain barrier, prevents its delivery to DA neurons to promote cell survival in the PD brain. The nigral DA neurons have the ability to produce BDNF for neuroprotection via either autocrine or paracrine mechanisms. Low mol. wt compounds were tested to see whether they could increase the production of BDNF in the DA neurons. The compounds tested include neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, intracellular signaling agents, known neuroprotective agents and growth factors. Our results demonstrate that salicyclic acid, cGMP analog, okadaic acid, IBMX, dipyridamole and glutamate significantly enhance BDNF production in DA neuronal cells.
We compared various measures of visual-vestibular interaction in subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), as well as non-diabetic controls. Subjects with IDDM exhibited significantly greater postural sway than controls on those conditions in the Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction and Balance (CTSIB) which require greater reliance on the vestibular system (p &lt; 0.005). The IDDM group also exhibited significantly worse gaze-holding in darkness and a significantly higher mean slow phase eye velocity (SPV) of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN; p&lt;0.05 for both comparisons). However, there were no significant differences in latency to circularvection (CV). The NIDDM group showed a significant increase in postural sway across all 12 conditions compared with the controls, as well as a significant decrease in gaze-holding in darkness (p &lt; 0.05 and p &lt; 0.0005, respectively). However, they showed no significant difference in OKN SPV and a significant decrease in latency to CV for anticlockwise trials only (p &lt; 0.05). These results suggest that IDDM and NIDDM are both associated with specific but different changes in visual-vestibular interaction.
The segmental trisomy Ts65Dn mouse is a novel model of Down syndrome (DS). The purpose of this study was to measure brain levels of myo-inositol (ml), N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and other metabolites in Ts65Dn mice using in vivo 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), and to determine whether lithium (Li) treatment alters brain ml level. The ratio of ml over total creatine (Cr), ml/Cr, was significantly elevated (mean change +38%), while NAA/Cr was significantly decreased (mean change -18%) in Ts65Dn mice (n=5) compared with control mice (n= 7). This is consistent with 1H MRS findings in DS human adults. Brain ml/Cr of the entire sample group (n= 12) was reduced (mean change -15%) following Li treatment, supporting the Li-induced ml depletion hypothesis.

The present study was designed to replicate previously reported findings of abnormal frontal and/or temporal cerebral blood flow in violent offenders and to control for the influence of major mental disorder (MMD), substance abuse, and current medication. HMPAO-SPECT-CBF and MRI scans from pretrial forensic psychiatric investigations of 21 subjects convicted of impulsive violent crimes were retrospectively re-evaluated. In 16/21 subjects, visual assessment of SPECT scans showed some hypoperfusion in the temporal and/or frontal lobes. MRI showed no corresponding structural damage. Quantified regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in defined regions of interest was compared between index cases and 11 healthy control subjects. Index subjects had significant reductions in the right angular gyrus and the right medial temporal gyrus, bilaterally in the hippocampus, and in the left white frontal matter, but they had significantly increased rCBF in the parietal association cortex bilaterally. The aberrations were as frequent and severe among the subjects without MMD, substance abuse, and current medication (n=7) as in the entire group of index subjects.
Sphingomyelinases (SMases) catalyze the hydrolysis of sphingomyelin, an essential lipid constituent of the plasma membrane, lysosomal membranes, endoplasmic reticulum, and the Golgi membrane stacks of mammalian cells. In this study, we report the biochemical and functional characterization and subcellular localization of magnesium-dependent nSMase1 from overexpressing human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells. Site-directed mutagenesis of conserved residues probably involved in the enzymatic sphingomyelin cleavage as well as the removal of one or both putative transmembrane domains lead to the complete loss of enzymatic activity of human nSMase1 expressed in HEK293 cells. Polyclonal antibodies raised against recombinant mammalian nSMase1 immunoprecipitated and inactivated the enzyme in membrane extracts of overexpressing HEK293 cells and different murine tissues. Cell fractionation combined with immunoprecipitation studies localized the nSMase1 protein predominantly in the microsomal fraction. The enzyme colocalized with marker proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus in immunocytochemistry. Anti-nSMase1 antibodies did not affect the nSMase activity in the plasma membrane fraction and membrane extracts from murine brain. Our study leads to the conclusion that nSMase1 is one of at least two mammalian neutral sphingomyelinases with different subcellular localization, tissue specificity, and enzymatic properties.
3-Isoxazolols are most often synthesized from a beta-keto ester and hydroxylamine. This cyclization typically gives rise to a major byproduct, the corresponding 5-isoxazolone. We have found that N, O-diBoc-protected beta-keto hydroxamic acids can be synthesized and cyclized to 5-substituted 3-isoxazolols without formation of any byproduct. We present a novel and versatile three-step procedure in which carboxylic acid derivatives are converted into acyl Meldrum's acids which, upon aminolysis with N, O-bis(tert-butoxycarbonyl)hydroxylamine, lead to the N, O-diBoc-protected beta-keto hydroxamic acids. These hydroxamic acid analogues were then, upon treatment with hydrochloric acid, cyclized to the corresponding 5-substituted 3-isoxazolols.


Recent genetic and biochemical studies indicate that lipoprotein receptors are components of the neuronal receptor for Reelin, mediating the glycoprotein's essential function in cortical development. At least eight cadherin-related neuronal receptors may also play a part in this signalling system.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents the primary neuroendocrine link between the brain and the reproductive axis, and at least two distinct molecular forms of this decapeptide (GnRH-I and GnRH-II) are known to be expressed in the forebrain of rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Although the distribution pattern of the two corresponding mRNAs is largely dissimilar, their expression appears to show some overlap in specific regions of the hypothalamus; this raises the possibility that some cells express both molecular forms of GnRH. To resolve this issue, double-label histochemistry was performed on hypothalamic sections from six male rhesus macaques, using a monoclonal antibody to GnRH-I and a riboprobe to monkey GnRH-II mRNA. In total, more than 2000 GnRH neurons were examined but in no instance were GnRH-I peptide and GnRH-II mRNA found to be coexpressed. This finding emphasizes that GnRH-I and GnRH-II are synthesized by two distinct populations of hypothalamic neurons, and suggests that they may be regulated by different neuroendocrine pathways.
Brain expression of Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and its modulation have been extensively documented in different animal models. The majority of the studies were based on techniques such as RT-PCR, RIA and ELISA using global extracts. Meningeal tissue or choroid plexus both belong to the peripheral compartment. Thus, their presence in nervous tissue extracts may lead to erroneous interpretations. We measured IL-1beta mRNA in the cerebellum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex collected with meninges and in the same structures collected without meninges after a peripheral lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation (0.5 microgram/g body weight), using RT-PCR. The presence of meninges in the extracts dramatically increased IL-1beta mRNA levels after LPS treatment while basal levels (before LPS injection) were not affected. Indeed, two-thirds of the response originated from the meningeal tissue and choroid plexus. Immunohistochemical studies showed that IL-1beta labelled cells, identified as macrophages, were exclusively localized in the ventricular and meningeal spaces, in our LPS condition treatment. These results point out the need of integrated analyses of data obtained with different techniques to demonstrate the presence in the nervous tissue of a molecule which is also widely expressed in the peripheral compartment.
Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are important trophic factors during development as well as in the adult or damaged nervous system. Their trophic actions are modulated by interactions with six distinct IGF binding proteins. The mRNA expression profiles of binding proteins 2, 4 and 5 in the normal developing and adult CNS are well characterized and are shown to have distinctive, non-overlapping distributions. The IGF binding protein-6 (BP6) is also expressed in the CNS, however, details regarding its mRNA expression distribution in the developing and adult nervous system is limited. BP6 has the unique property of preferentially binding the IGF-II ligand. Coupled with the fact that this ligand is the most abundantly expressed IGF in the adult CNS, this suggests that the IGF-II/BP6 complex has a unique role in modulating IGF-II function in the adult brain. In this report the anatomical distribution of BP6 messenger RNA in the developing and adult rat nervous system is presented. In the embryonic animal the CNS expression is tightly restricted to trigeminal ganglia and, relative to the rest of the embryo, this structure has the highest expression. The expression in the forebrain and cerebellum does not occur until after postnatal day 21 and then is primarily associated with GABAergic interneurons. The highest levels of expression in the adult animal are in the hindbrain, spinal cord, cranial ganglia, and dorsal root ganglia. These nuclei in the hindbrain and periphery that express BP6 are all associated with the coordination of sensorimotor function in the cerebellum, which indicates an important role for the BP6/IGF-II complex in the function and maintenance of these systems.

Omega-conotoxin MVIIA, a highly potent antagonist of the N-type voltage sensitive calcium channel, has shown utility in several models of pain and ischemia. We report a series of three alkylphenyl ether based analogues which mimic three key amino acids of the toxin. Two of the compounds have been found to exhibit IC50 values of 2.7 and 3.3 microM at the human N-type voltage sensitive calcium channel.
10-fold higher doses in SW mice. Furthermore, cotreatment of 129/SvEv mice with morphine plus a low dose of naltrexone (ca. 0.1 microgram/kg) that markedly enhances and prolongs morphine's antinociceptive effects in SW mice did not enhance, and often attenuated6 h. The marked GM1-induced attenuation of morphine's antinociceptive effects in 129/SvEv mice may be due to conversion of some of the opioid receptors in these mice from an inhibitory Gi/Go-coupled to an excitatory Gs-coupled mode. Exogenous GM1 supplementation can, therefore, reverse the anomalous lack of morphine tolerance displayed by this mouse strain in comparison to SW and other mice. The present study may provide insights into factors that regulate the marked variability in nociceptive sensitivity and opioid tolerance/dependence liability among individual humans.
In experimental models of cerebral ischemia, cells within the damaged territory die by necrosis and by apoptosis that contributes to the expansion of the insult. Apoptotic machinery mobilizes intracellular processes such as induction of Bcl-2 family members, activation of the proteolytic cascade including the caspases, and cleavage of caspase substrates, such as poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase or PARP. Mitochondria play a pivotal role in controlling apoptosis by releasing cytochrome c and modulating redox state, both under the regulation of manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn SOD) via superoxide anion detoxification. The implication and the kinetics of such events in apoptosis induced after focal permanent ischemia in mice remains to be studied. In a paradigm of ischemic insult induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) in mice, we showed by immunohistochemistry a constitutive expression of caspase-3 that is enhanced after MCAO in neurons localized within the infarcted zone. As a function of time intervals after MCAO, the cytochrome c amount increased in the cytosolic fraction of ischemic cortical extracts. The kinetics of the release was in concordance with the expression of caspase-3 and the subsequent cleavage of PARP appearing before the internucleosomal fragmentation of DNA, the ultimate step of apoptosis. When the apoptotic markers progressively appeared, no changes of Mn SOD activity or Mn SOD expression were detected after MCAO. We can therefore speculate that the recruitment of Mn SOD did not participate per se in the release of cytochrome c elicited after permanent focal ischemia.
The native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met(5)]-enkephalin, is a tonic inhibitory peptide that modulates cell proliferation and tissue organization during development, cancer, cellular renewal, wound healing, and angiogenesis. OGF action is mediated by a receptor mechanism. We have cloned and sequenced cDNAs encoding multiple spliced forms of a human OGF receptor. The open reading frame in the longest cDNA was found to encode a protein of 697 amino acids, and 8 imperfect repeats of 20 amino acids each were a prominent feature. Altogether, five alternatively spliced forms were observed. The cDNA hybridized to mRNA from a variety of normal and neoplastic cells and tissues. Functional studies using antisense oligonucleotides to OGFr demonstrated an enhancement in cell growth. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) experiments showed the chromosomal location to be 20q13.3. This OGF receptor has no homology to classical opioid receptors. These results provide molecular validity for the interaction of OGF and OGF receptor in the regulation of growth processes in humans.
The dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC) is necessary for maintaining the integrity of the muscle cell plasma membrane and may also play a role in coordinating signaling events at the cell surface. The alpha-/beta-dystroglycan subcomplex of the DAPC forms a critical link between the cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. A ligand blot overlay assay was used to search for novel dystroglycan binding partners in postsynaptic membranes from Torpedo electric organ. An approximately 125-kD dystroglycan-binding polypeptide was purified and shown by peptide microsequencing to be the Torpedo ortholog of the small leucine-rich repeat chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan biglycan. Biglycan binding to alpha-dystroglycan was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation with both native and recombinant alpha-dystroglycan. The biglycan binding site was mapped to the COOH-terminal third of alpha-dystroglycan. Glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan is not necessary for this interaction, but binding is dependent upon the chondroitin sulfate side chains of biglycan. In muscle, biglycan is detected at both synaptic and nonsynaptic regions. Finally, biglycan expression is elevated in muscle from the dystrophic mdx mouse. These findings reveal a novel binding partner for alpha-dystroglycan and demonstrate a novel avenue for interaction of the DAPC and the extracellular matrix. These results also raise the possibility of a role for biglycan in the pathogenesis, and perhaps the treatment, of muscular dystrophy.
The innervation of the digits on the raccoon forepaw was examined by using immunochemistry for protein gene product 9.5, calcitonin-gene related peptide, substance P, neuropeptide-Y, tyrosine hydroxylase, and neurofilament protein. The larger-caliber axons in the ventral glabrous skin terminate as Pacinian corpuscles deep in the dermis, small corpuscles and Merkel endings around the base of dermal papillae, and Merkel endings on rete pegs in dermal papillae. Extensive fine-caliber innervation terminates in the epidermis and on the microvasculature. The innervation is more dense in the distal than in the proximal volar pads. Pacinian endings are also concentrated in the transverse crease separating the distal and proximal pads. In the dorsal hairy skin, hair follicles are well innervated with piloneural complexes. Merkel innervation is located under slight epidermal elevations and in some large Merkel rete pegs located at the apex of transverse skin folds just proximal to the claw. No cutaneous Ruffini corpuscles were found anywhere on the digit. The claw is affiliated with dense medial and lateral beds of Pacinian endings, bouquets of highly branched Ruffini-like endings at the transition from the distal phalanx and unmyelinated innervation in the skin around the perimeter. Encapsulated endings are located at the lateral edge of the articular surface of the distal phalanx. Extensive fine-caliber innervation is affiliated with sweat glands and with the vasculature and is especially dense at presumptive arteriovenous sphincters. Virtually all of the sweat gland and vascular innervation is peptidergic, whereas most of the unmyelinated epidermal innervation is nonpeptidergic.

Although the chemical nature of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) remains elusive, electrophysiological evidence exists for electrical communication between smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells suggesting that electrotonic propagation of hyperpolarization may explain the failure to identify a single chemical factor as EDHF. Anatomical evidence for myoendothelial gap junctions, or the sites of electrical coupling, is, however, rare. In the present study, serial-section electron microscopy and reconstruction techniques have been used to examine the incidence of myoendothelial gap junctions in the proximal and distal mesenteric arteries of the rat where EDHF responses have been reported to vary. Myoendothelial gap junctions were found to be very small in the mesenteric arteries, the majority being &lt;100 nm in diameter. In addition, they were significantly more common in the distal compared with the proximal regions of this arterial bed. Pentalaminar gap junctions between adjacent endothelial cells were much larger and were common in both proximal and distal mesenteric arteries. These latter junctions were frequently found near the myoendothelial gap junctions. These results provide the first evidence for the presence of sites for electrical communication between endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in the mesenteric vascular bed. Furthermore, the relative incidence of these sites suggests that there may be a relationship between the activity of EDHF and the presence of myoendothelial gap junctions.
The effects of the novel compound, (-)-OSU6162 ((S)-(-)-3-methylsulfonylphenyl-1-propylpiperidine), on rotational behavior induced by dopamine receptor agonists was investigated in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. (-)-OSU6162 per se displayed no effect on the animals' behavior. On the other hand, pretreatment with (-)-OSU6162 attenuated rotational behavior induced by apomorphine (apomorphini hydrochloridum), L-DOPA (3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine), and the dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole (trans-(-)-4aR-4,4a, 5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolol[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride), without inducing motor impairment such as akinesia or dystonia. In addition, treatment with (-)-OSU6162 for 5 consecutive days almost completely abolished the rotational behavior provoked by apomorphine and produced a transient subsensitization of such apomorphine-induced effects after it was discontinued. Moreover, pretreatment with (-)-OSU6162 in two monkeys augmented the rotational behavior elicited by the dopamine D1 receptor agonists, SKF-81297 (R(+)-6-chloro-7,8,dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide) and A-77636 ((-)-(1R, 3S)-3-adamantyl-1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran hydrochloride). The findings indicate that (-)-OSU6162 can exert indirect state-dependent effects that differentially affect dopamine D1 and dopamine D2 receptor agonist-induced behavior.
The ARGRIII gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a transcriptional regulator that also has inositol polyphosphate multikinase (ipmk) activity [Saiardi et al. (1999) Curr. Biol. 9, 1323-1326]. To investigate how inositol phosphates regulate gene expression, we disrupted the ARGRIII gene. This mutation impaired nuclear mRNA export, slowed cell growth, increased cellular [InsP(3)] 170-fold and decreased [InsP(6)] 100-fold, indicating reduced phosphorylation of InsP(3) to InsP(6). Levels of diphosphoinositol polyphosphates were decreased much less dramatically than was InsP(6). Low levels of InsP(6), and considerable quantities of Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4), were synthesized by an ipmk-independent route. Transcriptional control by ipmk reflects that it is a pivotal regulator of nuclear mRNA export via inositol phosphate metabolism.
Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters are the primary mechanism for removal of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) from the extracellular space of the central nervous system and influence both physiologic and pathologic effects of these compounds. Recent evidence suggests that the activity and cell surface expression of a neuronal subtype of glutamate transporter, EAAC1, are rapidly increased by direct activation of protein kinase C and are decreased by wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). We hypothesized that this regulation could be analogous to insulin-induced stimulation of the GLUT4 subtype of glucose transporter, which is dependent upon activation of PI3-K. Using C6 glioma, a cell line that endogenously and selectively expresses EAAC1, we report that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) increased Na(+)-dependent L-[(3)H]-glutamate transport activity within 30 min. This effect of PDGF was not due to a change in total cellular EAAC1 immunoreactivity but was instead correlated with an increase cell surface expression of EAAC1, as measured using a membrane impermeant biotinylation reagent combined with Western blotting. A decrease in nonbiotinylated intracellular EAAC1 was also observed. These studies suggest that PDGF causes a redistribution of EAAC1 from an intracellular compartment to the cell surface. These effects of PDGF were accompanied by a 35-fold increase in PI3-K activity and were blocked by the PI3-K inhibitors, wortmannin and LY 294002, but not by an inhibitor of protein kinase C. Other growth factors, including insulin, nerve growth factor, and epidermal growth factor had no effect on glutamate transport nor did they increase PI3-K activity. These studies suggest that, as is observed for insulin-mediated translocation of GLUT4, EAAC1 cell surface expression can be rapidly increased by PDGF through activation of PI3-K. It is possible that this PDGF-mediated increase in EAAC1 activity may contribute to the previously demonstrated neuroprotective effects of PDGF.
Electroconvulsive shock (ECS) therapy is considered to be an effective treatment for depression, but its mechanism of action is still unknown. We investigated the effect of chronic ECS in rats treated for 14 days with dexamethasone (Dex), a glucocorticoid receptor agonist. Chronic injection of sesame oil decreased body weight change and increased serotonin (5-HT)-2A receptor number and DOI (5-HT-2A, 2C receptor agonist)-induced wet-dog shake (WDS) behaviors. Dex treatment for 14 days decreased body weight of rats, but repeated ECS did not reverse this decrease. Dex also abolished plasma corticosterone levels, and ECS failed to restore these levels. These results indicate that chronic ECS does not antagonize the effect of Dex. The treatment with Dex increased 5-HT-2A receptor binding density of rat frontal cortex and the number of DOI-induced WDS behaviors. Chronic ECS reduced the enhanced WDS behaviors by Dex but had little effect on receptor density. These results suggest that chronic ECS might suppress 5-HT-2A receptor function at the postreceptor signaling level rather than at the receptor itself, without changing HPA axis function in Dex-treated rats.
Earlier studies have shown elevated levels of tau protein and decreased levels of amyloid beta42 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We investigated the concentrations of Abeta42, Abeta40 and tau in CSF from AD patients on the baseline and after follow-up period of 3 years using ELISA assays. There was a significant decrease of Abeta42 (P&lt;0.05) and Abeta40 (P&lt;0.05) levels with time. AD patients with the duration of the disease 2 years or less at baseline had more pronounced decrease of Abeta42 concentrations compared to those with the duration of the disease more than 2 years at baseline (P&lt;0.05). CSF tau protein concentrations increased in 9/17 but decreased in 8/17 patients. These results suggest that Abeta42 and Abeta40 may be useful in monitoring the long-term progression of AD particularly in the early stages of the disease.
Gabapentin (Neurontin((R))) has preclinical and clinical efficacy as an anticonvulsant, antihyperalgesic, anxiolytic, and neuroprotective drug. Since L-glutamic acid (GLU) is involved in various CNS (central nervous system) disorders, gabapentin may attenuate the release of this neurotransmitter possibly by interacting with the auxiliary alpha(2)delta subunit of voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC). The effects of gabapentin, pregabalin (S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba) and its enantiomer R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba, and N- and P/Q-type VSCC-targeting peptide ligands (omega-conotoxin MVIIA, omega-conotoxin MVIIC, omega-agatoxin TK) were assessed in vitro on K(+)-evoked (endogenous) GLU release from rat neocortical and hippocampal slices. Gabapentin and pregabalin decreased GLU release by 11-26% with R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba being less effective than pregabalin. The reference N- and P/Q-type VSCC-targeting ligands reduced GLU release by 19-55% to implicate these VSCC in this Ca(2+)-dependent process. The inhibitory effect of gabapentin and related compounds on GLU release may reflect a subtle modulation of VSCC function which normalizes pathological changes in neurotransmitter release.
In this study, we investigated the expression pattern of the basic Helix-Loop-Helix transcription factors during brain aging. We provide the first evidence that NeuroD and ME2 are differentially expressed during brain aging. Modulation of their expression is specific to distinct areas of the aging brain. NeuroD expression is sustained at high levels in aging cerebellum, whereas it severely declines in aging hippocampus. In contrast, the bHLH E-protein ME2 remains expressed in both aged cerebellum and hippocampus, although at lower levels. These observations support the idea that a shift in the transcriptional dynamics controlling gene expression is associated with the progressive functional decline observed during brain aging.
Theoretical studies suggest that primary visual cortex (area V1) uses a sparse code to efficiently represent natural scenes. This issue was investigated by recording from V1 neurons in awake behaving macaques during both free viewing of natural scenes and conditions simulating natural vision. Stimulation of the nonclassical receptive field increases the selectivity and sparseness of individual V1 neurons, increases the sparseness of the population response distribution, and strongly decorrelates the responses of neuron pairs. These effects are due to both excitatory and suppressive modulation of the classical receptive field by the nonclassical receptive field and do not depend critically on the spatiotemporal structure of the stimuli. During natural vision, the classical and nonclassical receptive fields function together to form a sparse representation of the visual world. This sparse code may be computationally efficient for both early vision and higher visual processing.
Repetition priming has been characterized neurophysiologically as a decreased response following stimulus repetition. The present study used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate whether this repetition-related response is sensitive to stimulus familiarity. A right fusiform region exhibited an attenuated response to the repetition of familiar stimuli, both faces and symbols, but exhibited an enhanced response to the repetition of unfamiliar stimuli. Moreover, both repetition effects were modulated by lag between successive presentations. Further experiments replicated the interactions between repetition, familiarity, and lag and demonstrated the persistence of these effects over multiple repetitions. Priming-related responses are therefore not unitary but depend on the presence or absence of preexisting stimulus representations.
To elucidate the role of the synaptic protein alpha-synuclein in neurodegenerative disorders, transgenic mice expressing wild-type human alpha-synuclein were generated. Neuronal expression of human alpha-synuclein resulted in progressive accumulation of alpha-synuclein-and ubiquitin-immunoreactive inclusions in neurons in the neocortex, hippocampus, and substantia nigra. Ultrastructural analysis revealed both electron-dense intranuclear deposits and cytoplasmic inclusions. These alterations were associated with loss of dopaminergic terminals in the basal ganglia and with motor impairments. These results suggest that accumulation of wild-type alpha-synuclein may play a causal role in Parkinson's disease and related conditions.
The metabolic interaction between ethanol and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) via alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH; EC 1.1.1.1) was studied in tissue homogenates of Sprague-Dawley rats by following the transfer of deuterium from deuterated ethanol over endogenous NADH to 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL). Homogenates of whole brain, lung, spleen, kidney, liver, stomach, jejunum, ileum, colon, and caecum were incubated in the presence of [2H2]ethanol and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetaldehyde (5HIAL), and the [2H]5HTOL formed was identified and quantified using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. ADH activity was most abundant in liver, kidney, and within the gastrointestinal tract. The highest incorporation of deuterium was obtained in homogenates of kidney, lung, and colon, whereas in brain, which contains very low ADH activity, no incorporation could be demonstrated. Addition of extra NAD+ (2.4 mM) increased the formation of [2H]5HTOL 2.6-fold in liver homogenates, but only 1.2-fold in kidney homogenates. 4-Methylpyrazole, a potent inhibitor of class I ADH, inhibited the 5HIAL reduction in homogenates of lung, kidney, jejunum, ileum, and colon, and caused a marked drop in 5HTOL oxidation in all tissues except stomach and spleen. These results demonstrate that in the rat a metabolic interaction between ethanol and serotonin via the ADH pathway may take place in several tissues besides the liver, which is the main tissue for ethanol detoxification.

Biological psychiatry has a long history of using somatic therapies to treat neuropsychiatric illnesses and to understand brain function. These methods have included neurosurgery, electroconvulsive therapy, and, most recently, transcranial magnetic stimulation. Fourteen years ago researchers discovered that intermittent electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve produces inhibition of neural processes, which can alter brain electrical activity and terminate seizures in dogs. Since then, approximately 6000 people worldwide have received vagus nerve stimulation for treatment-resistant epilepsy. We review the neurobiology and anatomy of the vagus nerve and provide an overview of the vagus nerve stimulation technique. We also describe the safety and potential utility of vagus nerve stimulation as a neuroscience research tool and as a putative treatment for psychiatric conditions. Vagus nerve stimulation appears to be a promising new somatic intervention that may improve our understanding of brain function and has promise in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.
A complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in the formation and repair of the central nervous system myelin sheath requires an unambiguous identification and isolation of in vivo-differentiated myelin-forming cells. In order to develop a novel tool for the analysis of in vivo-differentiated oligodendrocytes, we generated transgenic mice expressing a red-shifted variant of the green fluorescent protein under the control of the proteolipid protein promoter. We demonstrate here that green fluorescent protein-derived fluorescence in the central nervous system of 9-day- to 7-week-old mice is restricted to mature oligodendrocytes, as determined by its spatiotemporal appearance and by both immunocytochemical and electrophysiological criteria. Green fluorescent protein-positive oligodendrocytes could easily be visualized in live and fixed tissue. Furthermore, we show that this convenient and reliable identification now allows detailed physiological analyses of differentiated oligodendrocytes in situ. In addition, we developed a novel tissue culture system for in vivo-differentiated oligodendrocytes. Initial data using this system indicate that, for oligodendrocytes isolated after differentiation in vivo, as yet unidentified factors secreted by astrocytes are necessary for survival and/or reappearance of a mature phenotype in culture.
The novel mouse gene Nope was identified due to its proximity to the Punc gene on chromosome 9. With a domain structure of four immunoglobulin domains, five fibronectin type III repeats, a single transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, Nope encodes a new member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface proteins. It displays a high level of similarity to Punc, as well as to guidance receptors such as the Deleted in Colorectal Cancer protein and Neogenin. Nope is expressed during embryonic development in the notochord, in developing skeletal muscles, and later in the ventricular zone of the nervous system. In the adult brain, Nope can be detected in the hippocampus. Radiation hybrid mapping of Nope, Punc, and Neogenin placed all three genes in close vicinity on mouse chromosome 9.
The identification of TCRs of autoimmune disease-inducing T cells within a short period of time is a key factor for designing TCR-based immunotherapy during the course of the disease. In this study, we show that experimental autoimmune carditis-associated TCRs, Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta10, were determined by complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3)-spectratyping analysis and subsequent sequencing of the CDR3 region of spectratype-derived TCR clones. Immunotherapy targeting both Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta10 TCRs using mAbs and DNA vaccines significantly reduced the histological severity of experimental autoimmune carditis and completely suppressed the inflammation in some animals. Since depletion or suppression of one of two types of effector cells does not improve the severity of the disease significantly, combined TCR-based immunotherapy should be considered as a primary therapy for T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases. TCR-based immunotherapy after rapid identification of autoimmune disease-associated TCRs by CDR3 spectratyping can be applicable, not only to animal, but also to human autoimmune diseases whose pathomechanism is poorly understood.
Neurite extension from developing and/or regenerating neurons is terminated on contact with their specific synaptic partner cells. However, a direct relationship between the effects of target cell contact on neurite outgrowth suppression and synapse formation has not yet been demonstrated. To determine whether physical/synaptic contacts affect neurite extension from cultured cells, we utilized soma-soma synapses between the identified Lymnaea neurons. A presynaptic cell (right pedal dorsal 1, RPeD1) was paired either with its postsynaptic partner cells (visceral dorsal 4, VD4, and Visceral dorsal 2, VD2) or with a non-target cell (visceral dorsal 1, VD1), and the interactions between their neurite outgrowth patterns and synapse formation were examined. Specifically, when cultured in brain conditioned medium (CM, contains growth-promoting factors), RPeD1, VD4, and VD2 exhibited robust neurite outgrowth within 12-24 h of their isolation. Synapses, similar to those seen in vivo, developed between the neurites of these cells. RPeD1 did not, however, synapse with its non-target cell VD1, despite extensive neuritic overlap between the cells. When placed in a soma-soma configuration (somata juxtaposed against each other), appropriate synapses developed between the somata of RPeD1 and VD4 (inhibitory) and between RPeD1 and VD2 (excitatory). Interestingly, pairing RPeD1 with either of its synaptic partner (VD4 or VD2) resulted in a complete suppression of neurite outgrowth from both pre- and postsynaptic neurons, even though the cells were cultured in CM. A single cell in the same dish, however, extended elaborate neurites. Similarly, a postsynaptic cell (VD4) contact suppressed the rate of neurite extension from a previously sprouted RPeD1. This suppression of the presynaptic growth cone motility was also target cell contact specific. The neurite suppression from soma-soma paired cells was transient, and neuronal sprouting began after a delay of 48-72 h. In contrast, when paired with VD1, both RPeD1 and this non-target cell exhibited robust neurite outgrowth. We demonstrate that this neurite suppression from soma-soma paired cells was target cell contact/synapse specific and Ca(2+) dependent. Specifically, soma-soma pairing in CM containing either lower external Ca(2+) concentration (50% of its control level) or Cd(2+) resulted in robust neurite outgrowth from both cells; however, the incidence of synapse formation between the paired cells was significantly reduced. Taken together, our data show that contact (physical and/or synaptic) between synaptic partners strongly influence neurite outgrowth patterns of both pre- and postsynaptic neurons in a time-dependent and cell-specific manner. Moreover, our data also suggest that neurite outgrowth and synapse formation are differentially regulated by external Ca(2+) concentration.
Many well characterized central pattern generators (CPGs) underlie behaviors (e.g., swimming, flight, heartbeat) that require regular rhythmicity and strict phase relationships. Here, we examine the organization of a CPG for leech crawling, a behavior whose success depends more on its flexibility than on its precise coordination. We examined the organization of this CPG by first characterizing the kinematics of crawling steps in normal and surgically manipulated animals, then by exploring its features in a simple neuronal model. The behavioral observations revealed the following. (1) Intersegmental coordination varied considerably with step duration, whereas the rates of elongation and contraction within individual segments were relatively constant. (2) Steps were generated in the absence of both head and tail brains, implying that midbody ganglia contain a CPG for step production. (3) Removal of sensory feedback did not affect step coordination or timing. (4) Imposed stretch greatly lengthened transitions between elongation and contraction, indicating that sensory pathways feed back onto the CPG. A simple model reproduced essential features of the observed kinematics. This model consisted of an oscillator that initiates propagating segmental waves of activity in excitatory neuronal chains, along with a parallel descending projection; together, these pathways could produce the observed intersegmental lags, coordination between phases, and step duration. We suggest that the proposed model is well suited to be modified on a step-by-step basis and that crawling may differ substantially from other described CPGs, such as that for swimming in segmented animals, where individual segments produce oscillations that are strongly phase-locked to one another.
We used optical imaging of voltage-sensitive dye signals to study the spatiotemporal spread of activity in the mouse barrel cortex, evoked by stimulation of thalamocortical afferents in an in vitro slice preparation. Stimulation of the thalamus, at low current intensity, results in activity largely restricted to a single barrel, and to the border between layers Vb and VI. Low concentrations of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline increase the amplitude of the optical signals, without affecting their spatiotemporal propagation. Higher concentrations of bicuculline result in paroxysmal activity, which propagates via intracolumnar and intercolumnar excitatory pathways. Enhancing the activity of NMDA receptors, by removing Mg(2+) from the extracellular solution, dramatically alters the spatiotemporal pattern of excitation: activity spreads to supragranular and infragranular layers and adjacent barrel columns. This enhanced propagation is suppressed by the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5. A similar enhancement of activity propagation can be produced by stimulating the thalamus with a short, high-frequency pulse train. Application of AP5 suppresses the frequency-dependent spread of activity. These findings indicate that the spatiotemporal spread of activity in the barrel cortex is altered by varying the temporal patterns of thalamic inputs, via an NMDA receptor-mediated mechanism, and suggest that a similar process occurs during repetitive whisking activity.
The pattern of axonal projections early in the development of the nervous system lacks the precision present in the adult. During a developmental process of refinement, mistargeted projections are eliminated while correct projections are retained. Previous studies suggest that during development nitric oxide (NO) is involved in the elimination of mistargeted retinal axons, whereas brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may stabilize retinal axon arbors. It is unclear whether these neuromodulators interact. This study showed that NO induced growth cone collapse and retraction of developing retinal axons. This effect was not attributable to NO-induced neurotoxicity. BDNF protected growth cones and axons from the effects of NO. This effect was specific to BDNF, because neither nerve growth factor (NGF) nor neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) prevented NO-induced growth cone collapse and axon retraction. Exposure to both BDNF and NO, but not either factor alone, stabilized growth cones and axons. Stabilized axons exhibited minimal retraction or extension. This response appears to be a new axon &quot;state&quot; and not simply a partial amelioration of the effect of NO, because lower doses of BDNF or NO allowed axon extension. Furthermore, BDNF/NO-induced growth cone stabilization correlated with the appearance of a cytochalasin D-resistant population of actin filaments. BDNF protection from NO likely was mediated locally at the level of the growth cone, because growth cones or individual filopodia in contact with BDNF-coated beads were protected from NO-induced collapse. These findings suggest a cellular mechanism by which some axonal connections are stabilized and some are eliminated during development.
Electrophysiological properties of gap junction channels and mechanisms involved in the propagation of intercellular calcium waves were studied in cultured spinal cord astrocytes from sibling wild-type (WT) and connexin43 (Cx43) knock-out (KO) mice. Comparison of the strength of coupling between pairs of WT and Cx43 KO spinal cord astrocytes indicates that two-thirds of total coupling is attributable to channels formed by Cx43, with other connexins contributing the remaining one-third of junctional conductance. Although such a difference in junctional conductance was expected to result in the reduced diffusion of signaling molecules through the Cx43 KO spinal cord syncytium, intercellular calcium waves were found to propagate with the same velocity and amplitude and to the same number of cells as between WT astrocytes. Measurements of calcium wave propagation in the presence of purinoceptor blockers indicate that calcium waves in Cx43 KO spinal cord astrocytes are mediated primarily by extracellular diffusion of ATP; measurements of responses to purinoceptor agonists revealed that the functional P2Y receptor subtype is shifted in the Cx43 KO astrocytes, with a markedly potentiated response to ATP and UTP. Thus, the reduction in gap junctional communication in Cx43 KO astrocytes leads to an increase in autocrine communication, which is a consequence of a functional switch in the P2Y nucleotide receptor subtype. Intercellular communication via calcium waves therefore is sustained in Cx43 null mice by a finely tuned interaction between gap junction-dependent and independent mechanisms.
Parafollicular (PF) cells secrete 5-HT in response to stimulation of a G-protein-coupled Ca(2+) receptor (CaR) by increased extracellular Ca(2+) (upward arrow[Ca(2+)](e)). We tested the hypothesis that protein kinase C (PKC) participates in stimulus-secretion coupling. Immunoblots from membrane and cytosolic fractions of isolated PF cells revealed conventional (alpha, betaI, and gamma), novel (delta and epsilon), and atypical (iota/lambda and zeta) PKCs. Only PKCgamma was found to have been translocated to the membrane fraction when secretion of 5-HT was evoked by upward arrow[Ca(2+)](e) or phorbol esters. Although phorbol downregulation caused PKCgamma to disappear, secretion was only partially inhibited. A similar reduction of upward arrow[Ca(2+)](e)-evoked secretion was produced by inhibitors of conventional and/or novel PKCs (G 6976, calphostin C, and pseudoA), and these compounds did not inhibit secretion at all when applied to phorbol-downregulated cells. In contrast, the phorbol downregulation-resistant component of secretion was abolished by pseudoZ, which inhibits the atypical PKCzeta. Stimulation of PF cells with upward arrow[Ca(2+)](e) increased the activity of immunoprecipitated PKCzeta (but not PKCiota/lambda), and the activity of this PKCzeta was inhibited by pseudoZ. PF cells were found to express regulatory (p85) and catalytic (p110alpha and p110beta) subunits of phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3'-kinase). upward arrow[Ca(2+)](e) increased the activity of immunoprecipitated PI3'-kinase; moreover, PI3'-kinase inhibitors (wortmannin and LY294002) antagonized secretion. We suggest that PKC isoforms mediate secretion of 5-HT by PF cells in response to stimulation of the CaR. PKC involvement can be accounted for by PKCgamma and an isoform sensitive to inhibition by pseudoZ, probably PKCzeta, which is activated via PI3'-kinase.
Thalamocortical (TC) neurons of the dorsal thalamus integrate sensory inputs in an attentionally relevant manner during wakefulness and exhibit complex network-driven and intrinsic oscillatory activity during sleep. Despite these complex intrinsic and network functions, little is known about the dendritic distribution of ion channels in TC neurons or the role such channel distributions may play in synaptic integration. Here we demonstrate with simultaneous somatic and dendritic recordings from TC neurons in brain slices that action potentials evoked by sensory or cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials are initiated near the soma and backpropagate into the dendrites of TC neurons. Cell-attached recordings demonstrated that TC neuron dendrites contain a nonuniform distribution of sodium but a roughly uniform density of potassium channels across the somatodendritic area examined that corresponds to approximately half the average path length of TC neuron dendrites. Dendritic action potential backpropagation was found to be active, but compromised by dendritic branching, such that action potentials may fail to invade relatively distal dendrites. We have also observed that calcium channels are nonuniformly distributed in the dendrites of TC neurons. Low-threshold calcium channels were found to be concentrated at proximal dendritic locations, sites known to receive excitatory synaptic connections from primary afferents, suggesting that they play a key role in the amplification of sensory inputs to TC neurons.
The accurate tracking of an animal's movements and postures through time has broad applicability to questions in neuroethology and animal behavior. In this paper we describe methods for precision body modeling and model-based tracking of non-rigid animal movements without the use of external markers. We describe the process of obtaining high-fidelity urethane casts of a model organism, the weakly electric knifefish Apteronotus albifrons, and the use of a stylus-type 3-D digitizer to create a polygonal model of the animal from the cast. We describe the principles behind markerless model-based tracking software that allows the user to translate, rotate, and deform the polygon model to fit it to digitized video images of the animal. As an illustration of these methods, we discuss how we have used model-based tracking in the study of prey capture in nocturnal weakly electric fish to estimate sensory input during behavior. These methods may be useful for bridging between the analytical approaches of quantitative neurobiology and the synthetic approaches of integrative computer simulations and the building of biomimetic robots.
Following peripheral nerve injury, cholesterol from degenerating myelin is retained locally within macrophages and subsequently reutilized by Schwann cells for synthesis of new myelin during nerve regeneration. Substantial evidence indicates this conservation and reutilization of cholesterol is accomplished via lipoprotein-mediated intercellular transport, although the identities of the lipoproteins and their receptors are unresolved. Because Schwann cells in regenerating nerve are reported to express the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor (LDLR), we used the LDLR knockout mouse to examine the potential role of this receptor in cholesterol reutilization. Sciatic nerves were crushed in knockout and wild-type mice and examined 3 days to 10 weeks later. Morphometric analyses and measures of mRNA levels for myelin protein P(0), indicate that axon regeneration and myelination proceed normally in the LDLR knockout mouse. We therefore measured hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase activity and mRNA levels to determine whether Schwann cells compensated for the absence of the LDLR by upregulating cholesterol synthesis. Unexpectedly, these measures remained at the same downregulated levels found in regenerating nerves of wild-type animals. The apparently normal nerve regeneration, coupled with the lack of any compensatory upregulation of cholesterol synthesis in the LDLR knockout mice, indicates that other lipoprotein receptors must be primarily involved in cholesterol uptake by Schwann cells.
The role of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its receptors in the physiology of skeletal muscles has not been extensively studied in animal models. We describe the production of transgenic lines of mice expressing a neutralizing antibody against NGF (alphaD11) and the morphological and histochemical analysis of skeletal muscles from adult and aged anti-NGF mice. This study reveals that the chronic deprivation of NGF results in a decreased size of myofibers of dorsal and hindlimb muscles in adult but not in postnatal day (P)2 mice. In myofibers from adult anti-NGF mice, the presence of central nuclei, vacuolization of the cytoplasm, and inflammatory cell infiltration was observed. The immunohistochemical analysis of these muscular fibers revealed an upregulation of p75 expression, a decrease in adenosine triphosphatase (ATP)ase activity, and a subsarcolemmal Congo Red-positive staining. Immunostaining with an antibody against amyloid precursor protein showed an increased labeling of the cytoplasm of myofibers from adult and aged anti-NGF mice. These features are reminiscent of human myopathies, such as inclusion body myositis. We conclude that NGF deficits might be relevant for a class of human myopathies.
The rat anterior medullary velum (AMV) is representative of the brain and spinal cord, overall, and provides an almost two-dimensional preparation for investigating axon-glial interactions in vivo. Here, we review some of our findings on axon-oligodendrocyte unit relations in our adult, development, and injury paradigms: (1) adult oligodendrocytes are phenotypically heterogeneous, conforming to Del Rio Hortega's types I-IV, whereby differences in oligodendrocyte morphology, metabolism, myelin sheath radial and longitudinal dimensions, and biochemistry correlate with the diameters of axons in the unit; (2) oligodendrocytes derive from a common premyelinating oligodendrocyte phenotype, and divergence of types I-IV is related to the age they emerge and the presumptive diameter of axons in the unit; (3) during myelination, axon-oligodendrocyte units progress through a sequence of maturation phases, related to axon contact, ensheathment, establishment of internodal myelin sheaths, and finally the radial growth and compaction of the myelin sheath; (4) we provide direct in vivo evidence that platelet-derived growth factor-AA (PDGF-AA), fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) differentially regulate these events, by injecting the growth factors into the cerebrospinal fluid of neonatal rat pups; (5) in lesioned adult AMV, transected central nervous system (CNS) axons regenerate through the putatively inhibitory environment of the glial scar, but remyelination by oligodendrocytes is incomplete, indicating that axon-oligodendrocyte interactions are defective; and (6) in the adult AMV, cells expressing the NG2 chondroitin sulphate have a presumptive adult oligodendrocyte progenitor antigenic phenotype, but are highly complex cells and send processes to contact axolemma at nodes of Ranvier, suggesting they subserve a specific perinodal function. Thus, axons and oligodendrocyte lineage cells form interdependent functional units, but oligodendrocyte numbers, differentiation, phenotype divergence, and myelinogenesis are governed by axons in the units, mediated by growth factors and contact-dependent signals.
1. Magnocellular and parvocellular neurones of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) differentially regulate pituitary hormone secretion and autonomic output. Previous experiments have suggested that magnocellular, or type I neurones, and parvocellular, or type II neurones, of the PVN express different electrophysiological properties. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed in hypothalamic slices to identify the voltage-gated currents responsible for the electrophysiological differences between type I and type II PVN neurones. 2. Type I neurones, which display transient outward rectification and lack a low-threshold spike (LTS), generated a large A-type K+ current (IA) (mean +/- s.e. m.: 1127.5 +/- 126.4 pA; range: 250-3600 pA; voltage steps to -25 mV) but expressed little or no T-type Ca2+ current (IT). Type II neurones, which lack transient outward rectification but often display an LTS, expressed a smaller IA (360.1 +/- 56.3 pA; range: 40-1100 pA; voltage steps to -25 mV), and 75 % of the type II neurones generated an IT (-402.5 +/- 166.9 pA; range: -90 to -2200 pA; at peak). 3. The voltage dependence of IA was shifted to more negative values in type I neurones compared to type II neurones. Thus, the activation threshold (-53.5 +/- 0.9 and -46.1 +/- 2.6 mV), the half-activation potential (-25 +/- 1.9 and -17.9 +/- 2.0 mV), the half-inactivation potential (-80.4 +/- 9.3 and -67.2 +/- 3.0 mV), and the potential at which the current became fully inactivated (-57.4 +/- 2.1 and -49.8 +/- 1.5 mV) were more negative in type I neurones than in type II neurones, respectively. 4. IT in type II neurones activated at a threshold of -59.2 +/- 1.2 mV, peaked at -32. 6 +/- 1.7 mV, was half-inactivated at -66.9 +/- 2.2 mV, and was fully inactivated at -52.2 +/- 2.2 mV. 5. Both cell types expressed a delayed rectifier current with similar voltage dependence, although it was smaller in type I neurones (389.7 +/- 39.3 pA) than in type II neurones (586.4 +/- 76.0 pA). 6. In type I neurones IA was reduced by 41.1 +/- 7.0 % and the action potential delay caused by the transient outward rectification was reduced by 46.2 +/- 10.3 % in 5 mM 4-aminopyridine. In type II neurones IT was reduced by 66.8 +/- 10.9 % and the LTS was reduced by 76.7 +/- 7.8 % in 100 microM nickel chloride, but neither IT nor LTS was sensitive to 50 microM cadmium chloride. 7. Thus, differences in the electrophysiological properties between type I, putative magnocellular neurones and type II, putative parvocellular neurones of the PVN can be attributed to the differential expression of voltage-gated K+ and Ca2+ currents. This diversity of ion channel expression is likely to have profound effects on the response properties of these neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory neurones.
1. The effects of chronic pharmacological modulation of L-type Ca2+ channel activity on the cell surface expression of Na+ channels were examined in GH3 cells. 2. Prolonged inhibition (4-5 days) of L-channels with nimodipine caused a 50-60 % decrease in the peak amplitude of whole-cell Na+ currents recorded with the patch-clamp technique. On the contrary, prolonged exposure to the L-channel agonist Bay K 8644 induced an approximately 2.5-fold increase in peak Na+ current. In both cases, there were only minor changes in cell capacitance and no significant changes in Na+ channel gating properties. 3. Measurements of the specific binding of radiolabelled saxitoxin to intact cells showed that nimodipine treatment reduced the number of cell surface Na+ channels, whereas treatment with Bay K 8664 produced the opposite effect. The dual regulation of Na+ channel abundance explained the mentioned changes in Na+ current amplitude. 4. Plasma membrane Na+ channels had a half-life of approximately 17 h both in control cells and in cells treated with Bay K 8644, as estimated from the rate of decay of peak Na+ current after inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide. Actinomycin D, an inhibitor of gene transcription, and also cycloheximide, occluded the stimulatory effect of Bay K 8644 on Na+ current density when measured over a 24 h period. 5. These findings indicate that the entry of Ca2+ through L-type channels influences in a positive way the number of functional Na+ channels in GH3 cells, and suggest that Ca2+ influx stimulates either Na+ channel gene expression or the expression of a regulatory protein that promotes translocation of pre-assembled Na+ channels into the plasma membrane.
The AP-2 family of transcriptional regulator proteins has three members, alpha, beta and gamma. AP-2alpha and gamma are expressed in placenta and in the human trophoblast cell line JEG-3. AP-2 has been shown to regulate expression of the placental human chorionic gonado-tropin (hCG) alpha- and beta-subunit genes, however, previous work did not distinguish between the family members. Tryptic peptides of the AP-2 protein complexes purified from JEG-3 cells by oligo-affinity chromatography using the hCGalpha AP-2 site match the amino acid sequence of AP-2gamma. The fact that AP-2gamma is present at significant levels and binds the hCGalpha trophoblast-specific element suggests that AP-2gamma is at least part of the binding complex in vivo and plays a role in regulating hCG expression. We show that mutation of each of four AP-2 binding sites within the hCGbeta promoter decreases expression in transfection assays, demonstrating that all four sites are required for maximal expression in JEG-3 cells. Furthermore, we find differences in regulation of the family members: AP-2alpha mRNA levels increase in response to cAMP while AP-2gamma mRNA levels do not. The demonstrated importance of the AP-2 sites in controlling hCGalpha and beta expression and the likely involvement of more than one family member suggest that a balance in AP-2 proteins is involved in coordinate regulation of these genes. Moreover, many placenta-restricted genes are regulated by AP-2 proteins, thus members of this family may play an important overall role in placenta-specific expression.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) transfers ADP ribose groups from NAD(+) to nuclear proteins after activation by DNA strand breaks. PARP overactivation by massive DNA damage causes cell death via NAD(+) and ATP depletion. Heretofore, PARP has been thought to be inactive under basal physiologic conditions. We now report high basal levels of PARP activity and DNA strand breaks in discrete neuronal populations of the brain, in ventricular ependymal and subependymal cells and in peripheral tissues. In some peripheral tissues, such as skeletal muscle, spleen, heart, and kidney, PARP activity is reduced only partially in mice with PARP-1 gene deletion (PARP-1(-/-)), implicating activity of alternative forms of PARP. Glutamate neurotransmission involving N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity in part mediates neuronal DNA strand breaks and PARP activity, which are diminished by NMDA antagonists and NOS inhibitors and also diminished in mice with targeted deletion of nNOS gene (nNOS(-/-)). An increase in NAD(+) levels after treatment with NMDA antagonists or NOS inhibitors, as well as in nNOS(-/-) mice, indicates that basal glutamate-PARP activity regulates neuronal energy dynamics.
The adverse effects of cigarette smoke on mature blood vessels are well established, whereas little is known about the influence of smoke on blood vessel development. To determine if cigarette smoke alters angiogenesis, chick chorioallantoic membranes (CAMs) were exposed for 4 days to culture medium (control) or to mainstream (MS) or sidestream (SS) smoke solution, and then blood vessel patterns were compared in blind tests. In contrast to the normal tree-like branching of control blood vessels, smoke-treated CAMs often had vessels that ran parallel to each other without much branching. A significant increase in the number of fibroblasts was observed in histological sections of treated CAMs, and this increase correlated with alterations in extracellular matrix components. Many more matrix fibrils were observed in treated CAMs than in controls using scanning electron microscopy. Immunohistochemistry showed that type III collagen was distributed in a tight band adjacent to the endoderm in controls but was distributed throughout the mesoderm in both treatment groups. Western blots confirmed that both type I and type III collagen were more abundant in treated CAMs than in controls. Fibronectin, which was localized immunohistochemically in the basal laminae and mesodermal matrix of controls, increased in abundance in CAMs treated with SS smoke solutions. Hyaluronic acid, which was present in a dense band subjacent to the capillary plexus of control CAMs, was greatly reduced in MS-treated CAMs and was absent in SS-treated CAMs. These observations demonstrate that both MS and SS cigarette smoke solutions caused abnormal pattern formation of CAM blood vessels and altered the composition of the extracellular matrix in the CAM mesoderm.
Determination of the neuroanatomical and neurochemical factors that contribute to nociception is an essential element in the study and treatment of pain. Several lines of evidence have implicated nuclei and neurotransmitters within the basal ganglia in nociception. For example, previous studies have shown that dopamine receptors in the striatum are involved in acute nociception, however, it remains to be determined if dopamine receptors in the dorsolateral striatum are involved in persistent nociception. The purpose of the present study was therefore to determine whether activation or antagonism of dopamine receptors in the dorsolateral striatum influences the nociceptive responses of rats in the formalin test, a model of persistent pain. It was found that micro-injection of the non-selective dopamine antagonist haloperidol into the dorsolateral striatum increases formalin-induced nociception whereas injection of the non-selective dopamine agonist apomorphine reduces formalin-induced nociception. Injection of the D(1) antagonist SCH23390 or the D(1) agonist SKF38393 does not affect formalin-induced nociception. In contrast, injection of the D(2) antagonist eticlopride enhances formalin-induced nociception, whereas injection of the D(2) agonist quinpirole reduces formalin-induced nociception. These results provide additional evidence that dopamine receptors in the striatum are involved in nociception. Furthermore, this study strongly suggests that D(2), but not D(1), dopamine receptors in the dorsolateral striatum are involved in modulation of persistent nociception.
Previous research has shown that neocortical gamma waves (approximately 30-80 Hz) are continuously present during low voltage fast neocortical activity (LVFA) occurring during waking or active sleep. Gamma waves occur in a burst-suppression pattern in association with large amplitude slow waves during quiet sleep or anesthesia. The present experiments show that continuous gamma activity is also present in rats during LVFA occurring during surgical anesthesia (with ether, isoflurane or urethane) and that a burst-suppression pattern of gamma activity occurs during large amplitude slow waves occurring in the waking state either spontaneously in undrugged rats or as a result of treatment with parachlorophenylalanine and scopolamine. The amplitude of gamma activity occurring during anesthesia is variable but is often greater than it is in the normal waking state. It is concluded that the pattern of neocortical gamma wave activity is strongly related to the presence or absence of large amplitude slow waves but is quite independent of the state of behavioral arousal. Whether or not gamma wave activity is related to subjective awareness is a very difficult question which cannot be answered with certainty at the present time.
This paper examines the relationship between endogenous dopamine (DA) levels and the density of [3H]SCH23390-binding sites in the brain of the adult worker honey bee. DA levels were reduced pharmacologically using a single 10 microl injection of either alpha-methyl-DL-p-tyrosine (AMT; 250 microg or 500 microg) or alpha-methyl-DL-tryptophan (AMTP; 250 or 500 microg) into the haemolymph of the bee. In all cases, maximum depletion of DA was observed 3 h after treatment, but in bees treated with AMTP (250 or 500 microg) or with 250 microg AMT, DA levels returned to normal within 24 h of treatment. Neither AMT nor AMTP was selective for DA: both drugs also reduced serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) levels in the brain. However, AMTP was more effective than AMT at depleting 5HT, whereas for DA, the reverse was true. Depletion of DA levels, using 250 microg AMT, led to a dramatic decline in the levels of specific binding of [3H]SCH23390, defined in this study as binding in the presence of 5x10(-6) M cis-(Z)-flupentixol (see Ref. [28] ). In contrast, naturally occurring diel fluctuations in DA levels, identified in the optic lobes of the brain, and changes in brain DA levels resulting from queenlessness, had no significant effect on the density of [3H]SCH23390-binding sites in the brain of the bee. Overall, these results indicate that under normal physiological conditions, there is no direct link in honey bees between changes in endogenous brain DA levels and the density of D(1)-like receptors labelled by [3H]SCH23390.
Several studies have demonstrated that contact between the olfactory nerve and the forebrain is critical for normal olfactory bulb development. Removal of the embryonic olfactory placode results in a failure of the olfactory bulb to form, as well as causing other forebrain malformations. The current study introduces a technique that permits removal of contact between specific regions of the olfactory nerve and the bulb early in development, without causing damage to other brain regions, and without removing the peripheral olfactory organ. The manipulation, which involves insertion of a small Teflon chip between the cribriform plate and the bulb, prohibits growth of new axons into the &quot;shadow&quot; region behind the implant. Focal denervation of the olfactory bulb causes a decrease in bulb and layer sizes, a reduction in mitral cell number, and changes to bulb architecture. Using a battery of antibodies (OMP, MAP2, TuJ1, calretinin, calbindin, parvalbumin, TH, and GAD), we further demonstrated that 1) focal denervation alters the relationship between the olfactory nerve and the bulb, 2) the fine structure of cells in denervated regions is disrupted, and 3) cellular phenotypes change in response to loss of afferent contact. These results suggest that contact between the olfactory nerve and the bulb is important for maintaining bulb architecture and cell survival, structure, and phenotype. They also point to focal denervation as a useful technique for examining the role of neural contact in olfactory development and maintenance of the central nervous system.
This study evaluates the localization of the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR4a in the piriform cortex of rats using preembedding immunocytochemical methods. At the light microscopic level, punctate labeling was evident in layers Ia and Ib of the piriform cortex, and immunolabeled fibers were present in layers II and III. Following bilateral destruction of the olfactory bulb, the density of labeled puncta in layer Ia decreased. These results suggest that the receptor is present on the terminals of the lateral olfactory tract (LOT). Electron microscopic evaluation of layers Ia and Ib revealed that mGluR4a was localized in synaptic terminals in layers Ia and Ib. The terminals had clear, round synaptic vesicles and terminated on asymmetric synapses on dendritic spines and shafts. There was also immunolabeling of some dendritic profiles in layers Ia and Ib that were postsynaptic to unlabeled presynaptic terminals. These observations suggest that mGluR4a is present on presynaptic terminals in the layers of the piriform cortex that receive LOT and associational synapses. This is the same area in which previous studies have revealed the presence of mGluR7 and mGluR8, suggesting that all three receptors may be colocalized.
The anti-emetic profile of the novel brain penetrant tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist MK-0869 (L-754,030) 2-(R)-(1-(R)-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenylethoxy)-3-(S)-(4-fluor o)phenyl-4-(3-oxo-1,2,4-triazol-5-yl)methylmorpholine and its water soluble prodrug, L-758,298, has been examined against emesis induced by cisplatin in ferrets. In a 4 h observation period, MK-0869 and L-758,298 (3 mg/kg i.v. or p.o.) inhibited the emetic response to cisplatin (10 mg/kg i.v.). The anti-emetic protection afforded by MK-0869 (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) was enhanced by combined treatment with either dexamethasone (20 mg/kg i.v.) or the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron (0.1 mg/kg i.v.). In a model of acute and delayed emesis, ferrets were dosed with cisplatin (5 mg/kg i.p.) and the retching and vomiting response recorded for 72 h. Pretreatment with MK-0869 (4-16 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently inhibited the emetic response to cisplatin. Once daily treatment with MK-0869 (2 and 4 mg/kg p.o.) completely prevented retching and vomiting in all ferrets tested. Further when daily dosing began at 24 h after cisplatin injection, when the acute phase of emesis had already become established, MK-0869 (4 mg/kg p.o. at 24 and 48 h after cisplatin) prevented retching and vomiting in three out of four ferrets. These data show that MK-0869 and its prodrug, L-758,298, have good activity against cisplatin-induced emesis in ferrets and provided a basis for the clinical testing of these agents for the treatment of emesis associated with cancer chemotherapy.
The ability of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation to mobilise intracellular calcium was investigated in cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones from neonatal rats using the calcium sensitive fluorescent dye Fura-2. L-glutamate (10 microM) caused sustained and oscillatory increases in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in a subpopulation of cultured DRG neurones. The oscillatory responses were not blocked by combined application of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists MK 801 (2 microM) and CNQX (20 microM). Oscillations in [Ca2+]i were also observed following application of the nonselective metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist, trans-(1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1S, 3R-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R)-ACPD, 20 microM) and the mGluR5 agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG, 500 microM). These responses were blocked by the selective Group I mGluR antagonist (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA) (100 microM) and Ca2+ release channel inhibitors ryanodine (100 microM) and dantrolene (10 microM). The predominantly Group II agonist (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2'3'-dicarboxy-cyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV, 100 microM) failed to produce Ca2+ transients alone but suppressed responses to CHPG. Reverse transcriptase PCR techniques, using primers specific to Group I mGluRs, revealed the presence of mGluR5 but not mGluR1 mRNA in these cells. Therefore, glutamate can cause a slowly activating and reversible mobilisation of [Ca2+]i in sensory neurones by activation of ionotropic receptors, and can induce oscillatory calcium transients by selectively activating metabotropic glutamate receptors that are likely to be of the mGluR5 subtype.
Central glutamate neurotransmission is modulated by an upregulatory cholinergic influence and an inhibitory serotonergic influence. In Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline is associated with loss of both glutamatergic and cholinergic neurones (Francis et al., 1992, Progress in Neurobiology 39, 517-545). While therapeutic strategies for alleviating this cognitive decline have concentrated on restoring cholinergic tone, we suggest that 5-HT1A antagonists also have the potential to alleviate the cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have shown that dizocilpine (MK-801), a glutamatergic antagonist acting at the NMDA receptor, produces learning impairments in the common marmoset, a non-human primate. Specifically, it impairs the acquisition of shape discrimination and visuospatial conditional tasks, at doses that do not affect locomotor behaviour or coordination (Harder et al., 1998, Society for Neuroscience Abstracts 23(1), 219). In the present study we investigated the effects of WAY 100 635, a 5-HT1A antagonist, on the cognitive deficits induced by dizocilpine. The number of trials required to learn each type of task under combined treatment with dizocilpine and WAY 100 635 was significantly lower than under dizocilpine treatment alone, and did not differ significantly from the number of trials required under saline, demonstrating that the cognitive effects of glutamatergic blockade can be overcome by treatment with a 5-HT1A antagonist.
The role of the endogenous corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system in the regulation of heart rate, PQ interval (a measure of vagal activity), gross activity and release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), noradrenaline and adrenaline into the blood during conditioned fear was studied in freely moving rats. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of alpha-helical CRH-(9-41) (10 microgram/3 microliter), a non-selective CRH receptor antagonist, under resting conditions had no significant effect on gross activity, heart rate and PQ interval, indicating that alpha-helical CRH at this dose was devoid of agonist effects. Conditioned fear was induced by 10 min forced exposure to a cage in which the rat had experienced footshocks (5x0.5 mAx3 s) 1 day before. Conditioned-fear rats showed freezing behaviour, associated with an increase in heart rate, PQ interval, noradrenaline and adrenaline, indicating that the conditioned-fear-induced cardiac effects were the result of coactivation of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. The i.c.v. pre-treatment of rats with alpha-helical CRH significantly reduced the conditioned-fear-induced tachycardiac and ACTH response, and enhanced the increase in PQ interval, without affecting the noradrenaline and adrenaline response. These results suggest that endogenous CRH reduces the vagal response to conditioned-fear stress in rats. To test this, rats were pre-treated with atropine methyl nitrate (0.3 mg/kg, subcutaneously; s.c.), a peripherally acting cholinergic receptor antagonist. This resulted in a complete blockade of the alpha-helical CRH-induced decrease in heart rate response and increase in PQ interval. From these findings, it is concluded that endogenous CRH in the brain inhibits vagal outflow induced by emotional stress.
We have reported that inhibition of protein kinase C blocks the Ca(2+)-independent reverse transport of dopamine mediated by amphetamine. In this study we investigated whether activation of protein kinase C by 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) would mediate dopamine release through the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter. TPA, at 250 nM, increased the release of dopamine from rat striatal slices and synaptosomes while the inactive phorbol ester, 4alpha-phorbol, was ineffective. The TPA-mediated dopamine release was independent of extracellular calcium and was blocked by a selective protein kinase C inhibitor, Ro31-8220. The dopamine transporter antagonists, cocaine and GBR 12935 blocked the TPA-mediated dopamine release. In addition, cocaine blocked TPA-mediated phosphorylation of the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter. These results suggest that activation of protein kinase C results in reverse transport of dopamine through the plasmalemmal dopamine transporter and the phosphorylated substrate could be the dopamine transporter.
Ceruloplasmin is a copper-containing ferroxidase that is essential for normal iron homeostasis. Whereas ceruloplasmin in plasma is produced and secreted by hepatocytes, in the brain a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored form of ceruloplasmin is expressed on the surface of astrocytes. By using a cDNA cloning approach, we have now determined that the GPI-anchored form of ceruloplasmin is generated by alternative RNA splicing. The splicing occurs downstream of exon 18 and replaces the C-terminal 5 amino acids of the secreted form with an alternative 30 amino acids that signal GPI anchor addition. RNase protection analysis demonstrates that the GPI-anchored form is the major form in the brain, whereas the secreted form predominates in the liver. Individuals with aceruloplasminemia, a hereditary deficiency of ceruloplasmin, have severe iron deposition in a number of organs, including the brain where it results in neurodegeneration. Therefore, this novel GPI-anchored form of ceruloplasmin is likely to play an important role in iron metabolism in the central nervous system.
Glutamine is the preferred precursor for the neurotransmitter pool of glutamate, the major excitatory transmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. We have isolated a complementary DNA clone (designated GlnT) encoding a plasma membrane glutamine transporter from glutamatergic neurons in culture, and its properties have been examined using the T7 vaccinia system in fibroblasts. When GlnT is transfected into CV-1 cells, L-glutamine is the preferred substrate. Transport is Na(+)-dependent and inhibited by alpha-methylaminoisobutyric acid, a specific inhibitor of neutral amino acid transport system A. Kinetic analysis of glutamine uptake by GlnT is saturable, with a Michaelis constant (K(m)) of 489 +/- 88 microM at pH 7.4. Glutamine uptake mediated by GlnT is pH-sensitive with a 5-fold greater efficiency of uptake at pH 8.2 than at pH 6.6. Only the maximal velocity of transport increases without a significant change in K(m). The distribution of GlnT mRNA and protein in the central nervous system is widespread and is expressed on neurons that use glutamate as their neurotransmitter. In cultured cerebellar granule cells, GlnT is expressed only on neurons and is absent from astrocytes. GlnT expression increases concomitantly with the morphologic and functional differentiation of these cells in vitro, consistent with its role of supplying glutamatergic neurons with their neurotransmitter precursor. GlnT is the first member of the system A family of neutral amino acid transporters with 11 putative membrane-spanning domains and is a potential target to modulate presynaptic glutamatergic function.
To examine the effect of 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR) on vasomotor sympathetic responses to isometric forearm exercise, 16 healthy male subjects aged 20-36 years performed voluntary isometric handgrip (HG) at 30% of maximal voluntary contraction until fatigue, followed by 2 min of post-handgrip muscle ischemia (PHGMI) with 250 mmHg of cuff inflation, before and after 14 days of HDBR. Time to fatigue and maximal voluntary HG force were not affected by HDBR. Pre-exercise baseline muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA, measured by microneurography), heart rate (measured by electrocardiogram) and mean blood pressure (measured by Portapres) increased after HDBR. Increases in MSNA were similar during HG but significantly lower during PHGMI (P &lt; 0.01) after HDBR. Responses of heart rate and mean blood pressure during HG and PHGMI were not affected by HDBR. These results suggest that the magnitude of muscle metaboreflex during isometric forearm exercise might be attenuated after 14 days of simulated microgravity.
An early indicator of damage to substantia nigra dopamine neurons in vitro is loss of dendrites that precedes loss of the cell body. To investigate dendritic damage in vivo, rats were treated for 1 day or 1 week with kainic acid (KA; 5 or 10 mg/kg i.p.), the brain fixed and substantia nigra (SN) dopamine neurons and their dendrites labeled using an antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). KA (10 mg/kg) produced seizures initially and resulted in significant loss of TH immunoreactivity in dendrites of dopamine neurons 1 week, but not 1 day, after a single injection. Daily injections of 5 mg/kg KA, which did not produce seizures, resulted in more extensive dendritic damage. The findings indicate that loss of dendritic staining is a sensitive index of damage to SN dopamine neurons in vivo.
Putative alterations of the functional activity in the staggerer mutant mouse olfactory bulb neuronal network have been studied by recording odor induced evoked field potentials (EFP) in the mitral cells layer. In standard conditions, the main feature observed in mutants was a significant increase in latency preceding the functional response of the mitral cells to the odorant. In these animals, all parameters of the average EFP were widely modified when compared with those recorded in wild mice. Amplitudes and most of the duration of the EFP phases were significantly decreased. Functional alterations were discussed according to the structural disorganization previously described in staggerer mutant mouse olfactory bulb.
Virtual screening of chemical databases is an emerging approach in drug discovery that uses computers to dock chemicals into the active site of a drug target to identify leads through evaluation of binding affinities of the chemicals. However, there are concerns about the validity and scope of the reported virtual screens due to lack of studies to show that randomly selected chemicals are not equally active and due to the fact that metalloproteins were rarely used as drug targets. We have performed a virtual screening of a chemical database to identify prototypic inhibitors of farnesyltransferase (FT) with zinc present in the active site. Among the 21 compounds identified by computers, four inhibited FT in vitro with IC(50) values in the range from 25 to 100 microM. The most potent inhibitor also inhibited FT in human lung cancer cells. In contrast, none of 21 randomly selected compounds have an IC(50) lower than 100 microM. The results demonstrate the validity of virtual screening and the feasibility of applications of this approach to metalloprotein drug targets, such as matrix metalloproteinases, farnesyltransferase, and HIV-1 integrase, for the treatments of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and AIDS.

A population-based analysis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) showed PML frequencies of 5.1% among patients with AIDS and 0.07% among patients with hematologic malignancies, but similar clinical features of PML in both groups. Sequencing of the p53 gene, exon 4, showed heterozygosity (Arg-Pro) at codon 72 in five of six PML patients. These findings indicate that frequencies of non-AIDS- and AIDS-related PML differ markedly but p53 polymorphisms may influence the occurrence of PML in both groups.

Family-based studies performed to date provide conflicting evidence of linkage/association between autistic disorder and either the &quot;short&quot; [Cook et al., 1997: Mol Psychiatry 2:247-250] or the &quot;long&quot; [Klauck et al., 1997: Hum Mol Genet 6:2233-2238] allele of a polymorphic repeat located in the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene promoter region, affecting 5-HTT gene expression [Lesch et al., 1996: Science 274:1527-1531]. The present study was designed to assess linkage and linkage disequilibrium in two new ethnically distinct samples of families with primary autistic probands. The 5-HTT promoter repeat was genotyped in 54 singleton families collected in Italy and in 32 singleton and 5 multiplex families collected in the U.S.A., yielding a total sample of 98 trios. Linkage/association between 5-HTT gene promoter alleles and autistic disorder was assessed using the transmission/disequilibrium test (TDT) and the haplotype-based haplotype relative risk (HHRR). Both the Italian and the American samples, either singly or combined, displayed no evidence of linkage/association between 5-HTT gene promoter alleles and autistic disorder. Our findings do not support prominent contributions of 5-HTT gene variants to the pathogenesis of idiopathic infantile autism. Heterogeneity in pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the disease may require that linkage/association studies be targeted toward patient subgroups isolated on the basis of specific biochemical markers, such as serotonin (5-HT) blood levels. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:123-127, 2000.
Five patients with a fragile site at 16q22-23 and neuropsychiatric disorders are reported. Three of five had Tourette disorder, three had mental retardation, two had bipolar disorder, and one had autistic disorder. During our attempts to study the fragile sites in more detail we were unable to reproduce the fragile sites found several years earlier. The potential relationship between the fragile sites and the neuropsychiatric disorders in these patients is discussed. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:69-73, 2000.
Dopamine can change the membrane potential, regulate cyclic nucleotides, and modulate transmitter release in central neurons. In the olfactory bulb (OB), the dopamine synthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase, is largely confined to neurons in the glomerular layer. After demonstrating dopamine D2 receptors in the glomerular and olfactory nerve (ON) layers, Nickell et al. [W.T. Nickell, A.B. Norman, L.M. Wyatt, M.T. Shipley, Olfactory bulb DA receptors may be located on terminals of the olfactory nerve, NeuroReport, 2 (1991) 9-12.] proposed that these receptors may reduce transmitter release due to their localization to ON presynaptic boutons. We have previously demonstrated that olfactory receptor neurons use glutamate to excite OB neurons through activation of glutamate receptors subtypes, NMDA and AMPA/kainate [D.A. Berkowicz, P.Q. Trombley, G.M. Shepherd, Evidence for glutamate as the olfactory receptor cell neurotransmitter. J. Neurophysiol., 71 (1994) 2557-2561]. Here, we used a hemisected turtle OB preparation and patch-clamp recording techniques to assess dopamine modulation of the ON/OB neuron synapse. We found that dopamine (10-300 microM) reversibly decreased the excitatory postsynaptic response to ON stimulation. This effect could be overcome by recruiting additional nerve fibers by increasing the intensity of ON stimulation. Quinpirole (10 microM), a D2 agonist, mimicked the effects of dopamine. Conversely, sulpiride (300 microM), a D2 antagonist, prevented the inhibitory effects of dopamine on synaptic transmission. Whereas dopamine appeared to equally affect the NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated components of the synaptically evoked response, it had no direct effect on membrane currents evoked by exogenous glutamate, kainate or NMDA applied to cultured OB neurons. Our data, therefore, support the notion that dopamine modulates synaptic transmission between olfactory receptor neurons and OB neurons via a presynaptic mechanism involving D2 receptor activation. Our abstract (Berkowicz et al. (1994) Neuroscience Abs. 20:328) is the first report of these results.
Fringe has originally been found in Drosophila as a gene encoding a putative secreted protein which regulates the sensitivity of Notch signaling pathway to different ligands. We show that three members of murine fringe gene family, Lunatic fringe (L-fng), Manic fringe (M-fng) and Radical fringe (R-fng), show related patterns of expression in the developing cerebral wall. L-fng is expressed in immature cells in the ventricular zone. M-fng is upregulated transiently in maturing neurons when they leave the ventricular zone (VZ). R-fng is upregulated in more mature neurons when they enter the preplate and cortical plate. These patterns suggest that the transition from immature to mature neurons involves sequential changes in the member of fringe family genes expressed. More detailed expression analyses of fringe genes and immunohistochemistry for neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin suggest a mode of neurogenesis which might underlie the histogenesis of the cerebral cortex. A proliferative population situated outside of the VZ is defined as M-fng-positive/BrdU-positive cells, which constitutes about 10-20% of the total S-phase cells in the cerebral wall of embryonic day 10.5-12.5. We found that M-fng is expressed in mitotic figures outside the VZ and some of them react with the antibody against class III beta-tubulin. These observations suggest that a significant number of proliferative cells exist outside the VZ, which supply neurons during early cortical development.
In the rodent trigeminal pathway, trigeminal axons invade the developing whisker pad from a caudal to rostral direction. We investigated directional specificity of embryonic day (E) 15 rat trigeminal axons within this peripheral target field using explant cocultures. E15 trigeminal axons readily grow into the same age whisker pad explants and form follicle-related patterns along a caudal to rostral direction. They also can grow into this target from its lateral aspects. In contrast, they are unable to invade the whisker pad from the rostral (nasal) pole. We did not find any correlation between the distribution of extracellular matrix molecules and trigeminal axon growth preferences. We also examined age-related changes in trigeminal axon responsiveness to directional cues. E19 trigeminal axons readily grew into E15 whisker pad explants from either the caudal or the rostral pole. These results suggest the presence of growth permissive and repulsive cues that guide sensory axons in the whisker pad. Furthermore, trigeminal axons lose their responsiveness to growth inhibitory cues at later stages of development.
Neonatal peripheral nerve injury results in a significant rearrangement of the central terminals of surviving axotomized and adjacent intact primary afferents in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. This study investigates the ability of these afferents to make functional contacts with dorsal horn cells, using c-fos expression as a marker of synaptic activation. Graded electrical stimulation at A- or C-fiber strength of either the neonatally axotomized sciatic nerve or the adjacent uninjured saphenous nerve was performed in adult rats. Stimulation of the contralateral uninjured nerve served as a control. Quantitative examination of the number and distribution of c-fos-labeled cells in the spinal cord laminae was performed. Electrical stimulation of the previously axotomized sciatic nerve at A-fiber intensity resulted in many labeled profiles in laminae I-V of the lumbar spinal cord on the experimental as compared to the contralateral side. Electrical stimulation of uninjured saphenous nerve or saphenous-nerve-innervated skin (using pin electrodes) at A-fiber intensity did not evoke c-fos. Stimulation of the saphenous nerve at C-fiber intensity, however, resulted in a significant increase in the number and distribution of c-fos-labeled profiles in laminae I-V on the experimental side as compared to the contralateral control side. The results show that the distribution of c-fos-expressing cells after neonatal nerve injury is compatible with the previously demonstrated distribution of sprouting of primary afferents belonging to an uninjured nerve adjacent to an injured nerve, and that the surviving axotomized afferents are capable of transmitting signals to postsynaptic cells. These findings indicate that Abeta afferent stimulation of injured but not uninjured afferents elicits c-fos expression in postsynaptic cells. This may reflect an injury-induced maintenance of a normal developmental process whereby Abeta stimulation elicits c-fos in dorsal horn neurons.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin 3 (NT-3) mRNAs are expressed in developing and adult rodent tongue and are important for the proper development of lingual gustatory and somatosensory innervation in rodents. Here, we wished to determine whether the findings in rodents apply to humans. By using in situ hybridization histochemistry, distinct, specific, and in some instances overlapping patterns of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression were found in the developing and adult human tongue, gustatory papillae, and taste buds. BDNF mRNA was expressed in the superior surface epithelium of the developing fungiform papillae (i.e., developing taste buds), in the epithelium covering the circumvallate papillae, and in the subepithelial mesenchyme. Interestingly, BDNF mRNA was expressed in the lingual epithelium before nerve fibers reached the epithelium, indicating a prespecialization of the gustatory epithelium before the arrival of nerves. In the adult fungiform papillae, BDNF mRNA labeling was found in taste buds and in restricted areas in the non-gustatory lingual epithelium. NT-3 mRNA was found in the developing lingual epithelium and gustatory papillae. NT-3 mRNA labeling was observed in the adult fungiform taste buds, overlapping with BDNF mRNA labeling, in contrast to what was seen in rodents. NT-3 mRNA was additionally found in restricted areas in filiform papillae. Protein gene product 9.5 (PGP) antibodies were used to investigate a possible correlation between lingual innervation and sites of neurotrophin gene activity. Adult human tongue innervation differed from that of rodents, possibly in part due to a different neurotrophin expression pattern in the human tongue. Based on these findings, we suggest that BDNF and NT-3 are important for the initiation and maintenance of the gustatory and somatosensory innervation also in humans. The broader and somewhat overlapping expression patterns of BDNF and NT-3 mRNAs, compared with rodents, suggest additional and possibly somewhat overlapping roles for BDNF and NT-3 in the human tongue and also indicate differences between species. It is important that interspecies differences be taken into consideration.
Activated NF-kappaB contributes to cerebral infarction by triggering a neuro-inflammatory response. Rats subjected to 90min middle cerebral artery occlusion developed a cortical infarct of 20+/-4% of hemispheric volume (n = 8). Treatment with the proteasome inhibitor CVT-634 resulted in a significantly smaller infarct of 13+/-2% (n = 7, p&lt;0.01) and 12+/-2% (n = 8, p&lt;0.001) of hemispheric volume at 1 day and 7 days, respectively. Since regional cerebral blood flows for the core and penumbral regions were not affected, we concluded that all animals received the same ischemic insult The reduction in infarction persisted for 7 days. This is the first indication that a proteasome inhibitor can reduce infarct volume in a focal model of cerebral ischemia.
The present study examined possible influences of a 902 MHz electromagnetic field emitted by cellular telephones on cognitive functioning in 48 healthy humans. A battery of 12 reaction time tasks was performed twice by each participant in a counterbalanced order: once with and once without the exposure to the field. The results showed that the exposure to the electromagnetic field speeded up response times in simple reaction time and vigilance tasks and that the cognitive time needed in a mental arithmetics task was decreased. The results suggest that exposure to the electromagnetic field emitted by cellular telephones may have a facilitatory effect on brain functioning, especially in tasks requiring attention and manipulation of information in working memory.
The transcription factor NF-kappaB has been implicated in the synaptic plasticity and neurotoxicity mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors in the striatum. However, the class of glutamate receptor and the intracellular pathways involved have not been determined. Kainate, but not AMPA or NMDA, was found to activate NF-kappaB in superfused slices of rat striatum. A similar activation was produced by the calcium ionophore A23187. The NF-kappaB activation by kainate was not observed in the absence of extracellular calcium, and was blocked by the p44/p42 MAP kinase inhibitor PD98059, but not by the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB203580. This demonstrates that striatal kainate receptors are coupled to NF-kappaB activation via calcium influx and p44/p42 MAP kinase activation.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, a multifunctional pro-inflammatory cytokine, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute ischemic brain injury. Recent data also suggest that TNF-alpha is a clinically relevant mediator of neonatal brain injury. We hypothesized that inhibition of TNF-alpha activity would reduce excitotoxic brain injury in neonatal rats. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the efficacy of a TNF binding protein (bp) in attenuating NMDA-induced injury in 7 day old rats. Intrastriatal co-injection of TNFbp (3.75 microg) with NMDA (10 nmol) reduced striatal injury by 26%; in contrast, intra-hippocampal co-injection of TNFbp (3.75 microg) with NMDA (10 nmol) increased hippocampal damage by 68%. These findings indicate that TNF-alpha may have both beneficial and deleterious effects in the injured neonatal brain.
We investigated the influence of noise on brain responses to spoken sentences in MEG. Sixteen subjects had to listen to acoustically presented sentences and judge their syntactic correctness. Sentences were either presented on a silent background or with noise. Noise had differential effects on early auditory and syntactic processes. While noise affected early auditory processes only in the right hemisphere, noise had a general effect on syntactical processes. The evoked responses to syntactic violations compared with correct sentences, namely an early left anterior negativity, were significantly suppressed when noise was present The noise suppression effect, however, was not lateralized.
The innervation-induced down-regulation of fetal-type acetylcholine receptor (AChR) expression in developing muscle fibers has largely been attributed to nerve-evoked muscle activity; however, there is increasing evidence that a neural trophic factor also contributes to this receptor down-regulation. Previous studies from this laboratory have shown that neural extracts contain a factor which decreases fetal-type AChR expression in skeletal muscle cell lines and therefore may account for the proposed inhibitory neurotrophic influence. The current study investigated possible intracellular signaling molecules involved in this receptor down-regulation and demonstrated that activation of protein kinase C and p70(S6k) appeared to be important in receptor down-regulation. Decreases in AChR density were independent of myogenin. In addition, the receptor down-regulation was independent of neuregulin, which also induces p70(S6k) activity. These studies demonstrate that neural extracts contain an inhibitory factor which can down-regulate fetal-type AChR expression independently of nerve-evoked muscle activity through intracellular signaling molecules which are known to regulate AChR expression.
The Drosophila vesicular acetylcholine transporter gene (Vacht) is nested within the first intron of the choline acetyltransferase gene (Cha). To isolate Vacht mutants, we performed an F(2) genetic screen and identified mutations that failed to complement Df(3R)Cha(5), a deletion lacking Cha and the surrounding genes. Of these mutations, three mapped to a small genomic region where Cha resides. Complementation tests with a Cha mutant allele and rescue experiments using a transgenic Vacht minigene have revealed that two of these three mutations are nonconditional lethal alleles of Vacht (Vacht(1) and Vacht(2) ). The other is a new temperature-sensitive allele of Cha (Cha(ts3) ). Newly isolated Vacht mutants were used to reexamine the existing Cha mutations. We found that all deficiencies uncovering Cha also lack Vacht function, reflecting the nested organization of the two genes. The effective lethal phase for Vacht(1) is the embryonic stage, whereas that for Vacht(2) is the larval stage. Viable first-instar larvae homozygous for Vacht(2) showed reduced motility. Adult flies heterozygous for Vacht mutations were found to have defective responses in the dorsal longitudinal muscles following high-frequency brain stimulation. Since cholinergic synapses have been shown to be involved in the giant fiber pathway that mediates this response, the result suggested that reduction in the Vacht activity to 50% causes an abnormality in cholinergic transmission when stressed by a high-frequency stimulus.
L-type Ca(2+) channels contribute importantly to the normal excitation-contraction coupling of physiological hearts, and to the functional derangement seen in heart failure. Although Ca(2+) channel auxiliary beta(1-4) subunits are among the strongest modulators of channel properties, little is known about their role in regulating channel behavior in actual heart cells. Current understanding draws almost exclusively from heterologous expression of recombinant subunits in model systems, which may differ from cardiocytes. To study beta-subunit effects in the cardiac setting, we here used an adenoviral-component gene-delivery strategy to express recombinant beta subunits in young adult ventricular myocytes cultured from 4- to 6-week-old rats. The main results were the following. (1) A component system of replication-deficient adenovirus, poly-L-lysine, and expression plasmids encoding beta subunits could be optimized to transfect young adult myocytes with 1% to 10% efficiency. (2) A reporter gene strategy based on green fluorescent protein (GFP) could be used to identify successfully transfected cells. Because fusion of GFP to beta subunits altered intrinsic beta-subunit properties, we favored the use of a bicistronic expression plasmid encoding both GFP and a beta subunit. (3) Despite the heteromultimeric composition of L-type channels (composed of alpha(1C), beta, and alpha(2)delta), expression of recombinant beta subunits alone enhanced Ca(2+) channel current density up to 3- to 4-fold, which argues that beta subunits are &quot;rate limiting&quot; for expression of current in heart. (4) Overexpression of the putative &quot;cardiac&quot; beta(2a) subunit more than halved the rate of voltage-dependent inactivation at +10 mV. This result demonstrates that beta subunits can tune inactivation in the myocardium and suggests that other beta subunits may be functionally dominant in the heart. Overall, this study points to the possible therapeutic potential of beta subunits to ameliorate contractile dysfunction and excitability in heart failure.
To investigate the significance of endoproteolytic processing of presenilin 2 (PS2) on its pathological function, we constructed PS2 cDNAs causing amino acid substitutions or deletions around the cleavage site. We found that a PS2 mutant (Del3) with a 20-amino acid deletion was not endoproteolytically processed, while other PS2s with amino acid substitutions and short deletions were cleaved. Overproduction of all the mutant proteins led to a compensatory decrease of endogenous PS1 fragments, but did not affect the amyloid beta peptide X-42/Abeta X-40 ratio without the familial Alzheimer's disease mutation. The Del3 mutant did not exhibit significant deficits in gamma-secretase activity. The turnover rate of the Del3 holoprotein was the same as that of full-length PS2. These data suggest that the determinants of the PS2 cleavage site reside within a large region and that the pathological function of PS2 is exerted by familial Alzheimer's disease mutations not related to the cleavage of holoproteins. We also found that PS2 with an 18-amino acid deletion at the C-terminal end was not processed. Its overexpression led neither to diminished accumulation of endogenous PS1 fragments nor to increased production of amyloid beta peptide X-42. The C-terminal end of PS2 seems to possess the signal for entry into the processing pathway.
Expression of dopamine beta-monooxygenase (DBM), the enzyme that converts dopamine into norepinephrine, is limited to adrenal chromaffin cells and a small population of neurons. We studied DBM trafficking to regulated granules by stably expressing rat DBM in AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells, which contain regulated granules, and in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, which lack regulated granules. The behavior of exogenous DBM in both cell lines was compared with endogenous DBM in adrenal chromaffin cells. CHO cells secreted active DBM, indicating that production of active enzyme does not require features unique to neuroendocrine cells. Pulse-chase experiments indicated that early steps in DBM maturation followed a similar time course in AtT-20, CHO, and adrenal chromaffin cells. Use of a conformation-sensitive DBM antiserum indicated that acquisition of a folded structure occurred with a similar time course in all three cell types. Cell type-specific differences in DBM trafficking became apparent only when storage in granules was examined. As expected, DBM was stored in secretory granules in chromaffin cells; CHO cells failed to store DBM. Despite the fact that AtT-20 cells have regulated granules, exogenous DBM was not stored in these granules. Thus storage of DBM in secretory granules requires cell type specific factors.
This study examines the contribution of the vestibular system during different magnitudes of galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) during human walking. Anodal threshold levels of GVS were determined for right and left sides for each subject. Seven conditions were tested (no stimulation, left and right anode stimulation) at one, two and three times threshold. GVS was delivered to the mastoid processes at first heel contact and continued for the duration of the trial. All subjects responded by deviating towards the anode while walking. In addition, the magnitude of deviation increased as the stimulus intensity increased. Our results demonstrate that the vestibular system is sensitive to GVS intensity changes and responds by altering the magnitude of the response accordingly. These data provide a strong argument in support of a significant role for vestibular information during dynamic tasks.



Brain function requires precisely orchestrated connectivity between neurons. Establishment of these connections is believed to require signals secreted from outgrowing axons, followed by synapse formation between selected neurons. Deletion of a single protein, Munc18-1, in mice leads to a complete loss of neurotransmitter secretion from synaptic vesicles throughout development. However, this does not prevent normal brain assembly, including formation of layered structures, fiber pathways, and morphologically defined synapses. After assembly is completed, neurons undergo apoptosis, leading to widespread neurodegeneration. Thus, synaptic connectivity does not depend on neurotransmitter secretion, but its maintenance does. Neurotransmitter secretion probably functions to validate already established synaptic connections.
We report a male autopsy case of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), with unusual neuropathological findings. The patient was a Japanese man aged 26 years at the time of death. He had shown severe psychomotor retardation and muscular dystrophy since early infancy, and was diagnosed as having FCMD at the age of 5 years. He died of respiratory failure. The main neuropathological finding was extensive cerebral and cerebellar cortical dysplasia, characteristic of this disorder. In addition, degeneration of the cerebellar efferent pathway, including the dentate nucleus, superior cerebellar peduncle, and red nucleus, and that of the lateral thalamic nucleus were observed. These findings suggest the possibility that the long survival can clarify the latent neurodegeneration in the cerebellum and thalamus in FCMD, in addition to congenital malformations. The system degeneration should be carefully evaluated in the pathological examination of this disorder.
p67 (Munc-18), is a neuron-specific protein of 67 kDa, known for its ability to bind with syntaxin and also to copurify with neuronal cdc2-like kinase. Earlier, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical analysis of rat trigeminal ganglion and hippocampal cells demonstrated the specific localization of p67 in nerve cells and its rich distribution in axons. In the present study, we have looked for p67 expression in normal human brain and various neuroectodermal tumors. Immunohistochemical and Western immunoblot analysis of normal human brain tissue using antibodies against the N- and C-termini of p67 demonstrated the specific localization of this protein in postmitotic neurons but not in glia. Among neuroectodermal tumors, expression of p67 was observed in 100% of the tumors of neuronal origin studied, especially in the mature neuronal cell population of these tumors. Western immunoblot analysis of non-neuronal neuroectodermal tumors failed to reveal the expression of this protein in majority of cases. However, in gliomas and meningiomas, mild cytoplasmic immunohistochemical staining of neoplastic cells was noted in 64.7% and 25% of cases, respectively. Observed mild immunohistochemical staining of these tumors could be due to immunoreactivity to low molecular weight degraded products of p67, as seen on Western blot. The findings suggest that p67, by virtue of its ability to be expressed in postmitotic neurons of adult human brain and in tumors of neuronal origin, may serve as a molecular tool to understand the growth and differentiation of the nervous system in general.

alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) reduces infarct size, improves recovery of brain energy metabolism and delays the secondary increase in extracellular potassium after focal ischaemia, presumably by trapping OH radicals. We investigated the effect of PBN on the formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) as a measure of OH radical formation, during and following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Rats, subjected to 2 h of ischaemia followed by 3 h of recirculation, were injected with either vehicle or PBN (100 mg kg-1 i.p.) prior to MCAO or immediately after recirculation, respectively. The in vivo microdialysis technique was used to collect samples for analysis of 3,4-DHBA by HPLC. The basal levels of 3,4-DHBA were 56-77 nmol L-1 in the four groups. During ischaemia, the formation of 3,4-DHBA decreased by about 50% in all groups. Upon recirculation, a 3-fold rise in 3,4-DHBA formation was seen. At 2 h of recirculation the mean value of 3,4-DHBA in the pretreated, vehicle-injected animals was 125 +/- 18 nmol L-1 and in the PBN-injected 145 +/- 48 nmol L-1, respectively. When the animals were treated after MCAO either with vehicle or PBN the values at 2 h recirculation were 155 +/- 148 and 189 +/- 145 nmol L-1, respectively. No statistically significant difference between vehicle- and PBN-injected groups was seen. We conclude that during reperfusion following MCAO, hydroxyl radical formation increases. The increase is not ameliorated by PBN which suggests that PBN does not protect the brain by a general scavenging of OH radicals, although tissue specific actions cannot be excluded.





Generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) is a recently recognized but relatively common form of inherited childhood-onset epilepsy with heterogeneous epilepsy phenotypes. We genotyped 41 family members, including 21 affected individuals, to localize the gene causing epilepsy in a large family segregating an autosomal dominant form of GEFS+. A genomewide search examining 197 markers identified linkage of GEFS+ to chromosome 2, on the basis of an initial positive LOD score for marker D2S294 (Z=4.4, recombination fraction [straight theta] = 0). A total of 24 markers were tested on chromosome 2q, to define the smallest candidate region for GEFS+. The highest two-point LOD score (Zmax=5.29; straight theta=0) was obtained with marker D2S324. Critical recombination events mapped the GEFS+ gene to a 29-cM region flanked by markers D2S156 and D2S311, with the idiopathic generalized epilepsy locus thereby assigned to chromosome 2q23-q31. The existence of the heterogeneous epilepsy phenotypes in this kindred suggests that seizure predisposition determined by the GEFS+ gene on chromosome 2q could be modified by other genes and/or by environmental factors, to produce the different seizure types observed.
To examine how long-lasting microgravity simulated by 6 degrees head-down bed rest (HDBR) induces changes in the baroreflex control of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) at rest and changes in responses of MSNA to orthostasis, six healthy male volunteers (range 26-42 yr) participated in Valsalva maneuver and head-up tilt (HUT) tests before and after 120 days of HDBR. MSNA was measured directly using a microneurographic technique. After long-term HDBR, resting supine MSNA and heart rate were augmented. The baroreflex slopes for MSNA during Valsalva maneuver (in supine position) and during 60 degrees HUT test, determined by least-squares linear regression analysis, were significantly steeper after than before HDBR, whereas the baroreflex slopes for R-R interval were significantly flatter after HDBR. The increase in MSNA from supine to 60 degrees HUT was not different between before and after HDBR, but mean blood pressure decreased in 60 degrees HUT after HDBR. In conclusion, the baroreflex control of MSNA was augmented, whereas the same reflex control of R-R interval was attenuated after 120 days of HDBR.





The abilities of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, taking routine medication, and of control subjects, to discriminate bilateral differences in the static angular positions of the two elbow joints were studied during passive (subject relaxed) and active (subject contracting to hold position) conditions. On each trial, one of the subject's elbows served as the reference joint (angle 60 degrees) and the other as the test joint (angular range, 54 degrees to 69 degrees, at 3 degree intervals). Subjects, with eyes closed, were required to discriminate the relative angles of the two elbows. In Experiments 1 (passive condition) and 2 (active condition), parkinsonians (n = 12) gave significantly fewer correct responses, pooled across sides, than did controls (n = 12), both in total scores across all angles and at individual test angles of 57 degrees and 63 degrees. In Experiment 3 (passive condition), derivation of conventional psychophysical variables indicated that both the difference limen (DL; threshold) and Weber ratio (WR; discriminatory sensitivity, independent of absolute stimulus values; same as DL/PSE) values of patients (n = 6) were significantly larger than those of controls (n = 6), in the absence of a significant difference between groups in the point of subjective equality (PSE). Our results provide clear evidence of a quantitative impairment of joint position sense in PD patients.







Rodents have been extensively used for experimental stroke research with rat and gerbil the preferred species. With the advent of transgenesis and gene targeting the number of mutant mouse strains is rapidly increasing. Thus, mouse models of stroke will be of great importance in the analysis of genetic factors affecting stroke. Demonstrating long-term functional recovery is of paramount importance for the pharmacological evaluation of putative stroke therapies. In the present paper we induce mild focal cerebral ischemia by tandem occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA), via craniotomy, together with the common carotid artery for 45 min in C57BL/6 strain of mice. The effects of ischemia were evaluated acutely by MRI and long-term (&gt; 3 weeks) sensorimotor functional deficits were analyzed using a number of behavioral paradigms including the rotorod, wire hang, horizontal surface approach, eye-closure reflex, and T-maze tests. Although the induced brain damage is mild we show that it leads to clearly detectable and significant sensorimotor defects associated with fine motor coordination, balance, and postural and sensory reflexes. We conclude that the applied behavioral tests will be useful in the analysis of stroke in mutant mice.
Group-housed laboratory mice are frequently found with their whiskers and facial hair removed. It has been proposed that dominant mice are responsible for barbering the hair of the recipient (the Dalila effect), and early studies suggest that the hair is removed by nibbling. In the present study, pairs of C57BL6 mice, composed of a barber and recipient, were separated to allow hair to regrow. The animals were then placed together in an observation box and their social behavior was videorecorded. The videorecording was subjected to frame-by-frame analysis. Barbering was found to occur during acts of mutual grooming. During grooming, one member of a mouse pair removed the vibrissae of the conspecific and did so by grasping individual whiskers with the incisors and plucking them out. Although plucking appeared 'painful', recipients were passive in accepting barbering, and even pursued conspecifics for further grooming. Other measures indicated that barbers were heavier than recipients and brain weights were not different. Although cortical barrel fields appeared normal to cytochrome oxidization and zinc staining, Golgi analysis of layer three, barrel-field basilar dendrites indicated changes in cell morphology. The results are discussed in relation to the hypothesis that barbering is an expression of social dominance, the origins of the barbering behavior, and the consequences of barbering on brain function.
To determine whether the neurons of the medial preoptic area (MPOA) are necessary for pup-induced maternal behavior (MB) in juvenile and adult rats, subjects received bilateral injections of the neurotoxin N-Methyl-D-Aspartic acid into the MPOA. Controls were intact or were sham treated by surgical placement of the syringe barrel. The rats were then induced into MB by constant pup exposure. Starting at 27 (juvenile) or 60 (adult) days of age, rats were tested for MB for 12 consecutive days. After histological analysis, rats were categorized as having either large or small lesions of the MPOA. In juveniles, large lesions of the MPOA blocked retrieval and impaired nest-building, but crouching behavior was unaffected; small lesions had no effect on MB. In contrast, in adults, large or small lesions severely impaired all components of MB. The results suggest that in juvenile rats, the role of the MPOA neurons in MB is only partially established, whereas by 60 days of age, the unsubstitutable role of the MPOA in the neural circuit that mediates MB is fully established.
The effect of microinfusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5) into the amygdala, medial prefrontal cortex, and dorsal and ventral subiculum on acquisition of a lever-pressing task for food in rats was examined. Serial transmission between the basolateral amygdala and nucleus accumbens core was also examined in an asymmetric infusion design. AP-5 administered bilaterally into either the amygdala or medial prefrontal cortex markedly impaired learning, whereas administration into the dorsal or ventral subiculum had no effect. Unilateral infusion of AP-5 into either the nucleus accumbens core or amygdala was also sufficient to impair learning. These data provide novel evidence for NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity within corticostriatal networks in the acquisition of appetitive instrumental learning.
A new test battery, the Auditory Cross-Section (AXS) Battery, offers a relatively inexpensive, noninvasive means of describing a &quot;neurological fingerprint&quot; for each individual. The battery's &quot;access to axes&quot; combines physiological and behavioral measures so that a large set of dependent variables can be used to profile an individual and can serve as a context for additional anatomical, behavioral, and physiological data for the same subject. Physiological tests included in the battery described here include (1) otoacoustic emissions (OAEs); (2) the repeated evoked potentials version of the auditory brainstem response (REPs/ABR); and (3) quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG). Complementary behavioral tests were chosen to assess capabilities related to functional asymmetries, such as phonemic awareness and fine motor control, and/or to demonstrate temporal correlations that link behavioral and neural function. Applications of the AXS battery include (1) documentation of individual differences and similarities in neural organization that are related to specific behaviors, such as learning styles or clinical symptoms; (2) provision of contextual data for neuroimaging studies that aid in interpreting individually specific patterns of activation; and (3) development of a neurotypology of human brain/behavior relations, linking characteristics of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology with features of behavior, and general body health.
A computerized method for classifying the postures of freely moving rodents is presented. The behavior of the rats was recorded on videotape by means of a camera hanging perpendicular to an open field. An automatic tracking system (10 images/sec) was used to transform the video images of postures into a binary image, thereby providing silhouettes in a computer format. The contours of these silhouettes were used for determining their characteristic features with the help of a Fourier transformation. The resulting features were classified with the help of a Kohonen network composed of 32 neurons. The four best winning neurons, rather than the usual one, were used for the classification. The resolution (11,090 distinct classes of postures), reliability (96.9%), and validity of this method were determined. With the use of the same approach, the effectiveness of this method for classifying behaviors was illustrated by analyzing grooming (247 grooming images vs. 4,950 nongrooming images). We found 15.4% false positives and 2.5% false negatives.

Positioning of the ventricular catheter is safe using standard techniques, but in some cases there may be failure of a shunt because of incorrect placement. We carried out CT at the end of the surgical operation on 10 patients who had undergone cerebrospinal fluid shunting while still anaesthetized. In three cases a malpositioned catheter was detected. Immediate reoperation allowed readjustment of the ventricular catheter. Early postoperative CT appears to be useful for verifying correct placement.
Regional cerebral phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P-MRS) was performed in 10 non- demented Parkinson's disease patients and nine age-matched control subjects. Five of the patients undergoing (31)P-MRS and four additional Parkinson's disease patients had cerebral 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET ((18)FDG-PET), the results of which were compared with those of eight age-matched control subjects. All Parkinson's disease patients underwent neuropsychological testing including performance and verbal subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised, Boston Naming Test, Controlled Oral Word Association test (FAS Test) and California Learning Test to exclude clinical dementia. (31)P MR spectra from right and left temporo-parietal cortex, occipital cortex and a central voxel incorporating basal ganglia and brainstem were obtained. (31)P MR peak area ratios of signals from phosphomonoesters (PMEs), inorganic phosphate (P(i)), phosphodiesters (PDEs), alpha-ATP, gamma-ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr) relative to beta-ATP were measured. Relative percentage peak areas of PMEs, P(i), PDEs, PCr, and alpha-, beta- and gamma-ATP signals were also measured with respect to the total (31)P-MRS signal. Significant bilateral increases in the P(i)/beta-ATP ratio were found in temporoparietal cortex (P = 0.002 right and P = 0.014 left cortex) for the non-demented Parkinson's disease patients compared with controls. In the right temporoparietal cortex, there was also a significant increase in the mean relative percentage P(i) (P = 0.001). (18)FDG-PET revealed absolute bilateral reductions in glucose metabolism after partial volume effect correction in posterior parietal and temporal cortical grey matter (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.05, respectively) for the Parkinson's disease group, using both volume of interest analysis and statistical parametric mapping. There were significant correlations between right temporoparietal P(i)/beta-ATP ratios and estimated reductions in performance IQ (r = 0.96, P &lt; 0.001). Left temporoparietal P(i)/beta-ATP ratios correlated with full scale IQ and verbal IQ (r = -0.82, P = 0.006, r = -0.86, P = 0.003, respectively). In summary, temporoparietal cortical hypometabolism was seen in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients with both (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET, suggesting that both glycolytic and oxidative pathways are impaired. This dysfunction may reflect either the presence of primary cortical pathology or deafferentation of striato-cortical projections. (31)P-MRS and (18)FDG-PET may both provide useful predictors of future cognitive impairment in a subset of Parkinson's disease patients who go on to develop dementia.
The incidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is 6-8 per 100 000 person years, peaking in the sixth decade. SAH, mostly due to rupture of an intracranial aneurysm, accounts for a quarter of cerebrovascular deaths. Aneurysms increase in frequency with age beyond the third decade, are 1.6 times more common in women and are associated with a number of genetic conditions. Prospective autopsy and angiographic studies indicate that between 3.6 and 6% of the population harbour an intracranial aneurysm. Studies have found an increased rate of SAH in first degree relatives of SAH patients (relative risk 3.7-6.6). In affected families, the most frequent relationship between sufferers is sibling to sibling. The rupture rate of asymptomatic aneurysms was thought to be 1-2% per annum, but the recent International Study of Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms found that the rupture rate of small aneurysms was only 0.05% per annum in patients with no prior SAH, and 0.5% per annum for large (&gt;10 mm diameter) aneurysms and for all aneurysms in patients with previous SAH. Non-invasive tests such as magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), computed tomographic angiography (CTA) and transcranial Doppler (TCD) have been advocated as alternatives to intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography to screen for aneurysms. Although all are promising techniques, the quality of data testing their accuracy is limited. Overall reported sensitivity for CTA and MRA (TCD is poorer) was 76-98% and specificity was 85-100%, but many subjects had an aneurysm or recent SAH, which could overestimate accuracy. CTA and MRA are much poorer methods for the detection of aneurysms &lt;5 mm diameter, which account for up to one-third of unruptured aneurysms. Elective surgical clipping of asymptomatic aneurysms has a morbidity of 10.9% and mortality of 3. 8%. Treatment of aneurysms by Guglielmi coils, for which there is less long-term follow-up available, has a 4% morbidity and 1% mortality, but only achieves complete aneurysm occlusion in 52-78% of cases. There has been interest in screening for aneurysms, but the indication for, and cost effectiveness of screening are unclear because aneurysm prevalence varies, rupture rate is low, non-invasive imaging tests are not yet accurate enough to exclude small aneurysms and the morbidity and mortality for elective surgical treatment of unruptured aneurysms is high. There may be a limited role for investigation of high risk subgroups. Ideally, screening in such subgroups should be tested in a randomized trial. The avoidance of risk factors for aneurysms such as smoking, hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia should be part of the management of at-risk subjects.












In three experiments, healthy young participants listened to stories promoting inferences and named inference-related test words presented to the right visual field-Left Hemisphere (rvf-LH) or to the left visual field-Right Hemisphere (lvf-RH). Participants showed priming for predictive inferences only for target words presented to the lvf-RH; in contrast, they showed priming for coherence inferences only for target words presented to the rvf-LH. These results, plus the fact that patients with RH brain damage have difficulty drawing coherence inferences and do not show inference-related priming, suggest that information capable of supporting predictive inferences is more likely to be initially activated in the RH than the LH, but following coherence breaks these concepts (now coherence inferences) are completed in the LH. These results are consistent with the theory that the RH engages in relatively coarse semantic coding, which aids full comprehension of discourse.
The involvement of Ca(2+)-storage organelles in the modulation of synaptic transmission is well-established [M.K. Bennett, Ca(2+) and the regulation of neurotransmitter secretion, Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 7 (1997) 316-322 [1]; M.J. Berridge, Neuronal calcium signaling, Neuron 21 (1998) 13-26 [2]; Ph. Fossier, L. Tauc, G. Baux, Calcium transients and neurotransmitter release at an identified synapse, Trends Neurosci. 22 (1999) 161-166 [7] ]. Various Ca(2+) sequestering reservoirs (mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and synaptic vesicles) have been reported at the level of brain nerve terminals [P. Kostyuk, A. Verkhratsky, Calcium stores in neurons and glia, Neuroscience 63 (1994) 381-404 [18]; V. Mizuhira, H. Hasegawa, Microwave fixation and localization of calcium in synaptic terminals using X-ray microanalysis and electron energy loss spectroscopy imaging, Brain Res. Bull. 43 (1997) 53-58 [21]; A. Parducz, Y. Dunant, Transient increase of calcium in synaptic vesicles after stimulation, Neuroscience 52 (1993) 27-33 [23]; O.H. Petersen, Can Ca(2+) be released from secretory granules or synaptic vesicles?, Trends Neurosci. 19 (1996) 411-413 [24] ]. However, the knowledge of the specific contribution of each compartment for spatial and temporal control of the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration requires detailed characterization of the Ca(2+) uptake and Ca(2+) release mechanisms by the distinct intracellular stores. In this work, we described rapid and simple experimental procedures for analysis of a Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport system that transport Ca(2+) into synaptic vesicles at expenses of the energy of a DeltapH generated either by activity of the proton pump or by a pH jumping of the vesicles passively loaded with protons. This secondary active Ca(2+) transport system requires high Ca(2+)100 microM) for activation, it is dependent on the chemical component (DeltapH) of the proton electrochemical gradient across the synaptic vesicle membrane and its selectivity is essentially determined by the size of the transported cation [P.P. Gonalves, S.M. Meireles, C. Gravato, M.G. P. Vale, Ca(2+)-H(+)-Antiport activity in synaptic vesicles isolated from sheep brain cortex, Neurosci. Lett. 247 (1998) 87-90 [10]; P.P. Gonalves, S.M. Meireles, P. Neves, M.G.P. Vale, Ionic selectivity of the Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport in synaptic vesicles of sheep brain cortex, Mol. Brain Res. 67 (1999) 283-291 [11]; P.P. Gonalves, S.M. Meireles, P. Neves, M.G.P. Vale, Synaptic vesicle Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport: dependence on the proton electrochemical gradient, Mol. Brain Res. 71 (1999) 178-184 [12] ]. The protocols described here allow to ascertain the characteristics of the Ca(2+)/H(+) antiport in synaptic vesicles and, therefore, may be useful for clarification of the physiological role of synaptic vesicles in fast buffering of Ca(2+) at various sites of the neurotransmission machinery.
The investigation of mitochondrial abnormalities in brain commonly requires isolation of these organelles from small tissue samples. We have modified a mitochondrial isolation procedure based on Percoll density gradient centrifugation to increase the proportion of the total mitochondrial pool recovered while reducing contamination with synaptosomes and related structures containing cytoplasm. Initially, myelin was removed by centrifugation in 12% Percoll in isotonic buffer. The pellet was resuspended, treated with digitonin to break up synaptosomes and similar structures and subjected to discontinuous Percoll density gradient centrifugation. The mitochondrial fraction obtained from this procedure was highly metabolically active and well coupled, exhibiting respiratory control ratios above 5. The recovery of mitochondrial markers using a single rat forebrain as starting material was approximately 18% to 21%. When small tissue samples (approximately 50 mg wet weight) were used as starting material the recovery of the mitochondrial marker was approximately 16%. The ratio of recovery of a mitochondrial marker to the cytoplasmic marker lactate dehydrogenase exceeded 200 in preparations from a single rat forebrain. This is substantially greater than values reported for previously published procedures reflecting both an improved yield of mitochondria and a reduction in cytoplasmic contamination.
The present study provides a detailed description of the simultaneous establishment and immunocytochemical characterization of highly enriched human adult microglial cell cultures as well as of oligodendrocyte cultures. For this study, brain tissue specimens were collected at autopsy with relatively short postmortem times (3-9 h) from various regions of the CNS of Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease and non-demented control cases. Although methods to isolate viable glial cells from human adult brain tissue have been described, these human brain specimens were often derived from surgical resections, i.e., in order to treat intractable epilepsy, brain tumors or cardiovascular diseases involving the brain. However, for the study of many neurological disorders, surgical material is not available. Furthermore, for obvious reasons, there is a limit to the number of central nervous system (CNS) regions from which (enough) tissue can be obtained at surgery. The adherent primary microglial cells, isolated according to the here described procedures consisted of proliferating, phagocytotic cells that expressed various microglia/macrophage-specific markers as judged by immunocytochemical analysis. Non-adherent cells isolated from the same brain tissue samples expressed oligodendrocyte-specific markers. The current described culture system may provide a valuable tool in studying human CNS biology and disease.
The present report deals with an axonal tract-tracing procedure in rat enabling visualization of anterogradely transported biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) combined with immnunocytochemical detection of Fos protein following electrical stimulation of the brain. This method allows us to evaluate whether a given structure, receiving both injection of BDA and electrical stimulation, elicits neuronal activation in another part of the brain via direct or indirect projections. We have used the method at the light microscopic level to determine the connectivity of the sensorimotor cortex in the rat. In various parts of the forebrain and brainstem, BDA-labeled fibers originating from the cortex were observed in close apposition to Fos-like immunoreactive cells (FLI) activated by stimulation. This result suggests a direct (probably monosynaptic) projection. On the contrary, FLI neurons were observed in areas devoid of direct afferents, indicating a cascade of activations. The method described in this protocol is applicable for functional anatomy purposes elsewhere within the central nervous system. It constitutes a preliminary step in identifying the validity of a pathway before examination of the reality of the monosynaptic relationship at the electron microscopic level.
We developed a method of double immunocytochemistry (ICC) that can be used with conventional light microscopy for localizing two different nuclear proteins. The procedure involves two sequential rounds of ICC that both employ the avidin and biotin conjugated enzyme (ABC) amplification method, separated by an Avidin D and biotin blocking step to reduce non-specific avidin-biotin reactions. Round one of ICC employs the use of avidin and biotin conjugated alkaline phosphatase (ABC-AP) and the Vector Red (VR) substrate, which produces a red colorimetric reaction product. The second round of ICC makes use of avidin and biotin conjugated peroxidase (ABC-HRP) and the Vector(R) SG substrate, which produces a gray colorimetric reaction product. Neuronal nuclei that are double-labeled for both proteins appear red with a gray core. This protocol allows the simultaneous detection of two proteins within the same subcellular compartment of a single neuron, without the need for epifluorescence or scanning confocal laser microscopy.
Microdialysis has been extensively used to characterize the effects of drugs of abuse on extracellular levels of various neurotransmitters in nucleus accumbens (NAc) of the rat brain. However, recent advances in mouse genetics have prompted the need for studying the in vivo neurochemical correlates of drug intake in genetically engineered mice. While an earlier study has shown the feasibility of measuring monoamines in the NAc of behaving transgenic mice [I. Sillaber, A. Montkowski, R. Landgraf, N. Barden, F. Holsboer, R. Spanagel, Enhanced morphine-induced behavioural effects and dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens in a transgenic mouse model of impaired glucocorticoid (type II) receptor function: influence of long-term treatment with the antidepressant moclobemide, Neuroscience, 85 (1998) 415-425 [16] ], in this protocol we demonstrate a method for measuring both monoamine and amino neurotransmitters from the NAc of freely moving mice combined with open field locomotor activity monitoring. Mice were implanted with guide cannulae aimed at the NAc and allowed 4 days of recovery before being implanted with microdialysis probes equipped with 1-mm cuprophane membranes. On the following day, mice were placed in plexiglass chambers equipped with infrared photobeams, where microdialysis samples and locomotor activity data were collected in 10-min intervals. Immediately after collection, microdialysis samples were split into two equal aliquots for separate analysis of monoamine and amino acid neurotransmitter content. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis revealed that norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, aspartate, glutamate, glycine, taurine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) could be detected in each microdialysis sample. Thus, we have shown it is feasible to monitor extracellular levels of multiple neurotransmitters with simultaneous measurement of locomotor behavior in the mouse, making this model suitable for studying differential neurochemical and behavioral responses to drugs of abuse in genetically engineered mice.
Previously, we have shown that physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, improved performance on a working memory for faces task, as reflected by reduced reaction time (RT), and reduced task-specific regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in right prefrontal cortex and, further, that these reductions in RT and right frontal rCBF were significantly correlated. Here we investigated the relation between the effects of physostigmine on task performance and task-specific functional brain response throughout the cortex by examining correlations between physostigmine-related changes in rCBF in all brain areas and changes in RT. In subjects who received an infusion of physostigmine, reduced RT correlated (p&lt;0.001) positively with reduced rCBF in right frontal cortex, left temporal cortex, anterior cingulate, and left hippocampus; and correlated with increased rCBF in medial occipital visual cortex. In subjects who received a placebo infusion of saline, no significant correlations between changes in RT and cortical rCBF were observed. The results show that cholinergically induced improvements in working memory performance are related to alterations in neural activity in multiple cortical regions, including increased neural activity in regions associated with early perceptual processing and decreased neural activity in regions associated with attention, memory encoding, and memory maintenance.
This investigation describes the relative potencies of four peptide agonists, namely, peptide YY (PYY), [Leu3l,Pro34]PYY (Pro34pYY), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and [Leu31,Pro34]NPY (Pro34NPY), as antisecretory agents in human, rat, and mouse gastrointestinal preparations. The inhibition of agonist responses by the Y1-receptor antagonist BIBP 3226 was also tested in each preparation. An unexpectedly pronounced preference for PYY and Pro34PYY was observed in functional studies of two human epithelial lines stably transfected with the rat Y1 receptor (Y1-7 and C1Y1-6). NPY and Pro34NPY were at least an order of magnitude less effective than PYY in these functional studies but were only marginally less potent in displacement binding studies using membrane preparations of the same clonal lines. The orders of agonist potency obtained in Y1-7 and C1Y1-6 epithelia were compared with those obtained from a single human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line (Colony-6, which constitutively expresses Y1 receptors) and also from mucosal preparations of rat and mouse descending colon. Similar peptide orders of potency were obtained in rat and mouse colonic mucosae and Colony-6 epithelia, all of which exhibited PYY preference (although less pronounced than with Y1-7 and C1Y1-6 epithelia) and significant sensitivity to the Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP 3226. We have compared the pharmacology of these five mammalian epithelial preparations and provide cautionary evidence against the reliance upon agonist concentration-response relationships alone, in the characterization of NPY receptor types.
The mammalian daily (circadian) clock is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. Clock function can be detected by the measurement of the circadian change in spontaneous firing rate of suprachiasmatic nuclei cells in a brain slice preparation in vitro. We investigated the effects of neuropeptide Y on this rhythm of firing rate in hamster suprachiasmatic nuclei neurons. Slices were prepared using standard techniques. On the 1st day in vitro, neuropeptide Y (200 ng/200 nL; 47 pmol) was applied as a microdrop to the suprachiasmatic nuclei region at various times. Spontaneous single-unit firing was measured for 6-12 h on the 2nd day in vitro. Peak firing rate in treated slices was compared with that of untreated control slices to measure phase shifts induced by the peptide. Neuropeptide Y induced phase advances of circa-3h when applied during the subjective day (ZT 2-10) but did not significantly alter phase when applied during the subjective night. The phase shifts to neuropeptide Y in the hamster tissue in vitro are similar in phase dependency and magnitude to shifts measured in vivo.


Bladder and vascular smooth muscle cells cultured from four rat strains (WKY, SHR, WKHA, WKHT) differing in rates of nerve growth factor (NGF) production were used to determine whether a relationship exists between intracellular calcium and NGF secretion. Basal cytosolic calcium was related to basal NGF secretion rates in bladder and vascular smooth muscle cells from all four strains with the exception of WKHT bladder muscle cells. Thrombin is a calcium-mobilizing agent and increases NGF production from vascular but not bladder smooth muscle cells. Strain differences were found in the magnitude of the calcium peak induced by thrombin in vascular smooth muscle cells, but these differences did not correlate with NGF secretion. Thrombin caused a calcium response in bladder smooth muscle cells without influencing NGF production. Quenching the calcium transient with a calcium chelator had no effect on thrombin-inducted NGF secretion rates in vascular smooth muscle cells. Thus, basal intracellular calcium may establish a set point for NGF secretion from smooth muscle. In addition, transient elevations in cytosolic calcium were unrelated to the induction of NGF output.
Recent studies have revealed peculiar functional and genetic features of dopamine receptors in migraine. As peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) may represent a tool for peripheral detection of neuroreceptors, we compared the expression of dopamine D3 (DRD3) and D4 (DRD4) receptors on PBL in migraine patients and in healthy controls using radioligand binding assay techniques in the presence of antidopamine D2-like receptor antibodies. The dopamine D2-like receptor agonist [3H]7-OH-DPAT was used as a radioligand. An increased density of both DRD3 (P=0.0006) and DRD4 (P=0.002) on PBL was observed in migraineurs compared with controls. This up-regulation might reflect central and/or peripheral dopamine receptor hypersensitivity due to hypofunction of the dopaminergic system. These findings support the view that dopamine D2-like receptors are involved in the determination of the so-called migraine trait, which may help to elucidate several clinical features of the disease.
Converging evidence supports a role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) in barrel cortex development. Systemic administration of 5-HT-depleting drugs reduces cross-sectional whisker barrel areas in the somatosensory cortex (SSC) of neonatal rats. Here we assess the relative impact on barrel pattern formation of (i) 5-HT depletion and (ii) decreased brain growth, which is often associated with pharmacological 5-HT depletion, by comparing the effects of 5-HT-depleting drugs with those of reduced protein intake. Left hemisphere 5-HT levels in the SSC and right hemisphere whisker barrel areas were assessed at postnatal day 6 (P6) in the same animal following injection of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) or p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) at P0. Both drugs significantly reduced cortical 5-HT content and mean barrel areas at P6, but also body and brain growth. Differences in brain weight accounted for 84.4% of the variance in barrel size, with negligible contributions by cortical 5-HT content. PCPA-treated animals sacrificed at P14 yielded similar trends, albeit less pronounced. Finally, reduced protein intake resulted in lower body weight and cortical 5-HT levels at P6, but yielded no change in brain weight or mean barrel area. Barrel formation therefore appears markedly less sensitive to 5-HT depletion per se than to drug-induced growth impairment.
The different patchy organizations of neurons projecting from primary visual cortex (area 17) to the various extrastriate areas may contribute to functional differences in the output to each of these areas. The pattern of neurons projecting to extrastriate area 21a was examined using large injections of retrograde tracers and compared to the pattern shown by neurons projecting to the lateral suprasylvian area (LS). Patches of neurons projecting to 21a showed a bimodal laminar distribution, with numerous labeled cells in the upper and lower third of layer 3 bracketing a sparsely labeled central third; LS-projecting neurons were confined to the lower and middle thirds of layer 3. The 21a projecting cells were relatively tighter in their clustering pattern than the LS projecting cells, i. e. the difference in labeling density between patch and interpatch zones was greater for 21a-projecting cells than for LS-projecting cells. As previously shown for the LS-projecting cells, patches of 21a-projecting cells colocalized with CO blob columns in area 17. Combined with our earlier results, this study shows that the CO blob compartments in area 17 give rise to at least two distinct efferent pathways, one projecting to LS and the other to 21a, and furthermore suggest that each pathway may carry unique information to its extrastriate target.
Neuroanatomy places critical constraints on the functional connectivity of the cerebral cortex. To analyze these constraints we have examined the relationship between structural features of networks (expressed as graphs) and the patterns of functional connectivity to which they give rise when implemented as dynamical systems. We selected among structurally varying graphs using as selective criteria a number of global information-theoretical measures that characterize functional connectivity. We selected graphs separately for increases in measures of entropy (capturing statistical independence of graph elements), integration (capturing their statistical dependence) and complexity (capturing the interplay between their functional segregation and integration). We found that dynamics with high complexity were supported by graphs whose units were organized into densely linked groups that were sparsely and reciprocally interconnected. Connection matrices based on actual neuroanatomical data describing areas and pathways of the macaque visual cortex and the cat cortex showed structural characteristics that coincided best with those of such complex graphs, revealing the presence of distinct but interconnected anatomical groupings of areas. Moreover, when implemented as dynamical systems, these cortical connection matrices generated functional connectivity with high complexity, characterized by the presence of highly coherent functional clusters. We also found that selection of graphs as they responded to input or produced output led to increases in the complexity of their dynamics. We hypothesize that adaptation to rich sensory environments and motor demands requires complex dynamics and that these dynamics are supported by neuroanatomical motifs that are characteristic of the cerebral cortex.
Air flow-rate is usually higher in one nostril in comparison to the other. Also, within bounds, higher nasal flow-rate improves odorant detection. It follows from the above that odorant detection should be better in the nostril with higher flow-rate in comparison to the nostril with lower flow-rate. Paradoxically, previous research has shown that odorant detection thresholds are equal for the high and low flow-rate nostrils. Here we resolve this apparent paradox by showing that when detecting through the nostril with lower air flow-rate, humans sniffed longer than when detecting through the nostril with higher air flow-rate, thus equalizing performance between the nostrils. When this compensatory mechanism was blocked, a pronounced advantage in odorant detection was seen for the nostril with higher air flow-rate over the nostril with lower air flow-rate. Finally, we show that normal birhinal sniff duration may enable only one nostril to reach optimal threshold. This finding implies that during each sniff, each nostril conveys to the brain a slightly different image of the olfactory world. It remains to be shown how the brain combines these images into a single olfactory percept.
PhTX-343 and PhTX-12, analogues of the natural polyamine wasp toxin PhTX-433, were synthesised in 40-60% yields as pure enantiomers using solid phase synthesis techniques. Capillary electrophoresis procedures were developed for chiral separation and determination of enantiomeric purity (ee) of the enantiomers of PhTX-343 and PhTX-12. The methods were optimised with respect to chiral selector, buffer pH, and temperature around the capillary. Thus, rac-PhTX-343 was resolved using a separation buffer containing 30 mM heptakis-(2, 6-di-O-methyl)-beta-cyclodextrin in 50 mM 6-aminocarproic acid (pH 4. 0) at 15 degrees C. rac-PhTX-12 was not resolvable in this system, but could be resolved using a separation buffer containing 10% w/v of dextrin 10, a linear maltodextrin, in 50 mM 6-aminocaproic acid (pH 4.0) at 15 degrees C. Using these methods, the optical purity of the synthetic enantiomers was determined to be ee &gt; 99%. The enantiomers were also characterised by chiroptical methods. The antagonist potency of the enantiomers was tested on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (human muscle-type nAChR) expressed in TE671 cells, ionotropic glutamate receptors in Xenopus laevis oocytes (expressing recombinant GluR1flop receptors), and locust muscle ionotropic glutamate receptors sensitive to quisqualate (qGluR). The potencies of each pair of enantiomers were similar (eudismic ratio close to 1).
Normal vision depends on the normal function of retinal neurons, so vision loss in diabetes must ultimately be explained in terms of altered neuronal function. However to date relatively little attention has been paid to the impact of diabetes on the neural retina. Instead, the focus of most research has been primarily on retinal vascular changes, with the assumption that they cause altered neuronal function and consequently vision loss. An increasing body of evidence suggests that alterations in neuronal function and viability may contribute to the pathogenic mechanisms of diabetic retinopathy beginning shortly after the onset of diabetes. This view arises from neurophysiological, psychometric, histopathological and biochemical observations in humans and experimental animals. The collective evidence from past and recent studies supports the hypothesis that neurodegeneration, together with functional changes in the vasculature, is an important component of diabetic retinopathy. The authors invite other investigators to include the neural retina as a component of their studies so that the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy can be understood more clearly.




Extinction is thought to be due to a pathologically limited attentional capacity in which multiple stimuli cannot be processed simultaneously to conscious awareness. Patients with tactile extinction are aware of being touched on a contralesional limb, but seem unaware of similar contralesional touch if touched simultaneously on their ipsilesional limb. The ipsilesional stimulus interferes and competes with the processing of the contralesional stimulus. Most theorists assume that the ipsilesional stimulus affects the sensory processing of the contralesional stimulus, although the precise functional level at which this interference occurs is not clear. We report a series of experiments using signal detection analyses to investigate tactile extinction in one patient (DC). These analyses revealed that ipsilesional stimuli, in addition to interfering with processing of contralateral sensations, also interfere with verbal reports of those sensations. This influence on responses suggests that interference in tactile extinction can occur at a post-perceptual level, further 'downstream' than previously thought.


The creation of enduring modifications in synaptic efficacy requires new protein synthesis. Neurons face the formidable challenge of directing these newly made proteins to the appropriate subset of synapses. One attractive solution to this problem is the local translation of mRNAs that are targeted to dendrites and perhaps to synapses themselves. The molecular mechanisms mediating such local protein synthesis, notably CPEB-mediated cytoplasmic polyadenylation, are now being elucidated.
Expression of vnd in ventral, ind in intermediate, and msh in dorsal columns of fly neurectoderm, and of homologous gene families in corresponding domains of vertebrate neurectoderm, suggests that elements of dorsoventral neural patterning have been evolutionarily conserved. However, upstream signaling pathways regulating this columnar gene expression pattern appear to have diverged significantly throughout evolution. In addition, while recent loss-of-function studies in flies and mice indicate that these three genes may have a conserved role in regional specification, there is no obvious conservation of the particular cell fates deriving from corresponding domains. The three-column expression pattern may thus represent a developmental mechanism that is more resistant to evolutionary changes than genetic events upstream or downstream of it.
Lesions of the extrastriate cerebral cortex result in disorders of vision, which reveal two cortical processing streams extending ventrally and dorsally from the primary visual cortex. Current theories emphasize the visual perceptual and visuomotor specialization of the ventral and dorsal streams, respectively. Recent investigations of hemi-spatial neglect suggest that the inferior parietal region may lie at the junction of the visual and motor processing pathways.
Intermittent explosive disorder (IED) may best be thought of as a categoric expression of recurrent, problematic impulsive aggressive behavior. Although diagnostic criteria issues have made systematic research in IED difficult, recent work with new research criteria may allow for important empiric work to take place. Given that previous research in the area of impulsive aggression has been highly informative concerning the genetics, biology, and pharmacologic treatment of this behavior, application and extension of this work to IED is crucial. This paper reviews several important aspects of IED including its history in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the formation of new research criteria, and the phenomenologic, epidemiologic, genetic, biologic, and treatment correlates of this disorder.

Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are known to function during mammalian neurogenesis. Here we show that transient transfection of vectors expressing neuroD2, MASH1, ngn1 or related neural bHLH proteins, with their putative dimerization partner E12, can convert mouse P19 embryonal carcinoma cells into differentiated neurons. Transfected cells express numerous neuron-specific proteins, adopt a neuronal morphology and are electrically excitable. Thus, the expression of neural bHLH proteins is sufficient to confer a neuronal fate on uncommitted mammalian cells. Neuronal differentiation of transfected cells is preceded by elevated expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(Kip1) and cell cycle withdrawal. This demonstrates that the bHLH proteins can link neuronal differentiation to withdrawal from the cell cycle, possibly by activating the expression of p27(Kip1). The ability to generate mammalian neurons by transient expression of neural bHLH proteins should create new opportunities for studying neurogenesis and devising neural repair strategies.
Neural crest forms four major categories of derivatives: pigment cells, peripheral neurons, peripheral glia, and ectomesenchymal cells. Some early neural crest cells generate progeny of several fates. How specific cell fates become specified is still poorly understood. Here we show that zebrafish embryos with mutations in the colourless gene have severe defects in most crest-derived cell types, including pigment cells, neurons and specific glia. In contrast, craniofacial skeleton and medial fin mesenchyme are normal. These observations suggest that colourless has a key role in development of non-ectomesenchymal neural crest fates, but not in development of ectomesenchymal fates. Thus, the cls mutant phenotype reveals a segregation of ectomesenchymal and non-ectomesenchymal fates during zebrafish neural crest development. The combination of pigmentation and enteric nervous system defects makes colourless mutations a model for two human neurocristopathies, Waardenburg-Shah syndrome and Hirschsprung's disease.
Stabilization of telomere length in chromosomes by an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase (telomerase) appears to be responsible for the replicative immortality of cancer cells. These findings provide the rational basis for generating experimental models to develop anti-telomerase drugs. However, there is conflicting evidence in the literature about the outcome of telomerase inhibition. While tumor cytostatic and cytotoxic effects associated with telomerase inhibition have been described, absence of telomerase has been associated with genetic instability and tumor development. Therefore, a therapeutic strategy based on telomerase inhibition will likely have to cope with problems related to innate or acquired mechanisms of drug resistance and possibly to therapy-related tumors. Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.
This review focuses on recent literature concerning dysthymia in the elderly population. Epidemiological data and clinical picture, diagnostic and therapeutic issues are evaluated and discussed. Although depressive syndromes are common in older patients, prevalence rates of dysthymia in the elderly are lower than in younger adults. This finding may be the consequence of the diagnostic criteria provided by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) which are not specific for older adults. Other factors that complicate making diagnoses of dysthymia in older individuals are comorbid general conditions, cognitive deterioration and disorders, and frequent adverse life events (e.g. bereavement). The effects of these factors should be better defined to clarify whether elderly dysthymia is underestimated and if modified diagnostic criteria should be provided. A few researchers have identified a series of clinical features that are clearly different in the elderly and in young adult patients with dysthymia. These features are particularly related to the late onset and to the peculiar comorbidity of this disorder and suggest that dysthymia is a different disorder in the elderly. Drug treatment of depressive conditions in the elderly is currently based on new antidepressants [selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitors, norepinephrine (noradrenaline) reuptake inhibitors, benzamides]. These agents have an improved adverse effect profile compared with some of the older agents. Moreover, very few systematic studies have been performed using these drugs in samples of older patients with dysthymia and available data do not allow conclusions on drug choice and dosage. Besides, no specific data are available concerning the psychotherapy of dysthymia in this age group. All these topics need to be further investigated in studies comparing the elderly with control groups of younger patients with dysthymia.
In adult male rats, serum luteinizing hormone (LH) rises within a few hours of castration. By contrast, in adult female rats, serum LH does not increase reliably until 4-6 d after ovariectomy. The release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) declines in female rats postovariectomy, suggesting an increase in inhibition of the release of GnRH. We investigated whether differences in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic transmission, which inhibits GnRH release, accounts for the sex difference in the response of serum LH to gonadectomy. We examined the effects of GABA-A receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BMI), GABA-B receptor antagonist phaclofen, and transaminase inhibitor aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), injected subcutaneously, on the postgonadectomy rise in LH. AOAA prevented the postcastration rise in male rats (p &lt; 0.05). Female rats treated with BMI, phaclofen, or both BMI and phaclofen (p &lt; 0.05) showed a significant increase in LH postovariectomy. BMI had no effect in male rats. GnRH antagonist blocked the BMI-induced increase in serum LH. We conclude that the delay in the rise of serum LH in female rats postovariectomy is at least partly owing to GABAergic inhibition of the release of GnRH.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the carboxyl-terminal amidation of glycine-extended peptides in a two-step reaction involving a monooxygenase and a lyase. Several forms of PAM messenger RNA result from alternative splicing of the single copy PAM gene. The presence of alternately spliced exon A between the two enzymatic domains allows endoproteolytic cleavage to occur in selected tissues, generating soluble monooxygenase and membrane lyase from integral membrane PAM. While using an exon A antiserum, we made the unexpected observation that Charles River Sprague Dawley rats expressed forms of PAM containing exon A in their pituitaries, whereas Harlan Sprague Dawley rats did not. Forms of PAM containing exon A were expressed in the atrium and hypothalamus of both types of Sprague Dawley rat, although in different proportions. PAM transmembrane domain splicing also differed between rat breeders, and full-length PAM-1 was not prevalent in the anterior pituitary of either type of rat. Despite striking differences in PAM splicing, no differences in levels of monooxygenase or lyase activity were observed in tissue or serum samples. The splicing patterns of other alternatively spliced genes, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide receptor type 1 and cardiac troponin T, did not vary with rat breeder. Strain-specific variations in the splicing of transcripts such as PAM must be taken into account in analyzing the resultant proteins, and knowledge of these differences should identify variations with functional significance.
We describe the use of phage libraries to derive new antibodies against p21Ras to be used for intracellular expression in mammalian cells. A panel of single-chain antibody fragments, binding to Ras, were analyzed and characterized for their capacity to interfere in vitro with (a) the intrinsic GTPase activity of Ras and (b) the binding of Ras to its effector Raf, and were found not to neutralize its function, according to these biochemical criteria. When expressed intracellularly in mouse 3T3 K-Ras transformed cells all the anti-Ras single-chain variable fragments (scFv) tested inhibited cell proliferation, as assessed by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Double immunofluorescence analysis of transfected cells using confocal microscopy confirmed that anti-Ras antibody fragments colocalize with endogenous Ras, at subcellular locations where the protein Ras is not normally found. These data suggest that the ability of phage-derived anti-Ras scFv fragments to inhibit the function of Ras in vivo is a rather general and frequent property and that the range of antibodies that can be successfully used for intracellular inhibition studies is much greater than anticipated, exploiting the mode of action of diverting protein traffic.
The sarcoglycan complex consists of four transmembrane protein subunits. Mutation of any one of the genes encoding these four subunits causes complete loss or marked decrease in expression of the whole complex, resulting in the phenotype of Duchenne-like autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy, termed sarcoglycanopathy. As the basis for understanding this process, we examined how the sarcoglycan complex is formed and associates with other proteins during myogenic differentiation, using a myogenic cell line. Accumulation of the sarcoglycan subunits and formation of the sarcoglycan complex were accomplished with myotube formation. In protein transport inhibition experiments with blefeldin A, we found that the sarcoglycan complex is formed in the endoplasmic reticulum and then associates with the dystroglycan complex and sarcospan en route from the Golgi apparatus to the cell surface. In early myotubes, limited kinds of incomplete sarcoglycan complexes were observed. Their analyses would provide information on the possible patterns of formation of the sarcoglycan complex.

Patterns of neural activation during face recognition were investigated in sheep by quantifying altered c-fos mRNA expression in situations where faces (sheep vs. human) can (faces upright) and cannot (faces inverted) be discriminated. Exposure to upright faces selectively increased expression significantly more in the right inferior temporal cortex than in the left, and active choice between upright faces additionally increased expression bilaterally in basal amygdala and hippocampus (CA1-4). Exposure to inverted faces did not lead to enhanced activation in the right inferior temporal cortex, amygdala or hippocampus but instead increased expression levels in the diagonal band of Broca, parietal and cingulate cortices. These results show that discrimination of upright faces in sheep preferentially engages the right temporal cortex, as it does in humans, and that performance of active choices between such faces may additionally involve the basal amygdala and hippocampus.
Orexin-A is a novel neuropeptide initially isolated from hypothalamic extracts but now known to be present in fibres distributed throughout the rat CNS including many regions associated with sleep-wake regulation. The recognition of a particularly dense innervation of orexinergic nerves in the locus coeruleus, together with the observed increase in firing rate of locus coeruleus neurons following application of orexin-A in vitro, further highlighted a potential involvement of the peptide in modulating the arousal state. The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of intracerebroventricularly (ICV) administered orexin-A on the sleep-wake cycle of conscious rats using electroencephalographic and electromyographic recordings. When administered at the onset of the normal sleep period, orexin-A (1, 10 or 30 microg/rat ICV) produced a dose-dependent increase in the time rats spent awake during the second and third hours after dosing. The enhancement of arousal was accompanied by a marked reduction in paradoxical sleep and deep slow wave sleep at the highest dose. The latency to the first occurrence of paradoxical sleep was also prolonged. This overall profile of increased arousal and decreased paradoxical sleep is consistent with a high rate of firing of locus coeruleus neurons as would be expected to occur following ICV administration of orexin-A. It is concluded that orexin-A may play an important physiological role in regulating the sleep-wake state, a hypothesis considerably strengthened by the recently reported narcoleptic phenotype of prepro-orexin (the precursor for orexin-A) knockout mice.
Neurotrophins modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity in the adult brain. We here show a novel feature of this synaptic modulation, i.e. that two populations of excitatory synaptic connections to granule cells in the dentate gyrus, lateral perforant path (LPP) and medial perforant path (MPP), are differentially influenced by the neurotrophins BDNF and NT-3. Using field recordings and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in hippocampal slices, we found that paired-pulse (PP) depression at MPP-granule cell synapses was impaired in BDNF knock-out (+/-) mice, but PP facilitation at LPP synapses to the same cells was not impaired. In accordance, scavenging of endogenous BDNF with TrkB-IgG fusion protein also impaired PP depression at MPP-granule cell synapses, but not PP facilitation at LPP-granule cell synapses. Conversely, in NT-3+/- mice, PP facilitation was impaired at LPP-granule cell synapses whilst PP depression at MPP-granule cell synapses was unaffected. These deficits could be reversed by application of exogenous neurotrophins in an afferent-specific manner. Our data suggest that BDNF and NT-3 differentially regulate the synaptic impact of different afferent inputs onto single target neurons in the CNS.
Dysfunction of surviving axons which traverse the site of spinal cord injury (SCI) has been linked to altered sensitivity to the K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and appears to contribute to post-traumatic neurological deficits although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, sucrose gap electrophysiology in isolated dorsal column strips, Western blotting and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy were used to identify the K+ channels associated with axonal dysfunction after chronic (6-8 weeks postinjury) clip compresssion SCI of the thoracic cord at T7 in rats. The K+ channel blockers 4-AP (200 microM, 1 mM and 10 mM) and alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX, 500 nM) resulted in a significant relative increase in the amplitude and area of compound action potentials (CAP) recorded from chronically injured dorsal column axons in comparison with control noninjured preparations. In contrast, TEA (10 mM) and CsCl (2 mM) had similar effects on injured and control spinal cord axons. Western blotting and quantitative immunofluorescence microscopy showed increased expression of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 K+ channel proteins on spinal cord axons following injury. In addition, Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 showed a dispersed staining pattern along injured axons in contrast to a paired juxtaparanodal localization in uninjured spinal cord axons. Furthermore, labelled alpha-DTX colocalized with Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 along axons. These findings suggest a novel mechanism of axonal dysfunction after SCI whereby an increased 4-AP- and alpha-DTX-sensitive K+ conductance, mediated in part by increased Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 K+ channel expression, contributes to abnormal axonal physiology in surviving axons.
Are the words reflex and voluntary useful scientific concepts, or are they prescientific terms that should be discarded? Physiologists use these words routinely in their publications, in laboratory experiments and, indeed, like most lay people, in their daily lives. The tacit assumption is that we all know, more or less, what they mean. However, the issue has a rich history of philosophical and scientific debate; and, as this article demonstrates, present-day researchers still cannot reach a consensus on the meaning of the words and on whether it is possible to draw a scientific distinction between them. The five authors present five quite different analyses. In broad terms, they split into two camps: those who equate voluntary behaviours with consciousness and suppressibility and those who view all behaviours as sensorimotor interactions, the complexity of which determines whether they are reflexive or voluntary. According to the first view, most movements of daily life are neither purely reflex nor purely voluntary. They fall into the middle ground of automatic motor programs. According to the second view, as neuroscience advances the class of reflex behaviours will grow and the class of voluntary behaviours will shrink.
Motor unit firing rates of the triceps brachii muscle have been shown to decline during sustained isometric contractions, but not if the fatiguing contraction incorporates arm movements. The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of the actual physical displacement of the limb on the maintenance of motor unit discharge rate during dynamic muscle fatigue. An isometric force pulse paradigm was used to recreate the motor unit activity patterns that occur during a dynamic contraction. With this paradigm, the variable force output that would occur during a dynamic contraction remained intact, but the movement of the limb was eliminated. Motor unit firing rates declined in the isometric force pulse protocol. Thus, factors related to the actual movement of the limb appear to enable the maintenance of motor unit discharge rates during fatigue.
The effects of predictability of load magnitude on anticipatory and triggered grip-force adjustments were studied as nine normal subjects used a precision grip to lift, hold, and replace an instrumented test object. Experience with a predictable stimulus has been shown to enhance magnitude scaling of triggered postural responses to different amplitudes of perturbations. However, this phenomenon, known as a central-set effect, has not been tested systematically for grip-force responses in the hand. In our study, predictability was manipulated by applying load perturbations of different magnitudes to the test object under conditions in which the upcoming load magnitude was presented repeatedly or under conditions in which the load magnitudes were presented randomly, each with two different pre-load grip conditions (unconstrained and constrained). In constrained conditions, initial grip forces were maintained near the minimum level necessary to prevent pre-loaded object slippage, while in unconstrained conditions, no initial grip force restrictions were imposed. The effect of predictable (blocked) and unpredictable (random) load presentations on scaling of anticipatory and triggered grip responses was tested by comparing the slopes of linear regressions between the imposed load and grip response magnitude. Anticipatory and triggered grip force responses were scaled to load magnitude in all conditions. However, regardless of pre-load grip force constraint, the gains (slopes) of grip responses relative to load magnitudes were greater when the magnitude of the upcoming load was predictable than when the load increase was unpredictable. In addition, a central-set effect was evidenced by the fewer number of drop trials in the predictable relative to unpredictable load conditions. Pre-load grip forces showed the greatest set effects. However, grip responses showed larger set effects, based on prediction, when pre-load grip force was constrained to lower levels. These results suggest that anticipatory processes pertaining to load magnitude permit the response gain of both voluntary and triggered rapid grip force adjustments to be set, at least partially, prior to perturbation onset. Comparison of anticipatory set effects for reactive torque and lower extremity EMG postural responses triggered by surface translation perturbations suggests a more general rule governing anticipatory processes.
The presynaptically active, toxic phospholipases known as notexin and taipoxin are principal components of the venom of the Australian tiger snake and the Australian taipan respectively. The inoculation of the toxins into one hind limb of rats caused, within 1 h, the depletion of transmitter from the motor nerve terminals of the soleus muscle. This was followed by the degeneration of the motor nerve terminals and of the axonal cytoskeleton. By 24 h 70% of muscle fibers were completely denervated. Regeneration and functional reinnervation were almost fully restored by 5 days, but collateral innervation was common in the regenerated muscles, and this abnormality persisted for at least 9 months. The data provide an explanation for both the severity of neuromuscular paralysis that can accompany envenoming bites by tiger snakes and taipans and the difficulty experienced by physicians in managing the envenomed subjects.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has prominent survival-promoting effects on lesioned nigrostriatal dopamine neurons, but understanding of the conditions under which functional recovery can be obtained remains to be acquired. We report here the time course of nigrostriatal axon degeneration in the partial lesion model of Parkinson's disease and the morphological and functional effects of sequential administration of GDNF in the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum during the first 5 weeks postlesion. By 1 day postlesion, the nigrostriatal axons had retracted back to the level of the caudal globus pallidus. Over the next 6 days axonal retraction progressed down to the SN, and during the following 7 weeks 74% of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH(+)) and 84% of retrogradely labeled nigral neurons were lost, with a more pronounced loss in the rostral part of the SN. GDNF administration protected 70 and 72% of the nigral TH(+) and retrogradely labeled cell bodies, respectively, but did not prevent the die-back of the lesioned nigrostriatal axons. Although clear signs of sprouting were observed close to the injection site in the striatum as well as in the globus pallidus, the overall DA innervation of the striatum [as measured by [(3)H]-N-[1-(2-benzo(b)thiopenyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine-binding autoradiography] was not improved by the GDNF treatment. Moreover, the lesion-induced deficits in forelimb akinesia and drug-induced rotation were not attenuated. We conclude that functional recovery in the partial lesion model depends not only on preservation of the nigral cell bodies, but more critically on the ability of GDNF to promote significant reinnervation of the denervated striatum.
In the visual cortex, information is transferred from one area to the next by means of feedforward connections. These connections shape the receptive field properties of neurons in subsequent visual areas. Horizontal and feedback connections modulate this neuronal activity, resulting in the phenomenon of contextual modulation. In area V1, where receptive field properties reflect only low level processing, contextual modulation can be observed that represents fully evaluated perceptual saliency of the features within the receptive field. Here, we discuss to what extent these modulations are related to high level visual processes like perceptual organization, attention and visual awareness. Contextual modulation appears to reflects a process very distinct from receptive field based processing. This process seems to integrate information from distant areas in visual cortex to neurophysiologically 'highlight' those neurons that represent image elements or features of objects that stand out perceptually. Moreover, similar modulations are observed in relation to whether objects are attended to or not. Finally, these modulations are only present when subjects are aware of the visual input.
The present review of visual attentional processes and aging focuses on definitions of attention that emphasize some aspect of the control of information processing (selective attention) or the processing resources needed to drive these control processes (attentional capacity). Emphasis is placed on how increased adult age affects attentional mechanisms and how these age differences in attention affect overall information processing. Past research has emphasized that selective attention appears to be resistant to age-related decline. Age-related deficits in attentional capacity or processing resources, however, have been found. A review of more recent psychological research demonstrates the extension of the investigation of attention with emphasis on further defining what is selected in selective attention, and on reexamining the processing resources or capacity issue. Finally, developments in cognitive neuroscience are reviewed in terms of their relevance to attention and aging.
The activity of the medial olivocochlear bundle (MOCB) can be studied in humans through variations in the level of evoked otoacoustic emissions (EOAEs) elicited by contralateral acoustic stimuli (CAS). The present study sought to investigate how the activity of the MOC system at a given frequency, as measured through the contralateral suppression of tone-pip EOAEs, depends on the bandwidth of the contralateral stimulus. EOAEs were recorded in 155 normal-hearing subjects, successively with and without contralateral stimuli whose bandwidth, center frequency and level were systematically varied. We showed a clear dependence of contralateral EOAE suppression on bandwidth demonstrating increased suppression with increased bandwidth over about two octaves around the center frequency of the noise. This effect was obtained irrespective of whether contralateral noise energy was kept constant independently of bandwidth or not, which indicates a role of bandwidth per se in contralateral EOAE suppression. Results are interpreted in terms of a simple model of MOCB activation mechanisms including peripheral bandpass filtering, within-channel compression and across-channel spatial summation by the afferent paths. Complementary experiments suggested a greater effectiveness of increases in bandwidth on the upper than on the lower side and of frequency components akin to or remote from the test frequency than of intermediate bands. Finally, these results were complemented by detailed spectrum analyses of the EOAE level variations induced by the different noises, which revealed that whilst noise components close to or remote from the center frequency generally attenuated EOAE level, intermediate components could in some cases lead to a relative increase in EOAE level. These results can further be explained by assuming different positive and negative weights on the inputs to the spatial summation process depending on their position relative to the center frequency.
Latency, temporal dispersion and input-output characteristics of auditory nerve fiber responses to electrical pulse trains in normal and chronically deafened cat ears were classified and tentatively associated with sites where activity is initiated. Spikes occurred in one or more of four discrete time ranges whose endpoints overlapped partially. A responses had latencies &lt;0.44 ms, exhibited asymptotic temporal dispersion of 8-12 micros and possessed an average dynamic range of 1.2 dB for 200 pulses/s (pps) pulse trains. They likely originated from central processes of spiral ganglion cells. B(1) and B(2) responses (0.45-0.9 ms, 25-40 micros, 1.9 dB) likely stemmed from activity at myelinated and unmyelinated peripheral processes, respectively. C100 micros) likely originated from direct stimulation of inner hair cells, and D8 dB) arose from propagating traveling waves possibly caused by electrically induced motion of outer hair cells. C and D responses were recorded only in acoustically responsive ears. Mean latencies of spikes in all time ranges usually decreased with intensity, and activity at two or even three discrete latencies was often observed in the same spike train. Latency shifts from one discrete time range to another often occurred as intensity increased. Some shifts could be attributed to responses to the opposite-polarity phase of the biphasic pulse. In these cases, temporal dispersion and dynamic range were approximately equal for activity at each latency. A second type of latency shift was also often observed, in which responses at each latency exhibited dissimilar temporal dispersion and dynamic range. This behavior was attributed to a centralward shift in the spike initiation site and it occurred for monophasic as well as biphasic signals. Several fibers exhibited dual latency activity with a 40-90 micros time difference between response peaks. This may have stemmed from spike initiation at nodes on either side of the cell body. Increasing the stimulus pulse rate to 800-1000 pps produced small increases in temporal dispersion and proportionate increases in asymptotic discharge rate and dynamic range, but thresholds did not improve and slopes of rate-intensity functions (in spikes/s/dB) did not change. Responses to high-rate stimuli also exhibited discrete latency increases when discharge rates exceeded 300-400 spikes/s. Spike by spike latencies in these cases depended strongly on the discharge history. Implications for high-rate speech processing strategies are discussed.
Behavioral development in the adult worker honey bee (Apis mellifera), from performing tasks inside the hive to foraging, is associated with an increase in the blood titer of juvenile hormone III (JH), and hormone treatment results in precocious foraging. To study behavioral development in the absence of JH we removed its glandular source, the corpora allata, in 1-day-old adult bees. The age at onset of foraging for allatectomized bees in typical colonies was significantly older compared with that of sham-operated bees in 3 out of 4 colonies; this delay was eliminated by hormone replacement in 3 out of 3 colonies. To determine the effects of corpora allata removal on sensitivity to changes in conditions that influence the rate of behavioral development, we used &quot;single-cohort&quot; colonies (composed of only young bees) in which some colony members initiate foraging precociously. The age at onset of foraging for allatectomized bees was significantly older compared with that of sham-operated bees in 2 out of 3 colonies, and this delay was eliminated by hormone replacement. Allatectomized bees initiated foraging at significantly younger ages in single-cohort colonies than in typical colonies. These results demonstrate that JH influences the pace of behavioral development in honey bees, but is not essential for either foraging or altering behavioral development in response to changes in conditions.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor plays an important role in developmental plasticity. Previous studies have reported differences between the NMDA receptor-channel complex in the rat pup brain and the adult brain. In the present study, modulation of the NMDA channel complex as a function of age was measured to determine when the temporal switching of the NMDA receptor from the immature form to the adult mature form takes place. [(3)H]MK-801 binding was measured in the rat forebrain from postnatal day 1 to day 21. Our data suggest the presence of two types of NMDA receptors - an immature type and a mature type. The immature NMDA receptor, seen during the early postnatal period (day 1-day 14) is highly sensitive to spermidine, L-glutamate alone potentiates [(3)H]MK-801 binding, and glycine failed to potentiate an L-glutamate-induced increase in [(3)H]MK-801 binding. During the late postnatal period (after day 14) spermidine alone did not increase [(3)H]MK-801 binding as potently as it did during the early postnatal period, high-affinity [(3)H]MK-801 binding was not seen in the presence of L-glutamate alone, and L-glutamate and glycine or L-glutamate and spermidine or L-glutamate, glycine and spermidine together, significantly increased [(3)H]MK-801 binding in a manner similar to that reported in the adult brain. Together, the pharmacology of the NMDA receptor during the early postnatal period differs from the adult-like receptor seen during the late postnatal period, and that in rats the apparent switching of the NMDA receptor from the immature type to the mature type takes place after the second postnatal week.
Carcinoma of the head and neck is the sixth leading cause of cancer in the world, and the third most common neoplasia in developing countries. More than 90% of head and neck cancers are squamous cell carcinomas (SCCHN). Approximately half of the patients afflicted die within 5 years of diagnosis and survival rates for cancer of the upper aero-digestive tract have not changed in 25 years. The opioid growth factor (OGF), Met5-enkephalin, inhibits the growth of SCCHN in vitro and in vivo, and acts in a receptor-mediated fashion. Receptor binding assays using CAL-27 human SCCHN cells in culture and 3H-Met5-enkephalin were employed to identify and characterize the receptor responsible for the growth-regulatory effects of OGF. Specific and saturable binding was recorded, and Scatchard analysis showed that the data were consistent for a single binding site with a binding affinity (Kd) of 5.0+/-0.9 nM and maximal binding capacity (Bmax) of 47.5+/-1.7 fmol/mg protein. Subcellular fractionation studies determined that the optimal binding occurred with the nuclear fraction. Competition experiments demonstrated that cold Met5-enkephalin was at least 7-fold greater than ligands selective for classical opioid receptors. Binding was detected in 4 other SCCHN cell lines. Receptor number in xenografts of CAL-27 was decreased almost 5-fold compared to the same cells grown in vitro. Binding to radiolabeled Met5-enkephalin was recorded in SCCHN obtained from surgical resections. The function, pharmacological and biochemical characteristics, distribution and subcellular location of OGF binding in human SCCHN were consonant with the OGF receptor (OGFr).


Big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) were trained to discriminate between vertical angles subtended by paired beads suspended from fishing line. Bats were rewarded for choosing the smaller of the two angles presented. The difference between the angles was changed systematically using a transformed up-down procedure and the bats' ability to detect the difference was measured at different vertical locations. When the beads were centered at +20 degrees (above the horizon), at 0 degree (the horizon), and at -20 degrees (below the horizon), vertical angle acuity (VAA) was maintained between 2.9 degrees and 4.1 degrees. At more extreme vertical positions both bats showed loss of acuity; when the beads were centered around -40 degrees, VAA was 6.7 degrees or 8.3 degrees and at +40, VAA was worse than 21 degrees (the largest difference tested). When the tragi of both ears were bent down and glued to the side of the face, bats showed severe loss of acuity for beads centered at -20 degrees (VAA 18.3 degrees and 20.1 degrees), but maintained their angle acuity for beads centered at +20 degrees (VAA 3.8 degrees and 4.9 degrees). The results are consistent with the spectral cues created by the filtering of the external ear.
Classic ideas on mechanisms for axon sprouting and nerve regeneration from peripheral nerves suggest that there is a prominent role for neurotrophin support. There has been comparatively less attention towards features of the regenerative process that develop from the proximal nerve trunk without the support of target tissues or the denervated trunk of a peripheral nerve. We studied early (2-14 d) expression of local growth factors in proximal nerve stump tips of transected sciatic nerves in rats. Immunohistochemical labelling was used to address specific deposition of BDNF, NGF, NT-3, bFGF, CNTF and IGF-1. We observed a unique localisation of BDNF, and to a much lesser extent, NGF in mast cells of injured nerve trunks but they were also observed in intact uninjured nerves. Macrophages did not express either BDNF or NGF. CNTF and IGF-1 were expressed in Schwann cells of intact nerves and stumps. We did not observe bFGF or NT-3 expression in any of the samples we studied. Mast cells may represent an important reservoir of BDNF in peripheral nerves.
A high-frequency burst of pulses at the onset of a subtetanic train of stimulation allows skeletal muscle to hold force at a higher level than expected from the extra pulses alone because of the catchlike property of muscle. The present study tested the hypothesis that the presence and degree of force increase induced by a high-frequency burst are strongly modulated by the subsequent train frequency. Rat diaphragm muscle strips (studied in vitro at 37 degrees C) underwent two-, three-, or four-pulse bursts [interpulse interval (IPI) of 5 or 10 ms] at the onset of 10- to 50-Hz subtetanic trains. Force was quantified during the train with respect to its peak value (F(peak)), mean value (F(mean)), and force-time integral (F(area)), and it was compared with that produced during subtetanic trains of an equal number of pulses without preceding pulse bursts (Diff-F(peak), Diff-F(mean), Diff-F(area)). F(peak) and F(mean) increased with two-, three-, and four-pulse bursts, and Diff-F(peak) and Diff-F(mean) increased progressively with decreasing frequency of the subtetanic train. F(area), the best reflection of catchlike force augmentation, was increased mainly by the four-pulse bursts with an IPI of 10 ms, and Diff-F(area) was maximal at subsequent train frequencies of 15-25 Hz. The use of incorrect patterns of burst stimulation could also precipitate F(area) decreases, which were observed with the four-pulse, 5-ms IPI paradigm. The time required to reach 80% of maximal force (T(80%)) became shorter for each of the pulse burst stimulation patterns, with maximal reduction of Diff-T(80%) occurring at a subsequent train frequency of 20 Hz in all cases. These data indicate that extra-pulse burst stimulation paradigms need to incorporate the optimal combinations of extra-pulse number, IPI, and the frequency of the subsequent subtetanic train to take greatest advantage of the catchlike property of muscle.
Ca2+ signals propagate in wave form along individual cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and through networks of connected cells of neuronal and multiple glial cell types. In order for wave fronts to convey information, signaling mechanisms are required that allow waves to propagate reproducibly and without decrement in signal strength over long distances. CNS Ca2+ waves are under specific integrated local control, made possible by interactions at local subcellular microdomains between endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Active mitochondria located near the mouth of inositol trisphosphate receptor (InsP3R) channel clusters in glia take up Ca2+, which may prevent a buildup of Ca2+ around the InsP3R channel, thereby decreasing the rate of Ca2+-induced receptor inactivation, and prolonging channel open time. Mitochondria may amplify InsP3-dependent Ca2+ signals by a transient permeability transition in response to Ca2+ uptake into the mitochondrion. Other evidence suggests privileged access into mitochondria for Ca2+ entering neurons by glutamatergic receptor channels. This enables specific signal modulation as the Ca2+ wave is propagated into neurons, such that mitochondria located close to glutamate channels can prolong the neuronal cytosolic response time by successive uptake and release of Ca2+. Disruption of mitochondrial function deregulates the ability of CNS-derived cells to undergo normal Ca2+ signaling and wave propagation.
Hypotransferrinemia is a genetic defect in mice resulting in &lt;1% of normal plasma transferrin (Tf) concentrations; heterozygotes for this mutation (+/hpx) have low circulating Tf concentrations. We used this mutant mouse in conjunction with dietary iron deficiency to study the influence of Tf and iron on bone structural and mechanical properties. Twenty-one weanling wild-type BALB/cj +/+ mice and 21 weanling +/hpx mice were fed iron-deficient or iron-adequate diets for 8 weeks. Twelve hpx/hpx mice were fed the iron-adequate diet. Hypotransferrinemia resulted in increased tibia iron and calcium concentrations, lower femur failure load, and extrinsic stiffness. Because the femurs of the hpx/hpx mice were disproportionately small, these bones actually had increased tissue material properties (ultimate stress [US] and modulus of elasticity) than those of wild-type mice. This is the first report on the effect of dietary iron deficiency on bone structural and mechanical properties. Dietary iron deficiency in +/+ and +/hpx mice decreased tibia iron concentrations but had no effect on tibia calcium and phosphorus concentrations or femur structural or mechanical properties. Because the bones of the hpx/hpx mice were small, but had superior tissue mechanical properties, we conclude that Tf is important for normal bone mineralization.
Neurofilaments comprise three subunit proteins; neurofilament light, middle and heavy chains (NF-L, NF-M and NF-H). The carboxy-terminal domains of NF-M and NF-H form side-arms that project from the filament and that of NF-H contains multiple repeats of the motif lys-ser-pro, the serines of which are targets for phosphorylation. The level of phosphorylation on the lys-ser-pro repeats varies topographically within the cell; in cell bodies and proximal axons, the side-arms are largely non-phosphorylated whereas in more distal regions of axons, the side-arms are heavily phosphorylated. Here we show that stress activated protein kinase 1b (SAPK1b), a major SAPK in neurones will phosphorylate NF-H side-arms both in vitro and in transfected cells. These studies suggest that SAPK1b targets multiple phosphorylation sites within NF-H side-arms. Additionally, we show that glutamate treatment induces activation of SAPK1b in primary cortical neurones and increased phosphorylation of NF-H in cell bodies. This suggests that glutamate causes increased NF-H phosphorylation at least in part by activation of stress activated protein kinases.
The angiopoietin/Tie receptor system may contribute to angiogenesis and vascular remodeling by mediating interactions of endothelial cells with smooth muscle cells and pericytes. The temporal expression of angiopoietin-1 (Angpo-1), angiopoietin-2 (Angpo-2), Tie-1, and Tie-2 mRNA was studied in a focal cerebral ischemia model in rats. The cDNA fragments obtained from reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction amplification were cloned and used as a probe to detect individual genes. Northern blot analysis showed a delayed increase of a 4.4-kb Angpo-1 transcript for up to 2 weeks after ischemia, eightfold higher than the values of the sham-operated controls. A biphasic expression of a 2.4-kb Angpo-2 transcript was noted, peaking at 24 hours (6.4-fold) and 2 weeks (4.6-fold) after ischemia. The expression of Tie-2 mRNA (4.3 kb), a receptor for Angpo-1, and Tie-1 mRNA (4.3 kb) also increased starting 24 hours after reperfusion and remained elevated for up to 2 weeks after ischemia. The temporal profiles of the expression of these genes were different from those of other angiogenic genes such as basic fibrobast growth factor/fibroblast growth factor receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and proteolytic enzymes (tissue-type plasminogen activator and urokinase plasminogen activator) and their inhibitors (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1). The expression patterns of these genes could be related to progressive tissue liquefaction and neovascularization after ischemia in this stroke model. Differential expression of these angiogenesis genes suggests the involvement of complex regulatory mechanisms that remain to be characterized.
In the present review article we summarize mainly histochemical work dealing with descending bulbospinal serotonin neurons which also express a number of neuropeptides, in particular substance P and thyrotropin releasing hormone. Such neurons have been observed both in rat, cat and monkey, and may preferentially innervate the ventral horns of the spinal cord, whereas the serotonin projections to the dorsal horn seem to lack these coexisting peptides. More recent studies indicate that a small population of medullary raphe serotonin neurons, especially at rostral levels, also synthesize the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA). Many serotonin neurons contain the glutamate synthesizing enzyme glutaminase and can be labelled with antibodies raised against glutamate, suggesting that one and the same neuron may release several signalling substances, causing a wide spectrum of post- (and pre-) synaptic actions.
Serotonergic systems, their phylogeny and ontogeny have been thoroughly described up to the ultrastructural level, thanks to the multiplicity of methodological approaches. They have often been referred to as a 'Rosetta stone', as several features first described for serotonin neurons or paraneurons have been then extended to other neurotransmitter systems: coexistence with neuropeptides or even a canonical neurotransmitter (GABA), volume transmission, regrowth after lesioning, and characterization of multiple receptor subtypes. This review deals with the contributions of neuroanatomical approaches for studying serotoninergic systems, and focuses on recent advances concerning the topological relationships between serotonergic innervation, receptors and target cells. This aspect is particularly important with regard to the possibility for serotonin to act through classical synaptic transmission and/or non-junctional transmission. Serotonin then can selectively regulate different neuronal systems through the activation of distinct receptor subtypes, which in turn can be linked to different transduction pathways. Neurocytochemical approaches constitute unique tools to analyse both anatomical and functional characteristics of complex neuronal systems.
Using a recently developed antiserum against a splice variant (pChAT) of choline acetyltransferase, the enzyme which synthesizes acetylcholine, we carried out an immunohistochemical examination in the digestive canal of rats. Positive staining was exclusively localized to neuronal cells and fibers. Positive somata were distributed widely in the intramural ganglia throughout the digestive tract from the esophagus to the rectum. Double staining indicated that, in the rat, virtually all pChAT immunoreactive somata exhibited histochemical activity for acetylcholinesterase but not for NADPH-diaphorase. In the guinea pig, however, there were a few neurons possessing both pChAT and NADPH-diaphorase. We also found a few neuronal somata which were positive for acetylcholinesterase but not for pChAT. The results suggest that pChAT immunohistochemistry is useful for studying the enteric cholinergic system.
The cholinergic neurons of the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental neurons are thought to comprise an important portion of the ascending reticular activating system. More recent work has demonstrated that the neurons of this cell group also released a number of neruoactive peptides and can produce nitric oxide in response to increases in intracellular calcium. The release of NO from the nerve terminals of these cells within the thalamus varies with behavioural state, being much lower during slow wave sleep than during wake and paradoxical sleep states. The NO release in the thalamus appears to act via the type II cGMP-dependent protein kinase present at high levels in the thalamic neurons. Thus the NO-cGMP signal transduction system can play an important role in regulating thalamic activity across behavioural states.
The California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) is designed to quantify components of verbal learning, retention and retrieval. The present study used multiple regression analyses to correct for demographic characteristics on CVLT performance measures. There were 906 subjects, of whom 549 were Caucasians (61%) and 357 were African Americans (39%). Age, education, ethnicity, and gender were found to be significant predictors of performance on several CVLT indices, including Total Words Recalled, Trial 1, Trial 5, List B, Short Delay Free Recall (SDFR), and Long Delay Free Recall (LDFR). Demographically corrected T-scores were calculated for a base sample of 672 subjects and cross-validated on 234 separate subjects. Tables and regression equations are offered to convert raw scores into T-scores corrected for age, gender, education, and ethnicity. Demographically corrected Recognition Discriminability cutoff scores were calculated for age and education levels. In order to provide some indices of important memory processes, we also computed indices of retrieval, Short-Delay forgetting and Long-Delay forgetting and present normative information for them.

The pharmacokinetic interaction between nefazodone and carbamazepine was investigated in 12 healthy male volunteers. Subjects received nefazodone 200 mg twice daily for 5 days, and blood sample collection was performed on day 5 for 0- to 48-hour pharmacokinetic analysis. A 4-day wash-out phase then followed from days 6 to 9. Carbamazepine 200 mg was administered once daily from days 10 to 12, and then 200 mg was given twice daily from days 13 to 44. A 0- to 48-hour pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on day 38. Nefazodone 200 mg twice daily was added to the dosing regimen from days 40 to 44, and a subsequent 0- to 48-hour pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on day 44. Coadministration of nefazodone increased steady-state plasma area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of carbamazepine from 60.77 (+/-8.44) to 74.98 (+/-12.88) microg x hr/mL (p &lt; 0.001) and decreased the active carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide metabolite AUC concentration from 7.10 (+/-1.16) to 5.71 (+/-0.52) microg x hr/mL (p &lt; 0.005). During the combination, the steady-state AUC of nefazodone decreased from 7,326 (+/-3,768) to 542 (+/-191) ng x hr/mL, and the AUCs of its metabolites (hydroxynefazodone, meta-chlorophenylpiperazine, and triazoledione) decreased significantly as well (p &lt; 0.001). Coadministration of nefazodone 200 mg twice daily and carbamazepine 200 mg twice daily was found to be safe and well tolerated; however, the increased plasma exposure to carbamazepine may warrant monitoring of plasma carbamazepine concentrations with the combination. However, higher doses (&gt;400 mg/day) of carbamazepine could yield more extensive induction, affecting tolerability of the combination. No change in the initial nefazodone dose is necessary, and subsequent dose adjustments should be made on the basis of clinical effects; however, the repercussion of carbamazepine induction of nefazodone metabolism on the antidepressant efficacy has yet to be studied.
Chemical signals are an important aspect of ecological interactions in crustacean systems. Repellent chemical signals can be classified into three context-specific categories: chemicals released directly from a repellent stimulus (avoidance chemicals), chemicals released from damaged conspecifics (alarm chemicals) and chemicals released from stressed but undamaged conspecifics (stress chemicals). Our study examines the existence and putative source of the stress signals in crayfish. We hypothesize that Procambarus clarkii can recognize stressed individuals through chemical signals and also that the source of the signal that provides P. clarkii with information on the behavioral state of the sender is the urine. We collected urine and gill water from stressed and non-stressed animals, and chemicals from damaged conspecifics. Chemical cues were introduced into a test arena while several behavior patterns of P. clarkii were recorded. Stressed crayfish produce significantly more urine than non-stressed crayfish, and this urine caused crayfish to walk significantly faster and farther and away from the source of the signal. These results demonstrate that predator-stressed crayfish release urine that causes other crayfish to move away from the source of the signal. Responses to stress chemical signals may allow receiving organisms to avoid the fate of the signal sender.
Voltage-dependent inhibition of N- and P/Q-type calcium channels by G proteins is crucial for presynaptic inhibition of neurotransmitter release, and may contribute importantly to short-term synaptic plasticity. Such calcium-channel modulation could thereby impact significantly the neuro-computational repertoire of neural networks. The differential modulation of N and P/Q channels could even further enrich their impact upon synaptic tuning. Here, we performed in-depth comparison of the G-protein inhibition of recombinant N and P/Q channels, expressed in HEK 293 cells with the m2 muscarinic receptor. While both channel types display classic features of G-protein modulation (kinetic slowing of activation, prepulse facilitation, and voltage dependence of inhibition), we confirmed previously reported quantitative differences, with N channels displaying stronger inhibition and greater relief of inhibition by prepulses. A more fundamental, qualitative difference in the modulation of these two channels was revealed by a modified tail-activation paradigm, as well as by a novel &quot;slope&quot; analysis method comparing time courses of slow activation and prepulse facilitation. The stark contrast in modulatory behavior can be understood within the context of the &quot;willing-reluctant&quot; model, in which binding of G-protein betagamma subunits to channels induces a reluctant mode of gating, where stronger depolarization is required for opening. Our experiments suggest that only N channels could be opened in the reluctant mode, at voltages normally spanned by neuronal action potentials. By contrast, P/Q channels appear to remain closed, especially over these physiological voltages. Further, the differential occurrence of reluctant openings is not explained by differences in the rate of G-protein unbinding from the two channels. These two scenarios predict very different effects of G-protein inhibition on the waveform of Ca(2+) entry during action potentials, with potentially important consequences for the timing and efficacy of synaptic transmission.
A Sunderland type IV traction injury to the C6 root of the sheep or lamb brachial plexus was used as a model for obstetric traction injury to the C5 root in humans. The injury was created and immediately repaired using interfascicular nerve autografts in a group of adult sheep and a group of newborn lambs. The animals were examined using electrophysiological and morphometric techniques 1 year after operation. It was found that the recovery of neuromuscular function was superior in the lambs. The implication is that nerves in newborn animals have a better potential for regeneration than that seen in older individuals. This is discussed with reference to the management of obstetric brachial plexus palsy.
Immunocytochemistry is used for antibody localization of proteins in cells and tissues. The specificity of the results depends on two independent criteria: the specificity of the antibody and of the method used. The antibody specificity is best determined by immunoblot and or immunoprecipitation. Absorption of the antibody with a protein does not determine that the antibody would have bound to the same protein in the tissue, and therefore is not a good control for antibody specificity. The specificity of the method is best determined by both a negative control, replacing the primary antibody with serum, and a positive control, using the antibody with cells known to contain the protein. With the increasing use of immunocytochemistry, it is important to be aware of the appropriate controls needed to show specificity of the labeling. (J Histochem Cytochem 48:163-165, 2000)
HIV-1 infection of the brain results in chronic inflammation, contributing to the neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 associated neurologic disease. HIV-1-infected mononuclear phagocytes (MP) present in inflammatory infiltrates produce neurotoxins that mediate inflammation, dysfunction, and neuronal apoptosis. Neurologic disease is correlated with the relative number of MP in and around inflammatory infiltrates and not viral burden. It is unclear whether these cells also play a neuroprotective role. We show that the chemokine, fractalkine (FKN), is markedly up-regulated in neurons and neuropil in brain tissue from pediatric patients with HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE) compared with those without HIVE, or that were HIV-1 seronegative. FKN receptors are expressed on both neurons and microglia in patients with HIVE. These receptors are localized to cytoplasmic structures which are characterized by a vesicular appearance in neurons which may be in cell-to-cell contact with MPs. FKN colocalizes with glutamate in these neurons. Similar findings are observed in brain tissue from an adult patient with HIVE. FKN is able to potently induce the migration of primary human monocytes across an endothelial cell/primary human fetal astrocyte trans-well bilayer, and is neuroprotective to cultured neurons when coadministered with either the HIV-1 neurotoxin platelet activating factor (PAF) or the regulatory HIV-1 gene product Tat. Thus focal inflammation in brain tissue with HIVE may up-regulate neuronal FKN levels, which in turn may be a neuroimmune modulator recruiting peripheral macrophages into the brain, and in a paracrine fashion protecting glutamatergic neurons.
Previous research has found an unmet need for oral care among people with intellectual disability. The key factors which have been indicated are low expectations, fear of treatment, lack of awareness among carers and problems in accessing dental services. The withdrawal of many general dental practitioners (GDPs) from the National Health Service (NHS) may have exacerbated the latter problem in the UK. The aims of the present study were: (1) to assess the extent of unmet clinical needs in a group of adults with intellectual disability living in the community who were not in contact with the Community Dental Service (CDS); and (2) to explore their perceptions of teeth and contact with dentists to identify how oral care can be improved. Interviews were completed with subjects and/or carers and a dental examination was completed. There were higher levels of untreated caries (decay), and gingival or periodontal (gum) problems among the sample than in either the general population, or in a previous survey of CDS users at day centres and residential facilities. The subjects were largely unaware of dental problems, and used the appearance and absence of pain to judge the condition of their teeth. They depended greatly on their carers for decision-making and support with regard to visiting the dentist and tooth-brushing. Carers requested training in oral care and the use of dental services, and support in dealing with clients who have problems tolerating tooth-brushing. The subjects had experienced a wide variation in the treatment provided by dentists, but had not found it difficult to access a dentist despite recent reductions in the availability of NHS dental care. They expressed a particular need for a good relationship with their dentist and for their dentist to have personal skills in relating to people with an intellectual disability. Dental screening checks and oral care training for carers should be made easily available. Care plans should include tooth-brushing and dietary issues for all clients who have their own natural teeth. There are significant training issues for dentists in developing personal skills in total communication, disability awareness and attitudes which value people with intellectual disability.
To investigate the roles of type I interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) and other mediators of innate immune responses (e.g., inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS]) in early dissemination of Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEE) infection, we used mice with targeted deletions in either their IFN-alpha/beta-receptor (IFNAR-1-/-) or interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF-2-/-) genes. Following footpad infection, both IFNAR-1-/- and IRF-2-/- mice were more susceptible than control mice to VEE. The IFNAR-1-/- mice also exhibit accelerated VEE dissemination to serum, spleen, and brain, and compared with control mice, they evidenced faster kinetics in the upregulation of proinflammatory genes. In contrast, in IRF-2-/- mice, iNOS gene induction was completely absent following peripheral virulent VEE infection. In evaluating the role of cells involved in iNOS production, primary microglial cell cultures were found to be highly permissive to VEE infection. Moreover, VEE infection increased levels of nitric oxide (NO) in resting microglial cultures but decreased NO production in IFN-gamma-stimulated microglia. Thus, these findings suggest that reactive nitrogen species play an important contributory role in VEE dissemination and survival of the host. Our results further suggest the necessity for a carefully balanced host response that follows a middle course between immunopathology and insufficient inflammatory response to VEE infection.

Recent data from our laboratory have shown a regionally specific increase in lipid peroxidation in postmortem progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) brain. To extend this finding, we measured activities of mitochondrial enzymes as well as tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in postmortem superior frontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9; SFC) from 14 pathologically confirmed cases of PSP and 13 age-matched control brains. Significant decreases (-39%) in alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex/glutamate dehydrogenase ratio and significant increases (+36%) in tissue MDA levels were observed in the SFC in PSP; no differences in complex I or complex IV activities were detected. Together, these results suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid peroxidation may underlie the frontal metabolic and functional deficits observed in PSP.
Neurosteroids in rodents can originate from peripheral tissues or be locally synthesized in specific brain areas. There is, as yet, no information about the synthesis and regulation of neurosteroids in human brain. We examined the ability of human brain cells to synthesize steroids from a radiolabeled precursor and the mRNA and protein expression of key components of peripheral steroidogenic machinery. Oligodendrocytes are the source of pregnenolone in human brain. Human astrocytes do not synthesize radiolabeled pregnenolone, nor do human neurons. There is potential for all three cell types to metabolize pregnenolone to other neurosteroids, including dehydroepiandrosterone. mRNA and protein for cytochrome P450 17alpha-hydroxylase were found in all cell types, although no activity could be demonstrated. We examined the ability of the cells to make dehydroepiandrosterone via an alternative pathway induced by treatment with Fe2+. Oligodendrocytes and astrocytes make dehydroepiandrosterone via this pathway, but neurons do not. In searching for a natural regulator of dehydroepiandrosterone formation, we observed that treating oligodendrocytes with beta-amyloid, which increases reactive oxygen species, also increased dehydroepiandrosterone formation. These effects of beta-amyloid were blocked by vitamin E. These results indicate that human brain makes steroids in a cell-specific manner and suggest that dehydroepiandrosterone synthesis can be regulated by intracellular free radicals.
Murine gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A homomeric receptors made of beta1 subunits are profoundly different, when expressed in Xenopus oocytes, from beta3 homomeric receptors. Application of the intravenous general anesthetic pentobarbital, etomidate, or propofol to beta3 homomeric receptors allows current flow. In contrast, beta1 homomers do not respond to any of these agents. Through construction of chimeric beta1/beta3 receptors, we identified a single amino acid that determines the pharmacological difference between the two beta subunits. When the serine residue present in the wild-type nonresponsive beta1 subunit is replaced by an asparagine found in the same position in the beta3 subunit, the resulting point-mutated beta1S265N forms receptors responsive to intravenous general anesthetics, like the wild-type beta3 subunits. Conversely, after mutation of the wild-type beta3 to beta3N265S, the homomeric receptor loses its ability to respond to these same general anesthetics. Wild-type-to-mutant titration experiments showed that the nonresponsive phenotype is dominant: A single nonresponsive residue within a pentameric receptor is sufficient to render the receptor nonresponsive. In alpha1betax or alpha1betaxgamma2 heteromeric receptors, the same residue manifests as a partial determinant of the degree of potentiation of the GABA-induced current by some general anesthetics. The location of this amino acid at the extracellular end of the second transmembrane segment, its influence in both homomeric and heteromeric receptor function, and its dominant behavior suggest that this residue of the beta subunit is involved in an allosteric modulation of the receptor.
Several cholinesterase inhibitors used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been shown to interact with an allosteric site on the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). A possible linkage between the phosphorylation state of tau, the major component of paired helical filaments found in AD brain, and stimulation of nAChRs by cholinesterase inhibitors and nicotinic agonists was investigated. Western blot analysis showed that treatment of SH-SY5Y cells for 72 h with the cholinesterase inhibitors tacrine (10(-5) M), donepezil (10(-5) M), and galanthamine (10(-5) M), nicotine (10(-5) M), and epibatidine (10(-7) M) increased tau levels as detected with Tau-1, AT 8, and AT 270 monoclonal antibodies and binding of [3H]epibatidine. The increase in tau immunoreactivity induced by nicotine, epibatidine, and tacrine, but not the up-regulation of nAChRs, was prevented by the antagonists d-tubocurarine and mecamylamine. Both antagonists were synergistic with the nicotinic agonists in causing up-regulation, but only d-tubocurarine showed a synergistic effect with tacrine. The increased tau immunoreactivity induced by tacrine was not prevented by atropine, indicating that in terms of cholinergic receptors, tacrine modulates tau levels mainly through interactions with nAChRs and not with muscarinic receptors. Additional work is needed to determine the exact mechanism by which cholinesterase inhibitors and nicotinic agonists modulate phosphorylation and levels of tau protein.
The effects of Na+ deprivation on local calcium signal decay and the rate of exocytotic secretion were measured in single bovine chromaffin cells to determine whether Na-Ca exchange influences the local cytosolic Ca2+ signal for neurohormone release. Na+ replacement with N-methylglucamine caused a marked slowing of the decay of the local Ca2+ signal near points of its initiation, as measured by high-resolution fluorescent Ca2+ imaging in the confocal laser scanning microscope. Na+ replacement also resulted in a doubling of the rate and magnitude of exocytotic secretion measured in single cells by high-resolution microamperometry. Release rates provide an independent measure of local active zone Ca2+. Five repetitive stimulations of the same cell in Na+-free, but not in Na+-containing, medium resulted in a progressively increasing rate of catecholamine release, suggesting an increasing level of active zone Ca2+ and a role of Na-Ca exchange activity in Ca2+ clearance between stimulations. As secretory activity and its triggering Ca2+ signals are known to be co-localized in active zones along the plasma membrane, the results suggest that Na-Ca exchange may influence the decay of the local Ca2+ signal for exocytotic secretion. This would be consistent with a contribution to local Ca2+ clearance by a novel mechanism utilizing the insertion of secretory vesicle Na-Ca exchangers into the plasma membrane during exocytosis.
The unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are a class of excitatory interneurons recently discovered in the cerebellar granular layer. UBCs differ morphologically and biochemically from granule cells, although they share the same mossy fiber and Golgi cell inputs. To elucidate development of the UBCs, we sought to ascertain their presence in primary cerebellar cultures and the class-specific properties they develop in vitro outside of the context of the tissue. By light and electron microscopy, we demonstrate that primary cultures from embryonic and postnatal mouse and rat cerebella contain UBC-like neurons that are highly polarized and can be distinguished from granule cells on several grounds. Granule cells are more numerous in dissociated postnatal cultures than in embryonic cultures; express little, if any, calretinin immunoreactivity; and develop dendritic processes devoid of typical claw-like endings, but provided with small synaptic junctions. By contrast, UBC-like neurons occur more frequently in embryonic cultures than in postnatal cultures, are intensely calretinin-positive, and develop characteristic cell organelles, dendrites, and large synapses. In embryonic cultures, the UBC-like neurons have a clear nucleus and contain a special cytoplasmic array of ringlet subunits, resembling the botrysome. At 12-28 days in vitro, the UBC dendrites contain abundant mitochondria, are provided with clusters of non-synaptic appendages, and engage in glomerular arrays together with large and small axon terminals. The large terminals contain round synaptic vesicles, form extensive, asymmetric synapses with the cell bodies and the dendrites of the UBC-like neurons, and resemble mossy terminals, while the small terminals contain pleomorphic vesicles, form symmetric synaptic junctions, and resemble Golgi terminals. In postnatal cultures grown for 12 days, UBC-like neurons are rare and resemble in most aspects the cells observed in embryonic cultures, although they rarely develop elaborate dendritic brushes.
In previous studies, the closely related neuropeptide hormones oxytocin and vasopressin have been implicated in the central mediation of parental behaviour. Several studies in rats and sheep have demonstrated a role for oxytocin in the initiation of maternal behaviour. Recently, a few studies in a biparental species, the prairie vole (Microxytocinus ochrogaster) have suggested that vasopressin is important for paternal care. The present study investigated this latter possibility by measuring changes in vasopressin and oxytocin hypothalamic gene expression 1 day and 6 days following parturition in prairie voles which show paternal care and in montane voles (M. montanus) which lack paternal care. In prairie voles, vasopressin gene expression increased in both males and females postpartum, relative to sexually naive controls. In the non-paternal montane vole, no change in vasopressin gene expression was observed in either sex. In contrast to this species difference in vasopressin gene expression, hypothalamic oxytocin gene expression increased in both prairie and montane vole females, but not in males of either species. To augment measures of gene expression, we assessed vasopressin (V1a) and oxytocin receptor binding in both species. Although forebrain vasopressin V1a receptor binding was not altered following parturition in either species, oxytocin receptor binding increased in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus in females, but not males, in both prairie and montane voles. In summary, vasopressin gene expression increases in both males and females postpartum in a biparental species and oxytocin gene expression and receptor binding increase selectively in females. These results are consistent with earlier reports of a role for vasopressin in paternal care and for oxytocin in maternal behaviour.
The expression of normal masculine sexual behaviour requires testosterone. Testosterone can bind to androgen receptors, either in its native form, or after reduction to other androgen metabolites. In addition, testosterone can be aromatized to oestrogen, and bind to oestrogen receptor alpha and/or beta. Male copulatory behaviour is deficient in mice lacking functional oestrogen receptor alpha gene (ERalphaKO mice). We sought to determine which aspect(s) of masculine sexual behaviour is compromised in the ERalphaKOs. Specifically, we asked whether ERalphaKO males have reduced motivation and/or an inability to recognize oestrous females. We found significant differences between mice of different genotypes in the amount of chemo-investigatory behaviour displayed and in the target of their investigation. Wild-type males spent more time investigating ovariectomized, oestradiol-treated females, than either males, or ovariectomized females that had not received hormone priming. ERalphaKO males spent little time investigating any of the stimulus mice and showed no preferences. To test the hypothesis that this lack of chemo-investigatory behaviour is due to the inability of ERalphaKO males to detect and respond to female pheromones, we exposed males to chemosensory cues (soiled bedding) from females. Males resided in clean, or female-soiled, cage bedding for 60 min. Next, blood was collected and plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) assayed. We also assessed Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-ir) in several neural regions involved in processing chemosensory cues. Despite the fact that male ERalphaKOs spend little time engaged in chemo-investigation of females, their neuroendocrine responses to female-soiled bedding were similar to those seen in wild-type males. Our data suggest that the normal coupling between the neuroendocrine response to females and the generation of sexual behaviour is disrupted in ERalphaKO mice. Responses to female pheromones do not require ERalpha. However, normal male sexual performance requires the ERalpha gene.

Huntington's disease is characterised by hyperkinetic movements, mainly chorea, cognitive dysfunction, and psychiatric abnormalities. Non-dopa responsive parkinsonism occurs in the later stages of choreic disease or as the predominant feature of juvenile patients (Westphal variant). Late onset Huntington's disease presenting as levodopa responsive parkinsonism is rare. A series of four patients with late onset Huntington's disease presenting as levodopa responsive parkinsonism and cardiovascular dysautonomia, initially misdiagnosed as multiple system atrophy (MSA) in three patients, is reported. Levodopa treatment did not unmask significant chorea. These cases suggest the presence of a distinct phenotypic variant of Huntington's disease to be added to the differential diagnosis of other akinetic rigid syndromes.


Neurocysticercosis is a disease of poverty and underdevelopment. Little is known about the natural history of the infection in humans, but some of the mechanisms whereby the parasite remains silent and evades the host immune response are understood. Symptomatic neurocysticercosis usually results from host inflammatory response after parasite death, and the clinical manifestations can be diverse. There is no evidence that cysticidal treatment does more good than harm in addition to conventional antiepileptic treatment. Population control measures involving immunisation or mass treatment have not shown long term effectiveness.Epilepsy, similarly to neurocysticercosis, is a largely unrecognised but increasing burden on the welfare and economies of developing countries. The technology of drug treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation is well known but requires widespread and effective dissemination at low cost. There is little epidemiological data on risk factors for epilepsy in developing countries on which to base prevention strategies. The public health prioritisation of chronic disorders such as epilepsy remains a challenge for policy and practice in developing countries. For both neurocysticercosis and epilepsy, there is a dilemma about whether limited public resources would better be spent on general economic development, which would be expected to have a broad impact on the health and welfare of communities, or on specific programmes to help individual affected people with neurocysticercosis and epilepsy. Either approach requires detailed economic evaluation.
Clioquinol is a hydroxyquinoline antibiotic that has been associated with severe side-effects in the CNS. The syndrome caused by clioquinol treatment, subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON), is considered as one of the worst drug disasters of this century. The precise biochemical mechanism behind SMON is not fully understood. Clioquinol can form strong lipophilic chelates with divalent cations and therefore it has been speculated that the drug may disturb the retention of vitamin B(12) through chelation of Co(2+). In the present study, the tissue distribution and uptake capacity of [57Co]cyanocobalamin were estimated in mice treated with clioquinol or saline. The concentrations of some trace metals were also determined in brain tissue. Accumulation of vitamin B(12) in the brain and its concentration in blood were decreased by clioquinol treatment. The mean concentrations of several trace metals were also lowered in the brain while the concentration of cobalt in the brain was not affected, suggesting that clioquinol does not bind to the cobalt in vitamin B(12). Moreover, a significant decrease in the levels of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) was observed in the brain after clioquinol treatment. This may be a consequence of decreased vitamin B(12) levels. From these results, it can be concluded that chronic treatment with clioquinol may alter the tissue homeostasis of vitamin B(12) in the brain.
ICAM-1 is a major cellular adhesion molecule by which lymphocytes attach to vascular endothelial cells. Rat brain endothelial cells (RBEC) in culture show very low levels of ICAM-1. However, after exposure to IL-1beta and IFN-gamma, the ICAM-1 expression increases up to 20-fold (as judged by FACS analysis). We used immunogold electron microscopy to examine the kinetics in distribution of cytokine-induced ICAM-1 on the surfaces of tight-junction RBEC (grown on matrigel-coated transwells) when exposed to cytokines from either the luminal (upper well) or the abluminal (lower well) surface. Luminal stimulation produced an early upregulation of ICAM-1 not only on the luminal surface of the endothelial cells but also on the lateral surface below the tight junctions and on the abluminal surface. Peak expression on the abluminal surface of the monolayer occurred at the time of maximal &quot;trapping&quot; of lymphocytes seen during an in vitro migration assay. This suggests that the in vitro trapping, as well as the in vivo trapping described by others, may have its basis in a receptor-ligand interaction. We also demonstrate that when the monolayer is stimulated with cytokine from the abluminal surface there is a delayed but preferential upregulation of ICAM-1 on the luminal surface.
The deep piriform region has an unusually high seizure susceptibility. Voltage imaging previously located the sites of epileptiform discharge onset in slices of rat piriform cortex and revealed the spatiotemporal pattern of development of two types of electrical activity during the latent period prior to discharge onset. A ramplike depolarization (onset activity) appears at the site of discharge onset. Onset activity is preceded by a sustained low-amplitude depolarization (plateau activity) at another site, which shows little if any overlap with the site of onset. Because synaptic blockade at either of these two sites blocks discharges, it was proposed that both forms of latent period activity are necessary for the generation of epileptiform discharges and that the onset and plateau sites work together in the amplification of electrical activity. The capacity for amplification was examined here by studying subthreshold responses in slices of piriform cortex using two different in vitro models of epilepsy. Under some conditions electrically evoked responses showed a nonlinear dependence on stimulus current, suggesting amplification by strong polysynaptic excitatory responses. The sites of plateau and onset activity were mapped for different in vitro models of epilepsy and different sites of stimulation. These experiments showed that the site of plateau activity expanded into deep layers of neighboring neocortex in parallel with expansions of the onset site into neocortex. These results provide further evidence that interactions between the sites of onset and plateau activity play an important role in the initiation of epileptiform discharges. The site of plateau activity showed little variation with different stimulation sites in the piriform cortex, but when stimulation was applied in the endopiriform nucleus (in the sites of onset of plateau activity), plateau activity had a lower amplitude and became distributed over a much wider area. These results indicate that in the initiation of epileptiform discharges, the location of the circuit that generates plateau activity is not rigidly defined but can exhibit flexibility.
A lamprey maintains the dorsal-side-up orientation due to the activity of postural control system driven by vestibular input. Visual input can affect the body orientation: illumination of one eye evokes ipsilateral roll tilt. An important element of the postural network is the reticulospinal (RS) neurons transmitting commands from the brain stem to the spinal cord. Here we describe responses to vestibular and visual stimuli in RS neurons of the intact lamprey. We recorded activity from the axons of larger RS neurons with six extracellular electrodes chronically implanted on the surface of the spinal cord. From these multielectrode recordings of mass activity, discharges in individual axons were extracted by means of a spike-sorting program, and the axon position in the spinal cord and its conduction velocity were determined. Vestibular stimulation was performed by rotating the animal around its longitudinal axis in steps of 45 degrees through 360 degrees. Nonpatterned visual stimulation was performed by unilateral eye illumination. All RS neurons were classified into two groups depending on their pattern of response to vestibular and visual stimuli; the groups also differed in the axon position in the spinal cord and its conduction velocity. Each group consisted of two symmetrical, left and right, subgroups. In group 1 neurons, rotation of the animal evoked both dynamic and static responses; these responses were much larger when rotation was directed toward the contralateral labyrinth, and the dynamic responses to stepwise rotation occurred at any initial orientation of the animal, but they were more pronounced within the angular zone of 0-135 degrees. The zone of static responses approximately coincided with the zone of pronounced dynamic responses. The group 1 neurons received excitatory input from the ipsilateral eye and inhibitory input from the contralateral eye. When vestibular stimulation was combined with illumination of the ipsilateral eye, both dynamic and static vestibular responses were augmented. Contralateral eye illumination caused a decrease of both types of responses. Group 2 neurons responded dynamically to rotation in both directions throughout 360 degrees. They received excitatory inputs from both eyes. Axons of the group 2 neurons had higher conduction velocity and were located more medially in the spinal cord as compared with the group 1 neurons. We suggest that the reticulospinal neurons of group 1 constitute an essential part of the postural network in the lamprey. They transmit orientation-dependent command signals to the spinal cord causing postural corrections. The role of these neurons is discussed in relation to the model of the roll control system formulated in our previous studies.
The reticulospinal (RS) system is the main descending system transmitting commands from the brain to the spinal cord in the lamprey. It is responsible for initiation of locomotion, steering, and equilibrium control. In the present study, we characterize the commands that are sent by the brain to the spinal cord in intact animals via the reticulospinal pathways during locomotion. We have developed a method for recording the activity of larger RS axons in the spinal cord in freely behaving lampreys by means of chronically implanted macroelectrodes. In this paper, the mass activity in the right and left RS pathways is described and the correlations of this activity with different aspects of locomotion are discussed. In quiescent animals, the RS neurons had a low level of activity. A mild activation of RS neurons occurred in response to different sensory stimuli. Unilateral eye illumination evoked activation of the ipsilateral RS neurons. Unilateral illumination of the tail dermal photoreceptors evoked bilateral activation of RS neurons. Water vibration also evoked bilateral activation of RS neurons. Roll tilt evoked activation of the contralateral RS neurons. With longer or more intense sensory stimulation of any modality and laterality, a sharp, massive bilateral activation of the RS system occurred, and the animal started to swim. This high activity of RS neurons and swimming could last for many seconds after termination of the stimulus. There was a positive correlation between the level of activity of RS system and the intensity of locomotion. An asymmetry in the mass activity on the left and right sides occurred during lateral turns with a 30% prevalence (on average) for the ipsilateral side. Rhythmic modulation of the activity in RS pathways, related to the locomotor cycle, often was observed, with its peak coinciding with the electromyographic (EMG) burst in the ipsilateral rostral myotomes. The pattern of vestibular response of RS neurons observed in the quiescent state, that is, activation with contralateral roll tilt, was preserved during locomotion. In addition, an inhibition of their activity with ipsilateral tilt was clearly seen. In the cases when the activity of individual neurons could be traced during swimming, it was found that rhythmic modulation of their firing rate was superimposed on their tonic firing or on their vestibular responses. In conclusion, different aspects of locomotor activity-initiation and termination, vigor of locomotion, steering and equilibrium control-are well reflected in the mass activity of the larger RS neurons.
The aim of these experiments was to obtain a detailed knowledge of how the orbicularis oculi muscle is activated during the execution of a conditioned eyeblink response (CR). This is the first critical step to understand the underlying neural mechanisms involved in the control of the CR. Decerebrate ferrets were trained in a classical conditioning paradigm. The conditioned stimulus (CS) was a train of electrical stimuli (15 pulses, 50 Hz, 1 mA) applied to the forelimb, and the unconditioned stimulus (US) was a train of electrical stimuli (3 pulses, 50 Hz, 3-4 mA) to the periorbital region. The CRs were studied by recording electromyograms (EMGs) from the orbicularis oculi muscle. The eyeblink CR in all animals showed a similar topography with at least two different components, CR1 and CR2, which were expressed at different rates. CR1 appeared first during acquisition, had a shorter onset latency, and was more phasic and more resistant to extinction than CR2. A marked pause in the muscle activity separated the two components. To control that the two-component CR were not species, paradigm or preparation specific, awake rabbits were trained with a tone CS (300 ms, 4 kHz, 64 dB) and a train of periorbital stimuli as US (3 pulses, 50 Hz, 3 mA). CR1 and CR2 were present in the rabbit eyeblink CR. The cerebellum is implicated in the control of CRs and to study whether separate neural pathways were responsible for CR1 and CR2, direct brachium pontis stimulation was used to replace the forelimb CS. CR1 and CR2 were present in the CR elicited by the brachium pontis CS. The presence of CR1 and CR2 after a unilateral lesion of the brachium conjunctivum shows that output from the contralateral cerebellar hemisphere was not the cause for any of the components. Other mechanisms that might be involved in the separation of the CR into two components are discussed. The results show that the eyeblink CR consists of at least two components, CR1 and CR2, which most likely originate either as a direct central command from the cerebellum or in the output pathway before the facial nucleus.
The responses of neurons in monkey extrastriate areas MT (middle temporal) and MST (medial superior temporal), and the initial metrics of saccadic and pursuit eye movements, have previously been shown to be better predicted by vector averaging or winner-take-all models depending on the stimulus conditions. To investigate the potential influences of attention on the neuronal activity, we measured the responses of single MT and MST neurons under identical stimulus conditions when one of two moving stimuli was the target for a pursuit eye movement. We found the greatest attentional modulation across neurons when two stimuli moved through the receptive field (RF) of the neuron and the stimulus motion was initiated at least 450 ms before reaching the center of the RF. These conditions were the same as those in which a winner-take-all model better predicted both the eye movements and the underlying neuronal activity. The modulation was almost always an increase of activity, and it was about equally frequent in MT and MST. A modulation of &gt;50% was observed in approximately 41% of MT neurons and 27% of MST neurons. Responses to all directions of motion were modulated so that the direction tuning curves in the attended and unattended conditions were similar. Changes in the background activity with target selection were small and unlikely to account for the observed attentional modulation. In contrast, there was little change in the neuronal response with attention when the stimulus reached the RF center 150 ms after motion onset, which was also the condition in which the vector average model better predicted the initial eye movements and the activity of the neurons. These results are consistent with a competition model of attention in which top-down attention acts on the activity of one of two competing populations of neurons activated by the bottom-up input from peripheral stimuli. They suggest that there is a minimal separation of the populations necessary before attention can act on one population, similar to that required to produce a winner-take-all mode of behavior in pursuit initiation. The present experiments also suggest that it takes several hundred milliseconds to develop this top-down attention effect.
Oscillations in neuronal population activity, or the synchronous neuronal spiking that underlies them, are thought to play a functional role in sensory processing in the CNS. In the olfactory system, stimulus-induced oscillations are observed both in central processing areas and in the peripheral receptor epithelium. To examine the relationship between these peripheral and central oscillations, we recorded local field potentials simultaneously from the olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb in tiger salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum). Stimulus-induced oscillations recorded at these two sites were matched in frequency and slowed concurrently over the time course of the response, suggesting that the oscillations share a common source or are modulated together. Both the power and duration of oscillations increased over a range of amyl acetate concentrations from 2.5 x 10(-2) to 1 x 10(-1) dilution of saturated vapor, but peak frequency was not affected. The frequency of the oscillation did vary with different odorant compounds in both olfactory epithelium and bulb (OE and OB): amyl acetate, ethyl fenchol and d-carvone elicited oscillations of significantly different frequencies, and there was no difference in OE and OB oscillation frequencies. No change in the power or frequency of OE oscillations was observed after sectioning the olfactory nerve, indicating that the OE oscillations have a peripheral source. Finally, application of 1.0 and 10 microM tetrodotoxin to the epithelium blocked OE oscillations in a dose-dependent and reversible manner, suggesting that peripheral olfactory oscillations are related to receptor neuron spiking.
Repeated seizures induce mossy fiber axon sprouting, which reorganizes synaptic connectivity in the dentate gyrus. To examine the possibility that sprouted mossy fiber axons may form recurrent excitatory circuits, connectivity between granule cells in the dentate gyrus was examined in transverse hippocampal slices from normal rats and epileptic rats that experienced seizures induced by kindling and kainic acid. The experiments were designed to functionally assess seizure-induced development of recurrent circuitry by exploiting information available about the time course of seizure-induced synaptic reorganization in the kindling model and detailed anatomic characterization of sprouted fibers in the kainic acid model. When recurrent inhibitory circuits were blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, focal application of glutamate microdrops at locations in the granule cell layer remote from the recorded granule cell evoked trains of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and population burst discharges in epileptic rats, which were never observed in slices from normal rats. The EPSPs and burst discharges were blocked by bath application of 1 microM tetrodotoxin and were therefore dependent on network-driven synaptic events. Excitatory connections were detected between blades of the dentate gyrus in hippocampal slices from rats that experienced kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. Trains of EPSPs and burst discharges were also evoked in granule cells from kindled rats obtained after &gt; or = 1 wk of kindled seizures, but were not evoked in slices examined 24 h after a single afterdischarge, before the development of sprouting. Excitatory connectivity between blades of the dentate gyrus was also assessed in slices deafferented by transection of the perforant path, and bathed in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) containing bicuculline to block GABA(A) receptor-dependent recurrent inhibitory circuits and 10 mM [Ca(2+)](o) to suppress polysynaptic activity. Low-intensity electrical stimulation of the infrapyramidal blade under these conditions failed to evoke a response in suprapyramidal granule cells from normal rats (n = 15), but in slices from epileptic rats evoked an EPSP at a short latency (2.59 +/- 0.36 ms) in 5 of 18 suprapyramidal granule cells. The results are consistent with formation of monosynaptic excitatory connections between blades of the dentate gyrus. Recurrent excitatory circuits developed in the dentate gyrus of epileptic rats in a time course that corresponded to the development of mossy fiber sprouting and demonstrated patterns of functional connectivity corresponding to anatomic features of the sprouted mossy fiber pathway.
The development of glutamatergic synapses involves a sequence of events that are still not well understood. We have studied the time course of the development of glutamatergic synapses in cultured spinal neurons by characterizing spontaneous synaptic currents recorded from cells maintained in vitro for different times. At short times in culture (2 days in vitro; DIV2), spontaneous synaptic activity consisted almost solely of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) openings. In contrast, older neurons (DIV5 to DIV8) displayed clear alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor (AMPAR)-mediated synaptic currents, while the NMDAR-mediated activity remained small. Between 8 and 14 days in vitro there was a large increase in the density of synaptically activated NMDARs, although there was no significant increase in the density of the NMDAR-mediated current activated by exogenous glutamate. The results indicate that there is a switch in NMDAR targeting from somatic to synaptic regions during the course of the second in vitro week. Finally, our results support the conclusion that the spontaneous synaptic activity displayed in culture depends on ongoing NMDAR-mediated activity, even when the expression of synaptic NMDARs is low.
Nitric oxide (NO) is now recognized as a transmitter of neurons that express the neuronal isoform of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. NO, however, violates some of the key tenets of chemical transmission, which is classically regarded as occurring at points of close apposition between neurons. It is the ability of NO to diffuse isotropically in aqueous and lipid environments that has suggested a radically different form of signaling in which the transmitter acts four-dimensionally in space and time, affecting volumes of the brain containing many neurons and synapses. Although &quot;volume signaling&quot; clearly challenges simple connectionist models of neural processing, crucial to its understanding are the spatial and temporal dynamics of the spread of NO within the brain. Existing models of NO diffusion, however, have serious shortcomings because they represent solutions for &quot;point-sources,&quot; which have no physical dimensions. Methods for overcoming these difficulties are presented here, and results are described that show how NO spreads from realistic neural architectures with both simple symmetrical and irregular shapes. By highlighting the important influence of the geometry of NO sources, our results provide insights into the four-dimensional spread of a diffusing messenger. We show for example that reservoirs of NO that accumulate in volumes of the nervous system where NO is not synthesized contribute significantly to the temporal and spatial dynamics of NO spread.
In the visual cortex of the cat and ferret, it is established that maturation of orientation selectivity is shaped by experience-dependent plasticity. However, recent experiments indicate that orientation maps are remarkably stable and experience-independent. We present a model to account for these seemingly paradoxical results. In this model, a scaffold consisting of non-isotropic lateral connections is laid down in horizontal circuitry before visual experience. These lateral connections provide an experience-independent framework for the developing orientation maps by inducing a broad orientation tuning bias in the model neurons. Experience-dependent plasticity of the thalamocortical connections sharpens the tuning while the preferred orientation of the neurons remains unchanged. This model is verified by computer simulations in which the scaffolds are generated both artificially and inferred from experimental optical imaging data. The plasticity is modeled by the BCM synaptic plasticity rule, and the input environment consists of natural images. We use this model to provide a possible explanation of the recent observation in which two eyes without common visual experience develop similar orientation maps. Finally, we propose an experiment involving the disruption of lateral connections to distinguish this model from models proposed by others.
short stop (shot) is required for sensory and motor axons to reach their targets in the Drosophila embryo. Growth cones in shot mutants initiate at the normal times, and they appear normal with respect to overall morphology and their abilities to orient and fasciculate. However, sensory axons are unable to extend beyond a short distance from the cell body, and motor axons are unable to reach target muscles. The shot gene encodes novel actin binding proteins that are related to plakins and dystrophin and expressed in axons during development. The longer isoforms identified are predicted to contain an N-terminal actin binding domain, a long central triple helical coiled-coil domain, and a C-terminal domain that contains two EF-hand Ca(2+) binding motifs and a short stretch of homology to the growth arrest-specific 2 protein. Other isoforms lack all or part of the actin binding domains or are truncated and contain a different C-terminal domain. Only the isoforms containing full-length actin binding domains are detectably expressed in the nervous system. shot is allelic to kakapo, a gene that may function in integrin-mediated adhesion in the wing and embryo. We propose that Shot's interactions with the actin cytoskeleton allow sensory and motor axons to extend.
Most skeletal muscles are composed of a heterogeneous population of fast and slow muscle fibers that are selectively innervated during development by fast and slow motoneurons, respectively. It is well recognized that, in both birds and mammals, fast and slow motoneurons have substantially different intramuscular branching patterns, a difference critical for proper motor function. However, the cellular mechanisms regulating these differences in motoneuron branching are unknown. In a previous study, we showed that the fast and slow pattern of intramuscular branching, in a chick muscle containing distinct fast and slow muscle regions, was remarkably similar to normal when formed by foreign motoneurons. Whether this was attributable to some property of the innervating &quot;fast&quot; or &quot;slow&quot; motoneurons or to some property of the developing fast-slow muscle fibers was not determined. To distinguish between these two possibilities, we performed chick-quail hindlimb chimeras to force slow chick plantaris motoneurons to innervate a fast quail plantaris muscle. The pattern of intramuscular nerve branching in the fast plantaris of these chimeras closely resembled the slow branching pattern normally observed in chick slow plantaris muscles. Enzymatic removal of polysialic acid (PSA) from nerve and muscle during normal quail plantaris development dramatically changed the normal fast pattern to more closely resemble a slow pattern. In contrast, removal of PSA from chick plantaris motoneurons and muscle fibers had little effect on the pattern of nerve branching. Together, these results indicate that the pattern of intramuscular nerve branching is determined by the level of PSA on the innervating motoneurons.
The Lurcher (Lc) mutation in the delta2 glutamate receptor gene leads to the presence of a constitutive inward current in the cerebellar Purkinje cells of Lurcher heterozygous mice and to the postnatal degeneration of these neurons. In addition, cerebellar granule cells and olivary neurons of Lc/+ mice die as an indirect effect of the mutation after the loss of their target Purkinje cells. The apoptotic nature of Lc/+ Purkinje cell death remains controversial. To address this question, we studied the involvement of caspase-3, a key effector of apoptosis, in the neurodegenerative processes occurring in Lc/+ cerebellum. Several antibodies recognizing different regions of caspase-3 were used in immunoblotting and immunohistochemical experiments. We demonstrate that pro-caspase-3 is specifically upregulated in the dying Lc/+ Purkinje cells, but not in granule cells and olivary neurons, suggesting that different death-inducing signals trigger variant apoptotic pathways in the CNS. The subcellular localization of pro-caspase-3 was shown to be cytoplasmic and mitochondrial. Active caspase-3 as well as DNA fragmentation was found in numerous granule cells and some Purkinje cells of the Lc/+ cerebellum. Thus, caspase-3 activation is involved in both the direct and indirect neuronal death induced by the Lurcher mutation, strongly supporting the idea that the Lc/+ Purkinje cell dies by apoptosis.
The period (per) and timeless (tim) genes encode interacting components of the circadian clock. Levels and phosphorylation states of both proteins cycle with a circadian rhythm, and the proteins drive cyclic expression of their RNAs through a feedback mechanism that is, at least in part, negative. We report here that a hypophosphorylated mutant PER protein, produced by creating a small internal deletion, displays increased stability and low-amplitude oscillations, consistent with previous reports that phosphorylation is required for protein turnover. In addition, this protein appears to be defective in feedback repression because it is associated with relatively high levels of RNA and high levels of TIM. Transgenic flies carrying the mutant PER protein display a temperature-dependent shortening of circadian period and are impaired in their response to light, particularly to pulses of light in the late night that normally advance the phase of the rhythm. Interestingly, per RNA is induced by light in these flies, most likely because of the removal of the light-sensitive TIM protein, thus implicating a more direct role for TIM in transcriptional inhibition. These data have relevance for mechanisms of feedback repression, and they also address existing models for the differential behavioral response to light at different times of the night.
G-protein inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels can be transiently relieved by repetitive physiological stimuli. Here, we provide evidence that such relief of inhibition contributes to short-term synaptic plasticity in microisland-cultured hippocampal neurons. With G-protein inhibition induced by the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen or the adenosine A1 receptor agonist 2-chloroadenosine, short-term synaptic facilitation emerged during action potential trains. The facilitation decayed with a time constant of approximately 100 msec. However, addition of the calcium channel inhibitor Cd(2+) at 2-3 microM had no such effect and did not alter baseline synaptic depression. As expected of facilitation from relief of channel inhibition, analysis of miniature EPSCs implicated presynaptic modulation, and elevating presynaptic Ca(2+) entry blunted the facilitation. Most telling was the near occlusion of synaptic facilitation after selective blockade of P/Q- but not N-type calcium channels. This was as predicted from experiments using recombinant calcium channels expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells; we found significantly stronger relief of G-protein inhibition in recombinant P/Q- versus N-type channels during action potential trains. G-protein inhibition in HEK 293 cells was induced via recombinant M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors activated by carbachol, an acetylcholine analog. Thus, relief of G-protein inhibition appears to produce a novel form of short-term synaptic facilitation in cultured neurons. Similar short-term synaptic plasticity may be present at a wide variety of synapses, as it could occur during autoreceptor inhibition by glutamate or GABA, heterosynaptic inhibition by GABA, tonic adenosine inhibition, and in many other instances.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects young adults during the prime of life, complicating child-rearing and work-related activities, often resulting in significant disability. New treatment options are rapidly becoming available. Persons with MS and their families rely on nurses to provide current and accurate information. Neuroscience nurses are increasingly challenged to keep abreast of new treatments and research and the scientific bases for them. In response to this need, nurses must develop a basic understanding of the proposed etiology of MS as well as of the pathophysiology of demyelination and the ionic basis of nerve conduction.
One hallmark of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a loss of consciousness followed by varying states of consciousness. Estimates suggest that 30-40% of individuals who survive severe TBI will stay in low-level or reduced states of consciousness for prolonged periods. The state of coma is relatively easy to diagnose; however, differential diagnosis of other states of reduced consciousness have proven to be much more difficult, precipitating a number of problems related to prognosis, treatment, and rehabilitation. Accurate diagnosis is critical in determining the prognosis for persons with severe TBI because it has significant implications for the patient, family, clinician, and payer. Studies have shown that prognosis directly influences numbers and types of treatments recommended. Often, families find themselves being forced to make critical decisions with little knowledge and a great deal of uncertainty. Understanding reduced states of consciousness and facilitating accurate evaluation of such states allow neuroscience nurses to help families effectively cope during this difficult time.
The earliest oligodendrocyte precursors have been proposed to arise in the ventral ventricular zone of the embryonic thoraco-lumbar spinal cord and subsequently migrate to populate dorsal spinal cord. Using the expression of O4 immunoreactivity to define cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage, the development of oligodendrocytes in different regions of the mouse spinal cord was assayed. Consistent with earlier studies in other species, isolated explants of E11 ventral but not dorsal mouse spinal cord developed oligodendrocytes after 7 days in vitro. In contrast, in cultures derived from E13 embryos O4(+) oligodendrocytes developed in both ventral and dorsal cultures after 5 days in vitro. These data are consistent with a ventral to dorsal migration of committed oligodendrocyte progenitors occurring between E11 and E13. Although isolated early embryonic dorsal spinal cord does not give rise to oligodendrocytes in short term cultures, in long term cultures O4(+) cells develop in a subset of dorsal explants. After 10 days in vitro approximately 25% of both cervical and thoraco-lumbar E11 derived dorsal explants contained significant numbers of O4(+) cells. The molecular requirements for the dorsally-derived oligodendrocytes was similar to that in ventral cord. The appearance of O4(+) cells was dependent on sonic hedgehog and enhanced by neuregulin. These data suggest that early embryonic dorsal mouse spinal cord has an independent potential to generate oligodendrocytes under appropriate conditions. Whether this potential is realized during normal spinal cord development is currently unknown.
The delivery of neurotrophic factors to the adult nervous system has potential applications for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and trauma. In vivo and ex vivo gene therapy offer a means of delivering growth factors and other therapeutic substances to the central nervous system (CNS) in an intraparenchymal, accurately targeted, and regionally restricted manner. Ideally, gene therapy delivery systems should also be regulatable, allowing exogenous control of amount of gene product delivery. In the present experiment, a tetracycline-regulatable gene expression system was generated to determine whether controllable release of nerve growth factor (NGF) and green fluorescent protein (GFP) from primary rat fibroblasts could modulate biological responses (neurite outgrowth) in vitro. Using a tetracycline-repressible construct, it was found that NGF mRNA, NGF protein, and NGF-induced neurite outgrowth could be tightly regulated within a 24 hour period, and in a dose-dependent fashion, by exposure to the tetracycline analog doxycycline. Similarly, levels of green fluorescence could be regulated in GFP-transfected cells. These findings in a neurobiological system lay the framework for future studies using regulated neurotrophin delivery in in vivo models of neurodegenerative diseases and CNS injury.
Trophic factors, such as the neurotrophins, CNTF, and GDNF, represent unique families of proteins that are essential for the development of the vertebrate nervous system. Surprisingly, there is little evidence to date that these proteins exist in Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans, even though other polypeptide growth factors, such as EGF, FGF, and insulin, are conserved in these species. For the neurotrophins, the evolution of NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4 as a family implies that these signaling molecules may be involved in mediating additional neural activities, such as learning, memory, and behavior. Indeed, there is abundant evidence now that BDNF is involved in synapse modification, neurotransmitter release, long-term potentiation, and mechanosensation. The widening scope of neurotrophin action will require more physiological, genomic, and integrative approaches to understand fully the mechanisms by which survival factors can mediate so many diverse effects.
Adult humans, like their nonhuman mammalian counterparts, harbor persistent neural progenitor cells in the forebrain ventricular lining. In the absence of adequate surface markers, however, these cells have proven difficult to isolate for study. We have previously identified and selected neural progenitor cells from both the fetal and adult rodent ventricular zone (VZ), by sorting forebrain cells transfected with plasmid DNA encoding the gene for green fluorescent protein driven by the early neuronal promoter for Talpha1 tubulin (P/Talpha1:hGFP). We have now extended this approach by purifying both P/Talpha1:hGFP tubulin-defined neuronal progenitors, as well as potentially less committed E/nestin:hGFP-defined neural progenitor cells, from the adult human VZ. The ventricular wall of the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle was dissected from temporal lobes obtained from four adult patients undergoing therapeutic lobectomy. These samples were dissociated, and the cultured cells transduced with either P/Talpha1:hGFP or E/nestin:EGFP plasmid DNA. A week later, the cells were redissociated, selected via fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) on the basis of neural promoter-driven GFP expression, and replated. The majority of these cells expressed the early neuronal protein betaIII-tubulin upon FACS; within the week thereafter, most matured as morphologically evident neurons that coexpressed betaIII-tubulin and microtubule-associated protein (MAP)-2. Many of these neurons had incorporated bromodeoxyuridine in vitro in the days before FACS, indicating their mitogenesis in vitro. Thus, the use of fluorescent transgenes under the control of early neural promoters permits the enrichment of neuronal progenitor cells from the adult human ventricular zone. The specific acquisition, in both purity and number, of residual neural progenitor cells from the adult human brain may now permit hitherto unfeasible studies of both their biology and practical application.
Multipotent neural progenitor cells become progressively more biased towards a glial fate during development coincident with an increase in expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). To determine whether differences in lineage commitment of neural progenitor cells from different stages are causally related to expression of the EGFR and whether generation of glia is EGFR-dependent, we used an EGFR-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor, PD158780, to block the activation of EGFR in progenitor cells. Treatment of cultured neonatal progenitor cells with PD158780 completely blocked EGF-induced proliferation of the cells but did not affect bFGF-induced proliferation. Nevertheless, treatment with the inhibitor failed to inhibit the generation of astroglia in the presence of either EGF or bFGF. Treatment with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2) enhanced astroglial differentiation and suppressed oligodendroglial (OL) differentiation. PD158780 treatment had no effect on the BMP2-induced astroglial differentiation or OL suppression. These observations suggest that the generation of astroglia is not dependent on EGFR activation. Because it was still possible that the progenitor cell responses reflected a prior history of EGFR signaling, rat forebrain cells were cultured in the presence of PD158780 from a time (E12.5) preceding expression of the EGFR. After time in culture, the E12.5 cells expressed EGFR by Western analysis both in the presence and in the absence of PD158780, but activation of EGFR kinase (receptor autophosphorylation) was undetectable in the presence of PD158780 and the cells did not proliferate in response to EGF. Nevertheless, astroglial differentiation was normal in PD158780-treated cells both in the absence and in the presence of BMPs or CNTF. Furthermore, the propensity towards glial differentiation increased with time in culture even in the absence of EGFR signaling. This suggests that the increased bias towards glial differentiation during development does not depend on EGFR signaling.
The modern field of neuroscience emerged in the hands of neuroanatomists at the end of the last century. They recognized that information flows through arrays of cells and that the structure of the cells shapes the passage of information through the brain. In the middle of this century, the role of ion flux in the movement of information along axons was established. The electron microscope and the microelectrode helped to explain information transfer at the synapse, and study of the modulation of synaptic strength is currently a major area of neuroscience research. The origin of the many types of neuron seen by the early anatomists remains enigmatic, but the solution to this mystery is now emerging. The identification of stem cells and of the mechanisms that control their differentiation into distinct neuron types will contribute to a new understanding of both the origin of neuronal types and neuronal circuits. The current enthusiasm for stem cells is stimulated by interest from both the academic and nonacademic communities. These enthusiasts recognize a simple truth, that the cells are smart; they are the agents that control cell number and type in the brain. They create the structure that generates the higher order brain function. If these premises are true, then in the new century our understanding of the nervous system will be transformed by the facts of stem cell biology. J. Neurosci. Res. 59:298-300, 2000. Published 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The rat has been widely used as a model for the study of iron deficiency (ID), but the differences in the timing of development of humans and rats must be taken into account to derive appropriate conclusions from the animal model. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of dietary ID and iron excess on rat brain iron and the iron metabolism proteins, transferrin (Tf), transferrin receptor (TfR) and ferritin. The experimental design is developmentally sensitive and permits control of the timing as well as the duration of the nutritional insult. Iron-deficient and iron-supplemented (SU) rats between postnatal day (PND) 10 and 21, PND 21 and 35 and PND 10 and 35 were used to study the effects of early, late, and long-term iron deficiency and supplementation. Some ID rats were iron repleted between PND 21 and 35. These experiments demonstrated several new findings: 1) Early ID/SU (PND 10-21) altered brain iron, TfR, Tf and ferritin concentration in many regions different from those observed in the later period (PND 21-35). 2) Two weeks of iron repletion were adequate for correcting the overall Fe concentration of the brain and of individual brain regions, although larger amounts of iron were necessary to fully normalize iron and its regulatory proteins. 3) Long-term ID/SU resulted accordingly in the continued decrease or increase in brain iron concentration in some brain regions and not others. In conclusion, brain regions regulate their iron concentration in response to local needs when faced with alterations in systemic iron delivery.

Gap junctions are clusters of closely packed intercellular membrane channels embedded in the plasma membranes of two adjoining cells. The central pore of the membrane channels serves as a conduit between cell cytoplasms for molecules less than 1000 Da in size. Advances in the purification of gap junctions and electron cryocrystallography and computer reconstruction techniques have produced new insights into the intercellular channel structure. Methods are described here for the purification of gap junction membranes, biochemical treatments to produce hemichannel layers (&quot;split junctions&quot;), assessment of the purity of gap junction preparations, electron cryomicroscopy, image processing and reconstruction, three-dimensional visualization, and interpretation. The critical step in electron crystallographic structure determination remains the isolation of crystalline material in sufficient and pure quantities for recording of electron microscope images. Along with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting, the quality of gap junction purification is assessed using electron microscopy of negatively stained preparations. Electron microscopy is also used to assess the crystallinity of the purified gap junctions and split junctions. Electron cryocrystallography is a powerful technique for high-resolution structural characterization. Image processing is used to combine and enhance two-dimensional images. Electron crystallographic analysis is used to generate a three-dimensional structure from a set of electron micrographs. This three-dimensional information is extracted from a set of images recorded after tilting the specimen in the electron microscope stage and recombined using Fourier analysis techniques analogous to those used in X-ray crystallography. Computer modeling of the three-dimensional gap junction structures is a useful tool for analyzing hemichannel docking.
A series of antipeptide antibodies designed to recognize specific sequences of the gap junction protein connexin 43 (Cx43) were developed and characterized immunochemically and immunohistologically. These antibodies bound to gap junctions and, on Western blots, to 43-kDa (often resolved as a doublet) and 41-kDa proteins in samples from heart, leptomeningeal cells, and brain. Relatively little of the 41-kDa protein was detectable in heart homogenates. Cultured rat leptomeningeal cells expressed high levels of the gap junction protein Cx43 and were used to analyze its turnover and phosphorylation. Pulse-chase experiments in leptomeningeal cells with [(35)S]methionine indicated that the 41-kDa form of connexin 43 was the first immunoprecipitable translation product. Radiolabel subsequently appeared in the lower band of the doublet at 43 kDa, followed by a shift into the higher band and turnover of the protein with a t(1/2) of 2.7 h. Pulse-chase labeling with [(32)P]P(i) indicated that phosphorylation of connexin 43 was limited to the 43-kDa protein, with a t(1/2) of 1.7 h. Treatment with alkaline phosphatase shifted the apparent molecular mass of the 43-kDa protein doublet such that it comigrated with the 41-kDa form. Hence, the 43-kDa protein observed on Western blots of both leptomeningeal cells and heart arises by phosphorylation of the 41 kDa precursor. Phosphorylation of serine residues accounts for most, if not all, of Cx43 phosphorylation in this system.
Merosin (also called as Laminin-2) is an isoform of laminin comprised of the alpha2, beta1 and gamma1 chains. In European populations, half of the patients with classical congenital muscular dystrophy have mutations of the LAMA2 gene (6q22-23) and present reduced or absence of laminin alpha2 chain. This form is generally referred to as merosin-deficient CMD. Merosin-deficient CMD is characterized by involvement of not only skeletal muscle but also central and peripheral nervous systems: Extensive brain white matter abnormalities are found by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, most patients show no mental retardation. Recent case studies reported that some patients have several structural abnormalities such as abnormal cerebral cortical gyration, hypoplasia of cerebellum and pons, and dilation of ventricles. At present, functions of merosin related to muscle degeneration have not been fully elucidated. In addition, the mechanisms responsible for pathogenesis of diffuse brain white matter abnormalities remain to be determined. As mouse models for merosin-deficient CMD, three spontaneous mutants(dy, dy(2J), dy(PAS1)) and two mutants named dy(W) and dy(3K) by targeted gene disruption have been reported. These mice will help to elucidate the pathogenesis of merosin-deficient CMD and serve to develop therapy.

The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-family of neurotrophic factors consisted until recently of three members, GDNF, neurturin, and persephin. We describe here the cloning of a new GDNF-family member, neublastin (NBN), identical to artemin (ART), recently published (Baloh et al., 1998). Addition of NBN/ART to cultures of fetal mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neurons increased the number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons by approximately 70%, similar to the maximal effect obtained with GDNF. To investigate the neuroprotective effects in vivo, lentiviral vectors carrying the cDNA for NBN/ART or GDNF were injected into the striatum and ventral midbrain. Three weeks after an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion only about 20% of the nigral DA neurons were left in the control group, while 80-90% of the DA neurons remained in the NBN/ART and GDNF treatment groups, and the striatal TH-immunoreactive innervation was partly spared. We conclude that NBN/ART, similarly to GDNF, is a potent neuroprotective factor for the nigrostriatal DA neurons in vivo.
Agrin is an extracellular matrix heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) well known for its role in modulation of the neuromuscular junction during development. Although agrin is one of the major HSPGs of the brain, its function there remains elusive. Here we provide evidence suggesting a possible function for agrin in Alzheimer's disease brain. Agrin protein binds the amyloidogenic peptide Abeta (1-40) in its fibrillar state via a mechanism that involves the heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of agrin. Furthermore, agrin is able to accelerate Abeta fibril formation and protect Abeta (1-40) from proteolysis, in vitro. Supporting a biological significance for these in vitro data, immunocytochemical studies demonstrate agrin's presence within senile plaques and cerebrovascular amyloid deposits, and agrin immunostained capillaries exhibit pathological alterations in AD brain. These data therefore suggest that agrin may be an important factor in the progression of Abeta peptide aggregation and/or its persistence in Alzheimer's disease brain.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), a member of ATF/CREB family of transcription factors, is induced in a variety of stressed tissue. ATF3 regulates transcription by binding to DNA sites as a homodimer or heterodimer with Jun proteins. The purpose of this study was to examine the expression and regulation of ATF3 after axonal injury in neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord. In naive rats, ATF3 was not expressed in the DRG and spinal cord. Following the cut of peripheral nerve, ATF3 was immediately induced in virtually all DRG neurons and motoneurons that were axotomized, and the time course of induction was dependent on the distance between the injury site and the cell body. Double labeling using immunohistochemistry revealed that the population of DRG neurons expressing ATF3 included those expressing c-jun, and in motoneurons ATF3 and c-jun were concurrently expressed after axotomy. In contrast to c-jun, ATF3 was not induced transsynaptically in spinal dorsal horn neurons. We conclude that ATF3 is specifically induced in sensory and motoneurons in the spinal cord following nerve injury and should be regarded as an unique neuronal marker of nerve injury in the nervous system.
The serotonin receptor 2B gene (HTR2B; MIM 601122) is a pharmacological and positional candidate gene in early-onset obsessive-compulsive disorder. Sequences of a putative promoter region and splice regions were first elucidated, then sequenced along with HTR2B coding regions. Probands from seven families included in a previous genome scan in which one of the strongest linkage findings was to a region including HTR2B, along with two genomic DNA pools of 10 unrelated control subjects and 10 unrelated autism probands were screened. One single nucleotide polymorphism was found in intron 1, that may be useful as a marker in genetic linkage and association studies. It does not appear likely to affect splicing. No evidence for functional mutation was found in the sequenced regions of HTR2B.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the presence of neurofibrillary tangles and senile neuritic plaques in the brain. Tangles are aggregates of paired helical filaments composed of the microtubule-associated protein, tau, in a hyperphosphorylated state. Senile plaques have a core of amyloid beta-peptide derived by proteolysis of the amyloid precursor protein. A major hurdle in defining the pathogenic mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease is to understand how both amyloid beta-peptide deposition and paired helical filament formation are biochemically linked. Recent genetic discoveries provide some clues, suggesting that components of two developmentally important signalling pathways, Notch and wingless, or the vertebrate homologue of wingless, Wnt, are involved.
The abnormal assembly and deposition of specific proteins in the brain is the probable cause of most neurodegenerative disease afflicting the elderly. These &quot;cerebral proteopathies&quot; include Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), prion diseases, and a variety of other disorders. Evidence is accumulating that the anomalous aggregation of the proteins, and not a loss of protein function, is central to the pathogenesis of these diseases. Thus, therapeutic strategies that reduce the production, accumulation, or polymerization of pathogenic proteins might be applicable to a wide range of some of the most devastating diseases of old age.
There are still questions regarding whether macrophages found in MS lesions are agents of recovery or of destruction. To address this, we examined in aggregate cultures prepared from dissociated embryonic spinal cord tissue, with or without addition of exogenous macrophages, the effect of menadione-induced oxidative stress. Similar to findings of other laboratories, we observed that in the absence of oxidative stress macrophage enrichment promoted myelinogenesis. In macrophage-poor cultures, menadione at 5 microM had very little effect upon the status of the aggregate cultures; however, increasing this to 10 and 20 microM did result in some damage to axons and myelin. By contrast, in macrophage enriched cultures, menadione at a concentration as little as 5 microM caused the complete destruction of the aggregates. We suggest that in neural tissues that have sufficiently high macrophage numbers, oxidative stress results in a positive inflammatory feedback loop that results in massive tissue destruction. We further suggest that what we see in macrophage-enriched aggregates subjected to oxidative stress may represent what happens in the Marburg-type of MS lesion.
Alzheimer amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is a physiological peptide constantly anabolized and catabolized under normal conditions. We investigated the mechanism of catabolism by tracing multiple-radiolabeled synthetic peptide injected into rat hippocampus. The Abeta1-42 peptide underwent full degradation through limited proteolysis conducted by neutral endopeptidase (NEP) similar or identical to neprilysin as biochemically analyzed. Consistently, NEP inhibitor infusion resulted in both biochemical and pathological deposition of endogenous Abeta42 in brain. This NEP-catalyzed proteolysis therefore limits the rate of Abeta42 catabolism, up-regulation of which could reduce the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease by preventing Abeta accumulation.
During rapid eye movements, motion of the stationary world is generally not perceived despite displacement of the whole image on the retina. Here we report that during saccades, human observers sensed visual motion of patterns with low spatial frequency. The effect was greatest when the stimulus was spatiotemporally optimal for motion detection by the magnocellular pathway. Adaptation experiments demonstrated dependence of this intrasaccadic motion percept on activation of direction-selective mechanisms. Even two-dimensional complex motion percepts requiring spatial integration of early motion signals were observed during saccades. These results indicate that the magnocellular pathway functions during saccades, and that only spatiotemporal limitations of visual motion perception are important in suppressing awareness of intrasaccadic motion signals.
Fast excitatory synaptic transmission through vertebrate autonomic ganglia is mediated by postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). We demonstrate a unique postsynaptic receptor microheterogeneity on chick parasympathetic ciliary ganglion neurons-under one presynaptic terminal, nAChRs and glycine receptors formed separate but proximal clusters. Terminals were loaded with [3H]glycine via the glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1), which localized to the cholinergic presynaptic terminal membrane; depolarization evoked [3H]glycine release that was calcium independent and blocked by the GlyT-1 inhibitor sarcosine. Ganglionic synaptic transmission mediated by nAChRs was attenuated by glycine. Coexistence of separate clusters of receptors with opposing functions under one terminal contradicts Dale's principle and provides a new mechanism for modulating synaptic activity in vivo.
Sensory transduction for many taste stimuli such as sugars, some bitter compounds and amino acids is thought to be mediated via G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), although no such receptors that respond to taste stimuli are yet identified. Monosodium L-glutamate (L-MSG), a natural component of many foods, is an important gustatory stimulus believed to signal dietary protein. We describe a GPCR cloned from rat taste buds and functionally expressed in CHO cells. The receptor couples negatively to a cAMP cascade and shows an unusual concentration-response relationship. The similarity of its properties to MSG taste suggests that this receptor is a taste receptor for glutamate.

We present a model of an olfactory system that performs odour segmentation. Based on the anatomy and physiology of natural olfactory systems, it consists of a pair of coupled modules, bulb and cortex. The bulb encodes the odour inputs as oscillating patterns. The cortex functions as an associative memory: when the input from the bulb matches a pattern stored in the connections between its units, the cortical units resonate in an oscillatory pattern characteristic of that odour. Further circuitry transforms this oscillatory signal to a slowly varying feedback to the bulb. This feedback implements olfactory segmentation by suppressing the bulbar response to the pre-existing odour, thereby allowing subsequent odours to be singled out for recognition.
The epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) is associated with sporadic and familial late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Oxidative stress is believed to play an important role in neuronal dysfunction and cell death in AD. We now provide evidence that in the hippocampus of AD, the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and the APOE genotype are linked. Within AD cases, the levels of TBARS were found to be higher among epsilon4 carriers while the apoE protein concentrations were lower. The relationship between the levels of TBARS and apoE proteins was corroborated by the results from the APOE-deficient mice, in which the levels of TBARS were higher than those in wild-type mice. Among AD cases, tissues from patients with the epsilon4 allele of APOE displayed lower activities of catalase and glutathione peroxidase and lower concentration of glutathione than tissues from patients homozygous for the epsilon3 allele of APOE. Together these data demonstrate that, in AD, the epsilon4 allele of APOE is associated with higher oxidative insults.
Glutamate is an excitotoxin responsible for causing neuronal damage associated with mitochondria dysfunction. We have analyzed the relationship between the mitochondrial respiratory rate, the membrane potential (delta psi) and the activity of mitochondrial complexes in retinal cells in culture, used as neuronal models. Glutamate (10 microM-10 mM) dose-dependently decreased the O2 consumption and the membrane potential. A linear correlation was found between these parameters, suggesting that the mitochondrial respiratory function was affected. Exposure to glutamate (100 microM) for 10 min, in the absence of Mg2+, inhibited the activity of complex I (26.3%), complexes II/III (22.2%) and complex IV (26.7%). MK-801 ((+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate), a non-competitive antagonist of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors, completely reversed the effect exerted by 100 microM glutamate at the level of complexes I, II/III and IV. These results suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes may be responsible for the alteration in the respiratory rate of chick retinal cells submitted to glutamate.
Unilateral injection of 50 nmol of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the left posterior striatum of 7 day-old rat pups induces massive neuronal loss in the ipsilateral hemisphere in 5 days. In this model of excitotoxicity, the form of neuronal death (necrosis vs apoptosis) has not been clearly addressed. Here we report evidence of DNA laddering in the ipsilateral hemisphere 24 h after the NMDA injection. Activation of apoptosis-linked caspase(s) was also identified, as evidenced by (i) the formation of caspase-produced 120 kDa alpha-spectrin breakdown product (SBDP120) and (ii) increase in hydrolysis of caspase-3 substrate acetyl-DEVD-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin in the homogenate from the ipsilateral hemisphere. Lastly, we note that i.p. injection (100 mg/kg) of a pan caspase inhibitor Z-D-DCB attenuates the levels of SBDP120. Our results suggest the presence of caspase-activation in this rat pup model of NMDA toxicity.
The role of proton binding sites in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter was investigated by characterization of the pH dependence for the binding of [3H]vesamicol [(-)-trans-2-(4-phenylpiperidino)cyclohexanol] to Torpedo synaptic vesicles. A single proton binds to a site with pKa 7.1 +/- 0.1, which is characteristic of histidine, to competitively inhibit vesamicol binding. The histidine-selective reagent diethylpyrocarbonate causes time-dependent inhibition of [3H]vesamicol binding with a rate constant only about 20-fold lower than for reaction with free histidine. Because its pH titration has a simple, ideal shape, this residue probably controls all pH effects in the transporter between pH 6-8. Inhibition of [3H]vesamicol binding by diethylpyrocarbonate was slowed by vesamicol but not acetylcholine, which binds to a separate site. The data suggest that a critical histidine with a pKa of 7.1 is unhindered when reacting with diethylpyrocarbonate. A conformational model for the histidine is proposed to explain why acetylcholine competes with protons but not with diethylpyrocarbonate. A conserved histidine in transmembrane helix VIII possibly is the histidine detected here.
Altered energy metabolism is characteristic of many neurodegenerative disorders. Reductions in the key mitochondrial enzyme complex, the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), occur in a number of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The reductions in KGDHC activity may be responsible for the decreases in brain metabolism, which occur in these disorders. KGDHC can be inactivated by several mechanisms, including the actions of free radicals (Reactive Oxygen Species, ROS). Other studies have associated specific forms of one of the genes encoding KGDHC (namely the DLST gene) with AD, Parkinson's disease, as well as other neurodegenerative diseases. Reductions in KGDHC activity can be plausibly linked to several aspects of brain dysfunction and neuropathology in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Further studies are needed to assess mechanisms underlying the sensitivity of KGDHC to oxidative stress and the relation of KGDHC deficiency to selective vulnerability in neurodegenerative diseases.
Chronic restriction of cerebral blood flow in hypoperfused Wistar rats has been proposed as a new model of cerebrovascular-type dementia. Using this model, we have investigated central monoaminergic neuronal systems that are closely related to higher brain function. Monoamine and monoamine-metabolite levels were determined, as relative monoaminergic markers, at 1 day and 1,3,6 and 12 weeks after the bilateral occlusion of common carotid arteries. Dopaminergic changes in the frontal cortex and striatum were observed in hypoperfused rats at 1-3 weeks following occlusion. Serotonergic changes were recognized at four brain regions examined (frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and thalamus+midbrain). In particular, the immediate enhancement of serotonin turnover in the striatum appeared to influence the reaction to the acute ischemic attack such as vasoconstriction produced by hypoperfusion. Our findings suggest that chronic cerebral hypoperfusion induces transient reversible changes in central monoaminergic neuronal function within three weeks of ligation of carotid arteries. This time interval seems to represent a turning point in the process of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion-induced progressive brain injury.
Neurotrauma activates the release of membrane phospholipid-derived second messengers, such as free arachidonic acid (20:4n-6, AA) and diacylglycerols (DAGs). In the present study, we analyze the effect of cortical impact injury of low-grade severity applied to the rat frontal right sensory-motor cortex (FRC) on the accumulation of free fatty acids (FFAs) and DAGs in eight brain areas 30 min and 24 hours after the insult. At these times, accumulation of FFAs and DAGs occurred mainly in the damaged FRC. The cerebellum was the only other brain area that displayed a significant accumulation of DAGs by day one post-injury. By 30 min, accumulation of free AA in the FRC displayed the greatest relative increase (300% over sham value), followed by free docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3, DHA, 150%), while both 20:4-DAGs and 22:6-DAGs were increased 100% over sham values. At day one, free 22:6 and 22:6-DAGs showed the greatest increase (590% and 230%, respectively). These results suggest that TBI elicits the hydrolysis of phospholipids enriched in excitable membranes, targeting early on 20:4-phospholipids (by 30 min post- trauma) and followed 24 hours later by preferential hydrolysis of DHA-phospholipids. These lipid metabolic changes may contribute to the initiation and maturation of neuronal and fiber track degeneration observed following cortical impact injury.
A new subdivision, the &quot;marginal division&quot; (MrD), was discovered at the caudal border of the striatum and surrounds the rostral edge of the globus pallidus in the rat brain in our previous studies. The neuronal somata of the MrD are mostly fusiform in shape with their long axes lining dorsoventrally. The MrD is more densely filled with substance P (SP)-, Leucine-enkephalin (L-Enk)-, dynorphin B-, neurotensin-, somatostatin- and cholecystokinin (CCK)-immunoreactive fibers and terminal-like structures than the rest of the striatum. The MrD was confirmed in the cat neostriatum as well. The present study intended to explore whether the MrD exists in the monkey neostriatum (putamen) with Nissl, histochemical and immunohistochemical methods. A band of fusiform neurons were obviously identified at the caudomedial edge of the putamen. These neurons lie outside the lateral medullary lamina and indirectly surround the rostrolateral border of the globus pallidus. The abundance of SP-, L-Enk-, neuropeptide Y-, CCK-, dopamine- and serotonin-positive fibers and terminal-like structures with a few positive fusiform neurons accumulating at the caudomedial border of the putamen obviously distinguishes this zone from the rest of neostriatum and globus pallidus. The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) positive and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) containing fusiform neurons are distinctly visualized in the same zone. The morphological figure and the location of these neurons, and the histochemical and immunohistochemical characteristics of this area coincide well with those of the MrD in the rat and cat striatum. This study thus convincingly identifies the existence of the MrD in the monkey neostriatum. It is fairly asserted that the MrD is a universal structure in the mammalian brain.
We examined the neuroprotective effects of oren-gedoku-to (TJ15), a herbal medicine, after transient forebrain ischemia. Transient forebrain ischemia was induced by occlusion of both common carotid arteries for 15 min in C57BL/6 mice treated with TJ15. In the control ischemic group without TJ15 treatment, histologic examination of brain tissue collected seven days after reperfusion showed death of pyramidal cells in CA2-3 area of the hippocampus, unilaterally or bilaterally. In mice treated with oral TJ15 (845 mg/kg/day) for five weeks, the frequency of ischemic neuronal death was significantly lower. Immunohistochemistry for Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD) showed strongly reactive astrocytes in the hippocampus of ischemic mice treated with TJ15. Damage to nerve cells by free radicals plays an important role in the induction of neuronal death by ischemia-reperfusion injury. Our results suggest that TJ15 protects against ischemic neuronal death by increasing the expression of Cu/Zn-SOD and suggest that oren-gedoku-to reduces the exposure of hippocampal neurons to oxidative stress.
The rat adrenal cortex has the uncommon ability to demonstrate morphological and functional regeneration after injury-induced loss of cortical tissue. Peripheral nerves are involved in tissue regeneration and healing after injury, implying that nerves may also be involved in modulating the regeneration of the adrenal cortex. Studies were initiated to assess changes in adrenal innervation during cortical tissue regeneration subsequent to adrenal enucleation. Innervation of regenerating adrenals was assessed from 3 to 62 days postenucleation by immunohistofluorescent detection of neuronal markers for primary afferent, preganglionic sympathetic, and postganglionic sympathetic fibers. The regenerating adrenal contained few nerves at 3 days postenucleation, but became differentially innervated, with extensive innervation by nerve fibers positive for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). In contrast, there was only minimal innervation by nerve fibers positive for vasoactive intestinal peptide. By 14 days postenucleation, the CGRP-, TH-, and NPY-positive innervation included areas of hyperinnervation in the capsule, cortex, and central inflammatory site of the regenerating gland. In addition, many chromaffin cells were present at all time points postenucleation. Quantification of the regenerating gland content of CGRP, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and nNOS verified the immunohistofluorescent observations. The period of extensive innervation correlated temporally with the time (3-30 days) during which the regenerating glands recovered steroidogenic function. Moreover, splanchnic nerve transection at the time of adrenal enucleation decreased the innervation by CGRP-positive and vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive fibers and delayed regeneration. These results support the hypothesis that adrenal innervation modulates tissue regeneration and functional recovery of the enucleated adrenal gland.
The glycogen storage myopathies are caused by enzyme defects in the glycogenolytic or in the glycolytic pathway affecting skeletal muscle alone or in conjunction with other tissues. The authors review recent findings in this area, including a new entity, aldolase deficiency, and the wealth of molecular genetic data that are rapidly accumulating. Despite this progress, genotype-phenotyp3 correlations are still murky in most glycogen storage myopathies.

Recently, some case-control studies and case reports have shown an association between solvent exposure and parkinsonisms. We present a 55-year-old male parkinsonian patient with chronic exposure to n-hexane for 17 years. The results of neurophysiological (electromyography, evoked potentials), neuroradiological (MRI) and neuropsychological tests performed on the patient suggest a role of this solvent at the level of the central nervous system. Biological susceptibility to neurotoxic compounds is discussed briefly.

The neurotrophin survival dependence of peripheral neurons in vitro is regulated by the proapoptotic BCL-2 homolog BAX. To study peripheral neuron development in the absence of neurotrophin signaling, we have generated mice that are double null for BAX and nerve growth factor (NGF), and BAX and the NGF receptor TrkA. All dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that normally die in the absence of NGF/TrkA signaling survive if BAX is also eliminated. These neurons extend axons through the dorsal roots and collateral branches into the dorsal horn. In contrast, superficial cutaneous innervation is absent. Furthermore, rescued sensory neurons fail to express biochemical markers characteristic of the nociceptive phenotype. These findings establish that NGF/TrkA signaling regulates peripheral target field innervation and is required for the full phenotypic differentiation of sensory neurons.
Several processes take place during an attack of demyelination in multiple sclerosis (MS). The timing of these various processes, and thus of the attack in its entirety, is important if therapeutic stratagies are to be planned. Attempts have been made to introduce and investigate variables relevant to timing the disease processes, leading to staging systems for MS. Here, the terminology and the various parameters used are reviewed, including inflammatory cells, glial cells, axonal loss and myelin staining; then the different systems are compared, including the system put forward by B and Trapp, our own modification of that, the Brck and Lassmann system and the recent consensus reached at a Vienna meeting. It is concluded that an ideal staging system does not yet exist, and that, more than anything else, the material dictates the choice for a staging system. The terminology of the Vienna consensus could be used as a reference to facilitate international comparison.
The effects of intracerebroventricular injection of thyrotropine-releasing hormone (TRH) on acoustic startle, conditioned fear and active avoidance were examined in rats. Acoustic startle was significantly depressed by 12.5 microg TRH, while increasing motor activity. In a fear-potentiated startle paradigm, 12.5 microg TRH reduced the overall startle response amplitude, but did not decrease the amount of fear-potentiated startle. When TRH was administered 15 min before contextual fear conditioning, neither fear-related freezing in acquisition nor in a retention test was affected. In contrast, when TRH was administered 15 min before the retention test, TRH significantly reduced mean percentage of time spent freezing. TRH had no effect on active avoidance. The results demonstrate that TRH decreased acoustic startle and freezing responses, but had little effect on fear conditioning and active avoidance. It is suggested that the results may be due to TRH's effects on motor activity and arousal, independent of its effects on fear.
Grasping phenomena are abnormal motor behaviours described after cerebral lesions. They are defined as a stereotyped response, consisting of a progressive forced closure of the patient's hand on the examiner's fingers, when they are slowly moved exerting a strong pressure across the palm in an upward direction. Several types are described. The aim of the study was to develop a force sensor to evaluate the force of grasping in accordance with the force of dragging. The characteristics of this force sensor are presented and the clinical application in two selected patients demonstrated.
The aim of this study was to examine the involvement of multiple 5-HT receptors in passive avoidance (PA) with a focus on 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2C receptors. Because increases in 5-HT transmission result in concomitant multiple 5-HT receptor activation, the effects of the 5-HT releasing compound p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) were compared with those of the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT in the rat. In addition, some results with the nonselective 5-HT2C/2B/1B receptor agonist mCPP are presented. When injected before PA training, 8-OH-DPAT, mCPP, and PCA produced a dose-related impairment of the 24-hour retention. The crucial involvement of the postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in the action of 8-OH-DPAT was confirmed. Thus, the 5-HT1A receptor antagonists WAY 100635 and (-)-pindolol blocked the PA deficit by 8-OH-DPAT. The impairment of PA caused by PCA was attenuated by WAY 100635 and (-)-pindolol, suggesting an involvement of the 5-HT1A receptor. In contrast, the 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors were of negligible importance in the 24-hour retention deficit induced by PCA. However, the ability of the 5-HT2C receptor antagonist Ro 60-0491 to block the inhibitory effects of mCPP indicated an important regulatory role of the 5-HT2C receptor in PA. The nonselective 5-HT receptor antagonist methiothepin attenuated the PA deficit by PCA but lacked activity versus 8-OH-DPAT. These data provide evidence for the hypothesis that, in addition to the 5-HT1A receptor, other 5-HT receptor subtypes are involved in the inhibitory actions of PCA. Importantly, changes in dopamine transmission seemed not to contribute to the PA impairment by PCA. The behavioral alterations caused by the drug treatments at the time of PA training could not be related to the subsequent retention performance. In conclusion, multiple 5-HT receptors are involved in PA with roles that probably differ at various stages of information processing. These findings also suggest that there probably exists a functional distinction between 5-HT receptor subtypes in different types of aversive learning.
Aspergillosis of the cavernous sinus is rare, especially in immuno competent individuals. We report three such cases secondary to paranasal sinus aspergillosis, with imaging findings.
Intracerebral haemorrhage may be visible indefinitely on MRI, due to persistence of haemosiderin in macrophages around the lesion, but it is not clear whether all haemorrhages produce haemosiderin or, if not, what proportion cannot be identified as former haemorrhages on routine MRI. We performed routine MRI (spin-echo T2- and proton-density weighted images) in 116 survivors of moderate to severe head injury, 1-5 years after injury. We reviewed the images blindly and correlated them with CT in the acute stage, to determine how many haemorrhages from the acute stage were identifiable by virtue of haemosiderin deposition on late MRI. Of 106 haemorrhages in 78 patients on CT at the time of injury, 96 (90 %) were visible as haemosiderin on late MRI. Of the old haemorrhages without haemosiderin, seven of ten were in patients where another haemorrhage with haemosiderin was still visible elsewhere in the brain. No patient or haemorrhage features explained the formation or absence of haemosiderin. Thus about 10 % of definite haematomas show no trace of haemosiderin on routine spin-echo MRI. Radiologists should be alerted to supplement routine spin-echo with gradient-echo sequences if there is a reason to suspect, or specifically exclude, prior haemorrhage.


Recent advances in the knowledge about Alzheimer pathogenesis indicate several tactics for the development of drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease. Firstly, the function of presenilin, the causative gene for most familial Alzheimer's disease, has been demonstrated to be the protease in the Notch signaling system. Presenilin cleaves the transmembrane domain of the C-terminal fragment of the Notch-1 molecule, which is generated by proteolysis by furin-like proteases. APP is also cleaved by presenilin at the gamma cut site, implying that presenilin is gamma-secretase itself or at least closely functioning with gamma-secretase. A recent paper has demonstrated that immunization of APP transgenic mouse with amyloid beta 42 may decrease and prevent amyloid deposition in brain tissue. This unique and novel approach may open the new tactics for developing anti-dementia drugs. Another important finding comes from the identification of the function of prolyl isomerase. It is demonstrated that pin 1, intra-nuclear prolyl isomerase, can restore the microtubule binding capacity of phosphorylated tau, which clearly shows a solid strategy for developing drugs for preventing neuronal degeneration.
Recent observations on the neurotoxicity of beta-amyloid have been reviewed and possible roles of racemization of beta-amyloid are discussed. beta 1-40, beta 25-35 and D-Ser26 beta 25-35 (all HCl salt forms), but not commercially available beta 1-40 (TFA salt form), take the beta-structure within few hours in PBS, form fibrils, exert toxic effects on hippocampal cultured neurons and suppresses MTT reduction activity of non-neuronal HeLa cells without cytotoxicity. D-Ser26 beta 1-40 is soluble and non-toxic in vitro but is converted by brain proteinases to D-Ser26 beta 25-35, a potent toxic and proteinase-resistant fragment. The co-injection of beta 1-40, D-Ser26 beta 25-35 or D-Ser26 beta 1-40 with ibotenic acid, but not beta-amyloid alone or ibotenic acid alone, into rat brains produce drastic neuronal loss in the hippocampal CA1 area. The in vivo degeneration activity of beta-amyloids is well correlated with their having beta-structure and activity to suppress the MTT reduction activity. A specific antibody against D-Ser26 beta 25-35 strongly reacts with hippocampal degenerated-CA1 neurons in AD but not control brains. These results suggest that D-Ser26 beta 25-35 and related peptides possibly generated from insoluble beta 1-40 due to aging exert toxic effects on the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons by enhancing the susceptibility to excitatory amino acids.
Previous studies have focused on the immunohistochemical detection of a nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) pathway in the brain and pituitary of the aquatic toad Xenopus laevis. We here investigate the endogenous production and possible involvement of NO signaling in the regulation of melanotrope cell activity in the pituitary pars intermedia of this amphibian. Using immunohistochemical staining of cultured cells with a polyclonal antiserum against inducible NO synthase (iNOS), immunoreactivity was observed both in melanotropes and in stellate-shaped cells. Part of these stellate-shaped cells is characterized as folliculo-stellate cells by their capacity of beta-Ala-Lys-N(epsilon)-AMCA uptake. Using chemiluminescence detection we demonstrate the presence of NO and reaction products like nitrite (NO(-)(2)) or peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) in the incubation medium of cultured melanotropes. Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulates the generation of NO and reaction products, the effect of which was blocked by S-methyl-l-thiocitrulline hydrochloride, a potent general NOS inhibitor. With [(3)H]lysine incorporation and a superfusion technique, it is shown that peptide release from melanotropes is stimulated by administration of superoxide dismutase (SOD), which was added to the superfusion medium to prevent scavenging of NO by superoxide anions. Pretreating the cells with the general NOS inhibitor l-nitroarginine methyl ester for 48 h attenuated the SOD-induced stimulation, but did not affect the stimulation by sodium nitroprusside (SNP) or 3-morpholinylsydnoneimine chloride (SIN-1), whereas hemoglobin blocked the combined effect of SOD plus NO donors. The soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2, 4]oxadiazolo[4,3a]-quinoxaline-1-one did not inhibit but even significantly potentiated the effect of NO donors on peptide release without affecting the SOD-induced stimulation of peptide release. In addition to the previously described neuronal NOS (nNOS) immunoreactivity in nerve fibers in the pars intermedia of Xenopus, the present data reveal iNOS and nNOS as potential sources of endogenous NO production in cultured cells of the pars intermedia. Our study shows that also in nonmammalian vertebrates endogenous NO production may be physiologically relevant under conditions where protection against oxidative damage is needed. The endocrine cells of the pars intermedia themselves, as well as the folliculo-stellate cells, under such conditions may dispose of a protective mechanism against oxidative stress. The sensitivity of the endogenous NO production to LPS suggests that NO may also play a role during systemic inflammation.

Using in situ hybridization with riboprobes the distribution of alpha(2A)-, alpha(2B)- and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor mRNAs were studied in normal rat dorsal root ganglia and after unilateral peripheral nerve injury (total nerve transection) or inflammation. The most common adrenoceptor mRNA was of the alpha(2C) subtype (almost 80% of all neuron profiles) followed by the alpha(2A) subtype (almost 20%), whereas alpha(2B)-adrenoceptor mRNA was only found in small numbers of neuron profiles. The most dramatic effect of peripheral nerve injury was observed for the alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor mRNA, which increased to 45% of all neuron profiles. In contrast, alpha(2C) adrenoceptor mRNA showed a small decrease in this situation. Carrageenan-induced peripheral inflammation did not affect the percentage of alpha(2A)- or alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor mRNA-positive profiles. These findings suggest that, if any of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor, the alpha(2A) subtype represents the most likely candidate in DRG neurons to be involved in sympathetically maintained pain.
Hindpaw injection of dilute formalin produces brief (Phase 1) and persistent (Phase 2) nociceptive responses in the rat. We recently showed that systemically-administered remifentanil during Phase 1 interacted with peripheral opioid receptors to delay the onset and termination of Phase 2 (Taylor et al., 1997b). To test the hypothesis that opioid inhibition of proinflammatory events during Phase 1 contributed to this delay, we evaluated the effects of remifentanil on the time course of formalin-induced inflammation. We found that formalin increased paw thickness (edema), plasma extravasation and local blood flow within minutes of its injection, i.e. during Phase 1. Each of these responses was blocked during remifentanil administration (30 microg/kg i.v. bolus, followed 90 s later with a 15 microg/kg/min infusion for 13.5 min), indicating that opioids inhibit Phase 1 inflammation. Opioid blockade of the blood flow response could be reversed with a peripherally-acting opioid antagonist, naloxone methiodide, indicating that remifentanil acted upon peripheral opioid receptors. Although the administration of remifentanil during Phase 1 did not reduce the magnitude of inflammatory responses during Phase 2, it did delay the onset and termination of edema during Phase 2. As this corresponds to the effects of remifentanil on nociceptive responses during Phase 2, we suggest that opioid analgesics act upon peripheral sites to inhibit inflammation during Phase 1, leading to a delay in the temporal profile of inflammatory (and likely nociceptive) responses during Phase 2.
Recent preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated that cotreatments with extremely low doses of opioid receptor antagonists can markedly enhance the efficacy and specificity of morphine and related opioid analgesics. Our correlative studies of the cotreatment of nociceptive types of dorsal-root ganglion neurons in vitro and mice in vivo with morphine plus specific opioid receptor antagonists have shown that antagonism of Gs-coupled excitatory opioid receptor functions by cotreatment with ultra-low doses of clinically available opioid antagonists, e.g. naloxone and naltrexone, markedly enhances morphine's antinociceptive potency and simultaneously attenuates opioid tolerance and dependence. These preclinical studies in vitro and in vivo provide cellular mechanisms that can readily account for the unexpected enhancement of morphine's analgesic potency in recent clinical studies of post-surgical pain patients cotreated with morphine plus low doses of naloxone or nalmefene. The striking consistency of these multidisciplinary studies on nociceptive neurons in culture, behavioral assays on mice and clinical trials on post-surgical pain patients indicates that clinical treatment of pain can, indeed, be significantly improved by administering morphine or other conventional opioid analgesics together with appropriately low doses of an excitatory opioid receptor antagonist.
Changes in dopamine transporter and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) were investigated by immunohistochemistry in 18 cases of hypoxic-ischemic basal ganglia necrosis. Neuropil dopamine transporter immunostaining in the striatum was increased in seven cases, with relatively mild basal ganglia necrosis, and decreased in four cases, with marked basal ganglia necrosis, compared with age-matched control subjects. Correspondingly, some striatal neurons had increased immunoreactivity to dopamine transporter in the cases of increased immunostaining in the neuropil. nNOS-positive neurons did not obviously change in cases of basal ganglia necrosis within 2 days after birth and then decreased or were not detectable in cases of basal ganglia necrosis at more than 3 days after birth. The results suggest that the synthesis of dopamine transporter is up-regulated in relatively mild basal ganglia necrosis to compensate for the uptake of increased dopamine, that this compensative ability is lost in marked basal ganglia necrosis, and that nNOS-containing neurons in the striatum are relatively resistant to hypoxic ischemia. We speculate that glutamate excitotoxicity mediated by glutamate receptors 1, 2/3, and 4 and excessive dopaminergic excitatory activity may play important roles in hypoxic-ischemic basal ganglia necrosis and that nNOS does not contribute to that condition.

Acute treatment of rats with haloperidol results in a rapid and transient increase in striatal c-fos mRNA and Fos immunoreactivity. The induction of immediate early genes by haloperidol may be involved in the development of extrapyramidal side effects. L-Prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG, or MIF-1) has been observed to antagonize the development of haloperidol-induced D(2) receptor supersensitivity in rats. We investigated the modulatory effects of PLG on haloperidol-induced c-fos and Fos protein expression in the rat striatum. We report that coadministration of either PLG or the potent analog of PLG, 3(R)-[(2(S)-pyrrolidylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetam ide (PAOPA), attenuated haloperidol-induced c-fos and Fos expression. Haloperidol induced [2 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)] c-fos and Fos expression by 500% and 100%, respectively. These responses were attenuated by 170% and 75%, respectively, when coadministered with PLG (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or by 79% by PAOPA (10 microg/kg, i.p.).
Proctolin caused dose-dependent (1-200 nM) contraction of the isolated hindgut of S. gregaria which was abolished by [alpha-methyl-L-tyrosine(2)]-proctolin (1 microM). In comparison, cycloproctolin (5 microM) reduced the proctolin maximum response by 41%. Hindgut homogenates contained [(3)H]proctolin binding sites with a K(d) value of 660 nM, a B(max) value of 23.8 pmol/mg protein and a Hill coefficient of 0.934. Cycloproctolin (IC(50,) 220 nM; K(i), 204 nM), unlabeled proctolin (IC(50) 680 nM) and [alpha-methyl-L-tryosine(2)]-proctolin (IC(50) 3.1 microM, K(i), 2.9 microM) but not SchistoFLRFamide (1 nM-10 microM) were capable of displacing bound [(3)H]proctolin.
Hypoxia is known to alter visual functions. In the present study, the effects of chronic hypobaric hypoxia upon visual color discrimination were studied in 8 subjects participating in a simulated climb from sea level (PO2 = 210 hPa) to 8,848 m (PO2 = 70 hPa) over a 31-day period of confinement in a decompression chamber ('Everst-Comex 97'). During these investigations, the subjects were required to discriminate between colors of different hue in the red, blue, and green ranges. Alterations in color discrimination increased slightly but significantly as altitude increased. Impairments occurred mainly in the red and blue ranges. In addition, our results further indicate that color discrimination would be affected only when a minimum threshold of difference between color stimuli is not present. Methodological and physiological implications are discussed.
In this study of visual phonetic speech perception without accompanying auditory speech stimuli, adults with normal hearing (NH; n = 96) and with severely to profoundly impaired hearing (IH; n = 72) identified consonant-vowel (CV) nonsense syllables and words in isolation and in sentences. The measures of phonetic perception were the proportion of phonemes correct and the proportion of transmitted feature information for CVs, the proportion of phonemes correct for words, and the proportion of phonemes correct and the amount of phoneme substitution entropy for sentences. The results demonstrated greater sensitivity to phonetic information in the IH group. Transmitted feature information was related to isolated word scores for the IH group, but not for the NH group. Phoneme errors in sentences were more systematic in the IH than in the NH group. Individual differences in phonetic perception for CVs were more highly associated with word and sentence performance for the IH than for the NH group. The results suggest that the necessity to perceive speech without hearing can be associated with enhanced visual phonetic perception in some individuals.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of chronic and acute treatment by the Gingko biloba extract, EGb 761 (IPSEN, France) on olfactory short-term memory in rats, using a spontaneous recognition procedure. The effects of a daily EGb 761 treatment (30 or 60 mg/kg) over a period of 30 days (Experiment 1) were evaluated in young male rats. Those of a single injection of EGb 761 were assessed either in young male rats at 60 or 120 mg/kg (Experiment 2) or in aged female rats at 60 mg/kg (Experiment 3). Results showed that, at the highest dose (60 mg/kg), chronic EGb 761 treatment enhanced the recognition performances, allowing recognition at delays at which control animals did not show any recognition. Acute treatment enhanced recognition at both doses tested. The results of the third experiment showed that EGb 761 had an overall enhancement effect on the performances of aged rats. In summary, our results provide evidence for a short-term memory enhancement effect of EGb 761 in both young and aged rats.
The present study was designed to characterize the interaction of choline with the M(1) subtype of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. Using Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with neuronal nitric oxide synthase and the cloned human M(1) receptor (CHO hM(1)/nNOS cells), we investigated choline's effects on production of nitric oxide and elevation of intracellular [Ca(2+)]. Choline showed the properties of a full agonist in inducing the sustained plateau of increased intracellular [Ca(2+)], although it was only a partial agonist in inducing the larger, transient [Ca(2+)] peak. Choline was also found to act as a full agonist in stimulating the production of nitric oxide. These results have implications for efforts in the clinical treatment of dementia.
The effects of social isolation on body weight gain, food consumption, and responsiveness to novel and social environment were assessed in an animal model for obesity, bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS-3) deficient mice. In Experiment 1, body weight gain and food consumption of group- and isolation-housed wild-type and BRS-3-deficient mice were compared. In wild-type mice, group-housed animals showed greater mean body weight gain and food consumption than did the isolation-housed cohort in the early stage of the experiment, whereas in BRS-3-deficient mice, the isolation-housed mice showed greater body weight gain and food consumption than the group-housed cohort by prolonged isolation housing. In Experiment 2, isolation-housed wild-type mice exhibited increased stereotypic and vertical movements relative to group-housed subjects in a novel environment, but this effect was not observed in BRS-3-deficient mice. In Experiment 3, when social response was assessed in animals housed in isolation, BRS-3-deficient mice exhibited lower social responses than did wild-type mice. We conclude that BRS-3-deficient mice and wild-type mice are differentially affected by social isolation. These results suggest that BRS-3 expression in the CNS may affect the neural mechanisms that regulate isolation effects in wild-type animals.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the age-related deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) 40/42 peptide aggregates in vulnerable brain regions. Multiple levels of evidence implicate a central role for Abeta in the pathophysiology of AD. Abeta peptides are generated by the regulated cleavage of an approximately 700-aa Abeta precursor protein (betaAPP). Full-length betaAPP can undergo proteolytic cleavage either within the Abeta domain to generate secreted sbetaAPPalpha or at the N- and C-terminal domain(s) of Abeta to generate amyloidogenic Abeta peptides. Several epidemiological studies have reported that estrogen replacement therapy protects against the development of AD in postmenopausal women. We previously reported that treating cultured neurons with 17beta-estradiol reduced the secretion of Abeta40/42 peptides, suggesting that estrogen replacement therapy may protect women against the development of AD by regulating betaAPP metabolism. Increasing evidence indicates that testosterone, especially bioavailable testosterone, decreases with age in older men and in postmenopausal women. We report here that treatment with testosterone increases the secretion of the nonamyloidogenic APP fragment, sbetaAPPalpha, and decreases the secretion of Abeta peptides from N2a cells and rat primary cerebrocortical neurons. These results raise the possibility that testosterone supplementation in elderly men may be protective in the treatment of AD.
1. Teleost fish have histaminergic cell bodies on the posterior part of the basal hypothalamus. It was suggested that they are homologous to the tuberomammillary E group in rats. However, unlike in rats, fish have fewer ascending fibers. The main projection runs through the ventral telencephalic area reaching the dorsal telencephalon. This projection is considered homologous to the prosencephalic forebrain bundle. 2. The aim of this study was to verify if the histaminergic system has an inhibitory action on learning and memory in goldfish, as suggested previously for higher vertebrates. 3. A two-compartment aquarium with a central sliding door was used. The animals were placed in one of them, the central door was opened after 30 sec and the time spend for crossing between compartments was recorded. After the fish dorsal fin crossed the line between the compartments a 45 g weight was dropped into the compartment the fish entered. 4. On the training day this procedure was done 3 times. Immediately after the 3rd trial the fish was injected i.p. with either vehicle (2 ml/kg), chlorpheniramine (CPA; 1.0, 4.0 and 8.0 mg/kg) or histidine (500 mg/kg). On the next day, fishes were placed in the start compartment and the latency to cross between compartments was again recorded. 5. The group treated with CPA at the dose of 8 mg/kg, presented a significant increase in the latency to leave the start compartment (Wilcoxon rank sum test, p&lt;0.0232). On the other hand, the vehicle and 1-histidine (500 mg/kg) treated groups, presented a decrease in test latency. 6. Thus, we suggest that also in fish, the histaminergic system has an inhibitory role on learning and memory.
In order to clarify the influences of family environment on the development of personality traits, 150 children (104 males and 46 females, mean age 13.2 +/- 2.4 years) who had been interviewed at the Child Guidance Clinic in Osaka were investigated. From 13 behavioral characteristics (activity, talkativeness, sociability, social skills, rule-keeping, will, aggression, emotional control, imagination, anxiety, maturity, intelligence, and neuroticism), factor analysis identified three personality traits: extraversion, maturity, and intellect. The effects of family environment (maternal and paternal participation in child rearing before and after 4years of age, child-rearing style, parental relationship, sibling relationship, number of siblings, birth order, and socioeconomic status) on these personality traits were examined based on a structural equation model. The results found, first, that extraversion was negatively associated with overprotection/interference and with maternal participation in child rearing. Maturity correlated with high socioeconomic status, appropriate child-rearing style, and paternal participation in child rearing. Intellect was related to high socioeconomic status and maternal participation in child rearing. Second, path analysis with selected variables revealed that 8% of variance in extraversion, 14% in maturity, and 10% in intellect was due to family environment. Third, children with high introversion or high intellect had stronger influences from family environment than did those with high extraversion or low intellect.
This study empirically identified subtypes of social anxiety using a cluster analytic approach. From 87 out-patients with social phobia (taijin kyofusho) and 48 controls, social anxiety symptoms, social situations in which symptoms occur, and background information were evaluated. Factor analysis using the ratings of social anxiety symptoms identified four factors: socially inadequate feelings, performance anxiety, offensive fear, and tenacity. Four subtypes emerged from cluster analysis based on the factor scores and they were called performance anxiety type, offensive type, interpersonal anxiety type and mild type. Chi2 test and analysis of variance revealed the following: (i) the offensive type had the greatest symptom severity. Any situation could provoke symptoms, and interpersonal tense feelings became much stronger with persons of the same age; (ii) the interpersonal anxiety type was characterized by the fear of social interaction in daily life; and (iii) patients with the offensive type and the interpersonal anxiety type presented more difficulties than did those with the performance anxiety type on developmental and premorbid adjustment.
High altitudes of more than 3,000 meters produce physiological disorders and adverse changes in mood states. In the present study, we report analyses of mood states and personality traits in eight experienced climbers participating in a 31-day period of confinement in hypobaric chamber and gradual decompression from sea level to 8,848 m (Experiment 'Everest-Comex 97'). The subjects were tested at 5,500 m and 6,500 m on Day 13, 5,000 m and 6,500 m on Day 24, and 8,000 m and 8,848 m altitude on Days 27 and 31. Adverse changes in mood states, such as Vigor and Fatigue, occurred at 8,000 m and 8,848 m, which were significantly correlated with cerebral altitude symptomatology. In addition, a significant negative correlation was found between Fatigue and Factor C, which is a personality measure of emotional stability. We suggest that individuals with low emotional stability could be more sensitive to environmental stressors than more emotionally stable subjects who face reality.





The present study compared the effects of chronic treatment (21 days) with (+)-nicotine and (-)-nicotine on exploratory behaviours and body temperature in rats. Chronic treatment with either (+)- or (-)-nicotine induced tolerance in exploratory behaviours. A cross-tolerance between the two stereoisomers was also observed. Body temperature was differentially affected by chronic (+)- and (-)-nicotine, but cross-tolerance was still observed. In addition, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor binding in rats treated with (+)- and (-)-nicotine were measured by receptor autoradiography. Chronic treatment with (+)- and (-)-nicotine significantly increased nAChR binding in different brain regions. Furthermore, significant differences in the induction of nAChR binding by chronic (+)- and (-)-nicotine were detected in several brain regions. Chronic treatment with (+)-nicotine significantly increased NMDA receptor binding in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. However, (-)-nicotine had no effect on NMDA receptor binding in any of the regions analysed. These results demonstrate differences between chronic treatment with (+)- and (-)-nicotine in physiological responses such as body temperature and biochemical changes such as changes in nAChRs and NMDA receptor binding, although a cross-tolerance between the two enantiomers in behaviour and body temperature is also observed.



Neurons, within the nervous system, are organized in different neural networks through synaptic connections. Two fundamental components are dynamically interacting in these functional units. The first one are the neurons themselves, and far from being simple action potential generators, they are capable of complex electrical integrative properties due to various types, number, distribution and modulation of voltage-gated ionic channels. The second elements are the synapses where a similar complexity and plasticity is found. Identifying both cellular and synaptic intrinsic properties is necessary to understand the links between neural networks behavior and physiological function, and is a useful step towards a better control of neurological diseases.

Sleep bruxism (SB) is a stereotyped movement disorder characterized by grinding or clenching of the teeth during sleep. The majority of the population will at some time during their lifetime grind or clench their teeth. It becomes a pathological condition when the subject presents severe tooth damage or complains of non-restorative sleep. The prevalence of SB is difficult to estimate, since quite often the subjects are unaware of having the disorder. There is no gender difference. SB is more frequent in the younger generation, with a decline over age. The symptom recognized in children can persist in adulthood. The aetio-pathophysiology is still unclear. SB has been associated with tooth interference, psychosocial and environmental factors, brain transmitters and basal ganglia dysfunction. Attempts have been made to specify the personality traits of bruxers, reported to be greater anxiety or vulnerability to stress; however, this is still controversial. SB subjects were observed to present vigilance-sleepiness and somatic problems. However, they are generally good sleepers. Some authors reported SB during all sleep stages, others observed the majority of bruxe episodes during light sleep and REM and often associated with arousal transients. No abnormalities of the autonomic nervous system could be shown in awake SB subjects. While some studies have shown an association between SB and PLM or breathing disorders, others did not confirm this. There is no specific treatment for SB: each subject has to be individually evaluated and treated. Three management alternatives are used: dental, pharmacological and psychobehavioural.




The ternary complex model as applied to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) predicts that an agonist binds with low affinity (K(L)) to the free receptor (R), leading to an agonist/receptor/G-protein complex. This ternary complex displays high agonist affinity (K(H)), resulting in signal transduction. Classical dogma states that the ratio K(L)/K(H) predicts intrinsic activity of drugs: the higher the ratio the higher the intrinsic activity. This model was based on studies in which K(L) and K(H) were indirectly determined by computer analyses of antagonist radioligand binding data. In order to investigate the relationship of K(L), K(H), and intrinsic activity for agonists at 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors, we utilized (3)H-agonist and (3)H-antagonist radioligands to directly determine K(H) and K(L). Comparisons of the log K(L)/K(H) ratios and intrinsic activities of drugs for stimulating intracellular phosphatidylinositol (PI) hydrolysis revealed a strong correlation for 5-HT(2A) (r(2) = 0.92) and 5-HT(2C) (r(2) = 0.96) receptors. The data were fit to computer simulations based on the original ternary complex model and the revised ternary complex model in which an activated state of the receptor (R*) exists in equilibrium with the resting state of the receptor (R). Data produced for both 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors were better-fitted to a revised ternary complex model, rather than the classical ternary complex model. These data support a revised model for the molecular events coupling GPCR to activation of G-proteins and indicate that a strong correlation between the K(L)/K(H) ratio and intrinsic activity for agonist action at GPCR is consistent with the existence of R*.









The old concept that the direct intercellular cytoplasmic connections between neurones participate in the coordination of neuronal activity has gained new relevance, owing to recent theoretical and experimental evidence, particularly with regard to neuronal synchronization and epileptogenesis. Computer simulations demonstrating that neurones synchronize and alter their firing patterns depending on gap-junctional communication, have provided insights into the interactions between electrotonic coupling and cellular and synaptic characteristics. Experimental manipulations of gap-junctional communication support its role in the generation and maintenance of synchronized neuronal firing and seizures. Hence, in addition to chemical transmission, direct electrotonic coupling might contribute to normal and abnormal physiological brain rhythms.

1. The inhibition of the human liver phenol sulphotransferase (HL-PST) and catechol sulphotransferase (HL-CST) by five fenamates has been studied and the activities of HL-PST and HL-CST were measured with 4-nitrophenol and dopamine as substrates, respectively. 2. The IC50 for inhibition of HL-PST were 0.02 microM (mefenamic acid); 0.12 microM (tolfenamic acid); 0.28 microM (niflumic acid); 0.87 microM (meclofenamic acid) and 1.50 microM (flufenamic acid). 3. HL-CST was less susceptible than HL-PST to the inhibition by fenamates and the IC50 for HL-CST were 36 microM (tolfenamic acid); 70 microM (flufenamic acid); 76 microM (mefenamic acid); 180 microM (niflumic acid) and 185 microM (meclofenamic acid). 4. The ratios of the IC50 for HL-CST:HL-PST were drug-dependent and ranged from 47 (flufenamic acid) to 3800 (mefenamic acid). Mefenamic acid is a relatively potent and selective inhibitor of HL-PST. 5. The IC50 for HL-PST obtained with mefenamic acid was three orders of magnitude lower than the peak plasma concentration of this drug after an oral dose of 0.5 g. Accordingly, mefenamic acid should impair sulphation in vivo.
Direct projections from the amygdala to the cortical masticatory area were found in the macaque monkey. Under the guidance of intracortical microstimulation, retrograde tracers were injected into multiple jaw movement-related regions of the frontal lobe. The cortical masticatory area, especially its principal part, stimulation of which elicited rhythmic jaw movement, was the only site of injection that produced neuronal labeling in the amygdala. The cells of origin of such projections were localized in the medial aspect of the magnocellular division of the basal nucleus through its rostral level. No labeled neurons were observed in the amygdala after tracer injection into any other cortical jaw movement-related region. The present results suggest that the amygdaloid input to the cortical masticatory area may exert some modulatory influence on the generation of masticatory rhythm.
The ventrolateral medulla is known to be involved in the regulation of arterial blood pressure, especially via its connections with sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) mainly located in the intermediolateral nucleus of the spinal cord. It has been shown that stimulation of the rostral part of the ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) elicits a release of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla. The aim of the present study was to demonstrate the existence of a functional pathway between the RVLM and adrenal SPNs using the combination of a retrograde tract tracing technique (cholera toxin B subunit) with the immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein following the chemical stimulation of RVLM. The data obtained showed that: (1) chemical stimulation of the RVLM induced Fos immunoreactivity in the intermediolateral nucleus and particularly in SPNs projecting to the adrenal medulla; (2) along the thoracic segments T2-T12, 26.1% of retrogradely identified adrenal SPNs were Fos-immunoreactive with the greatest percentage (30.9%) in the T8 segment. These results favored a functional control of the RVLM on adrenal SPNs which may contribute to a substantial activation of the cardiovascular system via the release of adrenal catecholamines.
Previous studies have shown that ultrasound at 20 kHz produces an escape (defence) response in the hooded Lister rat. This study compares the ultrasound-induced behavioural response in the hooded Lister and albino Wistar rat. Ultrasound (continuous tone, square wave, 20 kHz) produced an initial characteristic startle response (brisk running) in the hooded Lister rat that was followed immediately after cessation of the ultrasound by a period of freezing behaviour. In contrast, Wistar rats showed no initial escape response but a prolonged period of freezing that started during the ultrasound and continued for a period after the end of the ultrasound. Immunohistochemical assessment of c-fos expression also showed a difference between the two strains with preferential expression in the dorsal region of the rostral and caudal periaqueductal grey (PAG) in the hooded Lister rat, while the expression occurred in the ventral PAG in the Wistar rats. In summary, the two strains exhibit distinct defensive behaviours and patterns of neuronal activation in response to the same aversive signal. It remains to be determined whether these differences relate to neuronal circuitry or perception of the signal, but analysis of the mechanisms involved may help our understanding of the heterogeneity of anxiety disorders.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) or Schwann cells were transplanted into the transected dorsal columns of the rat spinal cord to induce axonal regeneration. Electrophysiological recordings were obtained in an isolated spinal cord preparation. Without transplantation of cells, no impulse conduction was observed across the transection site; but following cell transplantation, impulse conduction was observed for over a centimeter beyond the lesion. Cell labelling indicated that the regenerated axons were derived from the appropriate neuronal source, and that donor cells migrated into the denervated host tract. As reported in previous studies, the number of regenerated axons was limited. Conduction velocity measurements and morphology indicated that the regenerated axons were myelinated, but conducted faster and had larger axon areas than normal axons. These results indicate that the regenerated spinal cord axons induced by cell transplantation provide a quantitatively limited but rapidly conducting new pathway across the transection site.
The avian tectorotundal system has been suggested as a homologue of the mammalian colliculopulvinar system. In the tectorotundal system, neurons of the stratum griseum centrale (SGC) of the optic tectum send their axons bilaterally to the nucleus rotundus (Rt). In transit to the Rt, the axons of the SGC neurons collateralize in the nuclei posteroventralis thalami (PV), subpretectalis (SP), and interstitiopretectosubpretectalis (IPS) of the tectothalamic tract (TT). The current study used birthdating and pathway-tracing methods to investigate the neurogenesis and time course of neuronal connections of the tectorotundal pathway in chicks during embryogenesis. By using tritiated thymidine autoradiography, we observed that the SGC neurons of the tectum were generated by embryonic days 3.0-5.5 (E3.0-E5.5), the Rt by E3.5-E5.0, and the nuclei of TT by E3.5-4.5. To trace the tectorotundal pathway, we injected cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into the tectum, and the CTb-like immunoreactivity was examined. By E4.5-E5.5, some CTb-like immunoreactive (CTb-LI) axons terminated in the ipsilateral SP/IPS. By E6.0-E6.5, CTb-LI axon bundles were seen ipsilaterally in the TT. Increased numbers of labeled axons were seen terminating in the SP/IPS. By E7.0-E7.5, heavily labeled axons in the TT were observed with diffuse terminals in areas ventral to the presumptive Rt and PV. By E7.5-E8.0, the tectal axons innervated the ipsilateral Rt, in which some of the collaterals crossed the midline to the contralateral diencephalon. The crossed tectorotundal projection was seen first by E8.0-E8.5. Also, during this stage, a few CTb-LI collaterals terminated in the contralateral SP/IPS. Between E10 and E13, the pattern of bilateral tectorotundal projections became more regionalized, whereas labeling continued to increase in the SP/IPS. At E16, the labeling pattern of all tectorecipient structures resembled that of the hatchling. The current study revealed the temporal order of development of the tectorotundal pathway during embryogenesis. The SGC cells first innervate ipsilaterally the SP/IPS and then the Rt/PV. The schedule of the crossed tectorotundal connections coincides with the schedule of tectal projections onto the contralateral intrinsic nuclei of the TT. We conclude that E8.0 (+/- E0.5) is a critical stage for the development of the tectofugal pathway. Moreover, the current study provides important insights into the relative ontogeny of the mammalian tectofugal pathway.
We define a new bistratified ganglion cell type of cat retina using intracellular staining in vitro. The theta cell has a small soma, slender axon, and delicate, highly branched dendritic arbor. Dendritic fields are intermediate in size among cat ganglion cells, with diameters typically two to three times those of beta cells. Fields increase in size with distance from the area centralis, ranging in diameter from 70 to 150 microns centrally to a maximum of 700 microns in the periphery. Theta cells have markedly smaller dendritic fields within the nasal visual streak than above or below it and smaller fields nasally than temporally. Dendritic arbors are narrowly bistratified. The outer arbor lies in the lower part of sublamina a (OFF sublayer) of the inner plexiform layer where it costratifies with the dendrites of OFF alpha cells. The inner arbor occupies the upper part of sublamina b (ON sublayer), where it costratifies with ON alpha dendrites. The outer and inner arbors are composed of many relatively short segments and are densely interconnected by branches that traverse the a/b sublaminar border. Experiments combining retrograde labeling with intracellular staining indicate that theta cells project to the superior colliculus and to two components of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (the C laminae and medial interlaminar nucleus). Theta cells project contralaterally from the nasal retina and ipsilaterally from the temporal retina. They apparently correspond to a sluggish transient or phasic W-cell with an ON-OFF receptive field center.
Neurological motor dysfunction is often an integral component of the neurological sequelae of traumatic brain injury (TBI). In experimental TBI, neurological motor testing is an outcome measure used to monitor severity of injury, and the response to treatment. This study evaluates the effectiveness and sensitivity of the rotating pole test (RP) to characterize and evaluate the temporal course of motor deficits after lateral fluid percussion (FP) injury to the rat brain. The results are compared with the previously characterized and widely used composite neuroscore of motor function (NS). The animals were required to walk across an elevated wooden pole that was either stationary or rotating to left or right directions at different speeds. Male Wistar rats underwent lateral FP injury of moderate severity (mean 2.4 atm, n = 9) or sham surgery (n = 9), and were tested at 48 h and 7 days post-injury using the NS and RP. The results of the NS directly correlated to the results of the RP, showing a significant injury effect at both 48 h and 7 days. This is the first study to show that the RP-test detects neurological motor deficits after lateral FP injury, and suggests that this technique is a reliable behavioral tool for evaluating neurological motor function in the acute period after experimental TBI.
We describe a method for estimating the average proportion of GABAergic terminal area relative to total nerve terminal area with confocal microscopy. Nerve terminal regions were identified with dual colour immunofluorescence on Vibratome sections with an antibody to synaptophysin (SYN), and GABAergic processes, including axon terminals, were identified with an antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Sections were viewed in an Olympus AX70 microscope attached to a Biorad 1024 MRC scanning confocal system. Images were collected with a 100 x objective from the same tissue locations and imported into the NIH-Image program, where black and white binary images were obtained for co-localisation and quantitation. Measurements were made separately of areas of SYN/GAD (GABAergic terminals) and SYN labelling (all terminals). The relative proportion of GABAergic terminal areas in visual cortex (6.1+/-1%; mean +/- SE), CA1 hippocampus (2.6+/-0.5%) and deep cerebellar nuclei (46.6+/-3%) are consistent with what is known of the relative levels of inhibitory input to these structures. The assumptions that SYN labelling is restricted to axon terminals, and that SYN labels all axon terminals was tested by ultrastructural localisation of SYN in the three brain regions examined. Only 7.4+/-0.4% of SYN-labelled profiles could not be positively identified as synaptic vesicle-containing axon terminals, and between 93.4 and 99.2% of vesiculated axon profiles were SYN-positive. These results suggest that SYN is a very reliable marker for axon terminals, and validates the confocal analytical approach. The confocal method allows rapid sampling of many brain regions and would be suitable for examining terminals containing any neurotransmitter that can be detected immunocytochemically.
What is the link, if any, between the patterns of connections in the brain and the behavioural effects of localized brain lesions? We explored this question in four related ways. First, we investigated the distribution of activity decrements that followed simulated damage to elements of the thalamocortical network, using integrative mechanisms that have recently been used to successfully relate connection data to information on the spread of activation, and to account simultaneously for a variety of lesion effects. Second, we examined the consequences of the patterns of decrement seen in the simulation for each type of inference that has been employed to impute function to structure on the basis of the effects of brain lesions. Every variety of conventional inference, including double dissociation, readily misattributed function to structure. Third, we tried to derive a more reliable framework of inference for imputing function to structure, by clarifying concepts of function, and exploring a more formal framework, in which knowledge of connectivity is necessary but insufficient, based on concepts capable of mathematical specification. Fourth, we applied this framework to inferences about function relating to a simple network that reproduces intact, lesioned and paradoxically restored orientating behaviour. Lesion effects could be used to recover detailed and reliable information on which structures contributed to particular functions in this simple network. Finally, we explored how the effects of brain lesions and this formal approach could be used in conjunction with information from multiple neuroscience methodologies to develop a practical and reliable approach to inferring the functional roles of brain structures.
Neuroscience has produced an enormous amount of structural and functional data. Powerful database systems are required to make these data accessible for computational approaches such as higher-order analyses and simulations. Available databases for key data such as anatomical and functional connectivity between cortical areas, however, are still hampered by methodological problems. These problems arise predominantly from the parcellation problem, the use of incongruent parcellation schemes by different authors. We here present a coordinate-independent mathematical method to overcome this problem: objective relational transformation (ORT). Based on new classifications for brain data and on methods from theoretical computer science, ORT represents a formally defined, transparent transformation method for reproducible, coordinate-independent mapping of brain data to freely chosen parcellation schemes. We describe the methodology of ORT and discuss its strengths and limitations. Using two practical examples, we show that ORT in conjunction with connectivity databases like CoCoMac (http://www.cocomac.org) is an important tool for analyses of cortical organization and structure-function relationships.

EPIDEMIOLOGY CONTEXT: The prevalence of maniac depressive disorders is similar in adolescents and adults, i.e. about 1% with a 1:1 sex-ratio. Risk is higher in families with a diseased member and early episodes of mood disorders are probably correlated with the genotypic severity or the presence of a unique susceptibility gene. HIGHLY VARIABLE CLINICAL SIGNS: Until recent years, the highly variable clinical expression with rapid changes in mood, bipolar states, variable somatic, behavioral or addictive symptomatology, cognition disorders, and disturbed ideation or hallucinations, probably contributed to our poor understanding of juvenile forms of the disease. EARLY MANAGEMENT: Early diagnosis and psychiatric care is crucial due to the short-, mid- and long-term risk of unfavorable or even fatal consequences. Indeed, while still in the process of structuralization, the predisposed personality is particularly reactive to positive or negative events. It is most difficult to achieve flexibility once a restrictive organization of the personality has been installed. In addition, these families often have a painful past and lack sufficient capacity to successfully deal with the stress of emotions and conflicts occurring in the future adult during the self-identification and independence-seeking processes. This familial situation points out the importance of implicating the family and close friends in the treatment strategy as a complement to drug therapy and psychotherapy proposed to the adolescent.
Sulfonylureas block ATP-dependent K(+) channels (K/ATP channels) in pancreatic beta cells and brain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) containing neurons causing depolarization-evoked insulin or GABA release. In high concentrations, sulfonylureas also inhibit catecholamine release from bovine adrenal chromaffin cells and isolated guinea pig aorta. In this study, we examined the effect of glipizide, a sulfonylurea, on dopamine release from PC12 cells and found that neither basal nor K(+)-stimulated dopamine release was affected. Although PC12 cells expressed mRNA for the K/ATP channel, functional K/ATP channels could not be demonstrated electrophysiologically, consistent with the lack of effect of glipizide on dopamine release. Glipizide did, however, increase cytoplasmic retention of the acidic dopamine metabolites, 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), indicating blockade of their outward transport. The cellular accumulation of DOPAC was accompanied by reduced tyrosine hydroxylase activity and reduced formation of dopamine and its metabolites presumably by a negative feedback effect of the increased cytoplasmic concentrations of DOPAC.
We recently identified BERP as a novel RING finger protein belonging to the RBCC protein family. It contains an N-terminal RING finger, followed by a B-box zinc finger and a coiled-coil domain. BERP interacts with the tail domain of the class V myosins through a beta-propeller structure in the BERP C-terminal. To identify other proteins interacting with BERP, the yeast two-hybrid strategy was employed, using the RBCC domain as bait. Screening of a rat brain cDNA library identified alpha-actinin-4 as a specific binding partner for the N-terminus of BERP. This actinin isoform could be immunoprecipitated together with BERP from HEK 293 cells transfected with expression constructs for BERP and alpha-actinin-4. These proteins could also be colocalized immunohistochemically in the cytoplasm of differentiated PC12 cells. We suggest that BERP may anchor class V myosins to particular cell domains via its interaction with alpha-actinin-4.

The authors evaluated the magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) of T2 lesions, normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), and brain from 39 migraineurs, 17 healthy volunteers, and 22 patients with MS. Migraineurs had NAWM and brain MTR values similar to those of normal subjects but significantly higher than those of MS patients. Average lesion MTR values also were significantly lower in MS patients than in migraineurs. In patients with migraine, other etiologies should be considered in the presence of tissue damage beyond that seen on T2-weighted scans.
In spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA-2), a difference of three CAG repeats distinguishes normal alleles (14 to 31 repeats) from pathogenic alleles (34 to 57 repeats). All sequenced pathogenic alleles have a pure CAG repeat structure, whereas interrupted repeats have been seen exclusively in normal alleles. The authors present two patients with sporadic SCA with an interrupted 34-CAG repeat allele, (CAG)24(CAA)(CAG)9, who showed a phenotype compatible with SCA-2. The interrupted allele coding for a 34 pure polyglutamine tract may cause the SCA phenotype.





GAP-43 is expressed in proliferating neuroblasts in vivo and in vitro, but its role during early neurogenesis has not been investigated. Here we show that neuroectodermal differentiation stimulated by retinoic acid (RA) in the embryonal carcinoma (EC) line P19 is accompanied by upregulation of GAP-43 expression in neuroepithelial precursor cells. In contrast, when upregulation of GAP-43 expression was prevented in 3 independent P19 lines because of a targeted insertion into the gene, generation of neuroepithelial precursors was inhibited. Consequently, neuronal number was significantly decreased, neuronal morphology was abnormal and fewer than 20% of all neurons were able to initiate neuritogenesis. Extracellular matrix (ECM) was unable to rescue initiation of neuritogenesis in the mutant cells, however those neurites that were extended responded normally to ECM-stimulated neurite outgrowth-promoting signals. These data suggest that GAP-43 function is required for commitment to a neuronal phenotype as well as initiation of neurite extension. However, stimulation of neurite outgrowth by ECM in P19s occurs independently of GAP-43.
The inhibitory effects of the omega-conotoxins GVIA, MVIIA and MVIIC on electrically-evoked, tetrodotoxin (10(-7) M)-sensitive, autonomic nerve activity were studied using human, rat or guinea-pig vas deferens and intestinal tissues. In each preparation from each species, nM concentrations of omega-conotoxins GVIA and MVIIA prevented the neuronally-mediated contractions, whereas omega-conotoxin MVIIC was either markedly less potent (IC(50)'s 1.4 or 2.9 log units more than for omega-conotoxin GVIA in guinea-pig ileum and rat vas deferens, respectively) or was without significant activity (human vas deferens, human Taenia coli) when tested at similar concentrations. In contrast the differences in potency between omega-conotoxins GVIA and MVIIC were considerably less when assayed directly on Ca(2+) channel currents evoked from rat superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture (approximately 0.1 log unit difference) and from a stable cell line expressing rat alpha(1B), alpha(2)delta, beta(1b) Ca(2+) channel subunits (approximately 0.9 log unit). These different rank-orders of inhibitory activity of the conotoxins support the suggestion that there are pharmacologically distinct N-type Ca(2+) channels in the peripheral nervous system, and that this tissue-dependent difference is seen in man.
Multiunit electrophysiological recording techniques were used to explore the somatosensory cortex of the California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyii). Cortex rostral and caudal to the primary somatosensory area (SI) contained neurons that responded to stimulation of deep receptors and to muscle and joint manipulation. The region of cortex rostral to SI was termed the rostral field (R) because of possible homologies with a similar field described in other mammals. Cortex caudal to SI had neurons that responded to stimulation of deep receptors and has been termed the parietal medial area (PM), as in previous investigations in squirrels. Like SI, both R and PM contained a complete or almost complete representation of the body surface, although the receptive field size for clusters of neurons in these regions was somewhat larger than those for clusters of neurons in SI. Electrophysiological recording results were correlated with histologically processed tissue that had been sectioned tangentially. Although SI was clearly identified as a myelin-dense region, both R and PM stained much less densely for myelin. Our results indicate that as in a number of other mammals including monotremes, marsupials, carnivores, and primates, the anterior parietal cortex of the California ground squirrel contains multiple representations of the sensory epithelium. This work, as well as a growing body of studies of somatosensory cortex organization in a variety of mammals, indicates that anterior parietal fields other than SI existed early in mammalian evolution, and were present in the common ancestor of all mammals.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is an autosomal recessive disorder with a frequency of 1 in 50 000 live births. In 97% of patients it is caused by the abnormal expansion of a GAA repeat in intron 1 of the FRDA gene on chromosome 9, which encodes a 210 amino acid protein called frataxin. Frataxin is widely expressed and has been localized to mitochondria although its function is unknown. We have investigated mitochondrial function, mitochondrial DNA levels, aconitase activity and iron content in tissues from FRDA patients. There were significant reductions in the activities of complex I, complex II/III and aconitase in FRDA heart. Respiratory chain and aconitase activities were decreased although not significantly in skeletal muscle, but were normal in FRDA cerebellum and dorsal root ganglia, although there was a mild decrease in aconitase activity in the latter. Mitochondrial DNA levels were reduced in FRDA heart and skeletal muscle, although in skeletal muscle this was paralleled by a decline in citrate synthase activity. Increased iron deposition was seen in FRDA heart, liver and spleen in a pattern consistent with a mitochondrial location. The iron accumulation, mitochondrial respiratory chain and aconitase dysfunction and mitochondrial DNA depletion in FRDA heart samples largely paralleled those in the yeast YFH1 knockout model, suggesting that frataxin may be involved in mitochondrial iron regulation or iron sulphur centre synthesis. However, the severe deficiency in aconitase activity also suggests that oxidant stress may induce a self-amplifying cycle of oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction, which may contribute to cellular toxicity.
Valproate (VPA) is one of several effective anti-epileptic and mood-stabilizing drugs, many of which are also potent teratogens in humans and several other mammalian species. Variable teratogenicity among inbred strains of laboratory mice suggests that genetic factors influence susceptibility. While studying the genetic basis for VPA teratogenicity in mice, we discovered that parental factors influence fetal susceptibility to induced malformations. Detailed examination of these malformations revealed that many were homeotic transformations. To test whether VPA, like retinoic acid (RA), alters HOX expression, pluripotent human embryonal carcinoma cells were treated with VPA or RA and Hox expression assessed. Altered expression of specific Hox genes may thus account for the homeotic transformations and other malformations found in VPA-treated fetuses.

In the rat, 5-HT1A receptors are found on medial septal cholinergic neurons. The effects of intraseptal infusions of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino)-tertralin) were assessed on reference memory performances in a water maze. Compared with vehicle infusions, 0.5 and 4 microg of 8-OH-DPAT significantly impaired (but did not prevent) acquisition of the task and probe-trial performances. The results suggest that activation of 5-TH1A receptors in the (medial) septal area impairs spatial learning, perhaps directly by reducing the hippocampal cholinergic tonus, or indirectly by an effect on anxiety.
Our previous studies showed that monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) synthesize and release catecholamines and possess D1 and D2 dopamine (DA) receptors (Elwan, M.A., Ishii, T., Ono, F. and Sakuragawa, N., Evidence for the presence of dopamine D1 receptor mRNA and binding sites in monkey amniotic epithelial cells. Neurosci. Lett., 262 (1999) 9-12; Elwan, M.A., Ishii, T. and Sakuragawa, N., Detection of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA and binding sites in monkey amniotic epithelial cells. J. Neurosci. Res., 56 (1999) 316-322; Elwan, M.A., Thangavel, R., Ono, F. and Sakuragawa, N., Synthesis and release of catecholamines by cultured monkey amniotic epithelial cells. J. Neurosci. Res., 53 (1998) 107-113). In the present study we tested the presence of DA transporter (DAT) in MAEC using radioligand binding experiments. Saturation studies showed that [3H]mazindol binds to a high affinity site with K(D) and Bmax values of 7.85 +/- 1.25 nM and 123.22 +/- 18.34 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition studies indicated that selective DAT inhibitors are potent displacers of [3H]mazindol binding, compared to inhibitors of other types of transporters. The rank order of potency of the competing drugs is consistent with the pharmacology of DAT. These results provide, for the first time, clear evidence that MAEC natively possess DAT binding sites and suggest that MAEC may provide a potential primate cell model to study DA release and uptake processes and to explore new drugs active at this site.
The arrest of dorsal root axonal regeneration at the transitional zone between the peripheral and central nervous system has been repeatedly described since the early twentieth century. Here we show that, with trophic support to damaged sensory axons, this regenerative barrier is surmountable. In adult rats with injured dorsal roots, treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT3) and glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), resulted in selective regrowth of damaged axons across the dorsal root entry zone and into the spinal cord. Dorsal horn neurons were found to be synaptically driven by peripheral nerve stimulation in rats treated with NGF, NT3 and GDNF, demonstrating functional reconnection. In behavioural studies, rats treated with NGF and GDNF recovered sensitivity to noxious heat and pressure. The observed effects of neurotrophic factors corresponded to their known actions on distinct subpopulations of sensory neurons. Neurotrophic factor treatment may thus serve as a viable treatment in promoting recovery from root avulsion injuries. I
The human voice contains in its acoustic structure a wealth of information on the speaker's identity and emotional state which we perceive with remarkable ease and accuracy. Although the perception of speaker-related features of voice plays a major role in human communication, little is known about its neural basis. Here we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in human volunteers, that voice-selective regions can be found bilaterally along the upper bank of the superior temporal sulcus (STS). These regions showed greater neuronal activity when subjects listened passively to vocal sounds, whether speech or non-speech, than to non-vocal environmental sounds. Central STS regions also displayed a high degree of selectivity by responding significantly more to vocal sounds than to matched control stimuli, including scrambled voices and amplitude-modulated noise. Moreover, their response to stimuli degraded by frequency filtering paralleled the subjects' behavioural performance in voice-perception tasks that used these stimuli. The voice-selective areas in the STS may represent the counterpart of the face-selective areas in human visual cortex; their existence sheds new light on the functional architecture of the human auditory cortex.
The Bcl-2/CED-9 family of proteins, which includes both antiapoptotic and proapoptotic members, plays key regulating roles in programmed cell death. We report here the identification and characterization of Drob-1, the first Drosophila member of the Bcl-2/CED-9 family to be isolated. Drob-1 contains four conserved Bcl-2 homology domains (BH1, BH2, BH3, and BH4) and a C-terminal hydrophobic domain. Ectopic expression of Drob-1 in the developing Drosophila eye resulted in a rough-eye phenotype. Furthermore, when overexpressed in Drosophila S2 cells, Drob-1 induced apoptosis accompanied by elevated caspase activity. This Drob-1-induced cell death, however, could not be antagonized by baculovirus p35, a broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor. Drob-1 was localized to the intracytoplasmic membranes, predominantly to the mitochondrial membranes, and a mutant Drob-1 lacking the hydrophobic C terminus lost both its mitochondrial localization and its proapoptotic activity. These results suggest that Drob-1 promotes cell death by inducing both caspase-dependent and -independent pathways at the mitochondria. Our identification of Drob-1 and further genetic analysis should provide increased understanding of the universal mechanisms by which the Bcl-2/CED-9 family members and other related proteins regulate apoptosis.
Hyperglycemia worsens ischemic-induced neuronal damage. Many reports argue the delayed neuronal cell death (DND) after forebrain ischemia in gerbils is due to apoptosis. We examined the effects of hyperglycemia and indomethacin on DND after forebrain ischemia in gerbils. Complete occlusion of both common carotid arteries was performed for 3.5 min followed by declamping and reperfusion. Blood glucose levels were maintained at 25-30 mmol/1 for 24 h after reperfusion in the hyperglycemic groups. We examined morphological changes consistent with DND using Nissel-stained sections and DNA fragmentation using TUNEL staining, at 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, 120 h, and 7 days after reperfusion. DND was noted 96-120 h after ischemia in normoglycemic group. Hyperglycemia enhanced the development of DND at an earlier stage (48-84 h after ischemia). TUNEL positive neurons were detected 72-108 h after reperfusion in normoglycemic group, but very few TUNEL positive neurons were detected in hyperglycemic group at 36-48 h. Indomethacin reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells in normoglycemia and completely inhibited the appearance of TUNEL-positive cells under hyperglycemia. The number of viable neurons at 7 days after ischemia was markedly higher in indomethacin-treated groups than vehicle-treated group. Our results indicate that hyperglycemia worsens DND after forebrain ischemia in gerbils but such process is not associated with DNA fragmentation. Our results also showed that indomethacin provides a neuroprotective effect in normo- and hyperglycemic conditions.
Stability of the human alpha-globin mRNA is conferred by a ribonucleoprotein complex termed the alpha-complex, which acts by impeding deadenylation. Using our recently devised in vitro decay assay, we demonstrate that the alpha-complex also functions by protecting the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) from an erythroid-enriched, sequence-specific endoribonuclease activity. The cleavage site was mapped to a region protected by the alpha-complex and is regulated by the presence of the alpha-complex. Similar endoribonuclease cleavage products were also detected in erythroid cells expressing an exogenous alpha-globin gene. Nucleotide substitution of the target sequence renders the RNA refractory to the endoribonuclease activity. Insertion of the target sequence onto a heterologous RNA confers sequence-specific cleavage on the chimeric RNA, demonstrating the sequence specificity of this activity. We conclude that the alpha-complex stabilizes the alpha-globin mRNA in erythroid cells by a multifaceted approach, one aspect of which is to protect the 3'-UTR from specific endoribonuclease cleavage.
Cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) has been identified as one of the most abundant mRNAs in the rat hypothalamus. The objective of the present study was to elucidate the distribution of CART peptide immunoreactive (CARTir) neurons in the monkey hypothalamus and characterize their ultrastructural features and synaptic connections in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). CARTir neurons were particularly abundant in the PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), infundibular nucleus, and premammillary nucleus, whereas the anterior, lateral, and posterior hypothalamic areas as well as the posterior nucleus displayed moderate immunoreactivity. Dense bundles of CARTir fibers exited the PVN and SON and followed a trajectory to the infundibulum similar to that previously shown for vasopressin and oxytocin fibers. The posterior pituitary was densely packed with large CARTir varicosities which, in some cases, were apposed to labeled pituicytes. The external/palisade zone of the median eminence contained rich plexuses of small CARTir varicose fibers, and the internal/fibrous zone was enriched in large axon-like processes. Electron microscope analysis of the PVN revealed (1) that CART peptide immunoreactivity is found in neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory neurons contacted predominantly by unlabelled terminals forming asymmetric synapses, (2) that CARTir terminals resemble glutamatergic and/or noradrenergic boutons and form asymmetric synapses with non-neurosecretory dendrites, and (3) that neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing terminals are apposed to CARTir neurons in the medial part of the nucleus. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that CART peptide is abundant in neuronal perikarya and axon terminals throughout the monkey hypothalamus and along the hypothalamopituitary axis. This strengthens the idea that CART peptides may act as putative neurotansmitters/neuromodulators that mediate various neuroendocrine and autonomic functions in primates.
This study was performed to identify neuronal populations in the somatosensory areas engaged in discrimination of moving stimuli on the skin. Changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and correlated with cytoarchitectonic sensorimotor areas 4a, 4p, 3a, 3b, and 1. Volunteers discriminated differences in the speed of a rotating brush stimulating the palmar surface. Discrimination of moving stimuli, contrasted to rest, increased the rCBF mainly in primary somatosensory (SI) area 1, but also in area 3b. The parietal operculum (PO) was activated bilaterally. We conclude that area 1 is the area in SI which is mainly responding to discrimination of moving stimuli and that the PO contains several regions engaged in the discrimination of fast transient stimuli.
The Implicit Association Test (IAT) examines the differential association of two object categories (e.g. flower and insect) with attribute categories (e.g. pleasant and unpleasant). When items from congruent categories (e.g. flower + pleasant) share a response key, performance is faster and more accurate than when items from incongruent categories (e.g. insect + pleasant) share a key. Performing incongruent word classification engages inhibitory processes to overcome the prepotent tendency to map emotionally congruent items to the same response key. Using fMRI on subjects undergoing the IAT, we show that the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and to a lesser extent the anterior cingulate cortex, mediate inhibitory processes where manipulation of word association is required.
Using in situ hybridization, the mRNA levels encoding neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti gene-related protein (AGRP), proopiomelanocortin (POMC), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and hypocretin/orexin (HC/ORX) were investigated in the rat arcuate nucleus (Arc) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) 2 h after a single dose of the glucose antimetabolite 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG; 600 mg/kg) or of the fatty acid oxidation inhibitor mercaptoacetate (MA; 600 mumol/kg). Two hours after 2-DG or MA injection food intake was significantly increased. NPY and AGRP mRNA levels in the Arc were increased by 2-DG but not affected by MA, and MCH mRNA levels in the LHA were increased by both antimetabolites. These results suggest that Arc neurons expressing NPY and AGRP are regulated by changes in glucose, but not fatty acid availability, whereas both factors affect MCH neurons in the LHA.
We immunohistochemically characterised the expression of the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin in the normal human anteroventral thalamic nucleus (AVN). Two morphologically distinct neuronal populations were found to be parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV-IR): a large population of lightly staining PV-IR neurons and a smaller population of intensely PV-IR neurons. This second type of neuron, which displayed many characteristics normally associated with GABAergic interneurons, has not previously been described in human thalamus. Thus, presumptive thalamic interneurons in the human brain can be further subtyped on the basis of immunoreactivity to parvalbumin. This may have implications for the understanding of thalamocortical function in the normal state and in dysfunctional conditions such as Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome and schizophrenia.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the system that underlies the mismatch negativity (MMN) of event-related potentials would operate on the basis of objects if stimuli were delivered in such a way as to create the impression of two objects. To this end, tones were alternated between ears with one combination of features for each ear. Deviant tones, which differed from the standard tones of both ears, were delivered separately to each ear. The deviants elicited MMNs only with respect to the standards of the ear to which they were delivered. The data indicate that the MMN system operated on the basis of objects and that the integration of objects occurs preattentively in the auditory system.
The pattern of distribution and co-localization of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and quinacrine fluorescence (indicative of vesicular adenosine 5'-triphosphate, ATP), and co-localization of NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity and NOS-immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus of pre-term human fetal (6-17 weeks of gestation) stomach and small intestine was examined using immunohistochemical and histochemical techniques. In all stages of gestation investigated, NOS-immunoreactive and NADPH-d-reactive myenteric neurons and nerve fibres were seen in the fetal intestine and stomach. However, in fetuses of 6-10 weeks of gestation, only 15% of the NADPH-d-positive myenteric neurons were NOS-immunoreactive, whereas a 100% co-localization was found in samples of 12-17 weeks of gestation. Quinacrine fluorescent myenteric neurons and nerve fibres were found only in the fetal intestine of 12-17 weeks of gestation, of which 25% of the NADPH-d-positive myenteric neurons in these samples were quinacrine fluorescent. These findings demonstrate the presence and co-localization of markers for nitric oxide (NO)- and ATP-utilizing myenteric neurons and nerve fibres in the early stages of gestation, suggesting possible co-transmitter and/or trophic roles of ATP and NO in the process of development and maturity of human myenteric neurons. In addition, the fact that only a small percentage of NADPH-d-reactive myenteric neurons express NOS immunoreactivity at 6-10 weeks of gestation confirms that NADPH-d-reactivity does not always represent NOS activity.
The caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) plays a critical role in cardiovascular regulation. Convincing data now support the hypothesis that inhibition of sympathoexcitatory neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) by CVLM neurons constitutes the necessary inhibitory link in baroreceptor reflex mediated control of sympathetic vasomotor outflow. Inhibition or destruction of the CVLM produces severe acute hypertension, consistent with blockade of baroreceptor reflexes and withdrawal of inhibition of RVLM sympathoexcitatory neurons. However, other data indicate that the CVLM also tonically inhibits RVLM sympathoexcitatory neurons in a manner not driven by baroreceptor input. In some studies, inhibition of the CVLM results in an increase in arterial pressure (AP) without inhibiting baroreceptor reflexes, possibly reflecting baroreceptor-independent and baroreceptor-dependent sub-regions of the CVLM. Furthermore, in baroreceptor-denervated rats, inhibition of the CVLM still leads to large increases in AP. In addition, in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) central processing of baroreceptor reflexes appears normal but CVLM-mediated inhibition of the RVLM seems to be attenuated, suggesting that it is specifically a baroreceptor-independent mechanism of cardiovascular regulation in SHR that is altered. Taken together, these findings support an important, tonic, baroreceptor-independent inhibition of RVLM sympathoexcitatory neurons exerted by the CVLM.
The fundamental neuronal substrates of the arterial baroreceptor reflex have been elucidated by combining anatomical, neurophysiological, and pharmacological approaches. A serial pathway between neurons located in the nuclei of the solitary tract (NTS), the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL), and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) plays a critical role in inhibition of sympathetic outflow following stimulation of baroreceptor afferents. In this paper, we summarize our studies using tract-tracing and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to define the potential functional sites for synaptic transmission within this circuitry. The results are discussed as they relate to the literature showing: (1) baroreceptor afferents excite second-order neurons in NTS through the release of glutamate; (2) these NTS neurons in turn send excitatory projections to neurons in the CVL; (3) GABAergic CVL neurons directly inhibit RVL sympathoexcitatory neurons; and (4) activation of this NTS--&gt;CVL--&gt;RVL pathway leads to disfacilitation of sympathetic preganglionic neurons by promoting withdrawal of their tonic excitatory drive, which largely arises from neurons in the RVL. Baroreceptor control may also be regulated over direct reticulospinal pathways exemplified by a newly recognized sympathoinhibitory region of the medulla, the gigantocellular depressor area. This important autonomic reflex may also be influenced by parallel, multiple, and redundant networks.
The precise alignment of myelin segments along the length of the axon is essential for the saltatory propagation of an electrical impulse. Furthermore, node of Ranvier formation and function are dependent on the proper interactions between myelinating glial cells and the axon. Nevertheless, the molecules that regulate the placement and association of myelinating cells with axons remain largely unidentified. Recently, however, the analysis of mutant mice incapable of synthesizing the galactolipids of myelin has revealed defects in these processes. The galactolipid-deficient mice display alterations in the spacing of internodal segments along the axon: large unmyelinated gaps are common and overlapping myelin segments are observed. Moreover, the normal tight association between the lateral loops of the myelinating cell and the axonal membrane at the paranode region is also disrupted in these animals. Strikingly, there is a complete absence of transverse bands at the axon-glial junction, with the lateral loops frequently turning away from the axon. These data indicate that the galactolipids play an essential role in axon-glial interactions and node of Ranvier formation.


The pattern of mental dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS) is characteristic of the so-called subcortical dementia. Cognitive dysfunction results predominantly by the disruption of communication among cortical and subcortical areas, as a consequence of the white matter damage. As expected, studies with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated that cognitive impairment in MS patients is related to the lesion burden, although the strength of this correlation is weak. This can be partially explained by the poor pathological specificity of conventional MRI techniques and by the invisible damage in the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM). Recent studies using non-conventional MRI techniques with a higher specificity for the heterogeneous substrates of MS pathology, such as the assessment of hypointense lesion load on T1-weighted scans and the measurement of the magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) of whole brain, MS lesions and NAWM, support this interpretation. Other factors, such as the site of MS lesions and the presence of active inflammation, also seem to play an important role.
Although the correlations between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings and long-term disease evolution range from poor to moderate, conventional pre- and post-contrast MRI provides sensitive and reliable measures to monitor multiple sclerosis (MS) activity over time. MRI pulse sequences that have been recently introduced have shorter acquisition times and their use in large-scale studies can significantly decrease their costs in terms of both working load and patients' discomfort. The application of non-conventional techniques can increase the pathological specificity of MRI findings and, as a consequence, improve the relationship with the clinical evolution of the disease. These techniques also enable us to quantify the subtle abnormalities occuring in the so-called normal-appearing white matter, thus allowing a more accurate assessment of MS burden to be achieved. Some of these techniques have already shown their value for assessing MS dynamics, whereas other still need to go through a more complete validation process prior to any extensive clinical application in MS.

Spontaneous neuronal firing during development has the potential to shape many aspects of neuronal wiring throughout the brain. Bursts of electrical activity coordinated among large numbers of neurons, occurring during a brief developmental window, have been described in many regions of the CNS, including retina, hippocampus, and spinal cord, but evidence for this type of activity in developing neocortex has so far been lacking. To identify conditions that may give rise to patterned spontaneous electrical activity in developing neocortex, cholinergic agonists were applied to immature rat cortical slices while large-scale activity was imaged optically with fura-2 AM. Here I show that activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors results in waves of correlated neural activity. Waves recruit large numbers of neurons, are slowly propagating, regenerative events involving depolarization and associated calcium transients, and advance for many millimeters as a sharp wave front perpendicular to the pial surface, at speeds ranging between 50 and 300 m/sec. The expression of waves is restricted temporally to a brief period in postnatal development, until postnatal day 6, and spatially to some neocortical areas. The ability of isolated neocortical networks to generate large-scale patterned activity endogenously during a period of massive neurite extension and synaptogenesis raises the possibility that at least in some cortical areas these processes might be influenced by patterned neuronal firing generated independently of thalamocortical input.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) enhances cholinergic functioning in animals with a compromised cholinergic basal forebrain (CBF). Immunotoxic lesions targeting low-affinity NGF receptor (p75NGF receptor)-bearing CBF neurons provide a selective model for testing the effects of NGF on residual cholinergic neurons. Rats received PBS or the immunotoxin 192IgG-saporin (192Sap) intracerebroventricularly at two doses (1 or 2.7 microg) known to produce different degrees of cholinergic deficit. Seven weeks after lesioning, half of each group received either NGF or cytochrome c intracerebroventricularly for 7 weeks. The two doses of 192Sap produced 50 and 80% depletions of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in the neocortex and hippocampus. NGF produced the greatest increase in ChAT activity in controls, intermediate in low-lesioned, and smallest in highly lesioned animals. NGF-treated animals showed reduced weight gain, hyper-responsiveness to acoustic stimuli, and decreased inhibitory avoidance. Although general motor behavior was affected by neither 192Sap nor NGF in an open field task, highly lesioned rats took longer to reach the platform during water maze testing. Impaired spatial orientation in finding a hidden platform at the previously acquired position was mitigated by NGF. Hypertrophic changes of residual CBF neurons, Schwann cell hyperplasia, and aberrant axonal sprouting around the medulla were observed in NGF-treated animals only, independent of the preexisting lesion. Our results indicate that NGF has a limited capacity to enhance functioning of residual CBF neurons. More importantly, NGF augmented fear-related behaviors and adverse neuroproliferative changes that may restrict its therapeutic use.
Hemispheric asymmetries in the processing of elemental speech sounds appear to be critical for normal speech perception. This study investigated the effects of age on hemispheric asymmetry observed in the neurophysiological responses to speech stimuli in three groups of normal hearing, right-handed subjects: children (ages, 8-11 years), young adults (ages, 20-25 years), and older adults (ages &gt; 55 years). Peak-to-peak response amplitudes of the auditory cortical P1-N1 complex obtained over right and left temporal lobes were examined to determine the degree of left/right asymmetry in the neurophysiological responses elicited by synthetic speech syllables in each of the three subject groups. In addition, mismatch negativity (MMN) responses, which are elicited by acoustic change, were obtained. Whereas children and young adults demonstrated larger P1-N1-evoked response amplitudes over the left temporal lobe than over the right, responses from elderly subjects were symmetrical. In contrast, MMN responses, which reflect an echoic memory process, were symmetrical in all subject groups. The differences observed in the neurophysiological responses were accompanied by a finding of significantly poorer ability to discriminate speech syllables involving rapid spectrotemporal changes in the older adult group. This study demonstrates a biological, age-related change in the neural representation of basic speech sounds and suggests one possible underlying mechanism for the speech perception difficulties exhibited by aging adults. Furthermore, results of this study support previous findings suggesting a dissociation between neural mechanisms underlying those processes that reflect the basic representation of sound structure and those that represent auditory echoic memory and stimulus change.
The prostanoid-synthesizing enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is expressed in selected cerebral cortical neurons and is involved in synaptic signaling. We sought to determine whether COX-2 participates in the increase in cerebral blood flow produced by synaptic activity in the somatosensory cortex. In anesthetized mice, the vibrissae were stimulated mechanically, and cerebral blood flow was recorded in the contralateral somatosensory cortex by a laser-Doppler probe. We found that the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 attenuates the increase in somatosensory cortex blood flow produced by vibrissal stimulation. Furthermore, the flow response was impaired in mice lacking the COX-2 gene, whereas the associated increase in whisker-barrel cortex glucose use was not affected. The increases in cerebral blood flow produced by hypercapnia, acetylcholine, or bradykinin were not attenuated by NS-398, nor did they differ between wild-type and COX-2 null mice. The findings provide evidence for a previously unrecognized role of COX-2 in the mechanisms coupling synaptic activity to neocortical blood flow and provide an insight into one of the functions of constitutive COX-2 in the CNS.
Neonatal spinal motor neurons are electrically and dye-coupled by gap junctions, but coupling is transient and disappears rapidly after birth. Here we report that adult motor neurons become recoupled by gap junctions after peripheral nerve injury. One and 4-6 weeks after nerve cut, clusters of dye-coupled motor neurons were observed among axotomized, but not control, lumbar spinal motor neurons in adult cats. Electrical coupling was not apparent, probably because of the electrotonic distance between dendrodendritic gap junctions and the somatic recording location. Analyses of gap junction protein expression in cat and rat showed that the repertoire of connexins expressed by normal adult motor neurons, Cx36, Cx37, Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45, was unchanged after axotomy. Our results suggest that the reestablishment of gap junctional coupling among axotomized adult motor neurons may occur by modulation of existing gap junction proteins that are constitutively expressed by motor neurons. After injury, interneuronal gap junctional coupling may mediate signaling that maintains the viability of axotomized motor neurons until synaptic connections are reestablished within their targets.
A-type K(+) currents are key determinants of repetitive activity and synaptic integration. Although several gene families have been shown to code for A-type channel subunits, recent studies have suggested that Kv4 family channels are the principal contributors to A-type channels in the somatodendritic membrane of mammalian brain neurons. If this hypothesis is correct, there should be a strong correlation between Kv4 family mRNA and A-type channel protein or aggregate channel currents. To test this hypothesis, quantitative single-cell reverse transcription-PCR analysis of Kv4 family mRNA was combined with voltage-clamp analysis of A-type K(+) currents in acutely isolated neurons. These studies revealed that Kv4.2 mRNA abundance was linearly related to A-type K(+) current amplitude in neostriatal medium spiny neurons and cholinergic interneurons, in globus pallidus neurons, and in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. In contrast, there was not a significant correlation between estimates of Kv4.1 or Kv4.3 mRNA abundance and A-type K(+) current amplitudes. These results argue that Kv4.2 subunits are major constituents of somatodendritic A-type K(+) channels in these four types of neuron. In spite of this common structural feature, there were significant differences in the voltage dependence and kinetics of A-type currents in the cell types studied, suggesting that other determinants may create important functional differences between A-type K(+) currents.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid fibrils within the brain and the subsequent association and phenotypic activation of microglial cells associated with the amyloid plaque. The activated microglia mount a complex local proinflammatory response with the secretion of a diverse range of inflammatory products. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are efficacious in reducing the incidence and risk of AD and significantly delaying disease progression. A recently appreciated target of NSAIDs is the ligand-activated nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma). PPARgamma is a DNA-binding transcription factor whose transcriptional regulatory actions are activated after agonist binding. We report that NSAIDs, drugs of the thiazolidinedione class, and the natural ligand prostaglandin J2 act as agonists for PPARgamma and inhibit the beta-amyloid-stimulated secretion of proinflammatory products by microglia and monocytes responsible for neurotoxicity and astrocyte activation. The activation of PPARgamma also arrested the differentiation of monocytes into activated macrophages. PPARgamma agonists were shown to inhibit the beta-amyloid-stimulated expression of the cytokine genes interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha. Furthermore, PPARgamma agonists inhibited the expression of cyclooxygenase-2. These data provide direct evidence that PPARgamma plays a critical role in regulating the inflammatory responses of microglia and monocytes to beta-amyloid. We argue that the efficacy of NSAIDs in the treatment of AD may be a consequence of their actions on PPARgamma rather than on their canonical targets the cyclooxygenases. Importantly, the efficacy of these agents in inhibiting a broad range of inflammatory responses suggests PPARgamma agonists may provide a novel therapeutic approach to AD.
The exp-2 gene in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans influences the shape and duration of the action potential of pharyngeal muscle cells. Several loss-of-function mutations in exp-2 lead to broadening of the action potential and to a concomitant slowing of the pumping action of the pharynx. In contrast, a gain-of-function mutation leads to narrow action potentials and shallow pumping. We cloned and functionally characterized the exp-2 gene. The exp-2 gene is homologous to genes of the family of voltage-gated K(+) channels (Kv type). The Xenopus oocyte-expressed EXP-2 channel, although structurally closely related to Kv-type channels, is functionally distinct and very similar to the human ether--gogo-related gene (HERG) K(+) channel. In response to depolarization, EXP-2 activates slowly and inactivates very rapidly. On repolarization, recovery from inactivation is also rapid and strongly voltage-dependent. These kinetic properties make the Kv-type EXP-2 channel an inward rectifier that resembles the structurally unrelated HERG channel. Apart from many similarities to HERG, however, the molecular mechanism of fast inactivation appears to be different. Moreover, the single-channel conductance is 5- to 10-fold larger than that of HERG and most Kv-type K(+) channels. It appears that the inward rectification mechanism by rapid inactivation has evolved independently in two distinct classes of structurally unrelated, voltage-gated K(+) channels.
Information concerning the location and distribution of presynaptic neurotransmitter release sites within anatomically labeled axons would be of value for a large number of studies in functional anatomy, development, and plasticity. Here we report a method for localizing presynaptic sites within identified arbors of interest using anterograde anatomical tracer injections to label axonal projections and synaptic vesicle protein (SVP) antibodies to label presumptive presynaptic terminals. The axons and presynaptic sites are independently visualized with double label immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. Stacks of images representing adjacent focal planes are collected, and image processing techniques are applied to identify the location of each axonal branch segment and each cluster of SVP label in three-dimensional space. Segmentation of the SVP label into distinct pixel clusters in three-dimensional space, followed by colocalization of these clusters with the labeled axons (object-based analysis), yields much more reliable and sensitive measures of colocalization than a simple determination of the number (or summed intensities) of colocalized pixels in a single optical section (pixel-based analysis). The method has been extended to measure the colocalization of antigens that are not located at the presynaptic terminal with a labeled population of axons.
Cross-breeding of mouse mutants, each defective in either synthesis (CGT knockout) or degradation (twitcher) of galactosylceramide, generates hybrids with a genotype of galc -/-, cgt +/-, in addition to doubly deficient mice. They are ideally suited to test the potential usefulness of limiting synthesis of the substrate as a treatment of genetic disorders due to degradative enzyme defects. The rate of accretion of galactosylceramide in the brain of CGT knockout carrier mice (cgt +/-) is approximately two-thirds of the normal, suggesting a gene-level compensation for the reduced gene dosage. Phenotype of twitcher mice with a single dose of normal cgt gene was indeed milder with statistical significance, albeit only slightly. Compared among 10 paired littermates, the difference in the life span was 7+/-3.9 days (S.D.) and the difference in the maximum attained body weight was 1.9+/-1.2 g (S.D.). Neuropathologists were able to distinguish blindly galc -/-, cgt +/- mice from galc -/-, cgt +/+ mice. The brain psychosine level in galc -/-, cgt +/- mice was also approximately two-thirds of the galc -/-, cgt +/+ mice. These observations indicate that reduction of galactosylceramide synthesis to two-thirds of the normal level results in minor but clearly detectable phenotypic improvements. Because of the detrimental consequences of drastic reduction in galactosylceramide synthesis that may be required for pragmatically meaningful improvements, this approach by itself is unlikely to be useful as the sole treatment but may be helpful as a supplement to other therapies.
We have generated mice doubly deficient in both synthesis and degradation of galactosylceramide by cross-breeding twitcher mice and galactosylceramide synthase (UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase, CGT) knockout mice. The prediction that the phenotype of the doubly deficient mice should be the same as the cgt -/- mice, since the degrading enzyme should not be necessary if the substrate is not synthesized, proved to be only partially correct. In early stages of the disease, the doubly deficient mice (galc -/-, cgt -/-) were essentially indistinguishable from the cgt -/- mice. However, the doubly deficient mice had a much shorter life span than cgt -/- mice. Both galactosylceramide and galactosylsphingosine (psychosine), were undetectable in the brain of the cgt -/- and the doubly deficient mice. The characteristic twitcher pathology was never seen in the galc -/-, cgt -/- mice. However, after 43 days, neuronal pathology was observed in the brainstem and spinal cord. This late neuronal pathology has not been seen in the CGT knockout mice but has been described in some long surviving bone marrow-transplanted twitcher mice. Furthermore, the motor segment of the trigeminal nerve of the galc -/-, cgt -/- mice showed severe degeneration not seen in either twitcher or CGT knockout mice. Thus, the galc -/-, cgt -/- mice, while primarily showing the cgt -/- phenotype as predicted, develop late pathology that is seen only in twitcher mouse and also a unique pathology in the trigeminal nerve. These observations indicate that the functional relationship between galactosylceramidase and galactosylceramide synthase is complex.
The immune cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is believed to be a key agent in the pathogenesis of immune-mediated demyelinating disorders. We have examined the possibility that one effect of this cytokine involves overloading the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of oligodendrocytes through the induction of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I heavy chain (HC) gene expression. For these studies, we have utilized several genetic mouse models that yield different subcellular localizations of HC in oligodendrocytes. We show that transgenic mice that ectopically express HC in oligodendrocytes (MBP/MHC class I mice) fail to transport HC past the ER. These mice are hypomyelinated and have a tremoring phenotype. When oligodendrocytes deficient in beta-2 microglobulin (beta2m), which is required for MHC class I assembly and transport, were treated with IFN-gamma in vitro, HC was transported past the ER to the trans-Golgi network but not onto the cell surface. When an asymptomatic line of mice that expresses MHC class I in the CNS due to transgene-derived IFN-gamma (MBP/IFN-gamma mice) was crossed onto the beta2m-/- background, the resulting mice were asymptomatic. In contrast, increasing the amount of MHC class I protein transported through the ER in MBP/MHC class I transgenic mice, by crossing them to the asymptomatic MBP/IFN-gamma mice, exacerbated their phenotype. Taken together, these data indicate that the ER is a sensitive site in oligodendrocytes for accumulation of MHC class I HC and suggest a molecular mechanism for IFN-gamma's deleterious effects on these cells.
The effects of cocaine and caffeine on motor activity in two mouse strains 129/OlaHsd (129) and C57BL/6J (C57) were compared. The former mice exhibited lower basal motor activity than the latter. Cocaine (3, 10, 30 mg/kg) injected i.p. in habituated C57 mice produced a dose-dependent increase in rearing, motility and locomotion. In 129 mice, little or no stimulation was seen and only with the highest dose of cocaine. In both strains caffeine (3, 15, 30 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in rearing, motility and locomotion. The effect of caffeine on rearing was greater in C57 than in 129 mice, but motility and locomotion were stimulated approximately to the same degree in both strains. Thus, differences in the sensitivity to caffeine and cocaine between mouse strains provide genetic evidence that these two stimulants probably produce locomotor stimulation via somewhat different mechanisms.
CYP1B1, a new member of human cytochrome P450 family 1, is involved in the xenobiotic detoxification metabolism and possibly activation of numerous procarcinogens and promutagens. Localization of CYP1B1 in human temporal lobe and its induction in astrocytoma cell line (MOG-G-CCM) by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) was investigated using antibodies against human CYP1B1. A single band of approximately 58 kDa size in both human temporal lobe and in MOG-G-CCM was detected by Western blot analysis. Treatment of MOG-G-CCM cells with DMBA resulted in approximately 2.8-fold induction of CYP1B1. CYP1B1 immunoreactivity was detected at the blood-brain interface areas of the temporal lobe as evidenced by co-localization with CD34 antigen. These results suggest that this enzyme may be important in brain xenobiotic metabolism acting as an enzymatic barrier.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the nucleus reuniens thalami (RE) innervates inhibitory cells in hippocampal field CA1. Therefore, we examined the RE-CA1 input at the ultrastructural level. RE axons were anterogradely labeled with biotin-conjugated dextran amine (BDA), in combination with pre-embedding gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)-immunolabeling of neurons in CA1. We observed that part of the BDA-labeled axons formed asymmetrical (i.e. excitatory) synapses on GABA-positive dendrites. Based on these data, which are in line with our previously published electrophysiological observations (Dolleman-Van der Weel, M.J., Lopes da Silva, F.H. and Witter, M.P., Nucleus reuniens thalami modulates activity in hippocampal field CA1 through excitatory and inhibitory mechanisms. J. Neurosci., 17 (1997) 5640-5650), we propose that RE-CA1 input partially influences hippocampal transmission through activation of local inhibitory interneurons.
The signalling molecule ceramide participates in the sphingomyelin pathway and accumulates intracellularly in response to inflammatory mediators. Here we show that membrane permeable C2-ceramide is apoptogenic in the immortalised human oligodendroglial cell line MO3.13. Apoptosis (defined by cell shrinkage and chromatin condensation) is accompanied by caspase enzyme activation. Immunoblotting analysis of extracts from differentiated MO3.13 cells revealed the presence of caspase-3 proenzyme, activation by cleavage of pro-caspase-3 in cells treated with C2-ceramide and cleavage of the caspase substrates fodrin and rabaptin. Lysates also showed cleavage of a fluorogenic peptide substrate. Addition of the general caspase inhibitor BAF markedly attenuated apoptosis of MO3.13 oligodendroglia. A role for caspase-3-like enzymes in ceramide-induced apoptosis of oligodendroglia may have important implications for approaches to treatment of demyelinating diseases.

Recent experiments suggest that our perception of lightness involves a sophisticated interpretation of illumination and shadow. This finding challenges common notions about hierarchical processing and the neural basis of perception.


The authors describe four siblings from consanguineous parents who presented with oculomotor deficit in early childhood characterized by impaired volitional horizontal saccades, compensatory lateral head thrust, and preservation of vertical movement. When about 10 years of age, heavily calcified aortic and mitral valves required surgery. Fibroblast beta-glucocerebrosidase activity was markedly reduced. Genotype analysis indicated that the two patients who were tested were homozygous for the D409H (1342G--&gt;C) mutation. Relating this rare phenotype of Gaucher disease to D409H mutation will facilitate management of the disease and counseling of families.





This study investigated single neuronal activity in the face area of the primary motor cortex (MI) and ventral part of the premotor cortex (PMv) while a monkey performed a visually guided jaw-movement task with a delay period. When the monkey executed the jaw movements, 48 MI and 53 PMv neurons showed statistically significant activities time-locked to jaw movements and were defined as movement-related neurons. The activities of movement-related neurons could be classified into phasic, phasic-tonic and tonic patterns based on the changes in discharge rate. Most of the neurons exhibiting phasic and phasic-tonic activities probably contributed to the initiation of jaw movements, since they exhibited transient responses immediately after the onset of the go-cue indicating the jaw movement. In contrast, the sustained activity of the movement-related neurons exhibiting phasic-tonic and tonic activities may be involved in controlling and/or maintaining jaw position. Sustained activity was also detected during the delay period in 4 MI and 29 PMv neurons and these neurons were defined as set-related neurons. It is thought that these set-related neurons are involved in the preparation for the subsequent jaw movement, since the masticatory muscles showed no significant changes during the delay period. These findings suggest that the MI may be involved predominantly in the initiation and control of jaw movements, and that the PMv may be involved in motor preparation, and may play a role as a higher-order motor area related to the initiation and control of jaw movements.
Excess brain zinc has been implicated in Alzheimer's neuropathology. Here we evaluated that hypothesis by searching the brains of Alzheimer's patients for abnormal zinc deposits. Using histochemical methods, we found vivid Zn2+ staining in the amyloid deposits of dense-core (senile) plaques, in the amyloid angiopathy surrounding diseased blood vessels, and in the somata and dendrites of neurons showing the characteristic neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) of Alzheimer's. In contrast, brains from age-matched, non-demented subjects showed only occasional staining for Zn2+ in scattered neurons and possible plaques. A role of abnormal zinc metabolism in Alzheimer's neuropathology is suggested.
Quantitative reverse transcription and polymerisation chain reaction (RT-PCR) using Taqmantrade mark omitted fluorogenic probes has been used to measure changes in gene expression in the cerebral cortex of rats in the permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) model of focal ischemia. The mRNA levels of three housekeeping genes have been analysed in this model to determine which gene showed least change following experimental insult. In the lesioned cortex, beta-actin mRNA increased at 24 h, while the levels of cyclophilin and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) did not change. We have also used this methodology to examine modulations in the level of caspase-3 mRNA during focal ischemia in the rat. Caspase-3 mRNA showed a 41% increase at 6 h post-MCAO, which was specific to the lesioned cortex. This change became more pronounced with time, showing an increase of 220% at 24 h. This methodology enables changes in mRNA expression to be analysed more sensitively and quantitatively than other available techniques and highlights the need for careful choice of control or housekeeping genes used for RNA comparisons.
In the present study, we investigated the selectivity and specificity associated with continuous intrastriatal treatment with antisense oligonucleotides. Rats were given intrastriatal infusions for 72 h with phosphodiester, and fully and endcap phosphorothioated oligonucleotide probes complementary to prodynorphin mRNA. Dynorphin (Dyn) peptide levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. The integrity of three other striatal transmitter systems, the neuropeptide Y (NPY)-ergic interneurons, the cholinergic interneurons and the dopaminergic afferent innervation, was assessed histochemically. The gross morphology of the striatum and the distribution of fluorescently labelled antisense probes were also investigated. Brains infused with phosphodiester probes had tissue Dyn levels not different from control. They also showed little or no change in staining for NPY, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and essentially normal striatal gross morphology. In contrast, brains treated with fully phosphorothioated oligonucleotides showed significant decreases in striatal Dyn levels but also severe tissue damage accompanied by massive cell infiltration and decreases in immunoreactivities for the striatal neurochemical markers. Fluorescently labelled phosphorothioate probes were observed widely in the striatum and adjacent structures and, presumably retrogradely transported, in the dopamine cell bodies in the substantia nigra, also revealing the presence of abnormal cellular structures within the striatum. By comparison, endcap probes significantly reduced striatal Dyn levels and showed good tissue penetration without inducing major changes in tissue morphology or histochemistry of non-dynorphinergic systems, except for cell infiltration. The deleterious tissue effects of fully phosphorothioated oligonucleotides and the ineffectiveness of phosphodiester oligonucleotides in inhibiting protein synthesis suggest that, of the probes examined in this study, endcap oligonucleotides are the most useful for in vivo studies in the central nervous system.
How similar are judgements concerning how we expect to perform an action, to how we actually behave? The veracity of such prospective action judgements, and the mechanisms by which they are computed, was explored in a series of tasks that involved either grasping (MC conditions) or thinking about grasping (PJ conditions) a dowel presented in various orientations. PJs concerning limits of comfortable hand supination and pronation when turning a dowel in the picture plane were highly consistent with values obtained during actual hand rotation (Exp. 1). The same was true for judgements regarding the level of awkwardness involved in adopting a prescribed grip (e.g. overhand with right hand) for dowels in various picture plane orientations (Exp. 2). When allowed to select the most natural grip (overhand versus underhand) or hand (left versus right) for engaging dowels in these orientations, subjects preferred virtually identical responses in both PJ and MC conditions. In both instances, they consistently chose the least awkward response options. As would be expected for actual movements, PJs involving awkward hand postures had longer response times (RTs), and were less accurate. Likewise, latencies for both grip and hand judgements tended to increase as a function of the angular distance between the current positions of subjects' hands, and the orientation of the chosen posture. Together, these findings are consistent with a the hypothesis that PJs involve mentally simulated actions, or motor imagery. These results suggest that motor imagery does not depend on the existence of a completed premotor plan (Jeannerod, 1994), but may instead be involved in the planning process itself. A provisional model for the involvement of imagery in motor planning is outlined, as are a set of criteria for evaluating claims of the involvement of motor imagery in problem solving.
Mice with a history of chronic (10 days), but not acute, treatment with a non-convulsant dose of cocaine showed increased sensitivity (P&lt;0.001) to the toxic effects of aminophylline (seizures, lethality) relative to controls even days after the cessation of cocaine treatment. The present finding suggests that individuals with a history of cocaine use may be at increased risk for convulsive and lethal complications associated with the therapeutic use of aminophylline.
We examined the contribution of the human delta-opioid receptor carboxyl terminal tail to (+)-4-[(alphaR)-alpha-((2S,5R)-4-allyl-2, 5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide (SNC80)- and cyclic[D-Pen(2),D-Pen(5)]enkephalin (DPDPE)-mediated receptor down-regulation. Both SNC80 and DPDPE mediated down-regulation of an epitope tagged human delta-opioid receptor. Truncation of the human delta-opioid receptor after Gly(338) blocked DPDPE-mediated down-regulation. However, SNC80 mediated significant down-regulation of the truncated receptor. These findings suggest that SNC80-mediated down-regulation involves receptor domains in addition to the carboxyl terminal tail.
Axon guidance mechanisms are crucial to the development of an integrated nervous system. One family of molecules that may be important in establishing axonal connectivity in mammals is the Netrins, and their putative receptors DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer), Neogenin, and Unc-5. Knockout and mutational analyses of some of these genes have shown that they are critically involved in the development of several specific pathways in the developing brain. However, previous expression analyses of these genes have largely been confined to the developing spinal cord. In the present study, we analyzed the expression of DCC in the developing mouse forebrain. We found that DCC protein is expressed in specific axonal populations projecting from the developing olfactory bulb, neocortex, hippocampus, and epithalamus/habenular complex. In the developing olfactory bulb and neocortex, DCC expression is particularly evident during the targeting phase of axon outgrowth and is then rapidly downregulated. As predicted from the knockout and mutational analyses of this gene, DCC is expressed in axonal commissures, in particular the corpus callosum, hippocampal commissure, and the anterior commissure. In addition, we found that DCC is expressed in the habenular commissure, the fasciculus retroflexus, and the stria medularis. Therefore, this analysis implicates a function for DCC in additional axonal guidance systems not predicted from the knockout and mutational analyses.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, fatal neurodegenerative disorder involving the motor neurons of cortex, brain stem, and spinal cord. About 10% of all ALS patients are familial cases (FALS), of which 20% have mutations in the Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. The murine model for FALS, which overexpresses a FALS variant of the SOD1 gene, exhibits progressive limbic paralysis followed by death. Treatment of FALS mice with WHI-P131, a specific inhibitor of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3), increased survival by more than two months, suggesting that specific inhibitors of JAK3 may be useful in the treatment of human ALS. These results uniquely establish JAK3 as a novel molecular target for the treatment of FALS.
A retro-inverso 11-mer peptidomimetic of prosaposin, Prosaptide D5, induced neurite outgrowth in NS20Y neuroblastoma cells and enhanced [35S]GTPgammaS binding to rat synaptosomal membrane at low nanomolar concentrations similar to prosaposin. Intramuscular injection of D5 ameliorated thermal hyperalgesia in the Seltzer rat model of neuropathic pain, returning paw withdrawal latency to control levels within 3 h after treatment. The effect was sustained for at least 48 h after injection. Prosaposin and D5 inhibited K+-stimulated synaptosomal 45Ca2+ uptake similar to omega-conotoxin MVIIC, demonstrating that both effectors modulated voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC); inhibition was largely abolished by pretreatment with pertussis toxin before D5 treatment. The results suggest a mechanism whereby VDCC are modulated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein coupled receptor; D5 binds to this receptor and thereby ameliorates hyperalgesia in the Seltzer model of neuropathic pain.
Histamine activates phospholipase C (PLC) in a number of cell-types including those of neuronal and neuroendocrine origin. We report here that Cl(-)-channel antagonists of the niflumic acid-, but not stilbene disulphonic acid-class, produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of histamine-stimulated PLC activity in bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells. Low extracellular [Cl-] (10 mM) produced a similar degree of inhibition. While the mechanism(s) responsible for this inhibition are not resolved it may be significant that low extracellular Cl- also reduced the magnitude of the histamine-induced Ca2+ signal. Thus, PLC inhibition may be secondary to a reduction in Ca2+-inflow, a conclusion consistent with the known actions of niflumic acid-type compounds and the previously reported importance of Ca2+-influx in supporting histamine-stimulated PLC activity.
We investigated the effect of the systemic infusion of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on the behavioral response in a rat neuropathic pain model. One microgram per hour infusion of BDNF significantly attenuated mechanical hyperalgesia tested by the pin-prick test, however, 20 microg/h-BDNF infusion, on the contrary, enhanced the response. Neither 0.5 nor 10 microg/h-BDNF infusion influenced the mechanical hyperalgesia. Mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, tested using a von Frey filament (23.0 mN) and the plantar test, were not influenced by BDNF treatment. These data suggest that systemic BDNF treatment can specifically alter high-threshold mechanosensitivity.
Guidance of developing axons involves turning of the motile tip, the growth cone, in response to a variety of extracellular cues. Little is known about the intracellular mechanism by which the directional signal is transduced. Ca2+ is a key second messenger in growth cone extension and has been implicated in growth-cone turning. Here I report that a direct, spatially restricted elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) on one side of the growth cone by focal laser-induced photolysis (FLIP) of caged Ca2+ consistently induced turning of the growth cone to the side with elevated [Ca2+]i (attraction). Furthermore, when the resting [Ca2+]i at the growth cone was decreased by the removal of extracellular Ca2+, the same focal elevation of [Ca2+]i by FLIP induced repulsion. These results provide direct evidence that a localized Ca2+ signal in the growth cone can provide the intracellular directional cue for extension and is sufficient to initiate both attraction and repulsion. By integrating local and global Ca2+ signals, a growth cone could thus generate different turning responses under different environmental conditions during guidance.
Rolipram, a phosphodiesterase type 4 inhibitor, can markedly down-regulate antigen-driven T cell proliferation and suppress TNF-alpha production in vitro and in vivo. Here we report the effects of Rolipram on experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), which can be induced by immunization with myelin components of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) combined with Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA), and which represents a CD4+ T cell-mediated animal model for human Guillain-Barr syndrome. EAN induced in Lewis rats by inoculation with the PNS P2 protein peptide 57-81 and FCA was strongly suppressed by Rolipram administered twice daily intraperitoneally from day 9 post immunization (p.i.), i.e. after onset of clinical EAN. Suppression of EAN was associated with down-regulated myelin antigen-induced T cell responses as well as down-regulated IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production. A relapse of clinical EAN occurred upon treatment of a short duration (7 days), while prolongation of treatment resulted in the prevention of clinical EAN relapse. There was no relationship between clinical EAN relapse and high levels of TNF-alpha. The immunomodulatory effects of Rolipram call for further research into the potential role of drugs acting on the immune system in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
After direct administration into the dorsal hippocampus nicotine decreased the time spent in social interaction, without changing locomotor activity, indicating an anxiogenic effect. The possibility that post-synaptic M1 muscarinic receptors mediated this effect was examined by determining whether dorsal hippocampal administration of a specific M1 receptor agonist (McN-A-343) had anxiogenic effects, and whether the anxiogenic effect of nicotine could be reversed by co-administration of the M1 receptor antagonist, pirenzepine. McN-A-343 (0.3, 1.6, 3.2, 15.8 nmol) was without effect on social interaction, and pirenzepine (0.7 and 2.4 nmol) injection into the dorsal hippocampus failed to reverse the decrease in social interaction caused by nicotine (6.3 nmol) injection into this area. However, the decrease in social interaction after nicotine (50 nmol) was completely reversed by the specific 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100635 (0.4 nmol) after co-administration of both drugs into the dorsal hippocampus. Thus, the anxiogenic effect of nicotine in this brain region seems to be mediated by 5-HT1A, but not M1, receptors. In contrast to the effect of nicotine in naive animals, those retested after a second injection of 50 nmol did not show a significant anxiogenic effect. The theoretical implications of this are discussed and from a practical point of view this suggests caution in the retesting of animals after central injections.
Coupling of receptors to G-proteins can be assessed by the ability of specific agonists to stimulate [35S]GTPgammaS binding in both brain membranes and sections in the presence of excess GDP. In some brain regions, however, high basal activity makes it difficult to detect agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding. The present study suggests a modification of the assay to reduce basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding and thus increase the signal:noise ratio. Adenosine A1 receptors belong to the class of G-protein-coupled receptors that activate Gi/Go proteins in brain. In the present study, the A1 agonist R(-)N6-(2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (R-PIA) stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in brain regions known to contain A1 receptors, including cerebellum, hippocampus and dentate gyrus, medial geniculate body, superior colliculus, certain thalamic nuclei, cerebral cortex, piriform cortex, caudate-putamen, and nucleus accumbens. Treatment of sections and membranes with adenosine deaminase (ADase), which is typically used in adenosine assays to eliminate endogenous adenosine, reduced basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding. In addition, for cannabinoid and mu-opioid agonists, the percent stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding was approximately doubled when ADase was included in the assay. These results suggest that endogenous adenosine contributes significantly to basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding in certain brain regions, and that this activity may be reduced by the addition of ADase, thus improving the signal:noise ratio of agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding.
The weaver defect results in a loss of baclofen- and adenosine-gated K+ conductance in the hippocampus of adult homozygous (wv/wv) mice. In addition, suppression of hippocampal epileptiform activity by baclofen is impaired (Jarolimek, W., Burle, J., Misgeld, U., 1998. Pore mutation in a G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K+ channel subunit causes loss of K+ dependent inhibition in weaver hippocampus. Journal of Neuroscience 18, 4001-4007). We used wv/wv and wild-type (+/+) mice to determine whether K+ conductance increases are essential for the suppression of epileptiform activity by R-baclofen and adenosine in disinhibited hippocampal slices. In wv/wv mice R-baclofen was less potent by two orders of magnitude in reducing the frequency of spontaneous synchronous burst discharges than in +/+ mice. Endogenous adenosine and adenosine A1 receptor agonists differed only slightly in their efficacy to inhibit spontaneous synchronous burst discharges in wv/wv and +/+ mice. The findings on adenosine A1 receptors suggest that the varied efficacy of R-baclofen in wv/wv and +/+ mice may not be explained solely on the basis of a loss of ligand-gated K+ conductance. Therefore, we investigated the affinity of GABA(B) receptors for the antagonist CGP55845A in wv/wv and +/+ hippocampi. Schild plot analysis revealed a K(D) for the GABA(B) antagonist CGP55845A 10 fold higher in wv/wv than in +/+ mice. The data suggest that an alteration of GABA(B) receptors could contribute to the reduced efficacy of R-baclofen to suppress hippocampal epileptiform activity in weaver mice, while the suppression by adenosine remains largely unaffected.
We have utilized a hippocampal brain slice explant system to assess cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying the expression of alcohol withdrawal hyperexcitability. Previously, we observed a role for NMDA receptors in the expression of electrographic seizures (EGS) observed immediately upon withdrawal from chronic ethanol exposure in this system. One possible cellular mechanism responsible for these prior results involves NMDAR-mediated neurotoxicity, which was assessed in the present study. Explants were exposed to 35 or 75 mM ethanol for 6 or 12 days and incubated with propidium iodide (PI) to label non-viable cells and then imaged digitally. PI labeling was significantly reduced (36% of control levels) following chronic ethanol exposure (75 mM). When tested following ethanol withdrawal, PI labeling remained significantly reduced in the 75 mM exposed group. We next assessed the effect of an NMDA challenge 24 h following withdrawal. The 35 mM and 75 mM ethanol exposed groups displayed significant 6-fold and 13-fold NMDAR-mediated increases in PI labeling respectively; control explants displayed a 3-fold increase. These data suggest that chronic ethanol exposure prior to withdrawal has a minor neuroprotective effect that slightly diminishes within 24 h of ethanol withdrawal. Furthermore, the data indicate that direct NMDAR activation is required for induction of ethanol withdrawal neurotoxicity.
The neuroprotective effects of YM872 ([2,3-dioxo-7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-quinoxal inyl]acetic acid monohydrate), a novel alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist with high water solubility, were examined in rats with transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. The right MCA of male SD rats was occluded for 3 h using the intraluminal suture occlusion method. YM872 significantly reduced the infarct volume 24 hours after occlusion, at dosages of 20 and 40 mg/kg/h (iv infusion) when given for 4 h immediately after occlusion. Furthermore, delayed administration of YM872 (20 mg/kg/h iv infusion for 4 h, starting 2 or 3 h after the occlusion) also reduced the infarct volume and the neurological deficits measured at 24 h. Additionally, the therapeutic efficacy of YM872 persisted for at least seven days after MCA occlusion in animals treated with YM872 for 4 h starting 2 h after MCA occlusion. These data demonstrate that AMPA receptors contribute to the development of neuronal damage after reperfusion as well as during ischemia in the focal ischemia models and that the acute effect of the blockade of AMPA receptors persists over a long time period. YM872 shows promise as an effective treatment for patients suffering from acute stroke.
Characteristics of P2X receptors on neurons of the rat coeliac, mouse coeliac and mouse pelvic ganglia have been studied using the whole cell voltage-clamp technique. Fast application of ATP (100 microM) on to isolated neurons voltage clamped at -70 mV induced a slowly desensitising inward current in 96% of the cells tested. Concentration-response curves for ATP yielded EC50 values of 86 microM, 64 microM and 123 microM, for rat coeliac, mouse coeliac and mouse pelvic ganglion neurons, respectively, while alpha,beta-methylene ATP was inactive. The response to ATP was antagonised by suramin, Cibacron blue and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS). The potency of ATP was increased by extracellular acidification and by co-application of micromolar concentrations of Zn2+, while raising pH decreased it. On rat coeliac ganglion neurons, the EC50 values for ATP were 35 microM and 253 microM at pH 6.8 and 8.0, respectively. On mouse coeliac and pelvic ganglion neurons, altering the pH produced comparable changes. In conclusion, our results indicate that, in contrast to the guinea-pig coeliac ganglion, the characteristics of the P2X receptors present on rat coeliac, mouse coeliac and mouse pelvic ganglia are all identical to those present on rat pelvic ganglion, i.e. they are homomeric P2X2 receptors, or heteromultimers with P2X2 being the dominant subunit.
The high sensitivity and sharp frequency discrimination of hearing depend on mechanical amplification in the cochlea. To explore the basis of this active process, we examined the pharmacological sensitivity of spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs) in a lizard, the Tokay gecko. In a quiet environment, each ear produced a complex but stable pattern of emissions. These SOAEs were reversibly modulated by drugs that affect mammalian otoacoustic emissions, the salicylates and the aminoglycoside antibiotics. The effect of a single i.p. injection of sodium salicylate depended on the initial power of the emissions: ears with strong control SOAEs displayed suppression at all frequencies, whereas those with weak control emissions showed enhancement. Repeated oral administration of acetylsalicylic acid reduced all emissions. Single i.p. doses of gentamicin or kanamycin suppressed SOAEs below 2.6 kHz, while modulating those above 2.6 kHz in either of two ways. For ears whose emission power at 2.6-5.2 kHz encompassed more than half of the total, individual emissions displayed facilitation as great as 35-fold. For the remaining ears, emissions dropped to as little as one-sixth of their initial values. The similarity of the responses of reptilian and mammalian cochleas to pharmacological intervention provides further evidence for a common mechanism of cochlear amplification.
We investigated the effect of adenosine A1 receptors on the release of acetylcholine (ACh) and GABA, and on the intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) response in cultured chick amacrine-like neurons, stimulated by KCl depolarization. The KCl-induced release of [3H]ACh, but not the release of [14C]GABA, was potentiated when adenosine A1 receptor activation was prevented by perfusing the cells with adenosine deaminase (ADA) or with 1,3-dipropyl-8-cycloentylxanthine (DPCPX). The changes in the [Ca2+]i induced by KCl depolarization, measured in neurite segments of single cultured cells, were also modulated by endogenous adenosine, acting on adenosine A1 receptors. Our results show that adenosine A1 receptors inhibit Ca2+ entry coupled to ACh release, but not to the release of GABA, suggesting that the synaptic vesicles containing each neurotransmitter are located in different zones of the neurites, containing different VSCC and/or different densities of adenosine A1 receptors.
The iron binding protein ferritin is a heterogeneous mix of 24 heavy (H) and light (L) subunits. The H subunit is associated with iron utilization, while the L subunit is responsible for iron storage. Examination of the developmental pattern of mRNA abundance in rat brain revealed that ferritin L mRNA is highest at birth and declines during the first postnatal week. A similar decline was seen in ferritin H mRNA, but was followed by an increase in ferritin H mRNA in the second postnatal week which continued through postnatal day 21. The pattern of H mRNA regulation is similar to that in previous reports of total ferritin protein in the developing rat brain and is consistent with the fact that brain ferritin is predominately ferritin H. The effect of thyroid hormone on the developmental regulation of ferritin mRNAs was examined by the subcutaneous injection of a single dose of exogenous thyroxine (T(4); 2 microg/g) on postnatal day 1. Hypothyroidism was induced in pregnant dams with propylthiouracil (PTU; 0.05% in drinking water) from gestational day 7. Northern analysis from postnatal days 2-21 showed that T(4) increased ferritin H mRNA throughout development, while ferritin L mRNA was decreased compared to age-matched controls. PTU treatment decreased ferritin H and increased L mRNA in the later stages (days 14-21) of development. Given the distinct functions of ferritin H and L this suggests a role for thyroid hormone in the ability of the brain to regulate stored vs. utilizable iron during critical periods of development.
Newborn mice were administered Fe(2+) (iron succinate: 7.5 mg/kg, b. wt) on either Days 3-5, 10-12 or 19-21, or vehicle (saline) at the same times, postnatally. Spontaneous motor behaviour and radial arm maze learning were tested at the age of 3 months. It was found that mice treated with Fe(2+) during postnatal Days 10-12 were markedly hypokinetic during the 1st 20-min test period and hyperkinetic during the 3rd and final 20-min test period. These mice showed an almost complete lack of habituation of spontaneous motor activity parameters to the test chambers. In the radial arm maze, the Days 10-12 treatment group evidenced significantly both more errors in arm choices and longer latencies to acquire all eight pellets; these mice showed also a severe trial-to-trial retention deficit as indexed by retention quotients. These behavioural deficits were observed also in animals treated with Fe(2+) during postnatal Days 3-5, but the effects were less pronounced, indicating the higher susceptibility of the brain for Fe(2+)-induced damage during Days 10-12 postpartum. Treatment with Fe(2+) on Days 19-21 did not induce behavioural alterations in comparison with its respective control (vehicle) group. Analysis of total brain iron content indicated significantly more iron (microg/g) accumulation in the basal ganglia, but not frontal cortex, of mice from the Days 3-5 and 10-12 Fe(2+) (7.5 mg/kg) treatment groups. The contribution of iron overload during the immediate postnatal to later functional deficits seems to implicate symptoms of Parkinsonism but the kinetics of iron uptake to the brain and its regional distribution at this critical period of development awaits elucidation.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography and immunoblotting were used to study the expression and distribution of AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptors in first trimester human spinal cord obtained from elective abortions ranging from 4 to 11.5 weeks of gestational age. Spinal cord tissue sections were processed for receptor autoradiography with the ligands [3H]AMPA, [3H]kainate and [3H]MK-801 and the optical density was measured separately in a dorsal region (alar plate) and ventral region (basal plate) of the autoradiographs. Binding sites for all three ligands were demonstrated already at 4-5.5 weeks of gestation and increased continuously during the first trimester both in the dorsal and ventral regions. [3H]AMPA binding to both high- and low-affinity sites increased from undetectable levels to about 35 and 400 fmol/mg tissue, respectively, during this period. A temporal difference in the distribution of [3H]AMPA binding sites was observed. The early homogeneous pattern of [3H]AMPA binding in both alar and basal plates had changed to a heterogeneous pattern at 11 weeks of gestation with the highest density of [3H]AMPA binding sites in the superficial layers of the immature dorsal horn. [3H]kainate and [3H]MK-801 binding sites were densely and homogeneously distributed already at 4 weeks, and steadily increased six- and two-fold, respectively, to about 100 fmol/mg tissue at 11.5 weeks of gestation. Immunoreactive bands corresponding to the NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, NR2C and NR2D were demonstrated by immunoblotting at the earliest between 4.5 and 7 weeks and increasing concentrations were seen up to 11 weeks of gestation. These results suggest that AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptors are expressed in the human spinal cord early in embryogenesis.
The effect of cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin and nimesulide, on the action of i.v. morphine on dopamine neurons projecting to the nucleus Accumbens was studied using standard extracellular recording techniques coupled with antidromic identification in unanesthetized rats. The i.v. administration of either nimesulide (3 mg/kg) or indomethacin (3.5 mg/kg) per se did not affect the firing rate of mesolimbic dopamine cells. In contrast, the subsequent administration of morphine (0.25-2 mg/kg i.v.) potently increased the firing rate of mesolimbic dopamine neurons in cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor-pretreated rats as compared with saline-pretreated rats. The maximal enhancement of basal firing rate at the highest dose of morphine tested was 92%, 80% and 47%, for nimesulide-, indomethacin-, and saline-treated rats, respectively. Our results indicate that the effect of morphine on mesolimbic dopamine cells is potentiated by blocking cyclo-oxygenase activity and suggest that the modulation of cyclo-oxygenase pathway in dopamine cells might be involved in the cellular mechanisms of the rewarding actions of morphine.
The use of aminoglycoside antibiotics is limited by side effects, the most critical of which are vestibular and cochlear toxicity. Recent evidence indicates that these effects result from an excitotoxic process mediated, at least in part, through a polyamine-like activation of NMDA receptors. This study investigated whether these positive modulatory effects of aminoglycosides at NMDA receptors are dissociable from their antibacterial properties. A group of structurally related apramycin derivatives was evaluated for the ability to enhance [3H]dizocilpine binding to rat brain membranes, and for the ability to augment agonist responses on recombinant (NR1A/2B) NMDA receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Based on the antibacterial potencies of these derivatives against Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli, it is concluded that there is no correlation between the ability of an aminoglycoside to produce a positive modulation of NMDA receptors and minimum inhibitory antibacterial concentrations. These findings indicate that it may be possible to develop an aminoglycoside antibiotic with reduced potential for ototoxicity.
The present study examined the circuitry of the red nucleus of the Sprague-Dawley rat and the freshwater pond turtle, Chrysemys picta, by using intracellular cell filling combined with anterograde tract tracing. Although both species have a well-developed cerebellorubral system, they differ in that the red nucleus of rats receives direct input from the motor areas of the cerebral cortex, whereas turtles do not. However, a direct descending projection from the hypothalamus to the red nucleus of turtles has been described. The aim of this study was to elucidate the relative functional contributions of the cerebellum and descending inputs to motor signal generation in the red nucleus. The results show that the cellular distribution of cerebellar inputs on rubrospinal neurons is similar between the rat and turtle; these projections are observed on the soma and the proximal and distal dendrites. In contrast, the hypothalamic inputs in turtles occupy mainly the more distally located dendrites, similar to the position of the cortical inputs in rats. These findings suggest that, first, the cerebellar inputs are not spatially segregated from the cortical or hypothalamic inputs in rats or turtles, as far as can be determined by light microscopy. Second, there is specificity of input from the cortex in rats and hypothalamus in turtles onto the distal portions of the dendrites. The similarity in the organizational features of the mammalian and non-mammalian cerebellorubrospinal systems has implications for interpretations of the relative roles of the cerebellum and cerebral cortex in motor control.
Juvenile rats can exhibit maternal behavior after being exposed continuously to rat pups, a process called sensitization. Maternal behavior in juveniles is robust and is similar to adult maternal behavior (Mayer and Rosenblatt [1979] Dev. Psychobiol. 12:407-424; Gray and Chesley [684] J. Comp. Psychol. 98:91-99). In this study, immunocytochemical detection of the protein products of two immediate-early genes, c-fos and fosB, was used as a tool to identify forebrain neuronal populations involved in the maternal behavior of 27-day-old juvenile rats compared with 60-day-old adults. To sensitize them, rats were exposed continuously to foster pups. Once they were maternal, they were isolated from pups overnight, reexposed to pups for 2 hours, and then killed. Nonmaternal control animals also were isolated overnight and were either reexposed to pups for 2 hours or kept isolated from pups before killing. The lateral habenula (LH) was the only area in which both maternal juveniles and maternal adults had more c-Fos-immunoreactive (-Ir) neurons compared with controls. In maternal adults, the number of neurons that expressed c-Fos and FosB immunoreactivity increased in the medial preoptic area (MPO) and the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTv), whereas the dorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTd) and the medial and cortical nuclei of the amygdala (MEA and COA, respectively) had increases only in the number of neurons that expressed c-Fos immunoreactivity. In contrast, juveniles, whether or not they were maternal, had the same number of c-Fos-IR and FosB-Ir neurons in all these areas. The adult-like increase in the number of c-Fos-Ir neurons found in maternal juveniles suggests that the juvenile LH participates in the neural circuit that supports maternal behavior in an adult-like manner. The lack of c-fos or fosB induction in the MPO, BSTv, BSTd, COA, or MEA of maternal juveniles compared with maternal adults may reflect the immaturity of these brain regions in juvenile rats. Exactly what this immaturity consists of and when the responses of these regions become adult-like remain to be determined.
To characterize experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN)-inducing T cells in more detail, we performed CDR3 spectratyping analysis and found oligoclonal expansion of several Vbeta spectratypes in nerve-infiltrating T cells. Vbeta5 expansion was observed all the stages examined, whereas Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta17 expansion was mainly found at the peak and preclinical stages, respectively. Since Vbeta5 expansion persists throughout the course of the disease, Vbeta5+ T cells are judged to be the main effector cells. Vbeta8.2+ and Vbeta17+ T cells may also be pathogenic but are not the main effectors because expansion of these spectratypes was found at a limited period of time. Sequence analysis revealed that Vbeta5, Vbeta8.2 and Vbeta17 spectratype-derived TCR clones possess their own dominant sequences in the CDR3 region with no homology among the clones. These findings suggest that polyclonally activated T cells are involved in the formation of the nerve lesion. Furthermore, vaccination with Vbeta5 DNA, but not with Vbeta10 DNA, suppressed the development of EAN significantly. Collectively, these findings indicate that determination of autoimmune disease-associated TCR by CDR3 spectratyping provides useful information for designing TCR-based immunotherapy for the disease.

In 1999, the National Institute on Aging (NIA) asked the National Research Council to identify areas of opportunity in which additional research support would substantially improve understanding of cognitive functioning in aging. The Committee on Future Directions for Cognitive Research on Aging was formed to identify highly promising opportunities in behavioral science, cognitive science, and neuroscience and at the conjunctions of these fields. We sought particularly to identify research opportunities that would link behavioral science, cognitive science, and neuroscience approaches to cognition and aging in new ways. Thus, in identifying areas of possible research opportunity, we considered the following issues: (1) Does the research directly address or have clear potential applications to cognitive function in aging? (2) Can the research improve understanding of cognition and aging by drawing on recent developments in behavioral science, cognitive science, and neuroscience that are not yet fully applied in this area? (3) Will the research open new possibilities to link these different approaches to cognition and aging? (4) Will the research lead to fundamentally new and promising directions for investigation, as well as adding to existing knowledge? (5) Does research progress depend on developing infrastructure, such as new technology or datasets?
From its numerical composition, the central nervous system (CNS) of the ascidian larva is one of the simplest known nervous systems having a chordate plan. Fewer than 350 cells together constitute a caudal nerve cord, an interposed visceral ganglion containing motor circuits for swimming and, rostrally, an expanded sensory vesicle containing major sensory and interneuron regions of the CNS. Some cells are ependymal, with ciliated surfaces lining the neural canal, while others are clearly either sensory receptors or motoneurons, but most are distinguishable only on cytological grounds. Although reassignments between categories are still being made, there is evidence for determinancy of total cell number. We have made three-dimensional cell maps either from serial semithin sections, or from confocal image stacks of whole-mounted embryos and larvae stained with nuclear markers. Comparisons between the maps of neural tubes in embryos of successive ages, that is, between cells in one map and their progeny in older maps, enable us to follow the line of mitotic descent through successive maps, at least for the caudal neural tube. Details are clear for the lateral cell rows in the neural tube, at least until the latter contains approximately 320 cells, and somewhat for the dorsal cell row, but the ventral row is more complex. In the hatched larva, serial-EM reconstructions of the visceral ganglion reveal two ventrolateral fibre bundles at the caudalmost end, each of 10-12 axons. These tracts include at least five pairs of presumed motor axons running into the caudal nerve cord. Two pairs of axons decussate. Complementing this vertebrate feature in the CNS of the larval form of Ciona, we confirm that synapses form upon the somata and dendrites of its neurons, and that its motor tracts are ventral.
Studies done in our laboratories have demonstrated that the parasitic trematode, Schistosoma mansoni is capable of producing several proopiomelanocortin (POMC) peptides including beta-endorphin, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), melanocyte stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) and enkephalin as well as morphine. Some of these opioids have been demonstrated to be immunosuppressive and may play an important part in immune evasion by these parasites. The parasitic nematode Trichinella spiralis also produces immune suppressive substances in vitro as well as causes immune suppression in its encysted stage in vivo. We recently have demonstrated the presence of morphine in both infected mice and in the nematode by HPLC and RIA. In a recent study of the leech Theromyzon tessulatum, we demonstrated the presence of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and its derived peptides, ACTH and alphaMSH, in the immune tissues. The peptide was cloned and extensively purified by HPGPC and reversed-phase HPLC, and then sequenced. The 25.4 kDa protein was purified by gel permeation chromatography, anti-ACTH-affinity column separation followed by reversed-phase HPLC. Its amino acid determination was performed by Edman degradation, enzymatic treatments and electrospray mass spectrometry. The structure of the leech POMC-like precursor and its derived peptides demonstrates considerable amino acid sequence similarity with mammalian POMC. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that opiates and opioid neuropetides are present in invertebrates and their immunoregulatory actions have been conserved during evolution. The role of opiates and opioid peptides in immune and behavior modification of hosts is also discussed.
Immunocytes of mussels are the chief immune defense in these organisms. When an immunocyte becomes activated there is a conspicuous change in its morphology (i.e., from round to amoeboid) that can be quantified using image analytical tools. Active immunocytes will typically show larger perimeters and areas and a smaller shape factor. Immunocytes exposed to heavy metals become inactive (Cd, Hg and Pb) thus with smaller perimeters (e.g., Pb2+ 2 ppm: P = 69.72 micron) and areas (e.g., Pb2+ 2 ppm: A = 270 micron2) and larger shape factors (Pb2 2 ppm: SF = 0.65) than the unexposed control cells (alpha = 0.05). Xenobiotics may also interfere with neuroimmunomodulation processes such as nitric oxide (NO) release. The release of NO is catalyzed by a calcium dependent constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS). Presently, we are exploring the effects of heavy metals and other pollutants on cNOS activity, measured as real time NO release, in immunocytes and pedal ganglia from M. edulis. Preliminary results suggest that immunocytes exposed to Pb2+ (5 ppm) cause NO release and does not seem to inhibit further NO release in the presence of morphine. The possible implications of NO mediated Pb2+ neurotoxicity are also explored.
Due to the relative simplicity of their nervous system, invertebrate animals were widely used in the past decades for studying the processes of excitability at membrane level, as well as the mechanisms of neuronal events and interneuronal communication. Parallel with investigating basic questions of neurobiology, lower animals have also been the object of toxicological studies, because simple invertebrate preparations with well-known physiological, biochemical and pharmacological characteristics proved to be excellent models for testing the action of natural and synthetic compounds important to human pharmaceutical research as well as in searching suitable chemicals for pest control. In the last ten-fifteen years with the growing interest towards environmental protection, a new field was opened for the application of invertebrates, namely, testing and monitoring the presence and harmful effects of anthropogenic toxic substances. Invertebrates are used today both as passive and as active biomonitors to detect and evaluate the level of pollution in a given ecosystem, and to study the effects and mechanisms of action of pollutants. Invertebrate nervous systems are suitable objects in clarifying the mechanisms of action of toxic chemicals at various levels of the neural regulation. Toxic influences can be reflected in behavioural alterations, by the modification of the function of different organs as well as the neural regulation, presented by examples on mussels and snails. In case of neurotoxicity, the targets of action are the elements of the nervous system. Alterations can occur in the permeability (ion channels) of the neuronal membrane influencing excitability, potential generation and propagation of nerve impulse, in the transmitter system (synthesis, release, elimination and binding to the receptors), in the interneuronal and neuroeffector connections responsible for co-ordinated and adequate responses to the internal and external challenges. For the future, it can be predicted that neurotoxicological research with new compounds cannot be effective without using invertebrate preparations, since, due to animal protection and restrictions in animal experimentation, the permission of the use of vertebrates is much more limited in most of the developed countries, and this trend is certainly to be expanded.
Analysis of inducible transcription factors (ITFs) expression is often applied to map drug-induced changes of neuronal activity in brain. Administration of cocaine and alcohol induces ITFs in a large number of brain structures. However, induction of ITFs in a brain region does not necessarily indicate a pharmacological effect of the drug in this brain region. Many of the brain regions could be activated by secondary effects. Perception of stimulus properties of the drug or locomotor effects of the drug are possible secondary effects. Anesthesia can block induction of ITFs by cocaine and alcohol suggesting that ITF expression in a majority of brain regions is more sensitive to secondary effects than to pharmacological effects of these drugs. In agreement with this hypothesis is our finding that the majority of brain regions responding with ITF expression to alcohol administration do not respond to voluntary alcohol self-administration in animals. Only a few brain regions show similar ITF induction after both administration and self-administration of this drug. Presumably these brain regions could be responding to pharmacological effects of alcohol. Given the low resolution of invasive techniques, ITF mapping experiments will continually contribute to our understanding of mechanisms of drug addiction and alcoholism.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular model for long-term memory, is generally acknowledged to consist of both a short-term phase that is characterized by a dependence on autonomous protein kinase activity, and a long-term phase that is characterized by a dependence on changes in gene expression and new protein synthesis. Similarly, long-term memory exhibits a dependence on gene expression and altered protein synthesis. Recent evidence indicates that the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade plays a role in both LTP and long-term memory. The MAPK cascade has heretofore largely been studied in the context of cell division and proliferation and as such, mechanisms for the regulation of gene expression by the MAPK cascade have received considerable attention. Given the possible role of altered gene expression in the late phase of LTP and in long-term memory, we evaluated the capacity of the MAPK ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) to regulate phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) in hippocampal area CA1. Our studies indicate a critical role for the MAPK cascade in the regulation of CREB phosphorylation in the hippocampus.

A practical one-step high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method was developed for the simultaneous determination of hypoxanthine, uric acid and allantoin in small (4 microL) microdialysis samples. The rationale for this work was the current interest in hypoxanthine as a marker for energy perturbation in hypoxia/ ischemia, in uric acid as an endogenous antioxidant, and in allantoin as a marker for in vivo formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The method is based on ion pairing reversed phase chromatography and UV detection. The coefficient of variance for within and between run imprecision was generally below 5%, somewhat higher for concentrations close to the detection limit (0.4-1.0 pmoles). Recoveries ranged from 89 to 102% and linearity was observed in the concentration range from 0.25 to 25.0 mmol/L. There was an excellent correlation between the present method and available reference methods. The method was applied to cerebral microdialysis samples from a patient with severe subarachnoid haemorrhage complicated by secondary ischemia leading to cerebral infarction. The secondary ischemia was associated with an increase of hypoxanthine followed by increasing allantoin and uric acid levels. We submit that this pattern of chemical changes indicates increased ROS formation produced by secondary ischemia. The HPLC method appears to be a useful tool for studying changes of hypoxanthine, uric acid and allantoin levels in microdialysis samples.
A comparison was made between factors influencing survival in patients operated on for acute spontaneous subdural hematomas (ASSH) and other groups of patients operated for acute, post-traumatic, subdural hematoma reported in the literature. The data of 17 patients operated on for ASSH were collected. Four variables: early surgical treatment, high Glasgow Coma Scale score on admission, pupillary reactivity and age were statistically analyzed. The most significant factors for good outcome, in order of importance, were early surgical treatment, a high Glasgow Come Scale score on admission, good pupillary reactivity and younger age. The prognostic factors in non-traumatic and traumatic acute subdural hematomas were found to be identical.

Systemic hypothermia exerts neuroprotective effects following trauma and ischemia caused by vascular occlusion in the brain. In the spinal cord similar effects have been demonstrated following ischemia after aortic occlusion. We have previously presented protective effects on several morphological parameters in the early period after the injury, using an established spinal cord compression injury model and systemic hypothermia. In the present study we have evaluated the effects on motor function following severe spinal cord compression trauma and treatment with moderate systemic hypothermia. Thirty Sprague Dawley rats were randomized into three groups: In group 1 (n = 4), the animals underwent a hypothermic procedure, including a 2 h hypothermic period with a body temperature of 30 degrees C, following the initial laminectomy. In group 2 (n = 12) a 50 g compression was applied to the spinal cords for 5 min, after which the animals were kept under normothermic anesthesia for 3 h. In group 3 (n = 14), the animals underwent the same trauma procedure as in group 2 and the same hypothermic procedure as in group 1. The animals were allowed to survive for 14 days, during which the motor function was recorded. This degree of trauma results in a non-reversible paraplegia, and the addition of systemic hypothermia as described above did not alter the neurological recovery as measured by two different methods of recording the motor function up to two weeks after injury. All animals survived in group 1. However, the mortality rates in group 2 were 25% and in group 3, 50%, respectively, which mirrors the severity of the trauma. The application of systemic hypothermia and the lack of experimental therapeutic success highlight the difficulties of transferring experimental beneficial neuroprotective effects to a clinically useful treatment method. In this experimental set-up the effects of the severe primary injury may overshadow the effects of the secondary injury mechanisms, which limits the therapeutic possibilities of systemic hypothermic treatment.
Tumour associated epilepsy (TAE) is a poorly understood manifestation of many gliomas, meningiomas and metastatic brain tumours that has important clinical and social implications. Etiological mechanisms underlying tumour associated epilepsy include theories invoking peritumoural amino acid disturbances, local metabolic imbalances, cerebral oedema, pH abnormalities, morphological changes in the neuropil, changes in neuronal and glial enzyme and protein expression and altered immunological activity. It has also been suggested that the pathology involves perturbations in distribution and function of the NMDA subclass of glutamate receptors. The often capricious response of the seizure disorder following removal of the causative neoplasms suggests multiple factors are involved. Further understanding about the pathogenesis of TAE will await the development and characterisation of suitable animal models that demonstrate the clinical manifestations and physiological changes comparable to those seen in human cerebral tumours. With such a model it is hoped that progress may one day be made in understanding and subsequently treating this debilitating clinical problem.
Oxidative damage to normal human brain tissue was induced following exposure to hydroxyl (OH.) or superoxide (O2-.) free radical species generated by CO60 irradiation in vitro. Both enzymic and cytoskeletal proteins showed substantial (dose dependent) oxidative damage following exposure to OH. or O2-., as quantified by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis. Extracts of Ginkgo biloba or Panax ginseng showed a remarkable capacity to protect brain tissue proteins from oxidative damage in vitro, even at extreme (2000 kRads) dosage levels of OH. or O2-.. We suggest, therefore, that the beneficial effect of these plant extracts in preventing brain tissue damage in vivo (e.g. following ischemia-reperfusion) may result from their action in protecting brain proteins from oxidative damage, in addition to their previously reported capacity to reduce free radical induced lipid peroxidation.
Experimental studies in extreme hypoxic conditions affecting the brain have been performed mainly in acute but not chronic models. Twenty rats were housed and exposed to decreasing concentrations of oxygen (from 21% to 7% over 130 days) and ten normal rats were used as control. Paraffin slices from representative sections containing cerebral cortex, cerebellum, striatum, hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus were incubated with antisera against nitric oxide synthase. Cortex and striatum showed small randomly distributed positive neurons with bipolar features, in greater numbers in the hypoxic group (p &lt; 0.02). The granular layer of the cerebellum showed a strongly positive rim around some cell nuclei. Purkinje cells were immunopositive in hypoxic rats. Hipoccampal, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei showed no quantitative differences in the number of positive neurons. The increased number of blood vessels and their dilation observed in some brain regions in hypoxic rats, mainly in ventral striatum, lead us to hypothesise that NOS may be overexpressed and act at these sites as vasomodulator and/or mediator of secondary cell injury affecting selective neuronal populations. We conclude that prolonged periods of adaptation to deep hypoxia reduces the effect of hypoxia on the upregulation of NOS in the brain tissue.
Phenserine, a phenylcarbamate of physostigmine, is a new potent and highly selective acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, with a &gt; 50-fold activity versus butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), in clinical trials for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Compared to physostigmine and tacrine, it is less toxic and robustly enhances cognition in animal models. To determine the time-dependent effects of phenserine on cholinergic function, AChE activity, brain and plasma drug levels and brain extracellular acetylcholine (ACh) concentrations were measured in rats before and after phenserine administration. Additionally, its maximum tolerated dose, compared to physostigmine and tacrine, was determined. Following i.v. dosing, brain drug levels were 10-fold higher than those achieved in plasma, peaked within 5 min and rapidly declined with half-lives of 8.5 and 12.6 min, respectively. In contrast, a high (&gt; 70%) and long-lasting inhibition of AChE was achieved (half-life &gt; 8.25 h). A comparison between the time-dependent plasma AChE inhibition achieved after similar oral and i.v. doses provided an estimate of oral bioavailability of 100%. Striatal, in vivo microdialysis in conscious, freely-moving phenserine-treated rats demonstrated &gt; 3-fold rise in brain ACh levels. Phenserine thus is rapidly absorbed and cleared from the body, but produces a long-lasting stimulation of brain cholinergic function at well tolerated doses and hence has superior properties as a drug candidate for AD. It selectively inhibits AChE, minimizing potential BChE side effects. Its long duration of action, coupled with its short pharmacokinetic half-life, reduces dosing frequency, decreases body drug exposure and minimizes the dependence of drug action on the individual variations of drug metabolism commonly found in the elderly.
