





























A quantitative systems pharmacology model that combines in vitro/preclinical neurophysiology data, human imaging data, and patient disease information was used to blindly predict steady-state clinical efficacy of vabicaserin, a 5-HT2C full agonist, in monotherapy and, subsequently, to assess adjunctive therapy in schizophrenia. The model predicted a concentration-dependent improvement of positive and negative syndrome scales (PANSS) in schizophrenia monotherapy with vabicaserin. At the exposures of 100 and 200mg b.i.d., the predicted improvements on PANSS in virtual patient trials were 5.12 (2.20, 8.56) and 6.37 (2.27, 10.40) (mean (95% confidence interval)), respectively, which are comparable to the observed phase IIa results. At the current clinical exposure limit of vabicaserin, the model predicted an ~9-point PANSS improvement in monotherapy, and &lt;4-point PANSS improvement adjunctive with various antipsychotics, suggesting limited clinical benefit of vabicaserin in schizophrenia treatment. In conclusion, the updated quantitative systems pharmacology model of PANSS informed the clinical development decision of vabicaserin in schizophrenia.











Tau is a microtubule-associated protein well known for its stabilization of microtubules in axons. Recently, it has emerged that tau participates in synaptic function as part of the molecular pathway leading to amyloid-beta (A)-driven synaptotoxicity in the context of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we report the implication of tau in the profound functional synaptic modification associated with synaptic plasticity. By exposing murine cultured cortical neurons to a pharmacological synaptic activation, we induced translocation of endogenous tau from the dendritic to the postsynaptic compartment. We observed similar tau translocation to the postsynaptic fraction in acute hippocampal slices subjected to long-term potentiation. When we performed live confocal microscopy on cortical neurons transfected with human-tau-GFP, we visualized an activity-dependent accumulation of tau in the postsynaptic density. Coprecipitation using phalloidin revealed that tau interacts with the most predominant cytoskeletal component present, filamentous actin. Finally, when we exposed cortical cultures to 100 nm human synthetic A oligomers (Ao's) for 15 min, we induced mislocalization of tau into the spines under resting conditions and abrogated subsequent activity-dependent synaptic tau translocation. These changes in synaptic tau dynamics may rely on a difference between physiological and pathological phosphorylation of tau. Together, these results suggest that intense synaptic activity drives tau to the postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses and that Ao-driven tau translocation to the spine deserves further investigation as a key event toward synaptotoxicity in neurodegenerative diseases.
Many neural circuits are capable of generating multiple stereotyped outputs after different sensory inputs or neuromodulation. We have previously identified the central pattern generator (CPG) for Xenopus tadpole swimming that involves antiphase oscillations of activity between the left and right sides. Here we analyze the cellular basis for spontaneous left-right motor synchrony characterized by simultaneous bursting on both sides at twice the swimming frequency. Spontaneous synchrony bouts are rare in most tadpoles, and they instantly emerge from and switch back to swimming, most frequently within the first second after skin stimulation. Analyses show that only neurons that are active during swimming fire action potentials in synchrony, suggesting both output patterns derive from the same neural circuit. The firing of excitatory descending interneurons (dINs) leads that of other types of neurons in synchrony as it does in swimming. During synchrony, the time window between phasic excitation and inhibition is 7.9  1 ms, shorter than that in swimming (41  2.3 ms). The occasional, extra midcycle firing of dINs during swimming may initiate synchrony, and mismatches of timing in the left and right activity can switch synchrony back to swimming. Computer modeling supports these findings by showing that the same neural network, in which reciprocal inhibition mediates rebound firing, can generate both swimming and synchrony without circuit reconfiguration. Modeling also shows that lengthening the time window between phasic excitation and inhibition by increasing dIN synaptic/conduction delay can improve the stability of synchrony.
Repressor Element-1 (RE1) Silencing Transcription Factor/Neuron-Restrictive Silencer Factor (REST/NRSF) is a gene-silencing factor that is widely expressed during embryogenesis and plays a strategic role in neuronal differentiation. Recent studies indicate that REST can be activated in differentiated neurons during a critical window of time in postnatal development and in adult neurons in response to neuronal insults such as seizures and ischemia. However, the mechanism by which REST is regulated in neurons is as yet unknown. Here, we show that REST is controlled at the level of protein stability via -TrCP-dependent, ubiquitin-based proteasomal degradation in differentiated neurons under physiological conditions and identify Casein Kinase 1 (CK1) as an upstream effector that bidirectionally regulates REST cellular abundance. CK1 associates with and phosphorylates REST at two neighboring, but distinct, motifs within the C terminus of REST critical for binding of -TrCP and targeting of REST for proteasomal degradation. We further show that global ischemia in rats in vivo triggers a decrease in CK1 and an increase in REST in selectively vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons. Administration of the CK1 activator pyrvinium pamoate by in vivo injection immediately after ischemia restores CK1 activity, suppresses REST expression, and rescues neurons destined to die. Our results identify a novel and previously unappreciated role for CK1 as a brake on REST stability and abundance in adult neurons and reveal that loss of CK1 is causally related to ischemia-induced neuronal death. These findings point to CK1 as a potential therapeutic target for the amelioration of hippocampal injury and cognitive deficits associated with global ischemia.
Prosthetic devices are being developed to restore movement for motor-impaired individuals. A robotic arm can be controlled based on models that relate motor-cortical ensemble activity to kinematic parameters. The models are typically built and validated on data from structured trial periods during which a subject actively performs specific movements, but real-world prosthetic devices will need to operate correctly during rest periods as well. To develop a model of motor cortical modulation during rest, we trained monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to perform a reaching task with their own arm while recording motor-cortical single-unit activity. When a monkey spontaneously put its arm down to rest between trials, our traditional movement decoder produced a nonzero velocity prediction, which would cause undesired motion when applied to a prosthetic arm. During these rest periods, a marked shift was found in individual units' tuning functions. The activity pattern of the whole population during rest (Idle state) was highly distinct from that during reaching movements (Active state), allowing us to predict arm resting from instantaneous firing rates with 98% accuracy using a simple classifier. By cascading this state classifier and the movement decoder, we were able to predict zero velocity correctly, which would avoid undesired motion in a prosthetic application. Interestingly, firing rates during hold periods followed the Active pattern even though hold kinematics were similar to those during rest with near-zero velocity. These findings expand our concept of motor-cortical function by showing that population activity reflects behavioral context in addition to the direct parameters of the movement itself.
The orofacial sensorimotor cortex is known to play a role in motor learning. However, how motor learning changes the dynamics of neuronal activity and whether these changes differ between orofacial primary motor (MIo) and somatosensory (SIo) cortices remain unknown. To address these questions, we used chronically implanted microelectrode arrays to track learning-induced changes in the activity of simultaneously recorded neurons in MIo and SIo as two naive monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were trained in a novel tongue-protrusion task. Over a period of 8-12 d, the monkeys showed behavioral improvements in task performance that were accompanied by rapid and long-lasting changes in neuronal responses in MIo and SIo occurring in parallel: (1) increases in the proportion of task-modulated neurons, (2) increases in the mutual information between tongue-protrusive force and spiking activity, (3) reductions in the across-trial firing rate variability, and (4) transient increases in coherent firing of neuronal pairs. More importantly, the time-resolved mutual information in MIo and SIo exhibited temporal alignment. While showing parallel changes, MIo neurons exhibited a bimodal distribution of peak correlation lag times between spiking activity and force, whereas SIo neurons showed a unimodal distribution. Moreover, coherent activity between pairs of MIo neurons was higher and centered around force onset compared with pairwise coherence of SIo neurons. Overall, the results suggest that the neuroplasticity in MIo and SIo occurring in parallel serves as a substrate for linking sensation and movement during sensorimotor learning, whereas the differing dynamic organizations reflect specific ways to control movement parameters as learning progresses.
The ventromedial hypothalamus, ventrolateral area (VMHvl) was identified recently as a critical locus for inter-male aggression. Optogenetic stimulation of VMHvl in male mice evokes attack toward conspecifics and inactivation of the region inhibits natural aggression, yet very little is known about its underlying neural activity. To understand its role in promoting aggression, we recorded and analyzed neural activity in the VMHvl in response to a wide range of social and nonsocial stimuli. Although response profiles of VMHvl neurons are complex and heterogeneous, we identified a subpopulation of neurons that respond maximally during investigation and attack of male conspecific mice and during investigation of a source of male mouse urine. These &quot;male responsive&quot; neurons in the VMHvl are tuned to both the inter-male distance and the animal's velocity during attack. Additionally, VMHvl activity predicts several parameters of future aggressive action, including the latency and duration of the next attack. Linear regression analysis further demonstrates that aggression-specific parameters, such as distance, movement velocity, and attack latency, can model ongoing VMHvl activity fluctuation during inter-male encounters. These results represent the first effort to understand the hypothalamic neural activity during social behaviors using quantitative tools and suggest an important role for the VMHvl in encoding movement, sensory, and motivation-related signals.
The corticostriatal axis is the main input stage of the basal ganglia and is crucial for their role in motor behavior. Synchronized oscillations might mediate interactions between cortex and striatum during behavior, yet direct evidence remains sparse. Here, we show that, during motor behavior, low- and high-frequency oscillations jointly couple cortex and striatum via cross-frequency interactions. We investigated neuronal oscillations along the corticostriatal axis in rats during rest and treadmill running. We found prominent theta and gamma oscillations in cortex and striatum, the peak frequencies of which scaled with motor demand. Theta and gamma oscillations were functionally coupled through phase-amplitude coupling. Furthermore, theta oscillations were phase coupled between structures. Together, local phase-amplitude coupling and corticostriatal theta phase coupling mediated the temporal correlation of gamma bursts between the cortex and striatum. The coordination of fast oscillations through coherent phase-amplitude coupling may be a general mechanism to regulate neuronal interactions along the corticostriatal axis and beyond.
Schizophrenia is characterized by dysfunctions in neural circuits that can be investigated with electrophysiological methods, such as EEG and MEG. In the present human study, we examined event-related fields (ERFs), in a sample of medication-naive, first-episode schizophrenia (FE-ScZ) patients (n = 14) and healthy control participants (n = 17) during perception of Mooney faces to investigate the integrity of neuromagnetic responses and their experience-dependent modification. ERF responses were analyzed for M100, M170, and M250 components at the sensor and source levels. In addition, we analyzed peak latency and adaptation effects due to stimulus repetition. FE-ScZ patients were characterized by significantly impaired sensory processing, as indicated by a reduced discrimination index (A'). At the sensor level, M100 and M170 responses in FE-ScZ were within the normal range, whereas the M250 response was impaired. However, source localization revealed widespread elevated activity for M100 and M170 in FE-ScZ and delayed peak latencies for the M100 and M250 responses. In addition, M170 source activity in FE-ScZ was not modulated by stimulus repetitions. The present findings suggest that neural circuits in FE-ScZ may be characterized by a disturbed balance between excitation and inhibition that could lead to a failure to gate information flow and abnormal spreading of activity, which is compatible with dysfunctional glutamatergic neurotransmission.
During development extrinsic guidance cues modulate the peripheral actin network in growth cones to direct axons to their targets. We wanted to understand the role of the actin nucleator Arp2/3 in growth cone actin dynamics and guidance. Since growth cones migrate in association with diverse adhesive substrates during development, we probed the hypothesis that the functional significance of Arp2/3 is substrate dependent. We report that Arp2/3 inhibition led to a reduction in the number of filopodia and growth cone F-actin content on laminin and L1. However, we found substrate-dependent differences in growth cone motility, actin retrograde flow, and guidance after Arp2/3 inhibition, suggesting that its role, and perhaps that of other actin binding proteins, in growth cone motility is substrate dependent.
A persistent and nonresolving inflammatory response to accumulating A peptide species is a cardinal feature in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In response to accumulating A peptide species, microglia, the innate immune cells of the brain, generate a toxic inflammatory response that accelerates synaptic and neuronal injury. Many proinflammatory signaling pathways are linked to progression of neurodegeneration. However, endogenous anti-inflammatory pathways capable of suppressing A-induced inflammation represent a relatively unexplored area. Here we report that signaling through the prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) EP4 receptor potently suppresses microglial inflammatory responses to A42 peptides. In cultured microglial cells, EP4 stimulation attenuated levels of A42-induced inflammatory factors and potentiated phagocytosis of A42. Microarray analysis demonstrated that EP4 stimulation broadly opposed A42-driven gene expression changes in microglia, with enrichment for targets of IRF1, IRF7, and NF-B transcription factors. In vivo, conditional deletion of microglial EP4 in APPSwe-PS1E9 (APP-PS1) mice conversely increased inflammatory gene expression, oxidative protein modification, and A deposition in brain at early stages of pathology, but not at later stages, suggesting an early anti-inflammatory function of microglial EP4 signaling in the APP-PS1 model. Finally, EP4 receptor levels decreased significantly in human cortex with progression from normal to AD states, suggesting that early loss of this beneficial signaling system in preclinical AD development may contribute to subsequent progression of pathology.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in dopaminergic (DA) cells within the ventral tegmental area (VTA)/nucleus accumbens (NAc) circuitry appear to be a candidate mechanism for the neuroadaptive changes that follow stress and reward responses in animal models. However, the role of the BDNF gene variants in responses to salient cues through DA neurotransmission in humans remains unexplored. Here, we studied the effect of the common functional BDNF Val(66)Met (rs6265) polymorphism on rewarding experiences in the striatum and DA-mediated responses to stress. Seventy-two healthy controls were genotyped for the BDNF Val(66)Met polymorphism and underwent the monetary incentive delay task during an functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) session. Forty-nine of them also underwent a sustained pain challenge with and without placebo administration with potential analgesic properties during PET measures of DA D2/3-receptor-mediated neurotransmission. Neuroimaging results revealed a significant effect of BDNF (Met(66) carriers &gt; Val/Val) on brain responses during the anticipation of monetary losses, baseline D2/3 receptor availability, and pain-stress-induced DA release in the NAc. Conversely, BDNF Met(66) carriers showed no activation in response to monetary gains and a blunted DA response to the analgesic placebo in the NAc. These results provide initial human evidence regarding the effect of the BDNF Val(66)Met polymorphism on DA-mediated responses to stress, its cognitive regulation by positive expectations, and the anticipatory responses to monetary gains and losses in the VTA-NAc pathway. Our results are of relevance to the neurobiology of stress and reward interactions and the pathophysiology of stress-related disorders.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) has been primarily implicated in reward-motivated behavior. Recently, aberrant dopaminergic VTA signaling has also been implicated in anxiety-like behaviors in animal models. These findings, however, have yet to be extended to anxiety in humans. Here we hypothesized that clinical anxiety is linked to dysfunction of the mesocorticolimbic circuit during threat processing in humans; specifically, excessive or dysregulated activity of the mesocorticolimbic aversion circuit may be etiologically related to errors in distinguishing cues of threat versus safety, also known as &quot;overgeneralization of fear.&quot; To test this, we recruited 32 females with generalized anxiety disorder and 25 age-matched healthy control females. We measured brain activity using fMRI while participants underwent a fear generalization task consisting of pseudo-randomly presented rectangles with systematically varying widths. A mid-sized rectangle served as a conditioned stimulus (CS; 50% electric shock probability) and rectangles with widths of CS 20%, 40%, and 60% served as generalization stimuli (GS; never paired with electric shock). Healthy controls showed VTA reactivity proportional to the cue's perceptual similarity to CS (threat). In contrast, patients with generalized anxiety disorder showed heightened and less discriminating VTA reactivity to GS, a feature that was positively correlated with trait anxiety, as well as increased mesocortical and decreased mesohippocampal coupling. Our results suggest that the human VTA and the mesocorticolimbic system play a crucial role in threat processing, and that abnormalities in this system are implicated in maladaptive threat processing in clinical anxiety.
Neuroactive steroids are endogenous neuromodulators capable of altering neuronal activity and behavior. In rodents, systemic administration of endogenous or synthetic neuroactive steroids reduces ethanol self-administration. We hypothesized this effect arises from actions within mesolimbic brain regions that we targeted by viral gene delivery. Cytochrome P450 side chain cleavage (P450scc) converts cholesterol to pregnenolone, the rate-limiting enzymatic reaction in neurosteroidogenesis. Therefore, we constructed a recombinant adeno-associated serotype 2 viral vector (rAAV2), which drives P450scc expression and neuroactive steroid synthesis. The P450scc-expressing vector (rAAV2-P450scc) or control GFP-expressing vector (rAAV2-GFP) were injected bilaterally into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or nucleus accumbens (NAc) of alcohol preferring (P) rats trained to self-administer ethanol. P450scc overexpression in the VTA significantly reduced ethanol self-administration by 20% over the 3 week test period. P450scc overexpression in the NAc, however, did not alter ethanol self-administration. Locomotor activity was unaltered by vector administration to either region. P450scc overexpression produced a 36% increase in (3,5)-3-hydroxypregnan-20-one (3,5-THP, allopregnanolone)-positive cells in the VTA, but did not increase 3,5-THP immunoreactivity in NAc. These results suggest that P450scc overexpression and the resultant increase of 3,5-THP-positive cells in the VTA reduces ethanol reinforcement. 3,5-THP is localized to neurons in the VTA, including tyrosine hydroxylase neurons, but not astrocytes. Overall, the results demonstrate that using gene delivery to modulate neuroactive steroids shows promise for examining the neuronal mechanisms of moderate ethanol drinking, which could be extended to other behavioral paradigms and neuropsychiatric pathology.
Social animals constantly make decisions together. What determines if individuals will subsequently adjust their behavior to align with collective choices? Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we characterize a novel temporal model of brain response from the time a collective decision is made to the time an individual action is required. We reveal that whether a behavioral modification will occur is determined not necessarily by the brain's response to the initial social influence, but by how that response (specifically in the orbitofrontal cortex; OFC) is mirrored at a later time when the individual selects their own action. This result suggests that the OFC may reconstitute an initial state of collective influence when individual action is subsequently needed. Importantly, these dynamics vary across individuals as a function of trait conformity and mediate the relationship between this personality characteristic and behavioral adjustment toward the group.
The olfactory bulb (OB) is one of the two major loci in the mammalian brain where newborn neurons are constantly integrated into the neural circuit during postnatal life. Newborn neurons are generated from neural stem cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle and migrate to the OB through the rostral migratory stream. The majority of these newborn neurons differentiate into inhibitory interneurons, such as granule cells and periglomerular cells. It has been reported that prolonged supply of newborn neurons leads to continuous addition/turnover of the interneuronal populations and contributes to functional integrity of the OB circuit. However, it is not still clear how and to what extent postnatal-born neurons contribute to OB neural circuit formation, and the functional role of postnatal neurogenesis in odor-related behaviors remains elusive. To address this question, here by using genetic strategies, we first determined the unique integration mode of newly born interneurons during postnatal development of the mouse OB. We then manipulated these interneuron populations and found that continuous postnatal neurogenesis in the SVZ-OB plays pivotal roles in flexible olfactory associative learning and memory.
Kainate receptors containing the GluK1 subunit have an impact on excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in brain regions, such as the amygdala and hippocampus, which are relevant to seizures and epilepsy. Here we used 2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-tert-butylisoxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid (ATPA), a potent and selective agonist of kainate receptors that include the GluK1 subunit, in conjunction with mice deficient in GluK1 and GluK2 kainate receptor subunits to assess the role of GluK1 kainate receptors in provoking seizures and in kindling epileptogenesis. We found that systemic ATPA, acting specifically via GluK1 kainate receptors, causes locomotor arrest and forelimb extension (a unique behavioral characteristic of GluK1 activation) and induces myoclonic behavioral seizures and electrographic seizure discharges in the BLA and hippocampus. In contrast, the proconvulsant activity of systemic AMPA, kainate, and pentylenetetrazol is not mediated by GluK1 kainate receptors, and deletion of these receptors does not elevate the threshold for seizures in the 6 Hz model. ATPA also specifically activates epileptiform discharges in BLA slices in vitro via GluK1 kainate receptors. Olfactory bulb kindling developed similarly in wild-type, GluK1, and GluK2 knock-out mice, demonstrating that GluK1 kainate receptors are not required for epileptogenesis or seizure expression in this model. We conclude that selective activation of kainate receptors containing the GluK1 subunit can trigger seizures, but these receptors are not necessary for seizure generation in models commonly used to identify therapeutic agents for the treatment of epilepsy.

A few years ago, the establishment of human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) ushered in a new era in biomedicine. Potential uses of human iPSCs include modeling pathogenesis of human genetic diseases, autologous cell therapy after gene correction, and personalized drug screening by providing a source of patient-specific and symptom relevant cells. However, there are several hurdles to overcome, such as eliminating the remaining reprogramming factor transgene expression after human iPSCs production. More importantly, residual transgene expression in undifferentiated human iPSCs could hamper proper differentiations and misguide the interpretation of disease-relevant in vitro phenotypes. With this reason, integration-free and/or transgene-free human iPSCs have been developed using several methods, such as adenovirus, the piggyBac system, minicircle vector, episomal vectors, direct protein delivery and synthesized mRNA. However, efficiency of reprogramming using integration-free methods is quite low in most cases. Here, we present a method to isolate human iPSCs by using Sendai-virus (RNA virus) based reprogramming system. This reprogramming method shows consistent results and high efficiency in cost-effective manner.

















The cochlear implant is the most successful bionic prosthesis and has transformed the lives of people with profound hearing loss. However, the performance of the &quot;bionic ear&quot; is still largely constrained by the neural interface itself. Current spread inherent to broad monopolar stimulation of the spiral ganglion neuron somata obviates the intrinsic tonotopic mapping of the cochlear nerve. We show in the guinea pig that neurotrophin gene therapy integrated into the cochlear implant improves its performance by stimulating spiral ganglion neurite regeneration. We used the cochlear implant electrode array for novel &quot;close-field&quot; electroporation to transduce mesenchymal cells lining the cochlear perilymphatic canals with a naked complementary DNA gene construct driving expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter. The focusing of electric fields by particular cochlear implant electrode configurations led to surprisingly efficient gene delivery to adjacent mesenchymal cells. The resulting BDNF expression stimulated regeneration of spiral ganglion neurites, which had atrophied 2 weeks after ototoxic treatment, in a bilateral sensorineural deafness model. In this model, delivery of a control GFP-only vector failed to restore neuron structure, with atrophied neurons indistinguishable from unimplanted cochleae. With BDNF therapy, the regenerated spiral ganglion neurites extended close to the cochlear implant electrodes, with localized ectopic branching. This neural remodeling enabled bipolar stimulation via the cochlear implant array, with low stimulus thresholds and expanded dynamic range of the cochlear nerve, determined via electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses. This development may broadly improve neural interfaces and extend molecular medicine applications.







Chronic demyelination, on-going inflammation, axonal loss and grey matter neuronal injury are likely pathological processes that contribute to disease progression in multiple sclerosis (MS). Although the precise contribution of each process and their aetiological substrates is not fully known, recent evidence has implicated oxidative damage as a major cause of tissue injury in MS. The degree of tissue injury caused by oxidative molecules, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS), is balanced by endogenous anti-oxidant enzymes which detoxify ROS. Understanding endogenous mechanisms which protect the brain against oxidative injury in MS is important, since enhancing anti-oxidant responses is a major therapeutic strategy for preventing irreversible tissue injury in the disease. Our aims were to determine expression and activity levels of the hydrogen peroxide-reducing enzyme catalase in MS grey matter (GM). In MS GM, a catalase enzyme activity was elevated compared to control GM. We measured catalase protein expression by immune dot-blotting and catalase mRNA by a real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein analysis studies showed a strong positive correlation between catalase and microglial marker IBA-1 in MS GM. In addition, calibration of catalase mRNA level with reference to the microglial-specific transcript AIF-1 revealed an increase in this transcript in MS. This was reflected by the extent of HLA-DR immunolabeling in MS GM which was significantly elevated compared to control GM. Collectively, these observations provide evidence that microglial catalase activity is elevated in MS grey matter and may be an important endogenous anti-oxidant defence mechanism in MS.
The cholinergic system in the brain modulates patterns of activity involved in general arousal, attention processing, memory and consciousness. In the present study we determined the effects of selective cholinergic lesions of the medial septum area (MS) or nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) on amplitude and phase characteristics of event related oscillations (EROs). A time-frequency based representation was used to determine ERO energy, phase synchronization across trials, recorded within a structure (phase lock index, PLI), and phase synchronization across trials, recorded between brain structures (phase difference lock index, PDLI), in the frontal cortex (Fctx), dorsal hippocampus (DHPC) and central amygdala (Amyg). Lesions in MS produced: (1) decreases in ERO energy in delta, theta, alpha, beta and gamma frequencies in Amyg, (2) reductions in gamma ERO energy and PLI in Fctx, (3) decreases in PDLI between the Fctx-Amyg in the theta, alpha, beta and gamma frequencies, and (4) decreases in PDLI between the DHPC-Amyg and Fctx-DHPC in the theta frequency bands. Lesions in NBM resulted in: (1) increased ERO energy in delta and theta frequency bands in Fctx, (2) reduced gamma ERO energy in Fctx and Amyg, (3) reductions in PLI in the theta, beta and gamma frequency ranges in Fctx, (4) reductions in gamma PLI in DHPC and (5) reduced beta PLI in Amyg. These studies suggest that the MS cholinergic system can alter phase synchronization between brain areas whereas the NBM cholinergic system modifies phase synchronization/phase resetting within a brain area.
Nicotine addiction is associated with the development of tolerance and the emergence of withdrawal symptoms upon cessation of chronic nicotine administration. Changes in cognition, including deficits in learning, are one of the most common withdrawal symptoms reported by smokers. However, the neural substrates of tolerance to the effects of nicotine on learning and the substrates of withdrawal deficits in learning are unknown, and in fact it is unclear whether a common mechanism is involved in both. The present study tested the hypothesis that tolerance and withdrawal are separate processes and that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) upregulation underlies changes in learning associated with withdrawal but not tolerance. C57BL/6 male mice were administered a dose of nicotine (3, 6.3, 12, or 24 mg/kg/d) chronically for varying days and tested for the onset of tolerance to the effects of nicotine on learning. Follow up experiments examined the number of days of chronic nicotine treatment required to produce withdrawal deficits in learning and a significant increase in [(3)H] epibatidine binding in the hippocampus indicative of receptor upregulation. The results indicate that tolerance onset was influenced by dose of chronic nicotine, that tolerance occurred before withdrawal deficits in learning emerged, and that nAChR upregulation in the dorsal hippocampus was associated with withdrawal but not tolerance. This suggests that for the effects of nicotine on learning, tolerance and withdrawal involve different substrates. These findings are discussed in terms of implications for development of therapeutics that target symptoms of nicotine addiction and for theories of addiction.


In the hippocampus, the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA shapes the activity of the output pyramidal neurons and plays important role in cognition. Most of its inhibitory effects are mediated by signaling from GABAB receptor to the G protein-gated Inwardly-rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels. Here, we show that RGS7, in cooperation with its binding partner R7BP, regulates GABABR-GIRK signaling in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Deletion of RGS7 in mice dramatically sensitizes GIRK responses to GABAB receptor stimulation and markedly slows channel deactivation kinetics. Enhanced activity of this signaling pathway leads to decreased neuronal excitability and selective disruption of inhibitory forms of synaptic plasticity. As a result, mice lacking RGS7 exhibit deficits in learning and memory. We further report that RGS7 is selectively modulated by its membrane anchoring subunit R7BP, which sets the dynamic range of GIRK responses. Together, these results demonstrate a novel role of RGS7 in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory formation. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02053.001.









Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) mutations are the most common cause of dominant and sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), a common neurodegenerative disorder. Yeast-two-hybrid screening using human LRRK2 kinase domain as bait identified microtubule associated protein 1B (MAP1B) as a LRRK2 interactor. The interacting domains were LRRK2 kinase and the light chain portion of MAP1B (LC1). LRRK2+LC1 interaction resulted in LRRK2 kinase inhibition. LRRK2 mutants (R1441C, G2019S and I2020T) exhibited decreased endogenous LC1 expression and its co-expression with LC1 rescued LRRK2 mutant-mediated toxicity. This study presented the first data on the effects of LRRK2+LC1 interaction and also suggested that LCI possibly rescued LRRK2 mutant-induced cytotoxicity by inhibiting LRRK2 kinase activity. Compounds that upregulate LC1 expression may therefore hold therapeutic potential for LRRK2-linked diseases.



Tumour suppressor pathways may offer novel targets capable of altering the plasticity of post-mitotic adult neurons. Here we describe a role for the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein, widely expressed in adult sensory neurons and their axons, during regeneration. In adult sensory neurons, Rb short interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown or Rb1 deletion in vitro enhances neurite outgrowth and branching. Plasticity is achieved in part through upregulation of neuronal PPAR; its antagonism inhibits Rb siRNA plasticity, whereas a PPAR agonist increases growth. In an in vivo regenerative paradigm following complete peripheral nerve trunk transection, direct delivery of Rb siRNA prompts increased outgrowth of axons from proximal stumps and entrains Schwann cells to accompany them for greater distances. Similarly, Rb siRNA delivery following a nerve crush improves behavioural indices of motor and sensory recovery in mice. The overall findings indicate that inhibition of tumour suppressor molecules has a role to play in promoting adult neuron regeneration.




The success of device-based research in the clinical neurosciences has overshadowed a critical and emerging problem in the biomedical research environment in the United States. Neuroprosthetic devices, such as deep brain stimulation (DBS), have been shown in humans to be promising technologies for scientific exploration of neural pathways and as powerful treatments. Large device companies have, over the past several decades, funded and developed major research programs. However, both the structure of clinical trial funding and the current regulation of device research threaten investigator-initiated efforts in neurologic disorders. The current atmosphere dissuades clinical investigators from pursuing formal and prospective research with novel devices or novel indications. We review our experience in conducting a federally funded, investigator-initiated, device-based clinical trial that utilized DBS for thalamic pain syndrome. We also explore barriers that clinical investigators face in conducting device-based clinical trials, particularly in early-stage studies or small disease populations. We discuss 5 specific areas for potential reform and integration: (1) alternative pathways for device approval; (2) eliminating right of reference requirements; (3) combining federal grant awards with regulatory approval; (4) consolidation of oversight for human subjects research; and (5) private insurance coverage for clinical trials. Careful reformulation of regulatory policy and funding mechanisms is critical for expanding investigator-initiated device research, which has great potential to benefit science, industry, and, most importantly, patients.






Social avoidance is a common characteristic of many clinical psychopathologies and is often triggered by social stress. Our lab uses Syrian hamsters to model stress-induced social avoidance, and we have previously established that both inescapable and escapable social defeat result in increased social avoidance when compared with no-defeat controls. Our previous work suggested, however, that social avoidance was significantly greater after inescapable defeat. The goal of this study was to determine if this difference in behavior after the two types of defeat was due to experimental differences in the controllability (i.e., escapability) of the defeat or simply to differences in the overall duration of the defeat. In Experiment 1, we used a yoked design to hold constant the duration of defeat between escapable and inescapable defeat conditions. This design resulted in only a very brief social defeat, yet when comparing defeated animals with no-defeat controls, a significant increase in social avoidance was still observed. In Experiment 2, we also used the yoked design, but the escape task was made more difficult to ensure a longer defeat experience. Again, we observed no effect of controllability. Together, these data suggest that the ability to escape a social stressor does not reduce the impact of the stressful experience. These results emphasize that social stressors need not be prolonged or uncontrollable to produce marked effects on subsequent behavior.
Exposure to stressful events affects subsequent sensitivity to fear. We investigated the long-term effects of a traumatic experience on subsequent contextual fear conditioning and anxiety-like behaviors in rats (Experiment 1). In addition, we tested whether the administration of the glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor metyrapone (MET) attenuated the sensitization of fear induced by traumatic stress (Experiment 2). Male rats were subjected to a multiple stress (MS) session, which consisted of 4 foot shocks (1mA, 1s) and forced swimming for 20min, followed by exposure to a situational reminder 7days after the MS session. MET (25 or 100mg/kg, intraperitoneal) was administered 30min before MS. The contextual fear conditioning was performed 14days after MS. MS enhanced the conditioned fear response for at least 14days after the conditioning, and pretreatment with MET did not affect the enhancement of conditioned fear. These results suggest that glucocorticoid secretion triggered by MS is not involved in regulating the long-term stress-induced sensitization of fear.
Neonatal infection has enduring effects on the brain, both at the cellular and behavioral levels. We determined the effects of peripheral infection with Escherichia coli at postnatal day (P) 4 in rats on a water maze task in adulthood, and assessed neuronal activation in the dentate gyrus (DG) following the memory test. Rats were trained and tested on one of 3 distinct water maze task paradigms: 1) minimal training (18 trials/3days), 2) extended training (50 trials/10days) or 3) reversal training (extended training followed by 30 trials/3days with a new platform location). Following a 48h memory test, brains were harvested to assess neuronal activation using activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated (Arc) protein in the DG. Following minimal training, rats treated neonatally with E. coli had improved performance and paradoxically reduced Arc expression during the memory test compared to control rats treated with PBS early in life. However, neonatally-infected rats did not differ from control rats in behavior or neuronal activation during the memory test following extended training. Furthermore, rats treated neonatally with E. coli were significantly impaired during the 48h memory test for a reversal platform location, unlike controls. Specifically, whereas neonatally-infected rats were able to acquire the new location at the same rate as controls, they spent significantly less time in the target quadrant for the reversal platform during a memory test. However, neonatally-infected and control rats had similar levels of Arc expression following the 48h memory test for reversal. Together, these data indicate that neonatal infection may improve the rate of acquisition on hippocampal-dependent tasks while impairing flexibility on the same tasks; in addition, network activation in the DG during learning may be predictive of future cognitive flexibility on a hippocampal-dependent task.
Although several studies have pointed to a possible role of interleukin 2 (IL-2) in schizophrenia (SZ), association between IL-2 and the different groups of symptoms has not been explored. The objective of this study was to investigate a possible correlation of peripheral IL-2 levels with symptoms and cognitive performance in patients with SZ. In addition, we compared the plasma levels of IL-2 between patients with SZ and healthy controls. Twenty-nine chronically medicated outpatients with SZ according to DSM-IV were compared with twenty-six healthy controls. The patients were evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS), the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF). All the participants had blood collected into EDTA tubes by venipuncture between 9:00 and 10:00AM. Plasma concentrations of IL-2 were determined by cytometric bead array. A computerized neuropsychological battery assessed verbal learning, verbal fluency, working memory, set shifting, executive function, inhibition and intelligence. Patients with SZ had lower levels of IL-2 than healthy controls (p&lt;0.001). In the SZ group, IL-2 levels were positively correlated with scores in the digit span test (rho=0.416, P=0.025) and intelligence (rho=0.464, P=0.011). We also found a negative correlation between IL-2 and total score in the negative subscale of PANSS (rho=-0.447, p=0.015). Our findings suggest that IL-2 may be involved in the mechanisms related to cognitive deterioration and negative symptomatology in schizophrenia.
This study aimed to characterize the nociceptive withdrawal reflex (NWR) and to define the nociceptive threshold in 25 healthy, non-medicated experimental sheep in standing posture. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal lateral digital nerves of the right thoracic and the pelvic limb was performed and surface-electromyography (EMG) from the deltoid (all animals) and the femoral biceps (18 animals) or the peroneus tertius muscles (7 animals) was recorded. The behavioural reaction following each stimulation was scored on a scale from 0 (no reaction) to 5 (strong whole body reaction). A train-of-five 1ms constant-current pulse was used and current intensity was stepwise increased until NWR threshold intensity was reached. The NWR threshold intensity (It) was defined as the minimal stimulus intensity able to evoke a reflex with a minimal Root-Mean-Square amplitude (RMSA) of 20V, a minimal duration of 10ms and a minimal reaction score of 1 (slight muscle contraction of the stimulated limb) within the time window of 20 to 130ms post-stimulation. Based on this value, further stimulations were performed below (0.9It) and above threshold (1.5It and 2It). The stimulus-response curve was described. Data are reported as medians and interquartile ranges. At the deltoid muscle It was 4.4mA (2.9-5.7) with an RMSA of 62V (30-102). At the biceps femoris muscle It was 7.0mA (4.0-10.0) with an RMSA of 43V (34-50) and at the peroneus tertius muscle It was 3.4mA (3.1-4.4) with an RMSA of 38V (32-46). Above threshold, RMSA was significantly increased at all muscles. Below threshold, RMSA was only significantly smaller than at It for the peroneus tertius muscle but not for the other muscles. Data achieved in this study serve as reference for experimental or clinical applications of the conscious sheep model.
Spatial learning is a model of higher human cognitive functions which is used for studying animal behavior. Histaminergic and noradrenergic systems play a modulatory role in learning and memory. The present study aimed to test the effects of -adrenoceptor agonist/antagonist microinjection into the CA1 region of dorsal hippocampus on histamine-induced spatial learning facilitation in the water maze task. Pre-training intra-CA1 microinjection of 1- or 2-adrenergic agonist, phenylephrine (0.0025g/rat) or clonidine (0.05g/rat) decreased traveled distance and escape latency at the start of the training phase, suggesting a spatial learning facilitation; while the higher dose of the drugs (phenylephrine 0.005g/rat, clonidine 0.2 and 0.5g/rat) increased the performance level at the end of the training phase, indicating a water maze spatial acquisition impairment. However, 1-receptor antagonist, prazosin (1g/rat) impaired spatial learning; 2-receptor antagonist, yohimbine (0.25g/rat) facilitated spatial acquisition. Moreover, pre-training intra-CA1 microinjection of a subthreshold dose of phenylephrine (0.001g/rat) reversed histamine response, while ineffective dose co-administration of clonidine (0.1g/rat) potentiated histamine (0.01g/rat) response. Subthreshold dose of prazosin or yohimbine did not alter histamine response. Bilateral infusion of histamine (0.05g/rat) facilitated spatial learning by itself. Furthermore, the drug's injections had no effect on swimming speed on the training days of MWM. These results suggest that -adrenergic receptors of the dorsal hippocampal CA1 regions may play an important role in histamine-induced facilitation of spatial acquisition.

Solitary chemosensory cells (SCCs) of the nasal cavity are specialized epithelial chemosensors that respond to irritants through the canonical taste transduction cascade involving G-gustducin and transient receptor potential melastatin 5. When stimulated, SCCs trigger peptidergic nociceptive (or pain) nerve fibers, causing an alteration of the respiratory rate indicative of trigeminal activation. Direct chemical excitation of trigeminal pain fibers by capsaicin evokes neurogenic inflammation in the surrounding epithelium. In the current study, we test whether activation of nasal SCCs can trigger similar local inflammatory responses, specifically mast cell degranulation and plasma leakage. The prototypical bitter compound, denatonium, a well-established activator of SCCs, caused significant inflammatory responses in WT mice but not mice with a genetic deletion of elements of the canonical taste transduction cascade, showing that activation of taste signaling components is sufficient to trigger local inflammation. Chemical ablation of peptidergic trigeminal fibers prevented the SCC-induced nasal inflammation, indicating that SCCs evoke inflammation only by neural activity and not by release of local inflammatory mediators. Additionally, blocking nicotinic, but not muscarinic, acetylcholine receptors prevents SCC-mediated neurogenic inflammation for both denatonium and the bacterial signaling molecule 3-oxo-C12-homoserine lactone, showing the necessity for cholinergic transmission. Finally, we show that the neurokinin 1 receptor for substance P is required for SCC-mediated inflammation, suggesting that release of substance P from nerve fibers triggers the inflammatory events. Taken together, these results show that SCCs use cholinergic neurotransmission to trigger peptidergic trigeminal nociceptors, which link SCCs to the neurogenic inflammatory pathway.
Here, we extended our findings from a genome-wide association study of the euphoric response to d-amphetamine in healthy human volunteers by identifying enrichment between SNPs associated with response to d-amphetamine and SNPs associated with psychiatric disorders. We found that SNPs nominally associated (P  0.05 and P  0.01) with schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder were also nominally associated with d-amphetamine response. Furthermore, we found that the source of this enrichment was an excess of alleles that increased sensitivity to the euphoric effects of d-amphetamine and decreased susceptibility to schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. In contrast, three negative control phenotypes (height, inflammatory bowel disease, and Parkinson disease) did not show this enrichment. Taken together, our results suggest that alleles identified using an acute challenge with a dopaminergic drug in healthy individuals can be used to identify alleles that confer risk for psychiatric disorders commonly treated with dopaminergic agonists and antagonists. More importantly, our results show the use of the enrichment approach as an alternative to stringent standards for genome-wide significance and suggest a relatively novel approach to the analysis of small cohorts in which intermediate phenotypes have been measured.
Alcohol use and abuse profoundly influences a variety of behaviors, including social interactions. In some cases, it erodes social relationships; in others, it facilitates sociality. Here, we show that voluntary alcohol consumption can inhibit male partner preference (PP) formation (a laboratory proxy for pair bonding) in socially monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster). Conversely, female PP is not inhibited, and may be facilitated by alcohol. Behavior and neurochemical analysis suggests that the effects of alcohol on social bonding are mediated by neural mechanisms regulating pair bond formation and not alcohol's effects on mating, locomotor, or aggressive behaviors. Several neuropeptide systems involved in the regulation of social behavior (especially neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing factor) are modulated by alcohol drinking during cohabitation. These findings provide the first evidence to our knowledge that alcohol has a direct impact on the neural systems involved in social bonding in a sex-specific manner, providing an opportunity to explore the mechanisms by which alcohol affects social relationships.
Learning by imitation is fundamental to both communication and social behavior and requires the conversion of complex, nonlinear sensory codes for perception into similarly complex motor codes for generating action. To understand the neural substrates underlying this conversion, we study sensorimotor transformations in songbird cortical output neurons of a basal-ganglia pathway involved in song learning. Despite the complexity of sensory and motor codes, we find a simple, temporally specific, causal correspondence between them. Sensory neural responses to song playback mirror motor-related activity recorded during singing, with a temporal offset of roughly 40 ms, in agreement with short feedback loop delays estimated using electrical and auditory stimulation. Such matching of mirroring offsets and loop delays is consistent with a recent Hebbian theory of motor learning and suggests that cortico-basal ganglia pathways could support motor control via causal inverse models that can invert the rich correspondence between motor exploration and sensory feedback.
Human perception, cognition, and action are laced with seemingly arbitrary mappings. In particular, sound has a strong spatial connotation: Sounds are high and low, melodies rise and fall, and pitch systematically biases perceived sound elevation. The origins of such mappings are unknown. Are they the result of physiological constraints, do they reflect natural environmental statistics, or are they truly arbitrary? We recorded natural sounds from the environment, analyzed the elevation-dependent filtering of the outer ear, and measured frequency-dependent biases in human sound localization. We find that auditory scene statistics reveals a clear mapping between frequency and elevation. Perhaps more interestingly, this natural statistical mapping is tightly mirrored in both ear-filtering properties and in perceived sound location. This suggests that both sound localization behavior and ear anatomy are fine-tuned to the statistics of natural auditory scenes, likely providing the basis for the spatial connotation of human hearing.



Positive affect (PA) has an important role in resilience against depression and has been shown to increase with mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT). To elucidate the underlying mechanisms of change in PA as well as develop insights that may benefit personalized medicine, the current study examined the contribution of genetic variation to individual differences in change in PA in response to MBCT. Individuals (n=126) with residual depressive symptoms were randomized to either an MBCT group or treatment as usual. PA was assessed using experience sampling methodology (ESM). Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes known to be involved in reward functioning were selected. SNPs in the genes for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M2 (CHRM2), the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) and the 1 opioid receptor (OPRM1) significantly moderated the impact of treatment condition over time on PA. Genetic variation in the genes for CHRM2 and OPRM1 specifically had an impact on the level of PA following MBCT. The current study shows that variation in response to MBCT may be contingent on genetic factors associated with the regulation of PA. These findings contribute to our understanding of the processes moderating response to treatment and prediction of treatment outcome.


Aim:Homocysteine (Hcy) can elicit neuronal cell death, and hyperhomocysteinemia is a strong independent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) on Hcy-induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and neuronal apoptosis in rat hippocampus.Methods:Adult male SD rats were intracerebroventricularly (icv) injected with Hcy (0.6 mol/d) for 7 d. Before Hcy injection, the rats were treated with NaHS (30 or 100 molkg(-1)d(-1), ip) and/or k252a (1 g/d, icv) for 2 d. The apoptotic neurons were detected in hippocampal coronal slices with TUNEL staining. The expression of glucose regulated protein 78 (GRP78), C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), cleaved caspase-12, and BDNF in the hippocampus were examined using Western blotting assays. The generation of H2S in the hippocampus was measured with the NNDPD method.Results:Hcy markedly inhibited the production of endogenous H2S and increased apoptotic neurons in the hippocampus. Furthermore, Hcy induced ER stress responses in the hippocampus, as indicated by the upregulation of GRP78, CHOP, and cleaved caspase-12. Treatment with the H2S donor NaHS increased the endogenous H2S production and BDNF expression in a dose-dependent manner, and significantly reduced Hcy-induced neuronal apoptosis and ER stress responses in the hippocampus. Treatment with k252a, a specific inhibitor of TrkB (the receptor of BDNF), abolished the protective effects of NaHS against Hcy-induced ER stress in the hippocampus.Conclusion:H2S attenuates ER stress and neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus of Hcy-treated rats via upregulating the BDNF-TrkB pathway.



The recent stream of regulatory guidelines on the Safety Testing of Drug Metabolites by the FDA in 2008 and the ICH in 2009 and 2012 has cast light on the importance of qualifying metabolite exposure as part of the safety evaluation of new drugs and has provided a much needed framework for the drug safety researcher. Since then, numerous publications interpreting the practicalities of the guidelines have appeared in the literature focusing on strategic approaches and/or adaptation of modern analytical methodologies, e.g., NMR and AMS, for the identification and quantification of metabolites in the species used in preclinical safety assessments and in humans. Surprisingly, there are few literature accounts demonstrating how, in practice, a particular strategy or analytical method has been used to qualify drug metabolites during the safety evaluation of a drug during clinical development. At the same time as the initial FDA and ICH guideline releases, the neuroscience therapy area of AstraZeneca had a number of projects in clinical development, or approaching this phase, which gave the authors a scaffold upon which to build knowledge regarding the safety testing of drug metabolites. In this article, we present how the MIST strategy was developed to meet the guidelines. Pragmatic approaches have evolved from the experience learned in various projects in DMPK at AstraZeneca, Sdertlje, Sweden. Our experience dictates that there is no single strategy for qualifying the safety of drug metabolites in humans; however, all activities should be tied to two unifying themes: first that the exposure to drug metabolites should be compared between species at repeated administration using the relative method or a similar one; and second that the internal regulatory documentation of the metabolite qualification should be agnostic to external criteria (guidelines), indication, dose given, and timing.




























Compared with other psychiatric disorders, diagnosis of factitious disorders is rare, with identification largely dependent on the systematic collection of relevant information, including a detailed chronology and scrutiny of the patient's medical record. Management of such disorders ideally requires a team-based approach and close involvement of the primary care doctor. As deception is a key defining component of factitious disorders, diagnosis has important implications for young children, particularly when identified in women and health-care workers. Malingering is considered to be rare in clinical practice, whereas simulation of symptoms, motivated by financial rewards, is regarded as more common in medicolegal settings. Although psychometric investigations (eg, symptom validity testing) can inform the detection of illness deception, such tests need support from converging evidence sources, including detailed interview assessments, medical notes, and relevant non-medical investigations. A key challenge in any discussion of abnormal health-care-seeking behaviour is the extent to which a person's reported symptoms are considered to be a product of choice, or psychopathology beyond volitional control, or perhaps both. Clinical skills alone are not typically sufficient for diagnosis or to detect malingering. Medical education needs to provide doctors with the conceptual, developmental, and management frameworks to understand and deal with patients whose symptoms appear to be simulated. Central to the understanding of factitious disorders and malingering are the explanatory models and beliefs used to provide meaning for both patients and doctors. Future progress in management will benefit from an increased appreciation of the contribution of non-medical factors and a greater awareness of the conceptual and clinical findings from social neuroscience, occupational health, and clinical psychology.
















The discovery of undifferentiated, actively proliferating neural stem cells (NSCs) in the mature brain opened a brand new chapter in the contemporary neuroscience. Adult neurogenesis appears to occur in specific brain regions (including hypothalamus) throughout vertebrates' life, being considered an important player in the processes of memory, learning, and neural plasticity. In the adult mammalian brain, NSCs are located mainly in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle ependymal wall. Besides these classical regions, hypothalamic neurogenesis occurring mainly along and beneath the third ventricle wall seems to be especially well documented. Neurogenic zones in SGZ, SVZ, and in the hypothalamus share some particular common features like similar cellular cytoarchitecture, vascularization pattern, and extracellular matrix properties. Hypothalamic neurogenic niche is formed mainly by four special types of radial glia-like tanycytes. They are characterized by distinct expression of some neural progenitor and stem cell markers. Moreover, there are numerous suggestions that newborn hypothalamic neurons have a significant ability to integrate into the local neural pathways and to play important physiological roles, especially in the energy balance regulation. Newly formed neurons in the hypothalamus can synthesize and release food intake regulating neuropeptides and they are sensitive to the leptin. On the other hand, high-fat diet positively influences hypothalamic neurogenesis in rodents. The nature of this intriguing new site of adult neurogenesis is still so far poorly studied and requires further investigations.











The small GTPase Rab27A is a crucial regulator of actin-based melanosome transport in melanocytes, and functionally defective Rab27A causes human Griscelli syndrome type 2, which is characterized by silvery hair. A GTPase-deficient, constitutively active Rab27A(Q78L) mutant has been shown to act as an inhibitor of melanosome transport and to induce perinuclear aggregation of melanosomes, but the molecular mechanism by which Rab27A(Q78L) inhibits melanosome transport remained to be determined. In this study, we attempted to identify the primary cause of the perinuclear melanosome aggregation induced by Rab27A(Q78L). The results showed that Rab27A(Q78L) is unable to localize on mature melanosomes and that its inhibitory activity on melanosome transport is completely dependent on its binding to the Rab27A effector Slac2-a/melanophilin. When we forcibly expressed Rab27A(Q78L) on mature melanosomes by using a novel melanosome-targeting tag that we developed in this study and named the MST tag, the MST-Rab27A(Q78L) fusion protein behaved in the same manner as wild-type Rab27A. It localized on mature melanosomes without inducing melanosome aggregation and restored normal peripheral melanosome distribution in Rab27A-deficient cells. These findings indicate that the GTPase activity of Rab27A is required for its melanosome localization but is not required for melanosome transport.


















Neonatal alcohol exposure impairs cognition and learning in adulthood and permanently damages the hippocampus. Wheel running (WR) improves hippocampus-associated learning and memory and increases the genesis and survival of newly generated neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. WR significantly increases proliferation of newly generated dentate granule cells in alcohol-exposed (AE) and control rats on Postnatal Day (PD) 42 but only control rats show an increased number of surviving cells thirty days after WR (Helfer et al., 2009b). The present studies examined whether proliferation-promoting WR followed by survival-enhancing environmental complexity (EC) during adolescence could increase survival of new neurons in AE rats. On PD 4-9, pups were intubated with alcohol in a binge-like manner (5.25g/kg/day, AE), were sham-intubated (SI), or were reared normally (suckle control, SC). On PD 30 animals were assigned to WR (PD 30-42) followed by EC (PD 42-72; WR/EC) or were socially housed (SH/SH) for the duration of the experiment. All animals were injected with 200mg/kg bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) on PD 41. In Experiment 1, survival of newly generated cells was significantly enhanced in the AE-WR/EC group in comparison with AE-SH/SH group. Experiment 2A examined trace eyeblink conditioning. In the SH/SH condition, AE impaired trace eyeblink conditioning relative to SI and SC controls. In the WR/EC condition, AE rats performed as well as controls. In Experiment 2B, the same intervention was examined using the context preexposure facilitation effect (CPFE); a hippocampus-dependent variant of contextual fear conditioning. Again, the WR/EC intervention reversed the deficit in conditioned fear to the context that was evident in the SH/SH condition. Post-weaning environmental manipulations promote cell survival and reverse learning deficits in rats that were exposed to alcohol during development. These manipulations may provide a basis for developing interventions that ameliorate learning impairments associated with human fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
GABAergic neurons are known to inhibit neural transduction and therefore negatively affect excitatory neural circuits in the brain. We have previously reported that 5-(3-methoxyphenyl)-3-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (AC-3933), a partial inverse agonist for the benzodiazepine receptor (BzR), reverses GABAergic inhibitory effect on cholinergic neurons, and thus enhances acetylcholine release from these neurons in rat hippocampal slices. In this study, we evaluated AC-3933 potential for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, a disorder characterized by progressive decline mainly in cholinergic function. Oral administration of AC-3933 (0.01-0.03mg/kg) resulted in the amelioration of scopolamine-induced amnesia, as well as a shift in electroencephalogram (EEG) relative power characteristic of pro-cognitive cholinergic activators, such as donepezil. In addition, treatment with AC-3933 even at the high dose of 100mg/kg p.o. produced no seizure or anxiety, two major adverse effects of BzR inverse agonists developed in the past. These findings indicate that AC-3933 with its low risk for side effects may be useful in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Animals with low and high immobility in the forced swimming test (FST) differ in a number of neurobehavioral factors. A growing body of evidence suggests that the exposure to enriched environments mediates a number of changes in the brain. Therefore, we studied if animals' individuality can somehow modulate the response to environmental stimuli. Male rats were classified according to their immobility time scores in the FST test session as animals with low, medium or high immobility. Then, rats from groups with low and high immobility were randomly distributed in two groups to be reared in different housing conditions (i.e., enriched and standard conditions) during 8weeks. Animals were subjected to the open field test (OFT) before and 6weeks after the start of housing protocol. Rats with high immobility in the FST also showed high ambulation and high rearing time in the first OFT. Such findings were not observed in the second OFT. Conversely, an effect of environmental enrichment was found in the second OFT where enriched animals showed lower ambulation and higher grooming time than the standard control group. Rats were sacrificed after the housing protocol and neurochemical content and/or gene expression were studied in three different brain regions: the prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens. Rats with low immobility showed significantly higher accumbal 5-HT levels than animals with high immobility, whereas no neurochemical differences were observed between enriched and standard animals. Regarding expression data, however, an effect of enrichment on accumbal corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and its receptor 1 (CRFR1) levels was observed, and such effect depended on immobility levels. Thus, our results not only allowed us to identify a number of differences between animals with low and high immobility or animals housed in standard and enriched conditions, but also suggested that animals' individuality modulated in some way the response to environmental stimuli.
The present study tested whether and how motor experience with a specific tool affects motor representation of a specific movement. To this aim, we considered a group of expert tennis players and a control group of athletic individuals without tennis experience. Participants were asked to execute 20 single forehands into the wall with a tennis racket (movement execution - ME) and, afterward, to produce a kinesthetic image of themselves while executing the same movements (motor imagery - MI). During MI participants handled one of the following tools: a tennis racket, a tennis-like racket and an umbrella. Results showed that the duration of the real and the imagined movements were almost similar when participants of both groups held the tennis rackets. In contrast, when tennis players handled the tools not specific for tennis the duration of the imagined movements increased significantly compared to the MI duration with a tennis racket. On the opposite, the handled tool did not modulate MI performances of the control group. In conclusion, this study showed that motor representation of subjects who developed motor skills associated to tool-use is reliant on the object used to practice movements. This finding suggests that, although MI mainly relies on the activity of cortical motor regions, non-motor information - as the use of the tool to practice movement - strongly affects the MI performance.
The spinal cord is vulnerable to ischemic injury due to trauma, vascular malformations and correction of thoracic aortic lesions. Riluzole, a sodium channel blocker and anti-glutamate drug has been shown to be neuroprotective in a model of ischemic spinal cord injury, although the effects in clinically relevant ischemia/reperfusion models are unknown. Here, we examine the effect of riluzole following ischemia-reperfusion injury to the spinal cord. Female rats underwent high thoracic aortic balloon occlusion to produce an ischemia/reperfusion injury. Tolerance to ischemia was evaluated by varying the duration of occlusion. Riluzole (8mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally 4h after injury. Locomotor function (Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) scale) was assessed at 4h, 1day, and 5days post-ischemia. Spinal cords were extracted and evaluated for neuronal loss using immunohistology (choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and neuronal nuclei (NeuN)), inflammation (CD11b), astrogliosis (glial fibrillary acidic protein - GFAP) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL). Ischemic injury lasting between 5.5 and 6.75min resulted in delayed paraplegia, whereas longer ischemia induced immediate paraplegia. When riluzole was administered to rats that underwent 6min of occlusion, delayed paraplegia was prevented. The BBB score of riluzole-treated rats was 11.144.85 compared with 1.861.07 in control animals. Riluzole also reduced neuronal loss, infiltration of microglia/macrophages and astrogliosis in the ventral horn and intermediate zone of the gray matter. In addition, riluzole reduced apoptosis of neurons in the dorsal horn of the gray matter. Riluzole has a neuroprotective effect in a rat model of spinal cord injury/reperfusion when administered up to 4h post-injury, a clinically relevant therapeutic time window.
Sensorineural hearing losses (SNHLs; e.g., ototoxicant- and noise-induced hearing loss or presbycusis) are among the most frequent sensory deficits, but they lack effective drug therapies. The majority of recent therapeutic approaches focused on the trials of antioxidants and reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers in SNHLs. The rationale for these studies was the prominent role of disturbed redox homeostasis and the consequent ROS elevation. Although the antioxidant therapies in several animal studies seemed to be promising, clinical trials have failed to fulfill expectations. We investigated the potential of rasagiline, an FDA-approved monomanine oxidase type B inhibitor (MAO-B) inhibitor type anti-parkinsonian drug, as an otoprotectant. We showed a dose-dependent alleviation of the kanamycin-induced threshold shifts measured by auditory brainstem response (ABR) in an ototoxicant aminoglycoside antibiotic-based hearing loss model in mice. This effect proved to be statistically significant at a 6-mg/kg (s.c.) dose. The most prominent effect appeared at 16kHz, which is the hearing sensitivity optimum for mice. The neuroprotective, antiapoptotic and antioxidant effects of rasagiline in animal models, all targeting a specific mechanism of aminoglycoside injury, may explain this otoprotection. The dopaminergic neurotransmission enhancer effect of rasagiline might also contribute to the protection. Dopamine (DA), released from lateral olivocochlear (LOC) fibers, was shown to exert a protective action against excitotoxicity, a pathological factor in the aminoglycoside-induced SNHL. We have shown that rasagiline enhanced the electric stimulation-evoked release of DA from an acute mouse cochlea preparation in a dose-dependent manner. Using inhibitors of voltage-gated Na(+)-, Ca(2+) channels and DA transporters, we revealed that rasagiline potentiated the action potential-evoked release of DA by inhibiting the reuptake. The complex, multifactorial pathomechanism of SNHLs most likely requires drugs acting on multiple targets for effective therapy. Rasagiline, with its multi-target action and favorable adverse effects profile, might be a good candidate for a clinical trial testing the otoprotective indication.
The arcuate nucleus is the main receptive area of the brain for peripheral and central metabolic cues and its integrity is essential for the maintenance of energy homeostasis. In the arcuate nucleus, different neuronal populations process metabolic signals and transmit this information to other nuclei of the hypothalamus by means of neurotransmitters and a combination of neuropeptides whose expression is modulated by the nutritional status. Here we investigated the changes in expression and synthesis of the polypeptide VGF in the arcuate nucleus of rats, in relation to the two main categories of neurons that show colocalization with VGF: the orexigenic NPY-expressing cells and the anorexigenic POMC-expressing cells. The results show that fasting is the most important stimulus for VGF expression, and that the up-regulation of VGF mRNA is restricted to the NPY area of the arcuate nucleus. POMC neurons express VGF under all feeding conditions, but especially in ad libitum-fed and fasted-refed animals. We also show that VGF arcuate neurons project to the pre-autonomic neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, providing anatomical evidence suggesting VGF as a central modulator of the autonomic nervous system.
Aversive social interactions, such as social defeat, can alter a variety of behavioral and cognitive functions. In the present study, we examined the effects of social defeat and the subsequent housing on behavior as well as cell proliferation and cell survival in the solitary, male greater long-tailed hamster (Tscheskia triton). We found that three days of agonistic interactions reliably led to a subordinate-dominant relationship between pairs of male hamsters. However, such behavioral interactions did not alter cell proliferation in any of the brain areas examined. In addition, subordinate males housed in close proximity to the dominant male (separated by a wire screen) following social defeat did not display differences in agonistic behaviors, but had enhanced cell proliferation in the anterior hypothalamus, ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), and amygdala as well as increased cell survival in the VMH, compared to subordinate males that were housed individually. Together, our data indicate distinct effects of agonistic interactions and the social housing condition on behavior as well as cell proliferation and survival in the brain of the greater long-tailed hamster.
Excitatory responses evoked by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) in the vestibular nuclei (VN) of the rat were studied in vivo during microiontophoretic application of noradrenaline (NA) and/or its agonists and antagonists. Ejection of NA-modified excitatory responses mediated by NMDA receptors (NMDAR) in all neurons tested; the effect was enhancement in 59% of cases and depression in the remaining 41%. Enhancements prevailed in all VN with the exception of the lateral vestibular nucleus, where both effects were recorded in an equal number of cases. The enhancing action of NA on NMDAR-mediated responses was mimicked by the noradrenergic beta-receptor agonist isoproterenol, the beta1 specific agonist denopamine and the alpha2 agonist clonidine. These effects were blocked respectively by the generic beta-receptor antagonist timolol, the beta1 antagonist atenolol and the alpha2 antagonist yohimbine. In contrast, application of the alpha1 receptor agonist cirazoline and the specific alpha1 antagonist prazosin respectively mimicked and partially antagonized the depression of NMDAR-mediated excitations induced by NA. Double-labeling immunohistochemical techniques demonstrated broad colocalization of NMDAR (specifically NR1 and NR2 subunits) with noradrenergic receptors (alpha1, alpha2 and beta1) in many VN neurons; only minor differences were found between nuclei. These results indicate that NA can produce generalized modulation of NMDAR-mediated excitatory neurotransmission in VN, which may in turn modify synaptic plasticity within the nuclei.
Dual-task interference during gait is a common phenomenon in older adults and people with Parkinson's disease (PD). Dual-task performance is driven by cognitive processes involving executive function, attention and working memory which underpin resource capacity and allocation. The underlying processes that contribute to dual-task interference are poorly understood, and confounded by methodological differences. The aim of this study was to explore the nature of dual-task interference in PD with respect to age-matched controls. We examined 121 people with early PD and 189 controls and controlled for baseline task demand on both tasks allowing between-group differences to be attributed to dual-task interference rather than differences in baseline performance. We also compared a wide range of gait characteristics to evaluate the pattern of interference. Participants walked for two minutes at a preferred pace under single- and dual-task (test of working memory capacity-digit span recall) conditions. In a subgroup task demand was increased (digit span+1) (n=55 control, n=44 PD) to assess the influence of resource capacity. Finally the association between dual-task interference with motor and cognitive characteristics was examined to evaluate resource capacity and allocation. PD and controls responded similarly to the dual-task for all gait characteristics except for step width and step width variability and this was the same when task demand increased (dual+1). Control participants took wider steps (p=0.006) and step width variability increased significantly for controls (p=0.001) but not PD. Interference was specific to the gait characteristic rather than a global pattern of impairment. Digit span error rates were not significantly different between groups during dual-task performance. There were no significant correlations with dual-task interference and global cognition, motor deficit, and executive function for either group. Effects of dual-tasks on gait performance are twofold and specific to the gait characteristic. They reflect an age-related reduction in gait performance (especially forward progression) in PD and controls possibly due to reduced resource capacity; and secondly, show postural stability during walking in early PD is disproportionately affected highlighting a PD-specific dual-task co-ordination deficit. Further work is required to identify the cognitive, executive and motor correlates of dual-task interference from which inferences about underlying cognitive processes can be made. These findings inform an understanding of dual-task impairment in early PD and suggest that management should target postural control under dual-task conditions from the early stages.
The endocannabinoid system is a modulatory system that has been strongly associated with the regulation of functions as learning and memory, pain perception and sensory physiology in many areas of the central nervous system. However, although a role in sensory processing has been demonstrated at the level of the thalamus, the influence of the endocannabinoid system on thalamic rhythms and oscillations has been less studied, despite the fact that such activities are significant characteristics of the thalamic state. The present work aimed to characterize the role of anandamide (AEA) - one of the endogenous CB1 receptor agonists - and AM251 - a CB1 antagonist - in the modulation of burst firing and oscillatory activity present in the dLGN of the anesthetized rat. Administration of AEA (0.5mg/kg iv) increased the number of bursts in the majority of the cells tested and induced the appearance of a slow delta-like (1.5Hz) oscillatory activity. These effects were CB1-mediated, as demonstrated by the complete antagonism during the co-application of AM251 (0.5mg/kg iv). Thus, by demonstrating that the AEA-mediated activation of CB1 receptors increases spontaneous bursting and oscillatory activity in the thalamus our study infers that endocannabinoids could have a role in processes controlling the sleep-wake cycle and level of arousal.
Orbitofrontal reality filtering denotes a memory control mechanism necessary to keep thought and behavior in phase with reality. Its failure induces reality confusion as evident in confabulation and disorientation. In the present study, we explored the influence of orbitofrontal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on reality filtering. Twenty healthy human subjects made a reality filtering task, while receiving cathodal, anodal, or sham stimulation over the frontal pole in three sessions separated by at least 1week. Computational models predicted that this montage can produce polarity-specific current flow across the posterior medial orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). In agreement with our hypothesis, we found that cathodal tDCS over the frontal pole specifically impaired reality filtering in comparison to anodal and sham stimulation. This study shows that reality filtering, an orbitofrontal function, can be modulated with tDCS.
Self-worth is particularly influenced by self-appraisal, which is negatively biased in many psychiatric disorders. Positive and negative self-appraisals also shape current emotional states or even evoke defensive reactions, when they are incongruent with a subject's current state. Prior studies have mainly used externally given evaluative appraisals. In this study, 30 subjects used individual negative and positive self-appraisals during functional magnetic resonance imaging. We additionally investigated the effects of such self-appraisals onto the subsequent perception of photos of the individual subjects. Both self-appraisal conditions activated dorsomedial and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex compared to the neutral condition. Positive self-appraisal evoked stronger activity than negative self-appraisal in the amygdala, ventral striatum and anterior cingulate cortex, whereas negative self-appraisal was associated with increased activity in the occipital regions. Positive self-appraisal had no effect on the perception of a photo of oneself, whereas negative appraisal increased activity in the anterior insula and parietal regions. Overall, positive self-appraisal activated more emotion-related brain regions, whereas negative self-appraisal had a relatively stronger influence on perception-related brain activity. These findings could on the one hand explain the effect of negative self-appraisal on the behavior in the real world and on the other hand support a stronger focus of psychotherapy on enhancing positive self-appraisals.
Dorsal norepinephrine bundle (DNEB) is the major source of noradrenergic input to the hippocampus and norepinephrine could regulate long-term potentiation (LTP) reversal. In the present study, we investigated the effects of low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of DNEB on behavioral LTP and Y-maze learning task, by using electrophysiological recording in freely moving rats combined with behavioral tests. We found that LFS on DNEB, including 1 and 5Hz, could inhibit reversibly basal synaptic transmission within 100-min recordings in hippocampal perforant path projections to dentate gyrus (PP-DG) pathway. 1-Hz stimulating DNEB, delivered 5min after the daily training session, reverses behavioral LTP completely and depresses the behavioral learning as well. However, 5-Hz-treated only reverses behavioral LTP partially and reduces the behavioral learning accordingly. These results indicate that behavioral LTP in PP-DG pathway can be reversed by LFS on DNEB, and display a similar impact on Y-maze learning performance. Our data provide a new characterization of LTP reversibility and will ultimately be helpful in understanding how new information is to detect and determine storage in the hippocampus.
RanBP9 is a multi-domain scaffolding protein known to integrate extracellular signaling with intracellular targets. We previously demonstrated that RanBP9 enhances A generation and amyloid plaque burden which results in loss of specific pre- and postsynaptic proteins in vivo in a transgenic mouse model. Additionally, we showed that the levels of spinophilin, a marker of dendritic spines were inversely proportional to the RanBP9 protein levels within the synaptosomes isolated from AD brains. In the present study, we found reduced dendritic intersections within the layer 6 pyramidal neurons of the cortex as well as the hippocampus of RanBP9 transgenic mice compared to age-matched wild-type (WT) controls at 12 months of age but not at 6months. Similarly, the dendritic spine numbers were reduced in the cortex at only 12 months of age by 30% (p&lt;0.01), but not at 6months. In the hippocampus also the spine densities were reduced at 12 months of age (38%, p&lt;0.01) in the RanBP9 transgenic mice. Interestingly, the levels of phosphorylated form of cofilin, an actin binding protein that plays crucial role in the regulation of spine numbers were significantly decreased in the cortical synaptosomes at only 12months of age by 26% (p&lt;0.01). In the hippocampal synaptosomes, the decrease in cofilin levels were 36% (p&lt;0.01) at 12 months of age. Thus dendritic arbor and spine density were directly correlated to the levels of phosphorylated form of cofilin in the RanBP9 transgenic mice. Similarly, cortical synaptosomes showed a 20% (p&lt;0.01) reduction in the levels of spinophilin in the RanBP9 transgenic mice. These results provided the physical basis for the loss of synaptic proteins by RanBP9 and most importantly it also explains the impaired spatial learning and memory skills previously observed in the RanBP9 transgenic mice.
Amygdala kindling is well known to increase unconditioned fear and anxiety. However, relatively little is known about whether this form of kindling causes functional changes within the neural circuitry that mediates fear learning and the retrieval of fear memories. To address this issue, we examined the effect of short- (i.e., 30 stimulations) and long-term (i.e., 99 stimulations) amygdala kindling in rats on trace and delay fear conditioning, which are aversive learning tasks that rely predominantly on the hippocampus and amygdala, respectively. After memory retrieval, we analyzed the pattern of neural activity with Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos. We found that kindling had no effect on acquisition of the trace fear conditioning task but it did selectively impair retrieval of this fear memory. In contrast, kindling disrupted both acquisition and retrieval of fear memory in the delay fear conditioning task. We also found that kindling-induced impairments in memory retrieval were accompanied by decreased Fos expression in several subregions of the hippocampus, parahippocampus, and amygdala. Interestingly, decreased freezing in the trace conditioning task was significantly correlated with dampened Fos expression in hippocampal and parahippocampal regions whereas decreased freezing in the delay conditioning task was significantly correlated with dampened Fos expression in hippocampal, parahippocampal, and amygdaloid circuits. Overall, these results suggest that amygdala kindling promotes functional changes in brain regions involved in specific types of fear learning and memory.
Vasopressin (VP), oxytocin (OXT) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) in the brain modulate physiological and behavioral processes in many vertebrates. Day-active tree shrews, the closest relatives of primates, live singly or in pairs in territories that they defend vigorously against intruding conspecifics. However, anatomy concerning peptidergic neuron distribution in the tree shrew brain is less clear. Here, we examined the distribution of VP, OXT and VIP immunoreactivity in the hypothalamus and extrahypothalamic regions of tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri chinensis) using the immunohistochemical techniques. Most of VP and OXT immunoreactive (-ir) neurons were found in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the hypothalamus. In addition, VP-ir or OXT-ir neurons were scattered in the preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic areas, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, stria terminalis, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala. Interestingly, a high density of VP-ir fibers within the ventral lateral septum was observed in males but not in females. Both VP-ir and VIP-ir neurons were found in different subdivisions of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) with partial overlap. VIP-ir cells and fibers were also scattered in the cerebral cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus, amygdala and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. These findings provide a comprehensive description of VIP and a detailed mapping of VP and OXT in the hypothalamus and extrahypothalamic regions of tree shrews, which is an anatomical basis for the participation of these neuropeptides in the regulation of circadian behavior and social behavior.
An increasing body of experimental evidence demonstrates that the glutamatergic system is involved in the genesis of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID). Indeed, the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist amantadine is the only anti-dyskinetic compound used in patients, albeit with limited efficacy and side effects. In this study, we investigated the anti-dyskinetic properties of memantine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist in clinical use for the treatment of dementia, in the 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA)-lesion rat model of Parkinson's disease. For comparison, parallel experiments were also performed with amantadine. First, we investigated the acute effect of different doses of memantine (5, 10, 15 and 20mg/kg), and amantadine (10, 20, 40, 60mg/kg) on established dyskinesia induced by L-DOPA (6mg/kg plus benserazide). Results showed that both memantine and amantadine produced a significant reduction of LID. Afterward, drug-nave and L-DOPA-primed 6-OHDA-lesioned rats were sub-chronically treated with daily injections of L-DOPA (6mg/kg plus benserazide) alone, or in combination with the effective doses of memantine, while amantadine was tested in already dyskinetic rats. Results showed that memantine significantly dampened dyskinesia in both drug-nave and L-DOPA-primed rats, but only during the first few days of administration. In fact, the anti-dyskinetic effect of memantine was completely lost already at the fifth administration, indicating a rapid induction of tolerance. Interestingly, a 3-week washout period was not sufficient to restore the anti-dyskinetic effect of the drug. Similarly, amantadine was able to dampen already established dyskinesia only during the first day of administration. Moreover, memantine partially decreased the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA, as showed by the result of the stepping test. Finally, loss of the anti-dyskinetic effect of memantine was associated to increased synaptic GluN2A/GluN2B ratio at striatal synaptic membranes. Our results are in line with clinical observations suggesting that NMDA receptor blockade may only be transiently effective against LID in PD patients.
High molecular weight (HMW) glycosaminoglycanes of the extracellular matrix have been implicated in tissue repair. The aim of this study was to evaluate if small synthetic hyaluronan disaccharides with different degrees of sulfation (methyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-3-O-(-d-glucopyranosyluronic acid)-O-sulfo--d-glucopyranoside, sodium salt (di0S), methyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-3-O-(-d-glucopyranosyluronic acid)-6-di-O-sulfo--d-glucopyranoside, disodium salt (di6S) and methyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-3-O-(-d-glucopyranosyluronic acid)-4,6-di-O-sulfo--d-glucopyranoside, trisodium salt (di4,6S)) could improve cell survival in in vitro and in vivo brain ischemia-related models. Rat hippocampal slices subjected to oxygen and glucose deprivation and a photothrombotic stroke model in mice were used. The three hyaluran disaccharides, incubated during the oxygen and glucose deprivation (15min) and re-oxygenation periods (120min), reduced cell death of hippocampal slices measured as 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction, being the most potent di4,6S; in contrast, high molecular hyaluronan was ineffective. The protective actions of di4,6S against oxygen and glucose deprivation were related to activation of the PI3K/Akt survival pathway, reduction of p65 translocation to the nucleus, inhibition of inducible nitric oxide oxidase induction and reactive oxygen species production, and to an increase in glutathione levels. Administered 1h post-stroke, di4,6S reduced cerebral infarct size and improved motor activity in the beam walk test. In conclusion, di4,6S affords neuroprotection in in vitro and in vivo models of ischemic neuronal damage. Our results suggest that its neuroprotective effect could be exerted through its capability to reduce oxidative stress during ischemia. Its small molecular size makes it a more potential druggable drug to target the brain as compared with its HMW parent compound hyaluronan.
Vibrissal whisking is often employed to track facial nerve regeneration in rats; however, we have observed similar degrees of whisking recovery after facial nerve transection with or without repair. We hypothesized that the source of non-facial nerve-mediated whisker movement after chronic denervation was from autonomic, cholinergic axons traveling within the infraorbital branch of the trigeminal nerve (ION). Rats underwent unilateral facial nerve transection with repair (N=7) or resection without repair (N=11). Post-operative whisking amplitude was measured weekly across 10weeks, and during intraoperative stimulation of the ION and facial nerves at 18weeks. Whisking was also measured after subsequent ION transection (N=6) or pharmacologic blocking of the autonomic ganglia using hexamethonium (N=3), and after snout cooling intended to elicit a vasodilation reflex (N=3). Whisking recovered more quickly and with greater amplitude in rats that underwent facial nerve repair compared to resection (P&lt;0.05), but individual rats overlapped in whisking amplitude across both groups. In the resected rats, non-facial-nerve-mediated whisking was elicited by electrical stimulation of the ION, temporarily diminished following hexamethonium injection, abolished by transection of the ION, and rapidly and significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased by snout cooling. Moreover, fibrillation-related whisker movements decreased in all rats during the initial recovery period (indicative of reinnervation), but re-appeared in the resected rats after undergoing ION transection (indicative of motor denervation). Cholinergic, parasympathetic axons traveling within the ION innervate whisker pad vasculature, and immunohistochemistry for vasoactive intestinal peptide revealed these axons branching extensively over whisker pad muscles and contacting neuromuscular junctions after facial nerve resection. This study provides the first behavioral and anatomical evidence of spontaneous autonomic innervation of skeletal muscle after motor nerve lesion, which not only has implications for interpreting facial nerve reinnervation results, but also calls into question whether autonomic-mediated innervation of striated muscle occurs naturally in other forms of neuropathy.
Modifications of histone deacetylases (HDACs) may be involved in microglia-driven neuroinflammatory responses. Recent studies suggest that several inflammatory molecules can regulate the extent of neurodegeneration and regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). In the present study, we investigated the effects of HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) valproic acid (VPA) and sodium butyrate (NaBut) on the release of prostaglandins (PGs) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia. We found that VPA and NaBut significantly enhanced LPS-induced release of PGE2, PGD2 and 8-iso-PGF2. In addition, both compounds increased cyclooxygenase-2 and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase immunoreactivity and gene expression in LPS-stimulated microglia. Interestingly, treatment of activated microglia with HDACi also enhanced the gene expression and the release of different pro-inflammatory cytokines. Microglia activation with LPS leads to IB- degradation, as well as p38, ERK1/2 and JNK MAPKs phosphorylation and thus activation, which is not affected by treatment with VPA and NaBut. Furthermore, VPA and NaBut treatment induced histone acetylation at H3-K18 in microglia. We suggest that VPA and NaBut-driven increase in PGs release in LPS-activated microglia might be regulated at the transcriptional level and involves histone hyperacetylation. Our data demonstrate that VPA and NaBut are able to modulate microglia responses to inflammatory insults and thus possibly can regulate the CNS degenerative and regenerative processes.
Cortical fast spiking (FS) interneurons possess autaptic, synaptic, and electrical synapses that serve to mediate a fast, coordinated response to their postsynaptic targets. While FS interneurons are known to participate in numerous and diverse actions, functional subgroupings within this multi-functional interneuron class remain to be identified. In the present study, we examined parvalbumin-positive FS interneurons in layer 4 of the primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex - a brain region well-known for specialized inhibitory function. Here we show that FS interneurons fall into two broad categories identified by the onset of the first action potential in a depolarizing train as: &quot;delayed firing FS interneurons (FSD) and early onset firing FS interneurons (FSE). Subtle variations in action potential firing reveal six subtypes within these two categories: delayed non-accommodating (FSD-NAC), delayed stuttering (FSD-STUT), early onset stuttering (FSE-STUT), early onset-late spiking (FSE-LS), early onset early-spiking (FSE-ES), and early onset accommodating (FSE-AC). Using biophysical criteria previously employed to distinguish neuronal cell types, the FSD and FSE categories exhibit several shared biophysical and synaptic properties that coincide with the notion of specificity of inhibitory function within the cortical FS interneuron class.
The KCNJ10 gene which encodes an inwardly rectifying K(+) channel Kir4.1 subunit plays an essential role in the inner ear and hearing. Mutations or deficiency of KCNJ10 can cause hearing loss with EAST or SeSAME syndromes. This review mainly focuses on the expression and function of Kir4.1 potassium channels in the inner ear and hearing. We first introduce general information about inwardly rectifying potassium (Kir) channels. Then, we review the expression and function of Kir4.1 channels in the inner ear, especially in endocochlear potential (EP) generation. Finally, we review KCNJ10 mutation-induced hearing loss and functional impairments. Kir4.1 is strongly expressed on the apical membrane of intermediate cells in the stria vascularis and in the satellite cells of cochlear ganglia. Functionally, Kir4.1 has critical roles in cochlear development and hearing through two distinct aspects of extracellular K(+) homeostasis: First, it participates in the generation and maintenance of EP and high K(+) concentration in the endolymph inside the scala media. Second, Kir4.1 is the major K(+) channel in satellite glial cells surrounding spiral ganglion neurons to sink K(+) ions expelled by the ganglion neurons during excitation. Kir4.1 deficiency leads to hearing loss with the absence of EP and spiral ganglion neuron degeneration. Deafness mutants show loss-of-function and reduced channel membrane-targeting and currents, which can be rescued upon by co-expression with wild-type Kir4.1. This review provides insights for further understanding Kir potassium channel function in the inner ear and the pathogenesis of deafness due to KCNJ10 deficiency, and also provides insights for developing therapeutic strategies targeting this deafness.
Deliberation between possible options before making a decision is crucial to responding with an optimal choice. However, the neural mechanisms regulating this deliberative decision-making process are still unclear. Recent studies have proposed that the locus coeruleus-noradrenaline (LC-NA) system plays a role in attention, behavioral flexibility, and exploration, which contribute to the search for an optimal choice under uncertain situations. In the present study, we examined whether the LC-NA system relates to the deliberative process in a T-maze spatial decision-making task in rats. To quantify deliberation in rats, we recorded vicarious trial-and-error behavior (VTE), which is considered to reflect a deliberative process exploring optimal choices. In experiment 1, we manipulated the difficulty of choice by varying the amount of reward pellets between the two maze arms (0 vs. 4, 1 vs. 3, 2 vs. 2). A difficulty-dependent increase in VTE was accompanied by a reduction of choice bias toward the high reward arm and an increase in time required to select one of the two arms in the more difficult manipulation. In addition, the increase of c-Fos-positive NA neurons in the LC depended on the task difficulty and the amount of c-Fos expression in LC-NA neurons positively correlated with the occurrence of VTE. In experiment 2, we inhibited LC-NA activity by injection of clonidine, an agonist of the alpha2 autoreceptor, during a decision-making task (1 vs. 3). The clonidine injection suppressed occurrence of VTE in the early phase of the task and subsequently impaired a valuable choice later in the task. These results suggest that the LC-NA system regulates the deliberative process during decision-making.
Hyperactivity (increased spontaneous firing rates) following cochlear trauma and hearing loss has been well documented in the inferior colliculus (IC). This hyperactivity is associated with frequency regions in the IC that are closely related to regions of peripheral hearing loss. In other auditory nuclei, notably cochlear nucleus, hyperactivity has been shown to be more prevalent in particular cell types but this has not been investigated in the IC. Single-neuron spontaneous firing rates were recorded in the IC of animals after acoustic trauma (10-kHz tone at 124dB for 2h) and in sham surgery controls. Single-neuron recordings were made 2weeks later. Evoked responses to ipsi- and contralateral sound were used for classification. Classifications were based on peri-stimulus time histograms, input-output functions, frequency response areas and monaural/binaural responses. Results showed increased spontaneous firing rates in the IC following trauma, in regions corresponding to the frequencies at which there was peripheral hearing loss (12-20kHz). Most response categories, with the exception of cells showing an onset response classification, showed a significantly increased average spontaneous firing rate. These data suggest that hyperactivity in the IC is not confined to a particular response type in contrast to findings in the cochlear nucleus. This may be the result of factors intrinsic to the IC, or because of convergent input to the IC from a range of other auditory structures.
Throughout human history, economic bubbles have formed and burst. As a bubble grows, microeconomic behavior ceases to be constrained by realistic predictions. This contradicts the basic assumption of economics that agents have rational expectations. To examine the neural basis of behavior during bubbles, we performed functional magnetic resonance imaging while participants traded shares in a virtual stock exchange with two non-bubble stocks and one bubble stock. The price was largely deflected from the fair price in one of the non-bubble stocks, but not in the other. Their fair prices were specified. The price of the bubble stock showed a large increase and battering, as based on a real stock-market bust. The imaging results revealed modulation of the brain circuits that regulate trade behavior under different market conditions. The premotor cortex was activated only under a market condition in which the price was largely deflected from the fair price specified. During the bubble, brain regions associated with the cognitive processing that supports order decisions were identified. The asset preference that might bias the decision was associated with the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). The activity of the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) was correlated with the score of future time perspective, which would bias the estimation of future price. These regions were deemed to form a distinctive network during the bubble. A functional connectivity analysis showed that the connectivity between the DLPFC and the IPL was predominant compared with other connectivities only during the bubble. These findings indicate that uncertain and unstable market conditions changed brain modes in traders. These brain mechanisms might lead to a loss of control caused by wishful thinking, and to microeconomic bubbles that expand, on the macroscopic scale, toward bust.
Associative learning is encoded under anesthesia and involves the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Neuronal activity in mPFC increases in response to a conditioned stimulus (CS+) previously paired with an unconditioned stimulus (US) but not during presentation of an unpaired stimulus (CS-) in anesthetized animals. Studies in conscious animals have shown dissociable roles for different mPFC subregions in mediating various memory processes, with the prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) cortex involved in the retrieval and extinction of conditioned responding, respectively. Therefore PL and IL may also play different roles in mediating the retrieval and extinction of discrimination learning under anesthesia. Here we used in vivo electrophysiology to examine unit and local field potential (LFP) activity in PL and IL before and after auditory discrimination learning and during later retrieval and extinction testing in anesthetized rats. Animals received repeated presentations of two distinct sounds, one of which was paired with footshock (US). In separate control experiments animals received footshocks without sounds. After discrimination learning the paired (CS+) and unpaired (CS-) sounds were repeatedly presented alone. We found increased unit firing and LFP power in PL and, to a lesser extent, IL after discrimination learning but not after footshocks alone. After discrimination learning, unit firing and LFP power increased in PL and IL in response to presentation of the first CS+, compared to the first CS-. However, PL and IL activity increased during the last CS- presentation, such that activity during presentation of the last CS+ and CS- did not differ. These results confirm previous findings and extend them by showing that increased PL and IL activity result from encoding of the CS+/US association rather than US presentation. They also suggest that extinction may occur under anesthesia and might be represented at the neural level in PL and IL.
Adolescence is an important period for brain development. White matter growth is influenced by sex hormones such as testosterone, and the corpus callosum-the largest white matter structure in the human brain-may change structurally during the hormone-laden period of adolescence. Little is known about puberty's relationship to structural brain development, even though pubertal stage may better predict cognitive and behavioral maturity than chronological age. We therefore aimed to establish the presence and direction of pubertal effects on callosal anatomy. For this purpose, we applied advanced surface-based mesh-modeling to map correlations between callosal thickness and pubertal stage in a large and well-matched sample of 124 children and adolescents (62 female and 62 male) aged 5-18years from a normative database. When linking callosal anatomy to pubertal status, only positive correlations reached statistical significance, indicating that callosal growth advances with puberty. In tests of differences in callosal anatomy at different stages of puberty, callosal growth was concentrated in different locations depending on the pubertal stage. Changing levels of circulating sex hormones during different phases of puberty likely contributed to the observed effects, and further research is clearly needed. Direct quantification of sex hormone levels and regional fiber connectivity-ideally using fiber tractography-will reveal whether hormones are the main drivers of callosal change during puberty. These callosal findings may lead to hypotheses regarding cortical changes during puberty, which may promote or result from changes in inter-hemispheric connectivity.
We have previously shown expression of the protein doublecortin (DCX) in unipolar brush cells (UBCs) in the dorsal cochlear nucleus and vestibulocerebellum of the adult rat. We also saw DCX-immunoreactive elements with the appearance of neuroblasts around the fourth ventricle. Expression of DCX is seen in newborn and migrating neurons and hence considered a correlate of neurogenesis. There were two interpretations of the expression of DCX in UBCs. One possibility is that there might be adult neurogenesis of this cell population. Adult neurogenesis is now well-established, but only for the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the subventricular zone. The other possibility is that there is prolonged expression of DCX in adult UBCs that may signal a unique role in plasticity of these neurons. We tested the neurogenesis hypothesis by systemic injections of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), a thymidine analog, followed by immunohistochemistry to examine the numbers and locations of dividing cells. We used several different injection paradigms, varying the dose of BrdU, the number of injections and the survival time to assess the possibility of neuronal birth and migration. We saw BrdU-labeled cells in the cerebellum and brainstem; cell division in these regions was confirmed by immunohistochemistry for the protein Ki67. However, neither the numbers nor the distribution of labeled nuclei support the idea of adult neurogenesis and migration of UBCs. The function of DCX expression in UBC's in the adult remains to be understood.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a psychiatric illness characterized by restricted eating and an intense fear of gaining weight. Most individuals with AN are females, diagnosed first during adolescence, 40-80% of whom exhibit excessive exercise, and an equally high number with a history of anxiety disorder. We sought to determine the cellular basis for individual differences in AN vulnerability by using an animal model, activity-based anorexia (ABA), that is induced by combining food restriction (FR) with access to a running wheel that allows voluntary exercise. Previously, we showed that by the fourth day of FR, the ABA group of adolescent female rats exhibit &gt;500% greater levels of non-synaptic 4-GABAARs at the plasma membrane of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell spines, relative to the levels found in age-matched controls that are not FR and without wheel access. Here, we show that the ABA group exhibits individual differences in body weight loss, with some losing nearly 30%, while others lose only 15%. The individual differences in weight loss are ascribable to individual differences in wheel activity that both precedes and concurs with days of FR. Moreover, the increase in activity during FR correlates strongly and negatively with 4-GABAAR levels (R=-0.9, p&lt;0.01). This negative correlation is evident within 2days of FR, before body weight loss approaches life-threatening levels for any individual. These findings suggest that increased shunting inhibition by 4-GABAARs in spines of CA1 pyramidal neurons may participate in the protection against the ABA-inducing environmental factors of severe weight loss by suppressing excitability of the CA1 pyramidal neurons which, in turn, is related indirectly to suppression of excessive exercise. The data also indicate that, although exercise has many health benefits, it can be maladaptive to individuals with low levels of 4-GABAARs in the CA1, particularly when combined with FR.







Fatty and fibrous connective tissue formation is a hallmark of diseased skeletal muscle and deteriorates muscle function. We previously identified non-myogenic mesenchymal progenitors that contribute to adipogenesis and fibrogenesis in mouse skeletal muscle. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of a human counterpart to these progenitors. By using PDGFR as a specific marker, mesenchymal progenitors can be identified in the interstitium and isolated from human skeletal muscle. PDGFR(+) cells represent a cell population distinct from CD56(+) myogenic cells, and adipogenic and fibrogenic potentials were highly enriched in the PDGFR(+) population. Activation of PDGFR stimulates proliferation of PDGFR(+) cells through PI3K-Akt and MEK2-MAPK signaling pathways, and aberrant accumulation of PDGFR(+) cells was conspicuous in muscles of patients with both genetic and non-genetic muscle diseases. Our results revealed the pathological relevance of PDGFR(+) mesenchymal progenitors to human muscle diseases and provide a basis for developing therapeutic strategy to treat muscle diseases.
Ischemia-induced cell death is a major cause of disability or death after stroke. Identifying the key intrinsic protective mechanisms induced by ischemia is critical for the development of effective stroke treatment. Here, we reported that 14-3-3 was a selective ischemia-inducible survival factor in cerebral cortical neurons reducing cell death by downregulating Bax depend direct 14-3-3/p--catenin Ser37 interactions in the nucleus. 14-3-3, but not other 14-3-3 isoforms, was upregulated in primary cerebral cortical neurons upon oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) as measured by quantitative PCR, western blot and fluorescent immunostaining. The selective induction of 14-3-3 in cortical neurons by OGD was verified by the in vivo ischemic stroke model. Knocking down 14-3-3 alone or inhibiting 14-3-3/client interactions was sufficient to induce cell death in normal cultured neurons and exacerbate OGD-induced neuronal death. Ectopic overexpression of 14-3-3 significantly reduced OGD-induced cell death in cultured neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation and fluorescence resonance energy transfer demonstrated that endogenous 14-3-3 bound directly to more p--catenin Ser37 but not p-Bad, p-Ask-1, p-p53 and Bax. During OGD, p--catenin Ser37 but not p--catenin Ser45 was increased prominently, which correlated with Bax elevation in cortical neurons. OGD promoted the entry of 14-3-3 into the nuclei, in correlation with the increase of nuclear p--catenin Ser37 in neurons. Overexpression of 14-3-3 significantly reduced Bax expression, whereas knockdown of 14-3-3 increased Bax in cortical neurons. Abolishing -catenin phosphorylation at Ser37 (S37A) significantly reduced Bax and cell death in neurons upon OGD. Finally, 14-3-3 overexpression completely suppressed -catenin-enhanced Bax and cell death in neurons upon OGD. Based on these data, we propose that the 14-3-3/p--catenin Ser37/Bax axis determines cell survival or death of neurons during ischemia, providing novel therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke as well as other related neurological diseases.
The mitochondrial chaperone mortalin was implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) because of its reduced levels in the brains of PD patients and disease-associated rare genetic variants that failed to rescue impaired mitochondrial integrity in cellular knockdown models. To uncover the molecular mechanisms underlying mortalin-related neurodegeneration, we dissected the cellular surveillance mechanisms related to mitochondrial quality control, defined the effects of reduced mortalin function at the molecular and cellular levels and investigated the functional interaction of mortalin with Parkin and PINK1, two PD-related proteins involved in mitochondrial homeostasis. We found that reduced mortalin function leads to: (1) activation of the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPR(mt)), (2) increased susceptibility towards intramitochondrial proteolytic stress, (3) increased autophagic degradation of fragmented mitochondria and (4) reduced mitochondrial mass in human cells in vitro and ex vivo. These alterations caused increased vulnerability toward apoptotic cell death. Proteotoxic perturbations induced by either partial loss of mortalin or chemical induction were rescued by complementation with native mortalin, but not disease-associated mortalin variants, and were independent of the integrity of autophagic pathways. However, Parkin and PINK1 rescued loss of mortalin phenotypes via increased lysosomal-mediated mitochondrial clearance and required intact autophagic machinery. Our results on loss of mortalin function reveal a direct link between impaired mitochondrial proteostasis, UPR(mt) and PD and show that effective removal of dysfunctional mitochondria via either genetic (PINK1 and Parkin overexpression) or pharmacological intervention (rapamycin) may compensate mitochondrial phenotypes.
Many mitotic kinases are both critical for maintaining genome stability and are important targets for anticancer therapies. We provide evidence that SIK3 (salt-inducible kinase 3), an AMP-activated protein kinase-related kinase, is important for mitosis to occur properly in mammalian cells. Downregulation of SIK3 resulted in an extension of mitosis in both mouse and human cells but did not affect the DNA damage checkpoint. Time-lapse microscopy and other approaches indicated that mitotic exit but not mitotic entry was delayed. Although repression of SIK3 alone simply delayed mitotic exit, it was able to sensitize cells to various antimitotic chemicals. Both mitotic arrest and cell death caused by spindle poisons were enhanced after SIK3 depletion. Likewise, the antimitotic effects due to pharmacological inhibition of mitotic kinases including Aurora A, Aurora B, and polo-like kinase 1 were enhanced in the absence of SIK3. Finally, in addition to promoting the sensitivity of a small-molecule inhibitor of the mitotic kinesin Eg5, SIK3 depletion was able to overcome cells that developed drug resistance. These results establish the importance of SIK3 as a mitotic regulator and underscore the potential of SIK3 as a druggable antimitotic target.




Connexin40 (Cx40) is the main connexin expressed in the murine atria and ventricular conduction system. We assess here the developmental role of Cx40 in atrial conduction of the mouse. Cx40 deficiency significantly prolonged activation times in embryonic day 10.5, 12.5 and 14.5 atria during spontaneous activation; the severity decreased with increasing age. In a majority of Cx40 deficient mice the impulse originated from an ectopic focus in the right atrial appendage; in such a case the activation time was even longer due to prolonged activation. Cx40 has thus an important physiological role in the developing atria.
The gap junction family of proteins is widely expressed in mammalian cells and form intercellular channels between adjacent cells, as well as hemichannels, for transport of molecules between the cell and the surrounding environment. In addition, gap junction proteins have recently been implicated as important for the regulation of cell adhesion and migration in a variety of cell types. The gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) regulates B lymphocyte adhesion, BCR- and LFA-1-mediated activation of the GTPase Rap1, and cytoskeletal rearrangements resulting in changes to cell shape and membrane spreading. We demonstrate here that the actin cytoskeleton is important for the distribution of Cx43 in the B cell plasma membrane and for other cell processes involving the cytoskeleton. Using shRNA knockdown of Cx43 in B lymphoma cells we show that Cx43 is also necessary for chemokine-mediated Rap 1 activation, motility, CXCL12-directed migration, and movement across an endothelial cell monolayer. These results demonstrate that in addition to its role in B cell spreading, Cx43 is an important regulator of B-cell motility and migration, processes essential for normal B-cell development and immune responses.
Intracellular Ca(2+) activated calmodulin (CaM) inhibits gap junction channels in the low nanomolar to high micromolar range of [Ca(2+)]i. This regulation plays an essential role in numerous cellular processes that include hearing, lens transparency, and synchronized contractions of the heart. Previous studies have indicated that gap junction mediated cell-to-cell communication was inhibited by CaM antagonists. More recent evidence indicates a direct role of CaM in regulating several members of the connexin family. Since the intracellular loop and carboxyl termini of connexins are largely &quot;invisible&quot; in electron microscopy and X-ray crystallographic structures due to disorder in these domains, peptide models encompassing the putative CaM binding sites of several intracellular domains of connexins have been used to identify the Ca(2+)-dependent CaM binding sites of these proteins. This approach has been used to determine the CaM binding affinities of peptides derived from a number of different connexin-subfamilies.












Trisomy 21 is the most frequent genetic cause of cognitive impairment. To assess the perturbations of gene expression in trisomy 21, and to eliminate the noise of genomic variability, we studied the transcriptome of fetal fibroblasts from a pair of monozygotic twins discordant for trisomy 21. Here we show that the differential expression between the twins is organized in domains along all chromosomes that are either upregulated or downregulated. These gene expression dysregulation domains (GEDDs) can be defined by the expression level of their gene content, and are well conserved in induced pluripotent stem cells derived from the twins' fibroblasts. Comparison of the transcriptome of the Ts65Dn mouse model of Down's syndrome and normal littermate mouse fibroblasts also showed GEDDs along the mouse chromosomes that were syntenic in human. The GEDDs correlate with the lamina-associated (LADs) and replication domains of mammalian cells. The overall position of LADs was not altered in trisomic cells; however, the H3K4me3 profile of the trisomic fibroblasts was modified and accurately followed the GEDD pattern. These results indicate that the nuclear compartments of trisomic cells undergo modifications of the chromatin environment influencing the overall transcriptome, and that GEDDs may therefore contribute to some trisomy 21 phenotypes.
The precision of skilled forelimb movement has long been presumed to rely on rapid feedback corrections triggered by internally directed copies of outgoing motor commands, but the functional relevance of inferred internal copy circuits has remained unclear. One class of spinal interneurons implicated in the control of mammalian forelimb movement, cervical propriospinal neurons (PNs), has the potential to convey an internal copy of premotor signals through dual innervation of forelimb-innervating motor neurons and precerebellar neurons of the lateral reticular nucleus. Here we examine whether the PN internal copy pathway functions in the control of goal-directed reaching. In mice, PNs include a genetically accessible subpopulation of cervical V2a interneurons, and their targeted ablation perturbs reaching while leaving intact other elements of forelimb movement. Moreover, optogenetic activation of the PN internal copy branch recruits a rapid cerebellar feedback loop that modulates forelimb motor neuron activity and severely disrupts reaching kinematics. Our findings implicate V2a PNs as the focus of an internal copy pathway assigned to the rapid updating of motor output during reaching behaviour.
Chronic neurodegenerative diseases represent major unmet needs for therapeutic interventions. Recently, the neurocentric view of brain function and disease has been challenged by a great number of evidence supporting the physiopathological potential of neuroglia. Astrocytes, in particular, play a pivotal role in brain homeostasis as they actively participate in neuronal metabolism, synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. Furthermore, they are intrinsic components of brain responses to toxic and traumatic insults through complex processes involving several molecular and functional alterations that may lead to disruption of brain homeostasis and connectivity. This review provides a brief overview of current knowledge of astrocyte functions in the brain, and focuses on some glial-specific pathways involved in astrocytic dysfunction that might be effective therapeutic targets for clinical management of neurodegenerative disorders.
Astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis accompany most of the pathologies in the brain, spinal cord, and retina. Reactive gliosis has been described as constitutive, graded, multi-stage, and evolutionary conserved defensive astroglial reaction [Verkhratsky and Butt (2013) In: Glial Physiology and Pathophysiology]. A well- known feature of astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis are the increased production of intermediate filament proteins (also known as nanofilament proteins) and remodeling of the intermediate filament system of astrocytes. Activation of astrocytes is associated with changes in the expression of many genes and characteristic morphological hallmarks, and has important functional consequences in situations such as stroke, trauma, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and other neurodegenerative diseases. The impact of astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis on the pathogenesis of different neurological disorders is not yet fully understood but the available experimental evidence points to many beneficial aspects of astrocyte activation and reactive gliosis that range from isolation and sequestration of the affected region of the central nervous system (CNS) from the neighboring tissue that limits the lesion size to active neuroprotection and regulation of the CNS homeostasis in times of acute ischemic, osmotic, or other kinds of stress. The available experimental data from selected CNS pathologies suggest that if not resolved in time, reactive gliosis can exert inhibitory effects on several aspects of neuroplasticity and CNS regeneration and thus might become a target for future therapeutic interventions.
Neuroinflammation can lead to either damage of astrocytes or astrogliosis. Astrocyte loss may be caused by cytotoxic T cells as seen in Rasmussen encephalitis, auto-antibodies such as in neuromyelitis optica (aquaporin-4 antibodies), or cytokines such as TNF- in major depressive disorder. Interleukins-1 and -6 appear to be important molecular mediators of astrogliosis. Chronic focal lesions in multiple sclerosis are characterized by a very dense astrogliosis. Other mechanisms, such as astrocytic 2 adrenergic receptor deficiency, upregulation of endothelin-1 and tissue transglutaminase, may contribute to astroglial scarring in multiple sclerosis.


Diazepam (Valium) is among the most successful drugs from the onset of the psychopharmacological revolution that began during the 1950s. Efficacious in treating a wide-spectrum of CNS disorders, including anxiety and epilepsy, it set the standard for pharmacotherapy in terms of potency, onset of action, and safety. In this Review, the legacy of diazepam to chemical neuroscience will be considered along with its synthesis, pharmacology, drug metabolism, adverse events and dependence, clinical use, and regulatory issues.
A common metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5) allosteric site is known to accommodate diverse chemotypes. However, the structural relationship between compounds from different scaffolds and mGlu5 is not well understood. In an effort to better understand the molecular determinants that govern allosteric modulator interactions with mGlu5, we employed a combination of site-directed mutagenesis and computational modeling. With few exceptions, six residues (P654, Y658, T780, W784, S808, and A809) were identified as key affinity determinants across all seven allosteric modulator scaffolds. To improve our interpretation of how diverse allosteric modulators occupy the common allosteric site, we sampled the wealth of mGlu5 structure-activity relationship (SAR) data available by docking 60 ligands (actives and inactives) representing seven chemical scaffolds into our mGlu5 comparative model. To spatially and chemically compare binding modes of ligands from diverse scaffolds, the ChargeRMSD measure was developed. We found a common binding mode for the modulators that placed the long axes of the ligands parallel to the transmembrane helices 3 and 7. W784 in TM6 not only was identified as a key NAM cooperativity determinant across multiple scaffolds, but also caused a NAM to PAM switch for two different scaffolds. Moreover, a single point mutation in TM5, G747V, altered the architecture of the common allosteric site such that 4-nitro-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamide (VU29) was noncompetitive with the common allosteric site. Our findings highlight the subtleties of allosteric modulator binding to mGlu5 and demonstrate the utility in incorporating SAR information to strengthen the interpretation and analyses of docking and mutational data.



It is reported that circulating testosterone levels decrease after cerebral ischemia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of testosterone on oxidative stress, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, neurogenesis, histological damage and sensorimotor recovery in a castrated male rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. Animals were divided into four groups. For all animals, castrations were conducted 7 days before transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was done and cerebral ischemia was induced. The first group served as sham. Second was MCAO group and received vehicle only, third was MCAO group that was post-treated with testosterone and the fourth was MCAO group post-treated with testosterone and flutamide. Treatment only with testosterone significantly weakened oxidative stress and increased BDNF levels and sensorimotor recovery during a 10 days period. Rats receiving testosterone demonstrated a significant reduction in infarct volume and a significant increase in neurogenesis on 10th day after focal cerebral ischemia. Our results for the first time showed a potential advantageous effect of testosterone after cerebral ischemia in male rats, which was probably mediated by promoting antioxidant defenses, BDNF levels and neurogenesis.





Synaptic vesicle recycling is one of the best-studied cellular pathways. Many of the proteins involved are known, and their interactions are becoming increasingly clear. However, as for many other pathways, it is still difficult to understand synaptic vesicle recycling as a whole. While it is generally possible to point out how synaptic reactions take place, it is not always easy to understand what triggers or controls them. Also, it is often difficult to understand how the availability of the reaction partners is controlled: how the reaction partners manage to find each other in the right place, at the right time. I present here an overview of synaptic vesicle recycling, discussing the mechanisms that trigger different reactions, and those that ensure the availability of reaction partners. A central argument is that synaptic vesicles bind soluble cofactor proteins, with low affinity, and thus control their availability in the synapse, forming a buffer for cofactor proteins. The availability of cofactor proteins, in turn, regulates the different synaptic reactions. Similar mechanisms, in which one of the reaction partners buffers another, may apply to many other processes, from the biogenesis to the degradation of the synaptic vesicle.
NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDAR) are central actors in the plasticity of excitatory synapses. During adaptive processes, the number and composition of synaptic NMDAR can be rapidly modified, as in neonatal hippocampal synapses where a switch from predominant GluN2B- to GluN2A-containing receptors is observed after the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). However, the cellular pathways by which surface NMDAR subtypes are dynamically regulated during activity-dependent synaptic adaptations remain poorly understood. Using a combination of high-resolution single nanoparticle imaging and electrophysiology, we show here that GluN2B-NMDAR are dynamically redistributed away from glutamate synapses through increased lateral diffusion during LTP in immature neurons. Strikingly, preventing this activity-dependent GluN2B-NMDAR surface redistribution through cross-linking, either with commercial or with autoimmune anti-NMDA antibodies from patient with neuropsychiatric symptoms, affects the dynamics and spine accumulation of CaMKII and impairs LTP. Interestingly, the same impairments are observed when expressing a mutant of GluN2B-NMDAR unable to bind CaMKII. We thus uncover a non-canonical mechanism by which GluN2B-NMDAR surface dynamics plays a critical role in the plasticity of maturing synapses through a direct interplay with CaMKII.






Neurons are extremely vulnerable cells that tightly rely on the brain's highly dynamic and complex vascular network that assures an accurate and adequate distribution of nutrients and oxygen. The neurovascular unit (NVU) couples neuronal activity to vascular function, controls brain homeostasis, and maintains an optimal brain microenvironment adequate for neuronal survival by adjusting blood-brain barrier (BBB) parameters based on brain needs. The NVU is a heterogeneous structure constituted by different cell types that includes pericytes. Pericytes are localized at the abluminal side of brain microvessels and contribute to NVU function. Pericytes play essential roles in the development and maturation of the neurovascular system during embryogenesis and stability during adulthood. Initially, pericytes were described as contractile cells involved in controlling neurovascular tone. However, recent reports have shown that pericytes dynamically respond to stress induced by injury upon brain diseases, by chemically and physically communicating with neighboring cells, by their immune properties and by their potential pluripotent nature within the neurovascular niche. As such, in this paper, we would like to review the role of pericytes in NVU remodeling, and their potential as targets for NVU repair strategies and consequently neuroprotection in two pathophysiologically distinct brain disorders: ischemic stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD).







In quadrupeds, the most critical aspect of postural control during locomotion is lateral stability. However, neural mechanisms underlying lateral stability are poorly understood. Here, we studied lateral stability in decerebrate cats walking on a treadmill with their hindlimbs. Two destabilizing factors were used: a brief lateral push of the cat and a sustained lateral tilt of the treadmill. It was found that the push caused considerable trunk bending and twisting, as well as changes in the stepping pattern, but did not lead to falling. Due to postural reactions, locomotion with normal body configuration was restored in a few steps. It was also found that the decerebrate cat could keep balance during locomotion on the laterally tilted treadmill. This postural adaptation was based on the transformation of the symmetrical locomotor pattern into an asymmetrical one, with different functional lengths of the right and left limbs. Then, we analyzed limb and trunk neural mechanisms contributing to postural control during locomotion. It was found that one of the limb mechanisms operates in the transfer phase and secures a standard (relative to the trunk) position for limb landing. Two other limb mechanisms operate in the stance phase; they counteract distortions of the locomotor pattern by regulating the limb stiffness. The trunk configuration mechanism controls the body shape on the basis of sensory information coming from trunk afferents. We suggest that postural reactions generated by these four mechanisms are integrated, thus forming a response of the whole system to perturbation of balance during locomotion.
Slow oscillation is the main brain rhythm observed during deep sleep in mammals. Although several studies have demonstrated its neocortical origin, the extent of the thalamic contribution is still a matter of discussion. Using electrophysiological recordings in vivo on cats and computational modeling, we found that the local thalamic inactivation or the complete isolation of the neocortical slabs maintained within the brain dramatically reduced the expression of slow and fast oscillations in affected cortical areas. The slow oscillation began to recover 12 h after thalamic inactivation. The slow oscillation, but not faster activities, nearly recovered after 30 h and persisted for weeks in the isolated slabs. We also observed an increase of the membrane potential fluctuations recorded in vivo several hours after thalamic inactivation. Mimicking this enhancement in a network computational model with an increased postsynaptic activity of long-range intracortical afferents or scaling K(+) leak current, but not several other Na(+) and K(+) intrinsic currents was sufficient for recovering the slow oscillation. We conclude that, in the intact brain, the thalamus contributes to the generation of cortical active states of the slow oscillation and mediates its large-scale synchronization. Our study also suggests that the deafferentation-induced alterations of the sleep slow oscillation can be counteracted by compensatory intracortical mechanisms and that the sleep slow oscillation is a fundamental and intrinsic state of the neocortex.
A basic EEG feature upon voluntary movements in healthy human subjects is a  (13-30 Hz) band desynchronization followed by a postmovement event-related synchronization (ERS) over contralateral sensorimotor cortex. The functional implications of these changes remain unclear. We hypothesized that, because  ERS follows movement, it may reflect the degree of error in that movement, and the salience of that error to the task at hand. As such, the signal might underpin trial-to-trial modifications of the internal model that informs future movements. To test this hypothesis, EEG was recorded in healthy subjects while they moved a joystick-controlled cursor to visual targets on a computer screen, with different rotational perturbations applied between the joystick and cursor. We observed consistently lower  ERS in trials with large error, even when other possible motor confounds, such as reaction time, movement duration, and path length, were controlled, regardless of whether the perturbation was random or constant. There was a negative trial-to-trial correlation between the size of the absolute initial angular error and the amplitude of the  ERS, and this negative correlation was enhanced when other contextual information about the behavioral salience of the angular error, namely, the bias and variance of errors in previous trials, was additionally considered. These same features also had an impact on the behavioral performance. The findings suggest that the  ERS reflects neural processes that evaluate motor error and do so in the context of the prior history of errors.
Reducing the enduring vulnerability to relapse is a therapeutic goal in treating drug addiction. Studies with animal models of drug addiction show a marked increase in extrasynaptic glutamate in the core subcompartment of the nucleus accumbens (NAcore) during reinstated drug seeking. However, the synaptic mechanisms linking drug-induced changes in extrasynaptic glutamate to relapse are poorly understood. Here, we discovered impaired glutamate elimination in rats extinguished from heroin self-administration that leads to spillover of synaptically released glutamate into the nonsynaptic extracellular space in NAcore and investigated whether restoration of glutamate transport prevented reinstated heroin seeking. Through multiple functional assays of glutamate uptake and analyzing NMDA receptor-mediated currents, we show that heroin self-administration produced long-lasting downregulation of glutamate uptake and surface expression of the transporter GLT-1. This downregulation was associated with spillover of synaptic glutamate to extrasynaptic NMDA receptors within the NAcore. Ceftriaxone restored glutamate uptake and prevented synaptic glutamate spillover and cue-induced heroin seeking. Ceftriaxone-induced inhibition of reinstated heroin seeking was blocked by morpholino-antisense targeting GLT-1 synthesis. These data reveal that the synaptic glutamate spillover in the NAcore results from reduced glutamate transport and is a critical pathophysiological mechanism underling reinstated drug seeking in rats extinguished from heroin self-administration.
Searching for a visual object naturally involves sequences of gaze fixations, during which the current foveal image is analyzed and the next object to inspect is selected as a saccade target. Fixation durations during such sequences are short, suggesting that saccades may be concurrently processed. Therefore, the selection of the next saccade target may occur before the current saccade target is acquired. To test this hypothesis, we trained four female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to perform a multiple-fixation visual conjunction search task. We simultaneously recorded the activity of sensorimotor neurons in the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) in two monkeys. In this task, monkeys made multiple fixations before foveating the target. Fixation durations were significantly shorter than the latency of the initial responses to the search display, with approximately one-quarter being shorter than the shortest response latencies. The time at which SC sensorimotor activity discriminated the target from distracters occurred significantly earlier for the selection of subsequent fixations than for the selection of the first fixation. Target selection during subsequent fixations occurred even before the visual afferent delay in more than half of the neuronal sample, suggesting that the process of selection can encompass at least two future saccade targets. This predictive selection was present even when differences in saccade latencies were taken into account. Altogether, these findings demonstrate how neural representations on the visual salience map are processed in parallel, thus facilitating visual search.
Combining transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and electroencephalography (EEG) constitutes a powerful tool to directly assess human cortical excitability and connectivity. TMS of the primary motor cortex elicits a sequence of TMS-evoked EEG potentials (TEPs). It is thought that inhibitory neurotransmission through GABA-A receptors (GABAAR) modulates early TEPs (&lt;50 ms after TMS), whereas GABA-B receptors (GABABR) play a role for later TEPs (at 100 ms after TMS). However, the physiological underpinnings of TEPs have not been clearly elucidated yet. Here, we studied the role of GABAA/B-ergic neurotransmission for TEPs in healthy subjects using a pharmaco-TMS-EEG approach. In Experiment 1, we tested the effects of a single oral dose of alprazolam (a classical benzodiazepine acting as allosteric-positive modulator at 1, 2, 3, and 5 subunit-containing GABAARs) and zolpidem (a positive modulator mainly at the 1 GABAAR) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. In Experiment 2, we tested the influence of baclofen (a GABABR agonist) and diazepam (a classical benzodiazepine) versus placebo on TEPs. Alprazolam and diazepam increased the amplitude of the negative potential at 45 ms after stimulation (N45) and decreased the negative component at 100 ms (N100), whereas zolpidem increased the N45 only. In contrast, baclofen specifically increased the N100 amplitude. These results provide strong evidence that the N45 represents activity of 1-subunit-containing GABAARs, whereas the N100 represents activity of GABABRs. Findings open a novel window of opportunity to study alteration of GABAA-/GABAB-related inhibition in disorders, such as epilepsy or schizophrenia.
Humans typically discount future gains more than losses. This phenomenon is referred to as the &quot;sign effect&quot; in experimental and behavioral economics. Although recent studies have reported associations between the sign effect and important social problems, such as obesity and incurring multiple debts, the biological basis for this phenomenon remains poorly understood. Here, we hypothesized that enhanced loss-related neural processing in magnitude and/or delay representation are causes of the sign effect. We examined participants performing intertemporal choice tasks involving future gains or losses and compared the brain activity of those who exhibited the sign effect and those who did not. When predicting future losses, significant differences were apparent between the two participant groups in terms of striatal activity representing delay length and in insular activity representing sensitivity to magnitude. Furthermore, participants with the sign effect exhibited a greater insular response to the magnitude of loss than to that of gain, and also a greater striatal response to the delay of loss than to that of gain. These findings may provide a new biological perspective for the development of novel treatments and preventive measures for social problems associated with the sign effect.
Generalization, the brain's ability to transfer motor learning from one context to another, occurs in a wide range of complex behaviors. However, the rules of generalization in vocal behavior are poorly understood, and it is unknown how vocal learning generalizes across an animal's entire repertoire of natural vocalizations and sequences. Here, we asked whether generalization occurs in a nonhuman vocal learner and quantified its properties. We hypothesized that adaptive error correction of a vocal gesture produced in one sequence would generalize to the same gesture produced in other sequences. To test our hypothesis, we manipulated the fundamental frequency (pitch) of auditory feedback in Bengalese finches (Lonchura striata var. domestica) to create sensory errors during vocal gestures (song syllables) produced in particular sequences. As hypothesized, error-corrective learning on pitch-shifted vocal gestures generalized to the same gestures produced in other sequential contexts. Surprisingly, generalization magnitude depended strongly on sequential distance from the pitch-shifted syllables, with greater adaptation for gestures produced near to the pitch-shifted syllable. A further unexpected result was that nonshifted syllables changed their pitch in the direction opposite from the shifted syllables. This apparently antiadaptive pattern of generalization could not be explained by correlations between generalization and the acoustic similarity to the pitch-shifted syllable. These findings therefore suggest that generalization depends on the type of vocal gesture and its sequential context relative to other gestures and may reflect an advantageous strategy for vocal learning and maintenance.
Resting state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI) may provide a powerful and noninvasive &quot;bridge&quot; for comparing brain function between patients and experimental animal models; however, the relationship between human and macaque rs-fcMRI remains poorly understood. Here, using a novel surface deformation process for species comparisons in the same anatomical space (Van Essen, 2004, 2005), we found high correspondence, but also unique hub topology, between human and macaque functional connectomes. The global functional connectivity match between species was moderate to strong (r = 0.41) and increased when considering the top 15% strongest connections (r = 0.54). Analysis of the match between functional connectivity and the underlying anatomical connectivity, derived from a previous retrograde tracer study done in macaques (Markov et al., 2012), showed impressive structure-function correspondence in both the macaque and human. When examining the strongest structural connections, we found a 70-80% match between structural and functional connectivity matrices in both species. Finally, we compare species on two widely used metrics for studying hub topology: degree and betweenness centrality. The data showed topological agreement across the species, with nodes of the posterior cingulate showing high degree and betweenness centrality. In contrast, nodes in medial frontal and parietal cortices were identified as having high degree and betweenness in the human as opposed to the macaque. Our results provide: (1) a thorough examination and validation for a surface-based interspecies deformation process, (2) a strong theoretical foundation for making interspecies comparisons of rs-fcMRI, and (3) a unique look at topological distinctions between the species.
In the primary visual cortex (V1), Simple and Complex receptive fields (RFs) are usually characterized on the basis of the linearity of the cell spiking response to stimuli of opposite contrast. Whether or not this classification reflects a functional dichotomy in the synaptic inputs to Simple and Complex cells is still an open issue. Here we combined intracellular membrane potential recordings in cat V1 with 2D dense noise stimulation to decompose the Simple-like and Complex-like components of the subthreshold RF into a parallel set of functionally distinct subunits. Results show that both Simple and Complex RFs exhibit a remarkable diversity of excitatory and inhibitory Complex-like contributions, which differ in orientation and spatial frequency selectivity from the linear RF, even in layer 4 and layer 6 Simple cells. We further show that the diversity of Complex-like contributions recovered at the subthreshold level is expressed in the cell spiking output. These results demonstrate that the Simple or Complex nature of V1 RFs does not rely on the diversity of Complex-like components received by the cell from its synaptic afferents but on the imbalance between the weights of the Simple-like and Complex-like synaptic contributions.
Tip links between adjacent stereocilia are believed to gate mechano-electrical transducer (MET) channels and mediate the electrical responses of sensory hair cells. We found that mouse auditory hair cells that lack tip links due to genetic mutations or exposure to the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA can, however, still respond to mechanical stimuli. These MET currents have unusual properties and are predominantly of the opposite polarity relative to those measured when tip links are present. There are other striking differences, for example, the channels are usually all closed when the hair cell is not stimulated and the currents in response to strong stimuli can be substantially larger than normal. These anomalous MET currents can also be elicited early in development, before the onset of mechano-electrical transduction with normal response polarity. Current-voltage curves of the anomalous MET currents are linear and do not show the rectification characteristic of normal MET currents. The permeant MET channel blocker dihydrostreptomycin is two orders of magnitude less effective in blocking the anomalous MET currents. The findings suggest the presence of a large population of MET channels with pore properties that are distinct from those of normal MET channels. These channels are not gated by hair-bundle links and can be activated under a variety of conditions in which normal tip-link-mediated transduction is not operational.
The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARH) is a brain region critical for regulation of food intake and a primary area for the action of leptin in the CNS. In lean mice, the adipokine leptin inhibits neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neuronal activity, resulting in decreased food intake. Here we show that diet-induced obesity in mice is associated with persistent activation of NPY neurons and a failure of leptin to reduce the firing rate or hyperpolarize the resting membrane potential. However, the molecular mechanism whereby diet uncouples leptin's effect on neuronal excitability remains to be fully elucidated. In NPY neurons from lean mice, the Kv channel blocker 4-aminopyridine inhibited leptin-induced changes in input resistance and spike rate. Consistent with this, we found that ARH NPY neurons have a large, leptin-sensitive delayed rectifier K(+) current and that leptin sensitivity of this current is blunted in neurons from diet-induced obese mice. This current is primarily carried by Kv2-containing channels, as the Kv2 channel inhibitor stromatoxin-1 significantly increased the spontaneous firing rate in NPY neurons from lean mice. In HEK cells, leptin induced a significant hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of Kv2.1 but had no effect on the function of the closely related channel Kv2.2 when these channels were coexpressed with the long isoform of the leptin receptor LepRb. Our results suggest that dynamic modulation of somatic Kv2.1 channels regulates the intrinsic excitability of NPY neurons to modulate the spontaneous activity and the integration of synaptic input onto these neurons in the ARH.
The ability to generate behaviorally appropriate cortical network states is central to sensory perception and plasticity, but little is known about the timing and mechanisms of their development. I paired intracellular and extracellular recordings in the visual cortex of awake infant rats to determine the synaptic and circuit mechanisms regulating the development of a key network state, the persistent and stable subthreshold membrane potential (Vm) depolarization associated with wakefulness/alertness in cortical networks, called the &quot;desynchronized&quot; or &quot;activated&quot; state. Current-clamp recordings reveal that the desynchronized state is absent during the first 2 postnatal weeks, despite behavioral wakefulness. During this period, Vm remains at the resting membrane potential &gt;80% of the time, regardless of behavioral state. Vm dynamics during spontaneous or light-evoked activity were highly variable, contained long-duration supratheshold plateau potentials, and high spike probability, suggesting an unstable and hyperexcitable early cortical network. Voltage-clamp recordings reveal that effective feedforward inhibition is absent at these early ages despite the presence of feedback inhibition. Stable membrane depolarization during wakefulness finally emerges 1-2 d before eye opening and is statistically indistinguishable from that in adults within days. Reduced cortical excitability, fast feedforward inhibition, and the slow cortical oscillation appear simultaneously with stable depolarization, suggesting that an absence of inhibitory balance during early development prevents the expression of the active state and hence a normal wakeful state in early cortex. These observations identify feedforward inhibition as a potential key regulator of cortical network activity development.
Characterization of synaptic connectivity is essential to understanding neural circuit dynamics. For extracellularly recorded spike trains, indirect evidence for connectivity can be inferred from short-latency peaks in the correlogram between two neurons. Despite their predominance in cortex, however, significant interactions between excitatory neurons (E) have been hard to detect because of their intrinsic weakness. By taking advantage of long duration recordings, up to 25 h, from rat prefrontal cortex, we found that 7.6% of the recorded pyramidal neurons are connected. This corresponds to 70% of the local E-E connection probability that has been reported by paired intracellular recordings (11.6%). This value is significantly higher than previous reports from extracellular recordings, but still a substantial underestimate. Our analysis showed that long recording times and strict significance thresholds are necessary to detect weak connections while avoiding false-positive results, but will likely still leave many excitatory connections undetected. In addition, we found that hyper-reciprocity of connections in prefrontal cortex that was shown previously by paired intracellular recordings was only present in short-distance, but not in long distance (300 micrometers or more) interactions. As hyper-reciprocity is restricted to local clusters, it might be a minicolumnar effect. Given the current surge of interest in very high-density neural spike recording (e.g., NIH BRAIN Project) it is of paramount importance that we have statistically reliable methods for estimating connectivity from cross-correlation analysis available. We provide an important step in this direction.
Navigation requires coordination of egocentric and allocentric spatial reference frames and may involve vectorial computations relative to landmarks. Creation of a representation of target heading relative to landmarks could be accomplished from neurons that encode the conjunction of egocentric landmark bearings with allocentric head direction. Landmark vector representations could then be created by combining these cells with distance encoding cells. Landmark vector cells have been identified in rodent hippocampus. Given remembered vectors at goal locations, it would be possible to use such cells to compute trajectories to hidden goals. To look for the first stage in this process, we assessed parietal cortical neural activity as a function of egocentric cue light location and allocentric head direction in rats running a random sequence to light locations around a circular platform. We identified cells that exhibit the predicted egocentric-by-allocentric conjunctive characteristics and anticipate orienting toward the goal.
It has previously been shown that environmental enrichment can enhance structural plasticity in the brain and thereby improve cognitive and behavioral function. In this study, we reared developmentally noise-exposed rats in an acoustic-enriched environment for 4 weeks to investigate whether or not enrichment could restore developmentally degraded behavioral and neuronal processing of sound frequency. We found that noise-exposed rats had significantly elevated sound frequency discrimination thresholds compared with age-matched naive rats. Environmental acoustic enrichment nearly restored to normal the behavioral deficit resulting from early disrupted acoustic inputs. Signs of both degraded frequency selectivity of neurons as measured by the bandwidth of frequency tuning curves and decreased long-term potentiation of field potentials recorded in the primary auditory cortex of these noise-exposed rats also were reversed partially. The observed behavioral and physiological effects induced by enrichment were accompanied by recovery of cortical expressions of certain NMDA and GABAA receptor subunits and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These studies in a rodent model show that environmental acoustic enrichment promotes recovery from early noise-induced auditory cortical dysfunction and indicate a therapeutic potential of this noninvasive approach for normalizing neurological function from pathologies that cause hearing and associated language impairments in older children and adults.
In recent years, functional neuroimaging has disclosed a network of cortical areas in the basal temporal lobe that selectively respond to visual scenes, including the parahippocampal place area (PPA). Beyond the observation that lesions involving the PPA cause topographic disorientation, there is little causal evidence linking neural activity in that area to the perception of places. Here, we combined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings to delineate place-selective cortex in a patient implanted with stereo-EEG electrodes for presurgical evaluation of drug-resistant epilepsy. Bipolar direct electrical stimulation of a cortical area in the collateral sulcus and medial fusiform gyrus, which was place-selective according to both fMRI and iEEG, induced a topographic visual hallucination: the patient described seeing indoor and outdoor scenes that included views of the neighborhood he lives in. By contrast, stimulating the more lateral aspect of the basal temporal lobe caused distortion of the patient's perception of faces, as recently reported (Parvizi et al., 2012). Our results support the causal role of the PPA in the perception of visual scenes, demonstrate that electrical stimulation of higher order visual areas can induce complex hallucinations, and also reaffirm direct electrical brain stimulation as a tool to assess the function of the human cerebral cortex.
Kinesthetic awareness is important to successfully navigate the environment. When we interact with our daily surroundings, some aspects of movement are deliberately planned, while others spontaneously occur below conscious awareness. The deliberate component of this dichotomy has been studied extensively in several contexts, while the spontaneous component remains largely under-explored. Moreover, how perceptual processes modulate these movement classes is still unclear. In particular, a currently debated issue is whether the visuomotor system is governed by the spatial percept produced by a visual illusion or whether it is not affected by the illusion and is governed instead by the veridical percept. Bistable percepts such as 3D depth inversion illusions (DIIs) provide an excellent context to study such interactions and balance, particularly when used in combination with reach-to-grasp movements. In this study, a methodology is developed that uses a DII to clarify the role of top-down processes on motor action, particularly exploring how reaches toward a target on a DII are affected in both deliberate and spontaneous movement domains.





Synapses store information by long-lasting modifications of their structure and molecular composition, but the precise chronology of these changes has not been studied at single-synapse resolution in real time. Here we describe the spatiotemporal reorganization of postsynaptic substructures during long-term potentiation (LTP) at individual dendritic spines. Proteins translocated to the spine in four distinct patterns through three sequential phases. In the initial phase, the actin cytoskeleton was rapidly remodeled while active cofilin was massively transported to the spine. In the stabilization phase, cofilin formed a stable complex with F-actin, was persistently retained at the spine, and consolidated spine expansion. In contrast, the postsynaptic density (PSD) was independently remodeled, as PSD scaffolding proteins did not change their amount and localization until a late protein synthesis-dependent third phase. Our findings show how and when spine substructures are remodeled during LTP and explain why synaptic plasticity rules change over time.
The spatiotemporal activities of astrocyte Ca signaling in mature neuronal circuits remain unclear. We used genetically encoded Ca and glutamate indicators as well as pharmacogenetic and electrical control of neurotransmitter release to explore astrocyte activity in the hippocampal mossy fiber pathway. Our data revealed numerous localized, spontaneous Ca signals in astrocyte branches and territories, but these were not driven by neuronal activity or glutamate. Moreover, evoked astrocyte Ca signaling changed linearly with the number of mossy fiber action potentials. Under these settings, astrocyte responses were global, suppressed by neurotransmitter clearance, and mediated by glutamate and GABA. Thus, astrocyte engagement in the fully developed mossy fiber pathway was slow and territorial, contrary to that frequently proposed for astrocytes within microcircuits. We show that astrocyte Ca signaling functionally segregates large volumes of neuropil and that these transients are not suited for responding to, or regulating, single synapses in the mossy fiber pathway.
Cortical GABAergic interneurons have essential roles for information processing and their dysfunction is implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders. Transcriptional codes are elucidating mechanisms of interneuron specification in the MGE (a subcortical progenitor zone), which regulate their migration, integration, and function within cortical circuitry. Lhx6, a LIM-homeodomain transcription factor, is essential for specification of MGE-derived somatostatin and parvalbumin interneurons. Here, we demonstrate that some Lhx6/ MGE cells acquire a CGE-like fate. Using an in vivo MGE complementation/transplantation assay, we show that Lhx6-regulated genes Arx and CXCR7 rescue divergent aspects of Lhx6/ cell-fate and laminar mutant phenotypes and provide insight into a neonatal role for CXCR7 in MGE-derived interneuron lamination. Finally, Lhx6 directly binds in vivo to an Arx enhancer and to an intronic CXCR7 enhancer that remains active in mature interneurons. These data define the molecular identity of Lhx6 mutants and introduce technologies to test mechanisms in GABAergic interneuron differentiation.
X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) is characterized by adult-onset muscle weakness and lower motor neuron degeneration. SBMA is caused by CAG-polyglutamine (polyQ) repeat expansions in the androgen receptor (AR) gene. Pathological findings include motor neuron loss, with polyQ-AR accumulation in intranuclear inclusions. SBMA patients exhibit myopathic features, suggesting a role for muscle in disease pathogenesis. To determine the contribution of muscle, we developed a BAC mouse model featuring a floxed first exon to permit cell-type-specific excision of human AR121Q. BAC fxAR121 mice develop systemic and neuromuscular phenotypes, including shortened survival. After validating termination of AR121 expression and full rescue with ubiquitous Cre, we crossed BAC fxAR121 mice with Human Skeletal Actin-Cre mice. Muscle-specific excision prevented weight loss, motor phenotypes, muscle pathology, and motor neuronopathy and dramatically extended survival. Our results reveal a crucial role for muscle expression of polyQ-AR in SBMA and suggest muscle-directed therapies as effective treatments.
Sexually dimorphic behaviors, qualitative or quantitative differences in behaviors between the sexes, result from the activity of a sexually differentiated nervous system. Sensory cues and sex hormones control the entire repertoire of sexually dimorphic behaviors, including those commonly thought to be charged with emotion such as courtship and aggression. Such overarching control mechanisms regulate distinct genes and neurons that in turn specify the display of these behaviors in a modular manner. How such modular control is transformed into cohesive internal states that correspond to sexually dimorphic behavior is poorly understood. We summarize current understanding of the neural circuit control of sexually dimorphic behaviors from several perspectives, including how neural circuits in general, and sexually dimorphic neurons in particular, can generate sexually dimorphic behaviors, and how molecular mechanisms and evolutionary constraints shape these behaviors. We propose that emergent themes such as the modular genetic and neural control of dimorphic behavior are broadly applicable to the neural control of other behaviors.
Microglia are highly dynamic components of the innate immune system. In this issue of Neuron, Elmore etal. (2014) report that global depletion of microglia triggers mobilization of latent microglial progenitors throughout the CNS, resulting in rapid repopulation.
The ocular motility disorder &quot;Congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles type 1&quot; (CFEOM1) results from heterozygous mutations altering the motor and third coiled-coil stalk of the anterograde kinesin, KIF21A. We demonstrate that Kif21a knockin mice harboring the most common human mutation develop CFEOM. The developing axons of the oculomotor nerve's superior division stall in the proximal nerve; the growth cones enlarge, extend excessive filopodia, and assume random trajectories. Inferior division axons reach the orbit but branch ectopically. We establish a gain-of-function mechanism and find that human motor or stalk mutations attenuate Kif21a autoinhibition, providing in vivo evidence for mammalian kinesin autoregulation. We identify Map1b as a Kif21a-interacting protein and report that Map1b/ mice develop CFEOM. The interaction between Kif21a and Map1b is likely to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of CFEOM1 and highlights a selective vulnerability of the developing oculomotor nerve to perturbations of the axon cytoskeleton.
In layer 6 (L6), a principal output layer of the mammalian cerebral cortex, a population of excitatory neurons defined by the NTSR1-Cre mouse line inhibit cortical responses to visual stimuli. Here we show that of the two major types of excitatory neurons existing in L6, the NTSR1-Cre line selectively targets those whose axons innervate both cortex and thalamus and not those whose axons remain within the cortex. These corticothalamic neurons mediate widespread inhibition across all cortical layers by recruiting fast-spiking inhibitory neurons whose cell body resides in deep cortical layers yet whose axons arborize throughout all layers. This study reveals a circuit by which L6 modulates cortical activity and identifies an inhibitory neuron able to regulate the strength of cortical responses throughout cortical depth.





While most animals live in a three-dimensional world, they move through it to different extents depending on their mode of locomotion: terrestrial animals move vertically less than do swimming and flying animals. As nearly everything we know about how animals learn and remember locations in space comes from two-dimensional experiments in the horizontal plane, here we determined whether the use of three-dimensional space by a terrestrial and a flying animal was correlated with memory for a rewarded location. In the cubic mazes in which we trained and tested rats and hummingbirds, rats moved more vertically than horizontally, whereas hummingbirds moved equally in the three dimensions. Consistent with their movement preferences, rats were more accurate in relocating the horizontal component of a rewarded location than they were in the vertical component. Hummingbirds, however, were more accurate in the vertical dimension than they were in the horizontal, a result that cannot be explained by their use of space. Either as a result of evolution or ontogeny, it appears that birds and rats prioritize horizontal versus vertical components differently when they remember three-dimensional space.
The extent to which size constrains the evolution of brain organization and the genesis of complex behaviour is a central, unanswered question in evolutionary neuroscience. Advanced cognition has long been linked to the expansion of specific brain compartments, such as the neocortex in vertebrates and the mushroom bodies in insects. Scaling constraints that limit the size of these brain regions in small animals may therefore be particularly significant to behavioural evolution. Recent findings from studies of paper wasps suggest miniaturization constrains the size of central sensory processing brain centres (mushroom body calyces) in favour of peripheral, sensory input centres (antennal and optic lobes). We tested the generality of this hypothesis in diverse eusocial hymenopteran species (ants, bees and wasps) exhibiting striking variation in body size and thus brain size. Combining multiple neuroanatomical datasets from these three taxa, we found no universal size constraint on brain organization within or among species. In fact, small-bodied ants with miniscule brains had mushroom body calyces proportionally as large as or larger than those of wasps and bees with brains orders of magnitude larger. Our comparative analyses suggest that brain organization in ants is shaped more by natural selection imposed by visual demands than intrinsic design limitations.
Individual recognition can be facilitated by creating representations of familiar individuals, whereby information from signals in multiple sensory modalities become linked. Many vertebrate species use auditory-visual matching to recognize familiar conspecifics and heterospecifics, but we currently do not know whether representations of familiar individuals incorporate information from other modalities. Ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta) are highly visual, but also communicate via scents and vocalizations. To investigate the role of olfactory signals in multisensory recognition, we tested whether lemurs can recognize familiar individuals through matching scents and vocalizations. We presented lemurs with female scents that were paired with the contact call either of the female whose scent was presented or of another familiar female from the same social group. When the scent and the vocalization came from the same individual versus from different individuals, females showed greater interest in the scents, and males showed greater interest in both the scents and the vocalizations, suggesting that lemurs can recognize familiar females via olfactory-auditory matching. Because identity signals in lemur scents and vocalizations are produced by different effectors and often encountered at different times (uncoupled in space and time), this matching suggests lemurs form multisensory representations through a newly recognized sensory integration underlying individual recognition.






The incidence and clinical correlates of acute in-hospital mortality of takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC) are not clear. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to consolidate the current evidence on acute mortality in TTC. We then assessed the impact of &quot;secondary&quot; TTC, male gender, advancing age, and catecholamine use on mortality. A comprehensive search of 4 major databases (EMBASE, Ovid MEDLINE, PubMed, and Google Scholar) was performed from their inception to the first week of July 2013. We included original research studies, recruiting 10 participants, published in English language, and those that reported data on mortality and cause of death in patients with TTC. Of 382 citations, 37 studies (2,120 patients with TTC) from 11 different countries were included in the analyses. The mean age of the cohort was 68 years (95% confidence interval [CI] 67 to 69) with female predominance (87%). The in-hospital mortality rate among patients with TTC was 4.5% (95% CI 3.1 to 6.2, I2=60.8%). Among all deaths, 38% were directly related to TTC complications and rest to underlying noncardiac conditions. Male gender was associated with higher TTC mortality rate (odds ratio 2.6, 95% CI 1.5 to 4.6, p=0.0008, I2=0%) so was &quot;secondary&quot; TTC (risk difference -0.11, 95% CI -0.18 to -0.04, p=0.003, I2=84%). The mean age of patients dying tended to be greater than that in the whole cohort (727 vs 657 years). In conclusion, TTC is not as benign as once thought. To reduce the mortality rate, greater efforts need to be directed to the diagnosis, treatment, and ultimately prevention of &quot;secondary&quot; TTC.
Leptin released peripherally acts within the central nervous system (CNS) to modulate numerous physiological and behavioral functions. Histochemical identification of leptin-responsive CNS cells can reveal the specific cellular phenotypes and neural circuits through which leptin signaling modulates these functions. Leptin signaling elicits phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (pSTAT3), making pSTAT3-immunoreactivity (ir) a useful proxy for identifying leptin-responsive cells. Relatively low systemic doses of leptin (i.e., 10-130 g/kg body wt) are sufficient to decrease food intake, inhibit gastric emptying, and increase sympathetic activity, but there are no histological reports of central pSTAT3-ir following leptin doses within this range. Considering this, we quantified central pSTAT3-ir in rats after intraperitoneal injections of leptin at doses ranging from 50 to 800 g/kg body wt. Tissue sections were processed to identify pSTAT3-ir alone or in combination with immunolabeling for cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP), or dopamine--hydroxylase (DH). Leptin doses as low as 50, 100, and 200 g/kg body wt significantly increased the number of pSTAT3-ir cells in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC), nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, respectively, and also led to robust pSTAT3 labeling in neural processes. The differential dose-dependent increases in pSTAT3-ir across brain regions provide new information regarding central leptin sensitivity. Within the ARC, CART-ir and pSTAT3-ir were often colocalized, consistent with evidence of leptin sensitivity in this neural population. Conversely, within the NTS, pSTAT3 only rarely colocalized with PrRP and/or DH, and never with GLP-1.
Hypertonic NaCl infused into the carotid arteries increases mean arterial pressure (MAP) and changes sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) via cerebral mechanisms. We hypothesized that elevated sodium levels in the blood supply to the brain would induce differential responses in renal and cardiac SNA via sensors located outside the blood-brain barrier. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured renal and cardiac SNA simultaneously in conscious sheep during intracarotid infusions of NaCl (1.2 M), sorbitol (2.4 M), or urea (2.4 M) at 1 ml/min for 4 min into each carotid. Intracarotid NaCl significantly increased MAP (91  2 to 97  3 mmHg, P &lt; 0.05) without changing heart rate (HR). Intracarotid NaCl was associated with no change in cardiac SNA (11  5.0%), but a significant inhibition of renal SNA (-32.5  6.4%, P &lt; 0.05). Neither intracarotid sorbitol nor urea changed MAP, HR, central venous pressure, cardiac SNA, and renal SNA. The changes in MAP and renal SNA were completely abolished by microinjection of the GABA agonist muscimol (5 mM, 500 nl each side) into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Infusion of intracarotid NaCl for 20 min stimulated a larger increase in water intake (1,100  75 ml) than intracarotid sorbitol (683  125 ml) or intracarotid urea (0 ml). These results demonstrate that acute increases in blood sodium levels cause a decrease in renal SNA, but no change in cardiac SNA in conscious sheep. These effects are mediated by cerebral sensors located outside the blood-brain barrier that are more responsive to changes in sodium concentration than osmolality. The renal sympathoinhibitory effects of sodium are mediated via a pathway that synapses in the PVN.


Phosphatidylserine (PS) is preferentially located in the inner leaflet of the cell membrane, and translocation of PS oxidized in fatty acyl chains to the outside of membrane has been reported as signaling to macrophage receptors to clear apoptotic cells. It was recently shown that PS can be oxidized in serine moiety of polar head-group. In the present work, a targeted lipidomic approach was applied to detecting OxPS modified at the polar head-group in keratinocytes that were exposed to the radical generator AAPH. Glycerophosphoacetic acid derivatives (GPAA) were found to be the major oxidation products of OxPS modified at the polar head-group during oxidation induced by AAPH-generated radicals, similarly to previous observations for the oxidation induced by OH radical. The neutral loss scan of 58Da and a novel precursor ion scan of m/z 137.1 (HOPO3CH2COOH) allowed the recognition of GPAA derivatives in the total lipid extracts obtained from HaCaT cells treated with AAPH. The positive identification of serine head group oxidation products in cells under controlled oxidative conditions opens new perspectives and justifies further studies in other cellular environments in order to understand fully the role of PS polar head-group oxidation in cell homeostasis and disease.

In order to investigate the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the consolidation of spatial memory, we examined the relationship between the increase of hippocampal BDNF and the establishment of long-term spatial memory in spontaneous place recognition test in rats. The test consisted of a sample phase, delay interval, and a test phase, and preferred exploration of the object in a novel place compared with that in a familiar place was assessed in the test phase. In experiment 1, dorsal hippocampal administration of anisomycin, a protein synthesis inhibitor, before the sample phase (20 min) abolished the preference for the novel place object in the test phase conducted 24h later. This impairment was reversed by the dorsal hippocampal BDNF treatment immediately after the sample phase, although the BDNF treatment alone did not improve performance. In experiment 2, we used a shorter sample phase condition (5 min) in which control rats did not show any preference for the novel place object in the test phase after 24h delay, and found that BDNF treatment immediately after the sample phase caused rats' significant preference for it. Results suggest an important role of hippocampal BDNF as a product of protein synthesis that is required for the consolidation of spatial memory.
The widespread distribution of apelin-13 and apelin receptors in the brain and periphery suggests an important function of this neuropeptide in regulatory processes in the organism. In previous work we found that apelin-13 facilitates the consolidation of passive avoidance learning in rats. In the present work we demonstrate that apelin-13 exerts anxiolytic action in an elevated plus maze in mice. In order to assess the possible involvement of transmitters in this action, the animals were pretreated with the following receptor blockers in doses which themselves did not influence the behavioral paradigm: atropine (a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist), haloperidol (a D2, D3, D4 dopamine receptor antagonist), phenoxybenzamine (a nonselective 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist), methysergide (a nonselective 5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist), propranolol (a -adrenergic receptor antagonist), naloxone (a nonselective opioid receptor antagonist) and bicuculline (a -aminobutyric acid subunit A receptor antagonist. Phenoxybenzamine, haloperidol, propranolol and methysergide prevented the action of apelin-13, whereas atropine, naloxone and bicuculline were ineffective. The data suggest that apelin-13 elicits its anxiolytic action via -adrenergic, dopaminergic, -adrenergic and 5-HT2 serotonergic mediation.
Smoking is linked to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which suggests smoking is either a risk factor or an attempt at self-medication. The ability to reduce or extinguish fear-related memories may be altered in patients with PTSD and it is possible that nicotine modulates this. Although there are numerous studies examining the effects of nicotine on acquisition of fear learning, the effects of nicotine on extinction of contextual fear are not well understood. In the present study, we examined the effects of acute nicotine (0.18 mg/kg) on extinction of contextual fear in C57BL/6J mice. Animals were first trained in a background contextual fear conditioning paradigm using a white noise as a conditioned stimulus (CS), which co-terminated with a 2 s 0.57 mA unconditioned foot-shock stimulus (US). Animals were then administered either nicotine or saline and exposed to either the training context or a novel context in order to measure freezing to the context during extinction. Our results demonstrate that nicotine administration during extinction delays extinction of contextual freezing while nicotine did not affect cued freezing or freezing to the novel context.
Previous studies have demonstrated that children with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) exhibit deficits in measures of eye movement control that probe aspects of visuospatial processing and working memory. The goal of the present study was to examine, in a large cohort of children with FASD, prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) but not FASD, and typically developing control children, the relationship between performance in eye movement tasks and standardized psychometric tests that assess visuospatial processing and working memory. Participants for this dataset were drawn from a large, multi-site investigation, and included children and adolescents aged 5-17 years diagnosed with an FASD (n=71), those with PAE but no clinical FASD diagnosis (n=20), and typically developing controls (n=111). Participants completed a neurobehavioral test battery and a series of saccadic eye movement tasks. The FASD group performed worse than controls on the psychometric and eye movement measures of working memory and visuospatial skills. Within the FASD group, digit recall, block recall, and animal sorting were negatively correlated with sequence errors on the memory-guided task, and arrows was negatively correlated with prosaccade endpoint error. There were no significant correlations in the control group. These data suggest that psychometric tests and eye movement control tasks may assess similar domains of cognitive function, and these assessment tools may be measuring overlapping brain regions damaged due to prenatal alcohol exposure. The results of this study demonstrate that eye movement control tasks directly relate to outcome measures obtained with psychometric tests and are able to assess multiple domains of cognition simultaneously, thereby allowing for an efficient and accurate assessment.
Stressors during early life induce anxiety- and depressive-like responses in adult rodents. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) exposed to short days post-weaning also increase adult anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors. To test the hypothesis that melatonin and exposure to stressors early in life interact to alter adult affective responses, we administered melatonin either during the perinatal (gestational day 7 to postnatal day 14) or postnatal (day 15-56) periods and also exposed a subset of dams to restraint during gestation (1 h-2/day for 4 days). During the final week of injections, depressive-like behaviors were assessed using the sucrose anhedonia and forced swim tests. Hamsters exposed to prenatal restraint and treated with melatonin only during the postnatal period increased depressive-like responses in the forced swim test relative to all other groups. Offspring from restrained dams increased the number of fecal boli produced during the forced swim test, an anxiety-like response. In the present study, prenatal restraint reduced CA1 dendritic branching overall and perinatal melatonin protected hamsters from this restraint-induced reduction. These results suggest that the photoperiodic conditions coincident with birth and early life stressors are important in the development of adult affective responses.
The active generation of behavioral variability is thought to be a pivotal element in reinforcement based learning. One example for this principle is song learning in oscine birds. Oscines possess a highly specialized set of brain areas that compose the song system. It is yet unclear how the song system evolved. One important hypothesis assumes a motor origin of the song system, i.e. the song system may have developed from motor pathways that were present in an early ancestor of extant birds. Indeed, in pigeons neural pathways are present that parallel the song system. We examined whether one component of these pathways, a forebrain area termed nidopallium intermedium medialis pars laterale (NIML), is functionally comparable to its putative homologue, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN) of the song system. LMAN conveys variability into the motor output during singing; a function crucial for song learning and maintenance. We tested if NIML is likewise associated with the generation of variability. We used a behavioral paradigm in which pigeons had to find hidden target areas on a touch screen to gain food rewards. Alterations in pecking variability would result in changes of performance levels in this search paradigm. We found that pharmacological inactivation of NIML did not reduce pecking variability contrasting increases of song stereotypy observed after LMAN inactivation.
Empathy is a complex emotional process that involves sharing an emotional state with another organism. The extent to which nonhuman animals are capable of empathizing with others is still far from clear, partly due to a lack of empirical work in this domain, but also due to definitional confusion of empathy with emotional contagion and other related terms. In this study, an observer mouse witnessed a familiar cagemate or an unfamiliar non-cagemate receiving electric foot shocks in an experiment that consisted of three periods: baseline (no shocks), test (shocks) and recovery (no shocks). Freezing behavior in the observer was significantly increased in the cagemate, as opposed to the non-cagemate condition during the test period, but not during baseline or recovery, emphasizing the role of familiarity in empathy-like processes. In agreement with this, we also found a correlation that approached significance between the total number of fecal droppings of the observers, as an indication of distress, and those of the demonstrator in the cagemate, but not in the non-cagemate, condition. While the freezing behavior of the demonstrators increased with time, reaching a maximum at the recovery period, the observers froze the most during the test period while the demonstrators were receiving the electric foot shocks. The observation that the freezing response of the observers ceased when the shocks in the adjacent compartment stopped could be due to a decrease in saliency of the demonstrators' behavioral response. Finally, the presence of a cagemate, as compared to a stranger, possibly reduced the demonstrator's pain-induced behavior, suggesting an ameliorating effect of familiarity on stress responses.
Heightened impulsivity is a feature of some psychiatric disorders, including addiction, that also have sex-specific patterns of expression. The relationship between addiction and impulsivity may be driven by drug-induced changes in behavior caused by long term adaptations in signaling within the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Here, we used a response inhibition task that is sensitive to changes in mPFC function to examine the effects of sex and exposure to amphetamine (AMPH) on impulsive action and vigilance. We also examined drug-induced alterations in glutamatergic and dopaminergic signaling through challenge injections with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) and AMPH. Male and female Sprague Dawley rats were injected (i.p.) with saline or 3 mg/kg AMPH every other day during adolescence (postnatal day (P) 27-45) or adulthood (P85-103). Starting on P125-135, rats were tested for their ability to lever press for a food reward during periods of signaled availability and withhold responding during a &quot;premature response&quot; phase. In experiment 1, rats received challenge injections (i.p.) of MK-801 and AMPH followed by tests of task performance and locomotor activity. In experiment 2, rats received intra-mPFC infusion of MK-801. We found that females had better inhibitory control and poorer vigilance than males and that AMPH exposure had both sex- and age-of-exposure dependent effects on impulsivity. Systemic drug challenges disrupted task performance, particularly in females, and increased impulsivity while intra-mPFC infusions had modest effects. AMPH exposure did not affect responses to drug challenges. Together, these results suggest that sex mediates both trait and drug-induced impulsivity.
Gastrin releasing peptide, the mammalian counterpart of the amphibian peptide, bombesin, has been increasingly implicated in regulating normal brain function as well as in the pathogenesis of psychiatric and/or neurodevelopmental disorders. We have previously shown that the neonatal blockade of the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPr) in rats produces long-lasting consequences during central nervous system development that are commonly observed in neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorders. The present investigation assessed in further detail, long-term behavioral effects of neonatal GRPr blockade. During postnatal days 1-10, male Wistar rat pups (n=5-10/litter) were injected (subcutaneously) with the GRPr antagonist, RC-3095 (1 mg/kg), or a vehicle (control), twice daily. Following the drug treatment regimen, several behaviors were assessed (starting on postnatal day 14) including specific social behaviors (namely, group huddling characteristics, social interaction, and social approach), restrictive/repetitive and stereotyped behaviors (y-maze, repetitive novel object contact task, observation for stereotypies) and anxiety/fear-related responses (open field, elevated plus maze and contextual fear conditioning). Rats treated neonatally with RC-3095 showed reduced sociability, restrictive interests, motor stereotypies and enhanced learned fear response compared to the controls (vehicle-treated rats). These behavioral abnormalities are consistent with those observed in autism spectrum disorders and provide further evidence that neonatal blockade of GRPr could potentially serve as a useful model to gain a better understanding of the underlying neurodevelopmental disruptions contributing to the expression of autism-relevant phenotypes.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is highly prevalent and incapacitating. Here we used the Carioca High-Conditioned Freezing (CHF) rats, a previously validated animal model for GAD, to identify biomarkers and structural changes in the hippocampus that could be part of the underlying mechanisms of their high-anxiety profile. Spatial and fear memory was assessed in the Morris water maze and passive avoidance test. Serum corticosterone levels, immunofluorescence for glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the dentate gyrus (DG), and western blotting for hippocampal brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were performed. Immunohistochemistry for markers of cell proliferation (bromodeoxiuridine/Ki-67), neuroblasts (doublecortin), and cell survival were undertaken in the DG, along with spine staining (Golgi) and dendritic arborization tracing. Hippocampal GABA release was assessed by neurochemical assay. Fear memory was higher among CHF rats whilst spatial learning was preserved. Serum corticosterone levels were increased, with decreased GR expression. No differences were observed in hippocampal cell proliferation/survival, but the number of newborn neurons was decreased, along with their number and length of tertiary dendrites. Increased expression of proBDNF and dendritic spines was observed; lower ratio of GABA release in the hippocampus was also verified. These findings suggest that generalized anxiety/fear could be associated with different hippocampal biomarkers, such as increased spine density, possibly as a compensatory mechanism for the decreased hippocampal number of neuroblasts and dendritic arborization triggered by high corticosterone. Disruption of GABAergic signaling and BDNF impairment are also proposed as part of the hippocampal mechanisms possibly underlying the anxious phenotype of this model.
Cry proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis are insecticidal PFTs (pore-forming toxins). In the present study, we show that two distinct functional pre-pores of Cry1Ab are formed after binding of the protoxin or the protease-activated toxin to the cadherin receptor, but before membrane insertion. Both pre-pores actively induce pore formation, although with different characteristics, and contribute to the insecticidal activity. We also analysed the oligomerization of the mutant Cry1AbMod protein. This mutant kills different insect populations that are resistant to Cry toxins, but lost potency against susceptible insects. We found that the Cry1AbMod-protoxin efficiently induces oligomerization, but not the activated Cry1AbMod-toxin, explaining the loss of potency of Cry1AbMod against susceptible insects. These data are relevant for the future control of insects resistant to Cry proteins. Our data support the pore-formation model involving sequential interaction with different midgut proteins, leading to pore formation in the target membrane. We propose that not only different insect targets could have different receptors, but also different midgut proteases that would influence the rate of protoxin/toxin activation. It is possible that the two pre-pore structures could have been selected for in evolution, since they have differential roles in toxicity against selected targets, increasing their range of action. These data assign a functional role for the protoxin fragment of Cry PFTs that was not understood previously. Most PFTs produced by other bacteria are secreted as protoxins that require activation before oligomerization, to finally form a pore. Thus different pre-pores could be also part of the general mechanism of action of other PFTs.
The neurotoxicity of amyloid beta (A), a major cleavage product of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), is enhanced by iron, as found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. By contrast, the long-known neuroprotective activity of APP is evident after -secretase cleavage of the precursor to release sAPP, and depends on the iron export actions of APP itself. The latter underlie its neurotrophic and protective effects in facilitating the homeostatic actions of ferroportin mediated-iron export. Thus APP-dependent iron export may alleviate oxidative stress by minimizing labile iron thus protecting neurons from iron overload during stroke and hemorrhage. Consistent with this, altered phosphorylation of iron-regulatory protein-1 (IRP1) and its signaling processes play a critical role in modulating APP translation via the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of its transcript. The APP 5'UTR region encodes a functional iron-responsive element (IRE) RNA stem loop that represents a potential target for modulating APP production. Targeted regulation of APP gene expression via the modulation of 5'UTR sequence function represents a novel approach for the potential treatment of AD since altering APP translation can be used to improve both the protective brain iron balance and provide anti-amyloid efficacy. Approved drugs including paroxetine and desferrioxamine and several novel compounds have been identified that suppress abnormal metal-promoted A accumulation with a subset of these acting via APP 5'UTR-dependent mechanisms to modulate APP translation and cleavage to generate the non-toxic sAPP.
Cognitive decline, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other causes are major public health problems worldwide. With changing demographics, the number of persons with dementia will increase rapidly. The treatment and prevention of AD and other dementias, therefore, is an urgent unmet need. There have been considerable advances in understanding the biology of many age-related disorders that cause dementia. Gains in understanding AD have led to the development of ante-mortem biomarkers of traditional neuropathology and the conduct of several phase III interventions in the amyloid- cascade early in the disease process. Many other intervention strategies are in various stages of development. However, efforts to date have met with limited success. A recent National Institute on Aging Research Summit led to a number of requests for applications. One was to establish multi-disciplinary teams of investigators who use systems biology approaches and stem cell technology to identify a new generation of AD targets. We were recently awarded one of three such grants to build a pipeline that integrates epidemiology, systems biology, and stem cell technology to discover and validate novel therapeutic targets and lead compounds for AD treatment and prevention. Here we describe the two cohorts that provide the data and biospecimens being exploited for our pipeline and describe the available unique datasets. Second, we present evidence in support of a chronic disease model of AD that informs our choice of phenotypes as the target outcome. Third, we provide an overview of our approach. Finally, we present the details of our planned drug discovery pipeline.
Considerable progress has been made in the past few years in the fight against Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Neuropathological studies in human brains and experimental in vivo and in vitro models support the notion that synapses are affected even at the earliest stages of the neurodegenerative process. The objective of this manuscript is to review some of the mechanisms of synaptic damage in AD and PD. Some lines of evidence support the notion that oligomeric neurotoxic species of amyloid , -synuclein, and Tau might contribute to the pathogenesis of synaptic failure at early stages of the diseases. The mechanisms leading to synaptic damage by oligomers might involve dysregulation of glutamate receptors and scaffold molecules that results in alterations in the axonal transport of synaptic vesicles and mitochondria that later on lead to dendritic and spine alterations, axonal dystrophy, and eventually neuronal loss. However, while some studies support a role of oligomers, there is an ongoing debate as to the exact nature of the toxic species. Given the efforts toward earlier clinical and preclinical diagnosis of these disorders, understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms of synaptic degeneration is crucial toward developing specific biomarkers and new therapies targeting the synaptic apparatus of vulnerable neurons.
Microglia, the immune cells of the central nervous system, have long been a subject of study in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) field due to their dramatic responses to the pathophysiology of the disease. With several large-scale genetic studies in the past year implicating microglial molecules in AD, the potential significance of these cells has become more prominent than ever before. As a disease that is tightly linked to aging, it is perhaps not entirely surprising that microglia of the AD brain share some phenotypes with aging microglia. Yet the relative impacts of both conditions on microglia are less frequently considered in concert. Furthermore, microglial &quot;activation&quot; and &quot;neuroinflammation&quot; are commonly analyzed in studies of neurodegeneration but are somewhat ill-defined concepts that in fact encompass multiple cellular processes. In this review, we have enumerated six distinct functions of microglia and discuss the specific effects of both aging and AD. By calling attention to the commonalities of these two states, we hope to inspire new approaches for dissecting microglial mechanisms.
Impaired proteostasis is one of the main features of all amyloid diseases, which are associated with the formation of insoluble aggregates from amyloidogenic proteins. The aggregation process can be caused by overproduction or poor clearance of these proteins. However, numerous reports suggest that amyloid oligomers are the most toxic species, rather than insoluble fibrillar material, in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Prion diseases, among others. Although the exact protein that aggregates varies between amyloid disorders, they all share common structural features that can be used as therapeutic targets. In this review, we focus on therapeutic approaches against shared features of toxic oligomeric structures and future directions.
A popular, if not centric, approach to the study of an event is to first consider that of the simplest cause. When dissecting the underlying mechanisms governing idiopathic diseases, this generally takes the form of an ab initio genetic approach. To date, this genetic 'smoking gun' has remained elusive in diabetes mellitus and for many affected by neurodegenerative diseases. With no single gene, or even subset of genes, conclusively causative in all cases, other approaches to the etiology and treatment of these diseases seem reasonable, including the correlation of a systems' predisposed sensitivity to particular influence. In the cases of diabetes mellitus and neurodegenerative diseases, overlapping themes of mitochondrial influence or dysfunction and iron dyshomeostasis are apparent and relatively consistent. This mini-review discusses the influence of mitochondrial function and iron homeostasis on diabetes mellitus and neurodegenerative disease, namely Alzheimer's disease. Also discussed is the incidence of diabetes accompanied by neuropathy and neurodegeneration along with neurodegenerative disorders prone to development of diabetes. Mouse models containing multiple facets of this overlap are also described alongside current molecular trends attributed to both diseases. As a way of approaching the idiopathic and complex nature of these diseases we are proposing the consideration of a MIND (mitochondria, iron, neurodegeneration, and diabetes) paradigm in which systemic metabolic influence, iron homeostasis, and respective genetic backgrounds play a central role in the development of disease.
This paper focuses on brain mitochondrial respiration as a therapeutic target for neuroprotection and cognitive enhancement. We propose that improving brain mitochondrial respiration is an important future direction in research and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other conditions associated with cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration. The central thesis is that supporting and improving brain mitochondrial respiration constitutes a promising neurotherapeutic principle, with potential applications in AD as well as in a wide variety of neuropsychological conditions. We propose three different interventional approaches to improve brain mitochondrial respiration based on (a) pharmacology, (b) photobiomodulation and (c) nutrition interventions, and provide detailed examples for each type of intervention. First, low-dose USP methylene blue is described as a pharmacological intervention that can successfully increase mitochondrial respiration and result in memory enhancement and neuroprotection. Second, transcranial low-level light/laser therapy with near-infrared light is used to illustrate a photobiomodulation intervention with similar neurometabolic mechanisms of action as low-dose methylene blue. Finally, a nutrition intervention to improve mitochondrial respiration is proposed by increasing ketone bodies in the diet. The evidence discussed for each intervention supports a fundamental neurotherapeutic strategy based on improving oxidative energy metabolism while at the same time reducing the pro-oxidant tendencies of the nervous system. Targeting brain mitochondrial respiration with these three types of interventions is proposed as part of a holistic neurotherapeutic approach to improve brain energy metabolism and antioxidant defenses. This strategy represents a promising new bioenergetics direction for treatment of AD and other neuropsychological disorders featuring cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration.
Recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying various paths toward the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has begun to provide new insight for interventions to modify disease progression. The evolving knowledge gained from multidisciplinary basic research has begun to identify new concepts for treatments and distinct classes of therapeutic targets; as well as putative disease-modifying compounds that are now being tested in clinical trials. There is a mounting consensus that such disease modifying compounds and/or interventions are more likely to be effectively administered as early as possible in the cascade of pathogenic processes preceding and underlying the clinical expression of AD. The budding sentiment is that &quot;treatments&quot; need to be applied before various molecular mechanisms converge into an irreversible pathway leading to morphological, metabolic and functional alterations that characterize the pathophysiology of AD. In light of this, biological indicators of pathophysiological mechanisms are desired to chart and detect AD throughout the asymptomatic early molecular stages into the prodromal and early dementia phase. A major conceptual development in the clinical AD research field was the recent proposal of new diagnostic criteria, which specifically incorporate the use of biomarkers as defining criteria for preclinical stages of AD. This paradigm shift in AD definition, conceptualization, operationalization, detection and diagnosis represents novel fundamental opportunities for the modification of interventional trial designs. This perspective summarizes not only present knowledge regarding biological markers but also unresolved questions on the status of surrogate indicators for detection of the disease in asymptomatic people and diagnosis of AD.







Cell-based screening assays are now widely used for identifying compounds that serve as ion channel modulators. However, instrumentation for the automated, real-time analysis of ion flux from clonal and primary cells is lacking. This study describes the initial development of an ion-sensitive field effect transistor (ISFET)-based screening assay for the acquisition of K(+) efflux data from cells cultured in multi-well plates. Silicon-based K(+)-sensitive ISFETs were tested for their electrical response to varying concentrations of KCl and were found to display a linear response relationship to KCl in the range of 10 M-1 mM. The ISFETs, along with reference electrodes, were inserted into fast-flow chambers containing either human colonic T84 epithelial cells or U251-MG glioma cells. Application of the Ca(2+) ionophore A23187 (1 M), to activate Ca(2+)-activated non-selective cation (NSC) channels (T84 cells) and large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels (U251 cells), resulted in time-dependent increases in the extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)]o) as measured with the ISFETs. Treatment of the cells with blockers of either the NSC or BK channels, caused a strong inhibition of the A23187-induced increase in [K(+)]o. These results were consistent with ion current measurements obtained using the whole-cell arrangement of the patch clamp procedure. In addition, K(+) efflux data could be acquired in parallel from multiple cell chambers using the ISFET sensors. Given the non-invasive properties of the probes, the ISFET-based assay should be adaptable for screening ion channels in various cell types.




Aging and many neurological disorders, such as AD, are linked to oxidative stress, which is considered the common effector of the cascade of degenerative events. In this phenomenon, reactive oxygen species play a fundamental role in the oxidative decomposition of polyunsaturated fatty acids, resulting in the formation of a complex mixture of aldehydic end products, such as malondialdehyde, 4-hydroxynonenal, and other alkenals. Interestingly, 4-HNE has been indicated as an intracellular agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor /. In this study, we examined, at early and advanced AD stages (3, 9, and 18 months), the pattern of 4-HNE and its catabolic enzyme glutathione S-transferase P1 in relation to the expression of PPAR/, BDNF signaling, as mRNA and protein, as well as on their pathological forms (i.e., precursors or truncated forms). The data obtained indicate a novel detrimental age-dependent role of PPAR / in AD by increasing pro-BDNF and decreasing BDNF/TrkB survival pathways, thus pointing toward the possibility that a specific PPAR/ antagonist may be used to counteract the disease progression.



The Periostin Cre (Postn-Cre) lineage includes endocardial and neural crest derived mesenchymal cells of the cardiac cushions, neural crest-derived components of the sympathetic and enteric nervous systems, and cardiac fibroblasts. In this study, we use the Postn-Cre transgenic allele to conditionally ablate Hand2 (H2CKO). We find that Postn-Cre H2CKOs die shortly after birth despite a lack of obvious cardiac structural defects. To ascertain the cause of death, we performed a detailed comparison of the Postn-Cre lineage and Hand2 expression at mid and late stages of embryonic development. Gene expression analyses demonstrate that Postn-Cre ablates Hand2 from the adrenal medulla as well as the sphenopalatine ganglia of the head. In both cases, Hand2 loss-of-function dramatically reduces expression of Dopamine Beta Hydroxylase (Dbh), a gene encoding a crucial catecholaminergic biosynthetic enzyme. Expression of the genes Tyrosine Hydroxylase (Th) and Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (Pnmt), which also encode essential catecholaminergic enzymes, were severely reduced in postnatal adrenal glands. Electrocardiograms demonstrate that 3-day postnatal Postn-Cre H2CKO pups exhibit sinus bradycardia. In conjunction with the aforementioned gene expression analyses, these results strongly suggest that the observed postnatal lethality occurs due to a catecholamine deficiency and subsequent heart failure.








The actin-binding and bundling protein, plastin 3 (PLS3), was identified as a protective modifier of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in some patient populations and as a disease modifier in animal models of SMA. How it functions in this process, however, is not known. Because PLS3 is an actin-binding/bundling protein, we hypothesized it would likely act via modification of the actin cytoskeleton in axons and neuromuscular junctions to protect motoneurons in SMA. To test this, we examined the ability of other known actin cytoskeleton organizing proteins to modify motor axon outgrowth phenotypes in an smn morphant zebrafish model of SMA. While PLS3 can fully compensate for low levels of smn, cofilin 1, profilin 2 and -actinin 1 did not affect smn morphant motor axon outgrowth. To determine how PLS3 functions in SMA, we generated deletion constructs of conserved PLS3 structural domains. The EF hands were essential for PLS3 rescue of smn morphant phenotypes, and mutation of the Ca(2+)-binding residues within the EF hands resulted in a complete loss of PLS3 rescue. These results indicate that Ca(2+) regulation is essential for the function of PLS3 in motor axons. Remarkably, PLS3 mutants lacking both actin-binding domains were still able to rescue motor axons in smn morphants, although not as well as full-length PLS3. Therefore, PLS3 function in this process may have an actin-independent component.
Identification of mutations at familial loci for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has provided novel insights into the aetiology of this rapidly progressing fatal neurodegenerative disease. However, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of the more common (90%) sporadic form have been less successful with the exception of the replicated locus at 9p21.2. To identify new loci associated with disease susceptibility, we have established the largest association study in ALS to date and undertaken a GWAS meta-analytical study combining 3959 newly genotyped Italian individuals (1982 cases and 1977 controls) collected by SLAGEN (Italian Consortium for the Genetics of ALS) together with samples from Netherlands, USA, UK, Sweden, Belgium, France, Ireland and Italy collected by ALSGEN (the International Consortium on Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Genetics). We analysed a total of 13 225 individuals, 6100 cases and 7125 controls for almost 7 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We identified a novel locus with genome-wide significance at 17q11.2 (rs34517613 with P = 1.11  10(-8); OR 0.82) that was validated when combined with genotype data from a replication cohort (P = 8.62  10(-9); OR 0.833) of 4656 individuals. Furthermore, we confirmed the previously reported association at 9p21.2 (rs3849943 with P = 7.69  10(-9); OR 1.16). Finally, we estimated the contribution of common variation to heritability of sporadic ALS as 12% using a linear mixed model accounting for all SNPs. Our results provide an insight into the genetic structure of sporadic ALS, confirming that common variation contributes to risk and that sufficiently powered studies can identify novel susceptibility loci.



Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) is an endogenous nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor known as a mediator of endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis. Circulating ADMA levels are correlated with cardiovascular risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperhomocysteinemia, age and smoking. We assessed the relationship between ADMA values and site-specific association of asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis (intima-media thickness (CIMT) and plaque) in elderly subjects. One hundred and eighty subjects underwent a complete history and physical examination, determination of serum chemistries and ADMA levels, and carotid ultrasound investigation (CUI). All subjects had no acute or chronic symptoms of carotid atherosclerosis. Statistical analyses showed that high plasma levels of ADMA/SDMA were positively correlated to carotid atherosclerosis (CIMT and plaque) (p&lt;0.001), with significant site-specific association. Total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides and C-reactive protein plasma concentrations were significantly associated with asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis (p&lt;0.001). High serum concentrations of ADMA and SDMA were associated with carotid atherosclerotic lesions as measured by CIMT ad plaque and may represent a new marker of asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis in elderly subjects.



One of the most reliable findings in psychiatry is in the incidence of anxiety and depression. Beginning at puberty, women develop mood disorders twice as often as men. Because corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors are implicated, we compared CRF receptor binding in pre- and postpubertal rats. In each brain area, CRF receptor binding was sexually dimorphic, but no two areas were alike in the way the sexes differed. In the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, CRF1 binding was initially the same in juveniles, but became greater in adult females. In piriform cortex, CRF1 binding increased in females and decreased in males, again becoming sexually dimorphic. CRF1 binding in the anterior cingulate was greater in females than in males at both ages. In CA3, CRF1 binding was greater in males before puberty but decreased during puberty, abolishing the sex difference. CRF2 binding in the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis was greater in males irrespective of age. In contrast, in each of three subdivisions of the lateral septum, females had greater CRF2 binding than males as juveniles, or, as juveniles and as adults. CRF2 binding in the ventromedial hypothalamus was the same in juveniles, but binding levels increased in males, leading to an adult sex difference. Thus, eight CRF receptor-expressing areas displayed eight distinct sex differences. These results show that sex differences pervade the CRF receptor system in juvenile and adult rats, and the mechanisms that control them are likely to be sex-, region-, and subtype-specific.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are extracellular proteolytic enzymes that contribute to pericellular remodeling in a variety of tissues, including brain, where they function in adult hippocampal synaptic structural and functional plasticity. Synaptic plasticity and remodeling are also important for development of connectivity, but it is unclear whether MMPs--particularly MMP-2 and -9, the major MMPs operative in brain--contribute at these stages. Here, we use a combination of biochemical and anatomical methods to characterize expression and localization of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in early postnatal and adult rat hippocampus. Gene and protein expression of these MMPs were evident throughout hippocampus at all ages examined, but expression levels were highest during the first postnatal week. MMP-2 and MMP-9 immunolocalized to punctate structures within the neuropil that codistributed with foci of proteolytic activity, as well as with markers of growing axons and synapses. Taken together, discrete foci of MMP proteolysis are likely important for actively shaping and remodeling cellular and connectional architecture as hippocampal circuitry is becoming established during early postnatal life.
Larval and adult fruit flies are attracted to volatiles emanating from food substrates that have been occupied by larvae. We tested whether such volatiles are emitted by the larval gut bacteria by conducting tests under bacteria-free (axenic) conditions. We also tested attraction to two bacteria species, Lactobacillus brevis, which we cultured from larvae in our lab, and L. plantarum, a common constituent of fruit flies' microbiome in other laboratory populations and in wild fruit flies. Neither larvae nor adults showed attraction to axenic food that had been occupied by axenic larvae, but both showed the previously reported attraction to standard food that had been occupied by larvae with an intact microbiome. Larvae also showed significant attraction to volatiles from axenic food and larvae to which we added only either L. brevis or L. plantarum, and volatiles from L. brevis reared on its optimal growth medium. Controlled learning experiments indicated that larvae experienced with both standard and axenic used food do not perceive either as superior, while focal larvae experienced with simulated used food, which contains burrows, perceive it as superior to unused food. Our results suggest that flies rely on microbiome-derived volatiles for long-distance attraction to suitable food patches. Under natural settings, fruits often contain harmful fungi and bacteria, and both L. brevis and L. plantarum produce compounds that suppress the growth of some antagonistic fungi and bacteria. The larval microbiome volatiles may therefore lead prospective fruit flies towards substrates with a hospitable microbial environment.
How the brain processes natural sensory input remains an important and poorly understood problem in neuroscience. The efficient coding hypothesis asserts that the brain's coding strategies are adapted to the statistics of natural stimuli in order to efficiently process them, thereby optimizing their perception by the organism. Here we examined whether gymnotiform weakly electric fish displayed behavioral responses that are adapted to the statistics of the natural electrosensory envelopes. Previous studies have shown that the envelopes resulting from movement tend to consist of low (&lt;1 Hz) temporal frequencies and are behaviorally relevant whereas those resulting from social interactions consist of higher (&gt;1 Hz) temporal frequencies that can thus mask more behaviorally relevant signals. We found that the self-generated electric organ discharge frequency follows the detailed time course of the envelope around a mean value that is positively offset with respect to its baseline value for temporal frequencies between 0.001 Hz and 1 Hz. The frequency-following component of this behavioral response decreased in magnitude as a power law as a function of the envelope frequency and was negligible for envelope frequencies above 1 Hz. In contrast, the offset component was relatively constant and somewhat increased for envelope frequencies above 1 Hz. Thus, our results show that weakly electric fish display behavioral responses that track the detailed time course of low but not high frequency envelope stimuli. Furthermore, we found that the magnitude of the frequency-following behavioral response matches, in a one-to-one fashion, the spectral power of natural second-order stimulus attributes observed during movement. Indeed, both decayed as a power law with the same exponent for temporal frequencies spanning three orders of magnitude. Thus, our findings suggest that the neural coding strategies used by weakly electric fish perceive the detailed time course of movement envelopes and are adapted to their statistics as found in the natural environment. They also suggest that weakly electric fish might take advantage of the differential frequency content of movement and social envelopes in order to give appropriate behavioral responses during encounters between two or more conspecifics.
Female blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) in their pubertal moult stage release unidentified sex pheromone molecules in their urine, causing males to respond with courtship behaviours including a display called courtship stationary paddling and a form of precopulatory guarding called cradle carry. We hypothesized that pheromones are mixtures of molecules and are more concentrated in urine of pubertal premoult females compared with other moulting stages and thus that these molecules are biomarkers (i.e. metabolites that can be used as an indicator of some biological state or condition) of pubertal premoult females. We tested this hypothesis by combining bioassay-guided fractionation and biomarker targeting. To evaluate the molecular mass of the putative pheromone by bioassay-guided fractionation, we separated urine from pubertal premoult females and intermoult males by ultrafiltration into three molecular mass fractions. The &lt;500 Da fraction and the 500-1000 Da fraction but not the &gt;1000 Da fraction of female urine induced male courtship stationary paddling, but none of the fractions of male urine did. Thus, female urine contains molecules of &lt;1000 Da that stimulate courtship behaviours in males. Biomarker targeting using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectral analysis of the 500-1000 Da fraction of urine from premoult and postmoult males and females revealed a premoult biomarker. Purification, nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry and high pressure liquid chromatography analysis of this premoult biomarker identified it as N-acetylglucosamino-1,5-lactone (NAGL) and showed that it is more abundant in urine of premoult females and males than in urine of either postmoult or juvenile females and males. NAGL has not been reported before as a natural product or as a molecule of the chitin metabolic pathway. Physiological and behavioural experiments demonstrated that blue crabs can detect NAGL through their olfactory pathway. Thus, we hypothesize that NAGL is a component of the sex pheromone and that it acts in conjunction with other yet unidentified components.
Chronic opiate abuse accelerates the development of cognitive deficits in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 patients. To investigate morphine's effects on viral infection of the central nervous system, we applied chronic morphine treatment to the LP-BM5 murine acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (MAIDS) model. LP-BM5 infection induces proinflammatory cytokine/chemokine production, correlating to increased blood-brain barrier permeability. Morphine treatment significantly increased LP-BM5 viral load in the hippocampus, but not in the frontal lobe. Morphine reduced the chemokine CCL5 to non-infected levels in the frontal lobe, but not in the hippocampus. These data indicate a region-specific mechanism for morphine's effects on virally-induced neurocognitive deficits.

Natalizumab, an effective treatment for MS, has been shown to exacerbate neuromyelitis optica (NMO) with aquaporin-4 antibodies, but whether this is the case in antibody negative NMO and atypical MS/NMO spectrum disorder overlap syndromes is unknown. We describe a patient with a relapsing optico-spinal demyelinating syndrome, negative for aquaporin-4 antibodies, who experienced a catastrophic brain relapse shortly after a single dose of natalizumab, highlighting that MS immunomodulatory drugs may worsen demyelination in patients with seronegative NMO and atypical MS/NMO overlap syndromes even if they are aquaporin-4 antibody negative. We summarise the treatments considered safe and effective in NMO, and those with potential to exacerbate disease.

Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) represents a promising tool for studying and influencing cognition in people with neurodegenerative diseases. This procedure is noninvasive and painless, and it does not require the use of anesthesia or pharmacological substances. In this systematic critical review we report outcomes from research focused on behavioral cognitive effects induced by rTMS in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) preceding AD. There are still major limitations to rTMS use, such as a poor understanding of its after-effects and inter-individual variability in their magnitude, discrepancies in stimulation protocols and study designs, varied selection of the specific stimulated areas and control procedures, and neuropsychological methods for assessment of after-effects; hence, the results of the present research can only be considered preliminary. The future directions are discussed.
We present a 70-year-old male patient of Greek origin with choreatic movements of the tongue and face, lower limb muscle weakness, peripheral neuropathy, elevated creatinephosphokinase (CPK), acanthocytosis and haemolysis in the absence of Kell RBC antigens with an additional Factor IX-deficiency. Genetic testing for mutations in the three exons of the XK gene revealed a previously unreported hemizygous single base-pair frameshift deletion at exon 1 (c.229delC, p.Leu80fs). In conclusion, we hereby describe a rare phenotype of a patient with McLeod syndrome which was discovered coincidentally during routine blood group testing and consecutively genetically confirmed.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is one of the most important proteins playing a pivotal role in growing and repairing of the nervous system. GDNF therapy is one of the suggested options in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Limitations in the viral gene delivery and its side effects after therapy have encouraged us to use a non-viral method one for this purpose. We transfected rat bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in ex vivo conditions using Lipofectamine 2000 reagent with pEGFP-C1 and a constructed vector carrying the human proGDNF (pSecTag2/HygroB-human proGDNF), transiently and stably, respectively. The rate of transient transfection of rat BMSCs was eight percent and transfected rat BMSCs with pSecTag2/HygroB-human proGDNF stabilized by adding Hygromycin B in cell culture medium at 200 g/ml. Semi-quantitative data analysis from Western-blot technique showed that stable transfected cells secrete GDNF at higher level in comparison with control cells (6.530 fold in the supernatant). The present study supports the utility of liposome-mediated transfection for overexpressing human GDNF in rat BMSCs. For this purpose and in order to get more yield of human GDNF secretion from the stable transfected rat BMSCs, we used a vector containing another signal sequence instead of its own pre-segment of proGDNF protein. This is the first report in this regard and the data presented will be potentially useful for human gene transfer therapies in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.




The study of neural circuit reconstruction, i.e., connectomics, is a challenging problem in neuroscience. Automated and semi-automated electron microscopy (EM) image analysis can be tremendously helpful for connectomics research. In this paper, we propose a fully automatic approach for intra-section segmentation and inter-section reconstruction of neurons using EM images. A hierarchical merge tree structure is built to represent multiple region hypotheses and supervised classification techniques are used to evaluate their potentials, based on which we resolve the merge tree with consistency constraints to acquire final intra-section segmentation. Then, we use a supervised learning based linking procedure for the inter-section neuron reconstruction. Also, we develop a semi-automatic method that utilizes the intermediate outputs of our automatic algorithm and achieves intra-segmentation with minimal user intervention. The experimental results show that our automatic method can achieve close-to-human intra-segmentation accuracy and state-of-the-art inter-section reconstruction accuracy. We also show that our semi-automatic method can further improve the intra-segmentation accuracy.

Synchronized brain rhythms, associated with diverse cognitive functions, have been observed in electrical recordings of brain activity. Neural synchronization may be well described by using the population-averaged global potential VG in computational neuroscience. The time-averaged fluctuation of VG plays the role of a &quot;thermodynamic&quot; order parameter O used for describing the synchrony-asynchrony transition in neural systems. Population spike synchronization may be well visualized in the raster plot of neural spikes. The degree of neural synchronization seen in the raster plot is well measured in terms of a &quot;statistical-mechanical&quot; spike-based measure Ms introduced by considering the occupation and the pacing patterns of spikes. The global potential VG is also used to give a reference global cycle for the calculation of Ms. Hence, VG becomes an important collective quantity because it is associated with calculation of both O and Ms. However, it is practically difficult to directly get VG in real experiments. To overcome this difficulty, instead of VG, we employ the instantaneous population spike rate (IPSR) which can be obtained in experiments, and develop realistic thermodynamic and statistical-mechanical measures, based on IPSR, to make practical characterization of the neural synchronization in both computational and experimental neuroscience. Particularly, more accurate characterization of weak sparse spike synchronization can be achieved in terms of realistic statistical-mechanical IPSR-based measure, in comparison with the conventional measure based on VG.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the validity of the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool-Second Edition (SCAT2) in patients with acute mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBIs) in a civilian trauma setting. In addition, the SCAT2 was compared to the Military Acute Concussion Evaluation (MACE). All the participants of the study were prospectively recruited from the emergency department of Tampere University Hospital (Tampere, Finland). Patients (n=49) between the ages of 18 and 60 years, with no premorbid medical or psychiatric conditions, who met the World Health Organization criteria for mTBI, were enrolled. Trauma controls (n=33) were recruited using similar study criteria. The main measures of the study consisted of SCAT2, MACE, and mTBI severity markers, including neuroimaging (computed tomography and conventional magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), and 1-month clinical outcomes (postconcussion syndrome diagnosis and return to work status). The scoreable components of the SCAT2 performed variably across five dimensions of validity (diagnostic, criterion, divergent, predictive, and responsiveness). The Standardized Assessment of Concussion component reasonably discriminated mTBI patients from controls, was associated with MRI lesions, improved over time, and predicted return to work. Symptom scores differentiated patients with mTBIs from controls, and elevated initial symptom scores in patients with mTBI were associated with a greater risk of persistent postconcussion symptoms. The SCAT2 was superior to the MACE. The SCAT2 appears useful for detecting acute mTBI-related symptoms and cognitive impairment, refining prognosis, and monitoring recovery.
Neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) are a promising stem cell source for transplantation approaches aiming at brain repair or restoration in regenerative neurology. This directive has arisen from the extensive evidence that brain repair is achieved after focal or systemic NPC transplantation in several preclinical models of neurological diseases. These experimental data have identified the cell delivery route as one of the main hurdles of restorative stem cell therapies for brain diseases that requires urgent assessment. Intraparenchymal stem cell grafting represents a logical approach to those pathologies characterized by isolated and accessible brain lesions such as spinal cord injuries and Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, this principle is poorly applicable to conditions characterized by a multifocal, inflammatory and disseminated (both in time and space) nature, including multiple sclerosis (MS). As such, brain targeting by systemic NPC delivery has become a low invasive and therapeutically efficacious protocol to deliver cells to the brain and spinal cord of rodents and nonhuman primates affected by experimental chronic inflammatory damage of the central nervous system (CNS). This alternative method of cell delivery relies on the NPC pathotropism, specifically their innate capacity to (i) sense the environment via functional cell adhesion molecules and inflammatory cytokine and chemokine receptors; (ii) cross the leaking anatomical barriers after intravenous (i.v.) or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection; (iii) accumulate at the level of multiple perivascular site(s) of inflammatory brain and spinal cord damage; and (i.v.) exert remarkable tissue trophic and immune regulatory effects onto different host target cells in vivo. Here we describe the methods that we have developed for the i.v. and i.c.v. delivery of syngeneic NPCs in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), as model of chronic CNS inflammatory demyelination, and envisage the systemic stem cell delivery as a valuable technique for the selective targeting of the inflamed brain in regenerative neurology.
Rodents have been traditionally used as a standard animal model in laboratory experiments involving a myriad of sensory, cognitive, and motor tasks. Higher cognitive functions that require precise control over sensorimotor responses such as decision-making and attentional modulation, however, are typically assessed in nonhuman primates. Despite the richness of primate behavior that allows multiple variants of these functions to be studied, the rodent model remains an attractive, cost-effective alternative to primate models. Furthermore, the ability to fully automate operant conditioning in rodents adds unique advantages over the labor intensive training of nonhuman primates while studying a broad range of these complex functions. Here, we introduce a protocol for operantly conditioning rats on performing working memory tasks. During critical epochs of the task, the protocol ensures that the animal's overt movement is minimized by requiring the animal to 'fixate' until a Go cue is delivered, akin to nonhuman primate experimental design. A simple two alternative forced choice task is implemented to demonstrate the performance. We discuss the application of this paradigm to other tasks.




Corticobasal syndrome (CBS) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) represent challenging neurodegenerative disorders for clinicians and nonclinical scientists alike. Although initially lumped together as &quot;Parkinson's-Plus&quot; syndromes, CBS and PSP are clinically and pathologically distinct from Parkinson's disease. It is now clear that behavioral and cognitive changes are common in both syndromes and affect impact quality of life and carer burden considerably. We briefly review the clinical, pathological, and neuroradiological features of each syndrome, followed by more detailed descriptions of the behavioral and cognitive deficits encountered in CBS and PSP. Clinically and pathologically heterogeneous, CBS is characterized by a wide range of cognitive and behavioral disturbances. impairments in executive function and memory are common, but nonspecific. In contrast, deficits in language and visuospatial abilities appear to be more distinctive features of CBS; the relevance of specific patterns of impairment to the underlying histopathology, or prognosis, remains to be fully elucidated. As in CBS, behavioral and cognitive changes are almost universal in PSP, with a wide range of reported deficits. Apathy is very common, often paradoxically accompanied by impulsivity. Executive dysfunction is prominent, but memory and visuospatial deficits also occur. An emerging field is the study of social cognition, which appears impaired in both syndromes. As therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative pathologies emerge, more specific diagnostic tools in CBS and PSP will be required. Careful clinicopathological correlation, and the development of biomarkers for specific histopathologies, will be important milestones on the road to effective treatments.
The recent formalization of clinical criteria for Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) codifies many studies on this topic, including those assessing biological correlates. These studies show that the emergence of PDD occurs on the background of severe dopamine deficits with, the main pathological drivers of cognitive decline being a synergistic effect between alpha-synuclein and Alzheimer's disease pathology. The presence of these pathologies correlates with a marked loss of limbic and cortically projecting dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, and acetylcholine neurons, although the exact timing of these relationships remains to be determined. Genetic factors, such as triplications in the -synuclein gene, lead to a clear increased risk of PDD, whereas others, such as parkin mutations, are associated with a reduced risk of PDD. The very recent formalization of clinical criteria for PD with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) allows only speculation on its biological and genetic bases. Critical assessment of animal models shows that chronic low-dose MPTP treatment in primates recapitulates PD-MCI over time, enhancing the current biological concept of PD-MCI as having enhanced dopamine deficiency in frontostriatal pathways as well as involvement of other neurotransmitter systems. Data from other animal models support multiple transmitter involvement in cognitive impairment in PD. Whereas dopamine dysfunction has been highlighted because of its obvious role in PD, the role of the other neurotransmitter systems, neurodegenerative pathologies, and genetic factors in PD-MCI remains to be fully elucidated.
Progress in characterization of the nature, neural basis, and treatment of cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease is reviewed from the perspective of cognitive neuroscience. An initial emphasis on fronto-striatal executive deficits is surveyed along with the discoveries of disruption as well as remediation of certain impairments by dopaminergic mediation and their association with theories of reinforcement learning. Subsequent focus on large cohorts has revealed considerable heterogeneity in the cognitive impairments as well as a suggestion of at least two distinct syndromes, with the dopamine-dependent fronto-striatal deficits being somewhat independent of other signs commonly associated with Parkinson's disease dementia. The utility is proposed of a new, integrated cognitive neuroscience approach based on combining genetic and neuroimaging methodologies with neuropsychological and, ultimately, psychopharmacological approaches.
A tissue-engineered oesophageal scaffold could be very useful for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with benign or malignant diseases such as carcinomas, trauma or congenital malformations. Here we decellularize rat oesophagi inside a perfusion bioreactor to create biocompatible biological rat scaffolds that mimic native architecture, resist mechanical stress and induce angiogenesis. Seeded allogeneic mesenchymal stromal cells spontaneously differentiate (proven by gene-, protein and functional evaluations) into epithelial- and muscle-like cells. The reseeded scaffolds are used to orthotopically replace the entire cervical oesophagus in immunocompetent rats. All animals survive the 14-day study period, with patent and functional grafts, and gain significantly more weight than sham-operated animals. Explanted grafts show regeneration of all the major cell and tissue components of the oesophagus including functional epithelium, muscle fibres, nerves and vasculature. We consider the presented tissue-engineered oesophageal scaffolds a significant step towards the clinical application of bioengineered oesophagi.

Opening and closing the eyes are fundamental behaviors for directing attention to the external versus internal world. However, it remains unclear whether the states of eyes-open (EO) relative to eyes-closed (EC) are associated with different topological organizations of functional neural networks for exteroceptive and interoceptive processing (processing the external world and internal state, respectively). Here, we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and neural network analysis to investigate the topological properties of functional networks of the human brain when the eyes were open versus closed. The brain networks exhibited higher cliquishness and local efficiency, but lower global efficiency during the EO state compared to the EC state. These properties suggest an increase in specialized information processing along with a decrease in integrated information processing in EO (vs. EC). More importantly, the &quot;exteroceptive&quot; network, including the attentional system (e.g., superior parietal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule), ocular motor system (e.g., precentral gyrus and superior frontal gyrus), and arousal system (e.g., insula and thalamus), showed higher regional nodal properties (nodal degree, efficiency and betweenness centrality) in EO relative to EC. In contrast, the &quot;interoceptive&quot; network, composed of visual system (e.g., lingual gyrus, fusiform gyrus and cuneus), auditory system (e.g., Heschl's gyurs), somatosensory system (e.g., postcentral gyrus), and part of the default mode network (e.g., angular gyrus and anterior cingulate gyrus), showed significantly higher regional properties in EC vs. EO. In addition, the connections across sensory modalities were altered by volitional eye opening. The synchronicity between the visual system and the motor, somatosensory and auditory systems, characteristic of EC, was attenuated in EO. Further, the connections between the visual system and the attention, arousal and subcortical systems were increased in EO. These results may indicate that EO leads to a suppression of sensory modalities (other than visual) to allocate resources to exteroceptive processing. Our findings suggest that the topological organization of human brain networks dynamically switches corresponding to the information processing modes as we open or close our eyes.
Hearing impairment in older adults is independently associated in longitudinal studies with accelerated cognitive decline and incident dementia, and in cross-sectional studies, with reduced volumes in the auditory cortex. Whether peripheral hearing impairment is associated with accelerated rates of brain atrophy is unclear. We analyzed brain volume measurements from magnetic resonance brain scans of individuals with normal hearing versus hearing impairment (speech-frequency pure tone average&gt;25 dB) followed in the neuroimaging substudy of the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging for a mean of 6.4 years after the baseline scan (n=126, age 56-86 years). Brain volume measurements were performed with semi-automated region-of-interest (ROI) algorithms, and brain volume trajectories were analyzed with mixed-effect regression models adjusted for demographic and cardiovascular factors. We found that individuals with hearing impairment (n=51) compared to those with normal hearing (n=75) had accelerated volume declines in whole brain and regional volumes in the right temporal lobe (superior, middle, and inferior temporal gyri, parahippocampus, p&lt;.05). These results were robust to adjustment for multiple confounders and were consistent with voxel-based analyses, which also implicated right greater than left temporal regions. These findings demonstrate that peripheral hearing impairment is independently associated with accelerated brain atrophy in whole brain and regional volumes concentrated in the right temporal lobe. Further studies investigating the mechanistic basis of the observed associations are needed.
In this study we show, for the first time, a correlation between the neuroanatomy of the synesthetic brain and a metric that measures behavior not exclusive to the synesthetic experience. Grapheme-color synesthetes (n=20), who experience colors triggered by viewing or thinking of specific letters or numbers, showed altered white matter microstructure, as measured using diffusion tensor imaging, compared with carefully matched non-synesthetic controls. Synesthetes had lower fractional anisotropy and higher perpendicular diffusivity when compared to non-synesthetic controls. An analysis of the mode of anisotropy suggested that these differences were likely due to the presence of more crossing pathways in the brains of synesthetes. Additionally, these differences in white matter microstructure correlated negatively, and only for synesthetes, with a measure of the vividness of their visual imagery. Synesthetes who reported the most vivid visual imagery had the lowest fractional anisotropy and highest perpendicular diffusivity. We conclude that synesthetes as a population vary along a continuum while showing categorical differences in neuroanatomy and behavior compared to non-synesthetes.
The abilities to inhibit impulses and withdraw certain responses are critical for human's survival in a fast-changing environment. These processes happen fast, in a complex manner, and sometimes are difficult to capture with fMRI or mean electrophysiological brain signal alone. Therefore, an alternative measure that can reveal the efficiency of the neural mechanism across multiple timescales is needed for the investigation of these brain functions. The present study employs a new approach to analyzing electroencephalography (EEG) signal: the multiscale entropy (MSE), which groups data points with different timescales to reveal any occurrence of repeated patterns, in order to theoretically quantify the complexity (indicating adaptability and efficiency) of neural systems during the process of inhibitory control. From this MSE perspective, EEG signals of successful stop trials are more complex and information rich than that of unsuccessful stop trials. We further applied transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), with anodal electrode over presupplementary motor area (preSMA), to test the relationship between behavioral modification with the complexity of EEG signals. We found that tDCS can further increase the EEG complexity of the frontal lobe. Furthermore, the MSE pattern was found to be different between high and low performers (divided by their stop-signal reaction time), where the high-performing group had higher complexity in smaller scales and less complexity in larger scales in comparison to the low-performing group. In addition, this between-group MSE difference was found to interact with the anodal tDCS, where the increase of MSE in low performers benefitted more from the anodal tDCS. Together, the current study demonstrates that participants who suffer from poor inhibitory control can efficiently improve their performance with 10min of electrical stimulation, and such cognitive improvement can be effectively traced back to the complexity within the EEG signals via MSE analysis, thereby offering a theoretical basis for clinical intervention via tDCS for deficits in inhibitory control.
When deprived of compelling perceptual input, the mind is often occupied with thoughts unrelated to the immediate environment. Previous behavioral research has shown that this self-generated task-unrelated thought (TUT), especially under non-demanding conditions, relates to cognitive capacities such as creativity, planning, and reduced temporal discounting. Despite the frequency and importance of this type of cognition, little is known about its structural brain basis. Using MRI-based cortical thickness measures in 37 participants, we were able to show that individuals with a higher tendency to engage in TUT under low-demanding conditions (but not under high-demanding conditions) show an increased thickness of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and anterior/midcingulate cortex. Thickness of these regions also related to less temporal discounting (TD) of monetary rewards in an economic task, indicative of more patient decision-making. The findings of a shared structural substrate in mPFC and anterior/midcingulate cortex underlying both TUT and TD suggest an important role of these brain regions in supporting the self-generation of information that is unrelated to the immediate environment and which may be adaptive in nature.
Neuroscience research has thoroughly studied how nonliteral language is processed during metaphor comprehension. However, it is not clear how the brain actually creates nonliteral language. Therefore, the present study for the first time investigates the neural correlates of metaphor production. Participants completed sentences by generating novel metaphors or literal synonyms during functional imaging. Responses were spoken aloud in the scanner, recorded, and subsequently rated for their creative quality. We found that metaphor production was associated with focal activity in predominantly left-hemispheric brain regions, specifically the left angular gyrus, the left middle and superior frontal gyri-corresponding to the left dorsomedial prefrontal (DMPFC) cortex-and the posterior cingulate cortex. Moreover, brain activation in the left anterior DMPFC and the right middle temporal gyrus was found to linearly increase with the creative quality of metaphor responses. These findings are related to neuroscientific evidence on metaphor comprehension, creative idea generation and episodic future thought, suggesting that creating metaphors involves the flexible adaptation of semantic memory to imagine and construct novel figures of speech. Furthermore, the left DMPFC may exert executive control to maintain strategic search and selection, thus facilitating creativity of thought.

Upper limb impairments can occur in patients with multiple sclerosis, affecting daily living activities; however there is at present no definite agreement on the best rehabilitation treatment strategy to pursue. Moreover, motor training has been shown to induce changes in white matter architecture in healthy subjects. This study aimed at evaluating the motor behavioral and white matter microstructural changes following a 2-month upper limb motor rehabilitation treatment based on task-oriented exercises in patients with multiple sclerosis. Thirty patients (18 females and 12 males; age=43.3  8.7 years) in a stable phase of the disease presenting with mild or moderate upper limb sensorimotor deficits were randomized into two groups of 15 patients each. Both groups underwent twenty 1-hour treatment sessions, three times a week. The &quot;treatment group&quot; received an active motor rehabilitation treatment, based on voluntary exercises including task-oriented exercises, while the &quot;control group&quot; underwent passive mobilization of the shoulder, elbow, wrist and fingers. Before and after the rehabilitation protocols, motor performance was evaluated in all patients with standard tests. Additionally, finger motor performance accuracy was assessed by an engineered glove. In the same sessions, every patient underwent diffusion tensor imaging to obtain parametric maps of fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, axial diffusivity, and radial diffusivity. The mean value of each parameter was separately calculated within regions of interest including the fiber bundles connecting brain areas involved in voluntary movement control: the corpus callosum, the corticospinal tracts and the superior longitudinal fasciculi. The two rehabilitation protocols induced similar effects on unimanual motor performance, but the bimanual coordination task revealed that the residual coordination abilities were maintained in the treated patients while they significantly worsened in the control group (p=0.002). Further, in the treatment group white matter integrity in the corpus callosum and corticospinal tracts was preserved while a microstructural integrity worsening was found in the control group (fractional anisotropy of the corpus callosum and corticospinal tracts: p=0.033 and p=0.022; radial diffusivity of the corpus callosum and corticospinal tracts: p=0.004 and p=0.008). Conversely, a significant increase of radial diffusivity was observed in the superior longitudinal fasciculi in both groups (p=0.02), indicating lack of treatment effects on this structure, showing damage progression likely due to a demyelination process. All these findings indicate the importance of administering, when possible, a rehabilitation treatment consisting of voluntary movements. We also demonstrated that the beneficial effects of a rehabilitation treatment are task-dependent and selective in their target; this becomes crucial towards the implementation of tailored rehabilitative approaches.
The exact role of the left ventral occipitotemporal cortex (VOTC) during the initial stages of reading acquisition is a hotly debated issue, especially regarding the comparative effect of learning on early stimulus-dependent vs. later task-dependent processes. We show that this controversy can be solved with high-temporal resolution intracerebral EEG recordings of the VOTC. We measured High-Frequency Activity (50-150 Hz) as a proxy of population-level spiking activity while participants learned Japanese Katakana symbols, and found that learning primarily affects top-down/task-dependent neural processing, after a few minutes only. In contrast, adaptation of early bottom-up/stimulus-dependent processing takes several days to adapt and provides the basis for fluent reading. Such evidence that two consecutive stages of neural processing, stimulus- and task-dependent are differentially affected by learning, can reconcile seemingly opposite hypotheses on the role of the VOTC during reading acquisition.
In recent years, coordinate-based meta-analyses have become a powerful and widely used tool to study co-activity across neuroimaging experiments, a development that was supported by the emergence of large-scale neuroimaging databases like BrainMap. However, the evaluation of co-activation patterns is constrained by the fact that previous coordinate-based meta-analysis techniques like Activation Likelihood Estimation (ALE) and Multilevel Kernel Density Analysis (MKDA) reveal all brain regions that show convergent activity within a dataset without taking into account actual within-experiment co-occurrence patterns. To overcome this issue we here propose a novel meta-analytic approach named PaMiNI that utilizes a combination of two well-established data-mining techniques, Gaussian mixture modeling and the Apriori algorithm. By this, PaMiNI enables a data-driven detection of frequent co-activation patterns within neuroimaging datasets. The feasibility of the method is demonstrated by means of several analyses on simulated data as well as a real application. The analyses of the simulated data show that PaMiNI identifies the brain regions underlying the simulated activation foci and perfectly separates the co-activation patterns of the experiments in the simulations. Furthermore, PaMiNI still yields good results when activation foci of distinct brain regions become closer together or if they are non-Gaussian distributed. For the further evaluation, a real dataset on working memory experiments is used, which was previously examined in an ALE meta-analysis and hence allows a cross-validation of both methods. In this latter analysis, PaMiNI revealed a fronto-parietal &quot;core&quot; network of working memory and furthermore indicates a left-lateralization in this network. Finally, to encourage a widespread usage of this new method, the PaMiNI approach was implemented into a publicly available software system.
The adult human visual system can efficiently fill-in missing object boundaries when low-level information from the retina is incomplete, but little is known about how these processes develop across childhood. A decade of visual-evoked potential (VEP) studies has produced a theoretical model identifying distinct phases of contour completion in adults. The first, termed a perceptual phase, occurs from approximately 100-200 ms and is associated with automatic boundary completion. The second is termed a conceptual phase occurring between 230 and 400 ms. The latter has been associated with the analysis of ambiguous objects which seem to require more effort to complete. The electrophysiological markers of these phases have both been localized to the lateral occipital complex, a cluster of ventral visual stream brain regions associated with object-processing. We presented Kanizsa-type illusory contour stimuli, often used for exploring contour completion processes, to neurotypical persons ages 6-31 (N=63), while parametrically varying the spatial extent of these induced contours, in order to better understand how filling-in processes develop across childhood and adolescence. Our results suggest that, while adults complete contour boundaries in a single discrete period during the automatic perceptual phase, children display an immature response pattern-engaging in more protracted processing across both timeframes and appearing to recruit more widely distributed regions which resemble those evoked during adult processing of higher-order ambiguous figures. However, children older than 5years of age were remarkably like adults in that the effects of contour processing were invariant to manipulation of contour extent.
How visual object categories are represented in the brain is one of the key questions in neuroscience. Studies on low-level visual features have shown that relative timings or phases of neural activity between multiple brain locations encode information. However, whether such temporal patterns of neural activity are used in the representation of visual objects is unknown. Here, we examined whether and how visual object categories could be predicted (or decoded) from temporal patterns of electrocorticographic (ECoG) signals from the temporal cortex in five patients with epilepsy. We used temporal correlations between electrodes as input features, and compared the decoding performance with features defined by spectral power and phase from individual electrodes. While using power or phase alone, the decoding accuracy was significantly better than chance, correlations alone or those combined with power outperformed other features. Decoding performance with correlations was degraded by shuffling the order of trials of the same category in each electrode, indicating that the relative time series between electrodes in each trial is critical. Analysis using a sliding time window revealed that decoding performance with correlations began to rise earlier than that with power. This earlier increase in performance was replicated by a model using phase differences to encode categories. These results suggest that activity patterns arising from interactions between multiple neuronal units carry additional information on visual object categories.

In a highly dynamic visual environment the human brain needs to rapidly differentiate complex visual patterns, such as faces. Here, we defined the temporal frequency tuning of cortical face-sensitive areas for face discrimination. Six observers were tested with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) when the same or different faces were presented in blocks at 11 frequency rates (ranging from 1 to 12 Hz). We observed a larger fMRI response for different than same faces - the repetition suppression/adaptation effect - across all stimulation frequency rates. Most importantly, the magnitude of the repetition suppression effect showed a typical Gaussian-shaped tuning function, peaking on average at 6 Hz for all face-sensitive areas of the ventral occipito-temporal cortex, including the fusiform and occipital &quot;face areas&quot; (FFA and OFA), as well as the superior temporal sulcus. This effect was due both to a maximal response to different faces in a range of 3 to 6 Hz and to a sharp drop of the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal from 6 Hz onward when the same face was repeated during a block. These observations complement recent scalp EEG observations (Alonso-Prieto et al., 2013), indicating that the cortical face network can discriminate each individual face when these successive faces are presented every 160-170 ms. They also suggest that a relatively fast 6 Hz rate may be needed to isolate the contribution of high-level face perception processes during behavioral discrimination tasks. Finally, these findings carry important practical implications, allowing investigators to optimize the stimulation frequency rates for observing the largest repetition suppression effects to faces and other visual forms in the occipito-temporal cortex.
Spontaneous (or resting-state) brain activity has attracted a growing body of neuroimaging research over the last decades. Whole-brain network models have proved helpful to investigate the source of slow (&lt;0.1 Hz) correlated hemodynamic fluctuations revealed in fMRI during rest. However, the mechanisms mediating resting-state long-distance correlations and the relationship with the faster neural activity remain unclear. Novel insights coming from MEG studies have shown that the amplitude envelopes of alpha- and beta-frequency oscillations (~8-30 Hz) display similar correlation patterns as the fMRI signals. In this work, we combine experimental and theoretical work to investigate the mechanisms of spontaneous MEG functional connectivity. Using a simple model of coupled oscillators adapted to incorporate realistic whole-brain connectivity and conduction delays, we explore how slow and structured amplitude envelopes of band-pass filtered signals - fairly reproducing MEG data collected from 10 healthy subjects at rest - are generated spontaneously in the space-time structure of the brain network. Our simulation results show that the large-scale neuroanatomical connectivity provides an optimal network structure to support a regime with metastable synchronization. In this regime, different subsystems may temporarily synchronize at reduced collective frequencies (falling in the 8-30 Hz range due to the delays) while the global system never fully synchronizes. This mechanism modulates the frequency of the oscillators on a slow time-scale (&lt;0.1 Hz) leading to structured amplitude fluctuations of band-pass filtered signals. Taken overall, our results reveal that the structured amplitude envelope fluctuations observed in resting-state MEG data may originate from spontaneous synchronization mechanisms naturally occurring in the space-time structure of the brain.
Dopamine deficiency affects functional integration of activity in distributed neural regions. It has been suggested that lack of dopamine induces disruption of neural interactions between prefrontal and premotor areas, which might underlie impairment of motor control observed in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study we recorded cortical activity with high-density electroencephalography in 11 patients with PD as a pathological model of dopamine deficiency, and 13 healthy control subjects. Participants performed repetitive extension-flexion movements of their right index finger, which were externally paced at a rate of 0.5 Hz. This required participants to align their movement velocity to the slow external pace. Patients were studied after at least 12-hour withdrawal of dopaminergic medication (OFF state) and after intake of the dopamine precursor levodopa (ON state) in order to examine oscillatory coupling between prefrontal and premotor areas during respectively low and high levels of dopamine. In 10 patients and 12 control participants multiple source beamformer analysis yielded task-related activation of a contralateral cortical network comprising prefrontal cortex (PFC), lateral premotor cortex (lPM), supplementary motor area (SMA) and primary motor cortex (M1). Dynamic causal modelling was used to characterize task-related oscillatory coupling between prefrontal and premotor cortical areas. Healthy participants showed task-induced coupling from PFC to SMA, which was modulated within the -band. In the OFF state, PD patients did not express any frequency-specific coupling between prefrontal and premotor areas. Application of levodopa reinstated task-related coupling from PFC to SMA, which was expressed as high-- coupling. Additionally, strong within-frequency -coupling as well as cross-frequency - coupling was observed from PFC to lPM. Enhancement of this cross-frequency - coupling after application of levodopa was positively correlated with individual improvement in motor function. The results demonstrate that dopamine deficiency impairs the ability to establish oscillatory coupling between prefrontal and premotor areas during an externally paced motor task. Application of extrinsic dopamine in PD patients reinstates physiological prefrontal-premotor coupling and additionally induces within- and cross-frequency coupling from prefrontal to premotor areas, which is not expressed in healthy participants.
A previously healthy 49-year-old woman presented with progressive motor deficit. The complaints started the year before with weakness of the right arm. Over the subsequent months, she developed weakness in the left arm, followed by both legs, and, finally, difficulty speaking, with nasal voice, and swallowing. It was increasingly difficult to attend to her chores, and, by the time she sought medical attention, she needed help with all daily activities. In the last few weeks, she also complained of diffuse joint and muscle pain. Medical and family history were unremarkable.





Mental health disorders involving altered reward, emotionality, and anxiety are thought to result from the interaction of individual predisposition (genetic factors) and personal experience (environmental factors), although the mechanisms that contribute to an individual's vulnerability to these disorders remain poorly understood. We used an animal model of individual variation [inbred high-responder/low-responder (bHR-bLR) rodents] known to vary in reward, anxiety, and emotional processing to examine neuroanatomical expression patterns of microRNAs (miRNAs). Laser capture microdissection was used to dissect the prelimbic cortex and the nucleus accumbens core and shell prior to analysis of basal miRNA expression in bHR and bLR male rats. These studies identified 187 miRNAs differentially expressed by genotype in at least one brain region, 10 of which were validated by qPCR. Four of these 10 qPCR-validated miRNAs demonstrated differential expression across multiple brain regions, and all miRNAs with validated differential expression between genotypes had lower expression in bHR animals compared with bLR animals. microRNA (miR)-484 and miR-128a expression differences between the prelimbic cortex of bHR and bLR animals were validated by semiquantitative in situ hybridization. miRNA expression analysis independent of genotype identified 101 miRNAs differentially expressed by brain region, seven of which validated by qPCR. Dnmt3a mRNA, a validated target of miR-29b, varied in a direction opposite that of miR-29b's differential expression between bHR and bLR animals. These data provide evidence that basal central nervous system miRNA expression varies in the bHR-bLR model, implicating microRNAs as potential epigenetic regulators of key neural circuits and individual differences associated with mental health disorders.
Previous studies demonstrated that Withania somnifera Dunal (WS), a safe medicinal plant, prevents the development of tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine. In the present study, we investigated whether WS extract (WSE) (100 mg/kg, i.p.) may also modulate the analgesic effect induced by acute morphine administration (2.5, 5, 10 mg/kg, s.c.) in the tail-flick and in the hot plate tests, and if it may prevent the development of 2.5 mg/kg morphine-induced rebound hyperalgesia in the low intensity tail-flick test. Further, to characterize the receptor(s) involved in these effects, we studied, by receptor-binding assay, the affinity of WSE for opioid (, , k), cannabinoid (CB1, CB2), glutamatergic (NMDA), GABAergic (GABAA, GABAB), serotoninergic (5HT2A) and adrenergic (2) receptors. The results demonstrated that (i) WSE alone failed to alter basal nociceptive threshold in both tests, (ii) WSE pre-treatment significantly protracted the antinociceptive effect induced by 5 and 10 mg/kg of morphine only in tail-flick test, (iii) WSE pre-treatment prevented morphine-induced hyperalgesia in the low intensity tail-flick test, and (iv) WSE exhibited a high affinity for the GABAA and moderate affinity for GABAB, NMDA and  opioid receptors. WSE prolongs morphine-induced analgesia and suppresses the development of morphine-induced rebound hyperalgesia probably through involvement of GABAA, GABAB, NMDA and  opioid receptors. This study suggests the therapeutic potential of WSE as a valuable adjuvant agent in opioid-sparing therapies.
Complex motor responses are often thought to result from the combination of elemental movements represented at different neural sites. However, in monkeys, evidence indicates that some behaviors with critical ethological value, such as self-feeding, are represented as motor primitives in the precentral gyrus (PrG). In humans, such primitives have not yet been described. This could reflect well-known interspecies differences in the organization of sensorimotor regions (including PrG) or the difficulty of identifying complex neural representations in peroperative settings. To settle this alternative, we focused on the neural bases of hand/mouth synergies, a prominent example of human behavior with high ethological value. By recording motor- and somatosensory-evoked potentials in the PrG of patients undergoing brain surgery (2-60 y), we show that two complex nested neural representations can mediate hand/mouth actions within this structure: (i) a motor representation, resembling self-feeding, where electrical stimulation causes the closing hand to approach the opening mouth, and (ii) a motor-sensory representation, likely associated with perioral exploration, where cross-signal integration is accomplished at a cortical site that generates hand/arm actions while receiving mouth sensory inputs. The first finding extends to humans' previous observations in monkeys. The second provides evidence that complex neural representations also exist for perioral exploration, a finely tuned skill requiring the combination of motor and sensory signals within a common control loop. These representations likely underlie the ability of human children and newborns to accurately produce coordinated hand/mouth movements, in an otherwise general context of motor immaturity.
Spontaneous germline mutations generate genetic diversity in populations of sexually reproductive organisms, and are thus regarded as a driving force of evolution. However, the cause and mechanism remain unclear. 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) is a candidate molecule that causes germline mutations, because it makes DNA more prone to mutation and is constantly generated by reactive oxygen species in vivo. We show here that endogenous 8-oxoG caused de novo spontaneous and heritable G to T mutations in mice, which occurred at different stages in the germ cell lineage and were distributed throughout the chromosomes. Using exome analyses covering 40.9Mb of mouse transcribed regions, we found increased frequencies of G to T mutations at a rate of 2  10(-7)mutations/base/generation in offspring of Mth1/Ogg1/Mutyh triple knockout (TOY-KO) mice, which accumulate 8-oxoG in the nuclear DNA of gonadal cells. The roles of MTH1, OGG1, and MUTYH are specific for the prevention of 8-oxoG-induced mutation, and 99% of the mutations observed in TOY-KO mice were G to T transversions caused by 8-oxoG; therefore, we concluded that 8-oxoG is a causative molecule for spontaneous and inheritable mutations of the germ lineage cells.


A well-characterized potential marker for addiction is impulsive choice, stably measured by delay discounting (DD) paradigms. While genetic influences partly account for inter-individual variance in impulsivity, environmental factors such as parenting practices may have an important role. The present study investigates how inconsistent fulfillment of delayed reward promises impacts on DD. A combined correlational and experimental functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) design was performed in a sample of 48 healthy adolescents (13-15 years). More specifically, neural activation during a DD task was investigated at two assessment points (T0 and T1). Adolescents' self-reports of parenting and substance use were assessed at T0. Between assessment points, we experimentally varied the reliability of delayed reward promises, measuring the impact of this intervention on DD and neural value processing at T1. In the correlational part, same-sex parent reward inconsistency was associated with steeper DD and an attenuated subjective value (SV) representation in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). Steeper DD was in turn associated with alcohol use during the past year. In the experimental part, the reward inconsistency manipulation resulted in an attenuation of the NAcc SV representation, similar to the parental inconsistency effect. Together, our correlational and experimental findings raise new light on how parents may influence their children's degree of impulsivity, making parenting a potential target in addiction prevention.




The ability to self-localise and to navigate to remembered goals in complex and changeable environments is crucial to the survival of many mobile species. Electrophysiological investigations of the mammalian hippocampus and associated brain structures have identified several classes of neurons which represent information about an organism's position and orientation. These include place cells, grid cells, head direction cells, and boundary vector cells, as well as cells representing aspects of self-motion. Understanding how these neural representations are formed and updated from environmental sensory information and from information relating to self-motion is an important topic attracting considerable current interest. Here we review the computational mechanisms thought to underlie the formation of these different spatial representations, the interactions between them, and their use in guiding behaviour. These include some of the clearest examples of computational mechanisms of general interest to neuroscience, such as attractor dynamics, temporal coding and multi-modal integration. We also discuss the close relationships between computational modelling and experimental research which are driving progress in this area.
Over the last two decades, dopamine and reinforcement learning have been increasingly linked. Using a novel, axiomatic approach, a recent study shows that dopamine meets the necessary and sufficient conditions required by the theory to encode a reward prediction error.
To form a coherent percept of the environment, the brain needs to bind sensory signals emanating from a common source, but to segregate those from different sources [1]. Temporal correlations and synchrony act as prominent cues for multisensory integration [2-4], but the neural mechanisms by which such cues are identified remain unclear. Predictive coding suggests that the brain iteratively optimizes an internal model of its environment by minimizing the errors between its predictions and the sensory inputs [5,6]. This model enables the brain to predict the temporal evolution of natural audiovisual inputs and their statistical (for example, temporal) relationship. A prediction of this theory is that asynchronous audiovisual signals violating the model's predictions induce an error signal that depends on the directionality of the audiovisual asynchrony. As the visual system generates the dominant temporal predictions for visual leading asynchrony, the delayed auditory inputs are expected to generate a prediction error signal in the auditory system (and vice versa for auditory leading asynchrony). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we measured participants' brain responses to synchronous, visual leading and auditory leading movies of speech, sinewave speech or music. In line with predictive coding, auditory leading asynchrony elicited a prediction error in visual cortices and visual leading asynchrony in auditory cortices. Our results reveal predictive coding as a generic mechanism to temporally bind signals from multiple senses into a coherent percept.


Tet enzymes (Tet1/2/3) convert 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) and are dynamically expressed during development. Whereas loss of individual Tet enzymes or combined deficiency of Tet1/2 allows for embryogenesis, the effect of complete loss of Tet activity and 5hmC marks in development is not established. We have generated Tet1/2/3 triple-knockout (TKO) mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and examined their developmental potential. Combined deficiency of all three Tets depleted 5hmC and impaired ESC differentiation, as seen in poorly differentiated TKO embryoid bodies (EBs) and teratomas. Consistent with impaired differentiation, TKO ESCs contributed poorly to chimeric embryos, a defect rescued by Tet1 reexpression, and could not support embryonic development. Global gene-expression and methylome analyses of TKO EBs revealed promoter hypermethylation and deregulation of genes implicated in embryonic development and differentiation. These findings suggest a requirement for Tet- and 5hmC-mediated DNA demethylation in proper regulation of gene expression during ESC differentiation and development.

In recent years, citicoline has been the object of remarkable interest as a possible neuroprotectant. The aim of this study was to investigate if citicoline affected cell survival in primary retinal cultures and if it exerted neuroprotective activity in conditions modeling retinal neurodegeneration. Primary retinal cultures, obtained from rat embryos, were first treated with increasing concentrations of citicoline (up to 1000 M) and analyzed in terms of apoptosis and caspase activation and characterized by immunocytochemistry to identify neuronal and glial cells. Subsequently, excitotoxic concentration of glutamate or High Glucose-containing cell culture medium (HG) was administered as well-known conditions modeling neurodegeneration. Glutamate or HG treatments were performed in the presence or not of citicoline. Neuronal degeneration was evaluated in terms of apoptosis and loss of synapses. The results showed that citicoline did not cause any damage to the retinal neuroglial population up to 1000 M. At the concentration of 100 M, it was able to counteract neuronal cell damage both in glutamate- and HG-treated retinal cultures by decreasing proapoptotic effects and contrasting synapse loss. These data confirm that citicoline can efficiently exert a neuroprotective activity. In addition, the results suggest that primary retinal cultures, under conditions inducing neurodegeneration, may represent a useful system to investigate citicoline neuroprotective mechanisms.


Polyphosphoinositides are an important class of lipid that recruit specific effector proteins to organelle membranes. One member, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) has been localized to Golgi membranes based on the distribution of lipid binding modules from PtdIns4P effector proteins. However, these probes may be biased by additional interactions with other Golgi-specific determinants. In this paper, we derive a new PtdIns4P biosensor using the PtdIns4P binding of SidM (P4M) domain of the secreted effector protein SidM from the bacterial pathogen Legionella pneumophila. PtdIns4P was necessary and sufficient for localization of P4M, which revealed pools of the lipid associated not only with the Golgi but also with the plasma membrane and Rab7-positive late endosomes/lysosomes. PtdIns4P distribution was determined by the localization and activities of both its anabolic and catabolic enzymes. Therefore, P4M reports a wider cellular distribution of PtdIns4P than previous probes and therefore will be valuable for dissecting the biological functions of PtdIns4P in its assorted membrane compartments.
































































The objective of this study was to evaluate the biological activities of the major phytosterols present in argan oil (AO) and in cactus seed oil (CSO) in BV2 microglial cells. Accordingly, we first determined the sterol composition of AO and CSO, showing the presence of Schottenol and Spinasterol as major sterols in AO. While in CSO, in addition to these two sterols, we found mainly another sterol, the Sitosterol. The chemical synthesis of Schottenol and Spinasterol was performed. Our results showed that these two phytosterols, as well as sterol extracts from AO or CSO, are not toxic to microglial BV2 cells. However, treatments by these phytosterols impact the mitochondrial membrane potential. Furthermore, both Schottenol and Spinasterol can modulate the gene expression of two nuclear receptors, liver X receptor (LXR)- and LXR, their target genes ABCA1 and ABCG1. Nonetheless, only Schottenol exhibited a differential activation vis--vis the nuclear receptor LXR. Thus Schottenol and Spinasterol can be considered as new LXR agonists, which may play protective roles by the modulation of cholesterol metabolism.
Dendrogenin A (DDA) and dendrogenin B (DDB) are new aminoalkyl oxysterols which display re-differentiation of tumor cells of neuronal origin at nanomolar concentrations. We analyzed the influence of dendrogenins on adult mice neural stem cell proliferation, sphere formation and differentiation. DDA and DDB were found to have potent proliferative effects in neural stem cells. Additionally, they induce neuronal outgrowth from neurospheres during in vitro cultivation. Taken together, our results demonstrate a novel role for dendrogenins A and B in neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation which further increases their likely importance to compensate for neuronal cell loss in the brain.






Multiple signaling pathways are involved in AMPAR trafficking to synapses during synaptic plasticity and learning. The mechanisms for how these pathways are coordinated in parallel but maintain their functional specificity involves subcellular compartmentalization of kinase function by scaffolding proteins, but how this is accomplished is not well understood. Here, we focused on characterizing the molecular machinery that functions in the sequential synaptic delivery of GluA1- and GluA4-containing AMPARs using an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning. We show that conditioning induces the interaction of selective protein complexes with the key structural protein SAP97, which tightly regulates the synaptic delivery of GluA1 and GluA4 AMPAR subunits. The results demonstrate that in the early stages of conditioning the initial activation of PKA stimulates the formation of a SAP97-AKAP/PKA-GluA1 protein complex leading to synaptic delivery of GluA1-containing AMPARs through a SAP97-PSD95 interaction. This is followed shortly thereafter by generation of a SAP97-KSR1/PKC-GluA4 complex for GluA4 AMPAR subunit delivery again through a SAP97-PSD95 interaction. These data suggest that SAP97 forms the molecular backbone of a protein scaffold critical for delivery of AMPARs to the PSD during conditioning. Together, the findings reveal a cooperative interaction of multiple scaffolding proteins for appropriately timed delivery of subunit-specific AMPARs to synapses and support a sequential two-stage model of AMPAR synaptic delivery during classical conditioning.

The popular Hill model for muscle activation and contractile dynamics has been extended with several different formulations for predicting the metabolic energy expenditure of human muscle actions. These extended models differ considerably in their approach to computing energy expenditure, particularly in their treatment of active lengthening and eccentric work, but their predictive abilities have never been compared. In this study, we compared the predictions of five different Hill-based muscle energy models in 3D forward dynamics simulations of normal human walking. In a data-tracking simulation that minimized muscle fatigue, the energy models predicted metabolic costs that varied over a three-fold range (2.45-7.15 J/m/kg), with the distinction arising from whether or not eccentric work was subtracted from the net heat rate in the calculation of the muscle metabolic rate. In predictive simulations that optimized neuromuscular control to minimize the metabolic cost, all five models predicted similar speeds, step lengths, and stance phase durations. However, some of the models predicted a hip circumduction strategy to minimize metabolic cost, while others did not, and the accuracy of the predicted knee and ankle angles and ground reaction forces also depended on the energy model used. The results highlights the need to clarify how eccentric work should be treated when calculating muscle energy expenditure, the difficulty in predicting realistic metabolic costs in simulated walking even with a detailed 3D musculoskeletal model, the potential for using such models to predict energetically-optimal gait modifications, and the room for improvement in existing muscle energy models and locomotion simulation frameworks.




Sweet dysgeusia, a rare taste disorder, may be encountered in severe anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody (AChRAb)-myasthenia gravis (MG). A 42 year-old man reported progressive loss of sweet taste evolving for almost 10 weeks, revealing an AChRAb-positive MG with thymoma. Improvement of sweet perception paralleled reduction of the MG composite score during the 15 months follow up period, with immunosuppressive and surgical treatments. We suggest that sweet dysgeusia is a non-motor manifestation of MG that may result from a thymoma-dependent autoimmune mechanism targeting gustducin-positive G-protein-coupled taste receptor cells, in line with recent data from MRL/MpJ-Fas lpr/ (MRL/lpr) transgenic mice with autoimmune disease.
The olfactory system remains plastic throughout life because of continuous neurogenesis of sensory neurons in the nose and inhibitory interneurons in the olfactory bulb. Here, we reveal that transgenic expression of an odorant receptor has non-cell autonomous effects on axons expressing this receptor from the endogenous gene. Perinatal expression of transgenic odorant receptor causes rerouting of like axons to new glomeruli, whereas expression after the sensory map is established does not lead to rerouting. Further, chemical ablation of the map after rerouting does not restore the normal map, even when the transgenic receptor is no longer expressed. Our results reveal that glomeruli are designated as targets for sensory neurons expressing specific odorant receptors during a critical period in the formation of the olfactory sensory map.




An electrostatic interaction related to a favorable position of the distal phenyl ring and a phenylalanine residue in the binding pocket would explain the higher 5-HT1A affinity of a 4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (THP) analogue compared to the corresponding 4-phenylpiperazine analogue. To explore a possible reinforcement of this interaction to increase the affinity for 5-HT1A receptors, different 4-substituted-phenyl analogues were synthesized and tested. The most important increase of affinity is obtained with two electron-donating methyl groups in positions 3 and 5.












Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a common cause of familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). Elevated LRRK2 kinase activity and neurodegeneration are linked, but the phosphosubstrate that connects LRRK2 kinase activity to neurodegeneration is not known. Here, we show that ribosomal protein s15 is a key pathogenic LRRK2 substrate in Drosophila and human neuron PD models. Phosphodeficient s15 carrying a threonine 136 to alanine substitution rescues dopamine neuron degeneration and age-related locomotor deficits in G2019S LRRK2 transgenic Drosophila and substantially reduces G2019S LRRK2-mediated neurite loss and cell death in human dopamine and cortical neurons. Remarkably, pathogenic LRRK2 stimulates both cap-dependent and cap-independent mRNA translation and induces a bulk increase in protein synthesis in Drosophila, which can be prevented by phosphodeficient T136A s15. These results reveal a novel mechanism of PD pathogenesis linked to elevated LRRK2 kinase activity and aberrant protein synthesis in vivo.
Maintenance of a constant cell volume in response to extracellular or intracellular osmotic changes is critical for cellular homeostasis. Activation of a ubiquitous volume-regulated anion channel (VRAC) plays a key role in this process; however, its molecular identity in vertebrates remains unknown. Here, we used a cell-based fluorescence assay and performed a genome-wide RNAi screen to find components of VRAC. We identified SWELL1 (LRRC8A), a member of a four-transmembrane protein family with unknown function, as essential for hypotonicity-induced iodide influx. SWELL1 is localized to the plasma membrane, and its knockdown dramatically reduces endogenous VRAC currents and regulatory cell volume decrease in various cell types. Furthermore, point mutations in SWELL1 cause a significant change in VRAC anion selectivity, demonstrating that SWELL1 is an essential VRAC component. These findings enable further molecular characterization of the VRAC channel complex and genetic studies for understanding the function of VRAC in normal physiology and disease.
Inhibition of the mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCLX) by CGP37157 is protective in models of neuronal injury that involve disruption of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. However, the Ca(2+) signaling pathways and stores underlying neuroprotection by that inhibitor are not well defined. In the present study, we analyzed how intracellular Ca(2+) levels are modulated by CGP37157 (10M) during NMDA insults in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. We initially assessed the presence of NCLX in mitochondria of cultured neurons by immunolabeling, and subsequently, we analyzed the effects of CGP37157 on neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis using cameleon-based mitochondrial Ca(2+) and cytosolic Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]i) live imaging. We observed that NCLX-driven mitochondrial Ca(2+) exchange occurs in cortical neurons under basal conditions as CGP37157 induced a decrease in [Ca(2)]i concomitant with a Ca(2+) accumulation inside the mitochondria. In turn, CGP37157 also inhibited mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux after the stimulation of acetylcholine receptors. In contrast, CGP37157 strongly prevented depolarization-induced [Ca(2+)]i increase by blocking voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs), whereas it did not induce depletion of ER Ca(2+) stores. Moreover, mitochondrial Ca(2+) overload was reduced as a consequence of diminished Ca(2+) entry through VGCCs. The decrease in cytosolic and mitochondrial Ca(2+) overload by CGP37157 resulted in a reduction of excitotoxic mitochondrial damage, characterized here by a reduction in mitochondrial membrane depolarization, oxidative stress and calpain activation. In summary, our results provide evidence that during excitotoxicity CGP37157 modulates cytosolic and mitochondrial Ca(2+) dynamics that leads to attenuation of NMDA-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal cell death by blocking VGCCs.
Transcription factors establish neural diversity and wiring specificity; however, how they orchestrate changes in cell morphology remains poorly understood. The Drosophila Roundabout (Robo) receptors regulate connectivity in the CNS, but how their precise expression domains are established is unknown. Here, we show that the homeodomain transcription factor Hb9 acts upstream of Robo2 and Robo3 to regulate axon guidance in the Drosophila embryo. In ventrally projecting motor neurons, hb9 is required for robo2 expression, and restoring Robo2 activity in hb9 mutants rescues motor axon defects. Hb9 requires its conserved repressor domain and functions in parallel with Nkx6 to regulate robo2. Moreover, hb9 can regulate the medio-lateral position of axons through robo2 and robo3, and restoring robo3 expression in hb9 mutants rescues the lateral position defects of a subset of neurons. Altogether, these data identify Robo2 and Robo3 as key effectors of Hb9 in regulating nervous system development.


A confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) collects information from a thin, focal plane and ignores out-of-focus information. Scanning of a specimen, with stepwise axial (Z-) movement of the stage in between each scan, produces Z-series of confocal images of a tissue volume, which then can be used to 3-D reconstruct structures of interest. The operator first configures separate channels (e.g., laser, filters, and detector settings) for each applied fluorochrome and then acquires Z-series of confocal images: one series per channel. Channel signal separation is extremely important. Measures to avoid bleaching are vital. Post-acquisition deconvolution of the image series is often performed to increase resolution before 3-D reconstruction takes place. In the 3-D reconstruction programs described in this unit, reconstructions can be inspected in real time from any viewing angle. By altering viewing angles and by switching channels off and on, the spatial relationships of 3-D-reconstructed structures with respect to structures visualized in other channels can be studied. Since each brand of CLSM, computer program, and 3-D reconstruction package has its own proprietary set of procedures, a general approach is provided in this protocol wherever possible. Curr. Protoc. Neurosci 67:2.8.1-2.8.18.  2014 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc.
In mammals, adipocytes are lipid-laden cells making up the parenchyma of the multi-depot adipose organ. White adipocytes store lipids for release as free fatty acids during fasting periods; brown adipocytes burn glucose and lipids to maintain thermal homeostasis. A third type of adipocyte, the pink adipocyte, has recently been characterised in mouse subcutaneous fat depots during pregnancy and lactation. Pink adipocytes are mammary gland alveolar epithelial cells whose role is to produce and secrete milk. Emerging evidence suggests that they derive from the transdifferentiation of subcutaneous white adipocytes. The functional response of the adipose organ to a range of metabolic and environmental challenges highlights its extraordinary plasticity. Cold exposure induces an increase in the 'brown' component of the organ to meet the increased thermal demand; in states of positive energy balance, the 'white' component expands to store excess nutrients; finally, the 'pink' component develops in subcutaneous depots during pregnancy to ensure litter feeding. At the cell level, plasticity is provided not only by stem cell proliferation and differentiation but also, distinctively, by direct transdifferentiation of fully differentiated adipocytes by the stimuli that induce genetic expression reprogramming and through it a change in phenotype and, consequently function. A greater understanding of adipocyte transdifferentiation mechanisms would have the potential to shed light on their biology as well as inspire novel therapeutic strategies against metabolic syndrome (browning) and breast cancer (pinking).


Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains one of the most effective treatments of major depression. It has been suggested that the mechanisms of action involve gene expression. In recent decades there have been several investigations of gene expression following both acute and chronic electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS). These studies have focused on several distinct gene targets but have generally included only few time points after ECS for measuring gene expression. Here we measured gene expression of three types of genes: Immediate early genes, synaptic proteins, and neuropeptides at six time points following an acute ECS. We find significant increases for c-Fos, Egr1, Neuritin 1 (Nrn 1), Bdnf, Snap29, Synaptotagmin III (Syt 3), Synapsin I (Syn 1), and Psd95 at differing time points after ECS. For some genes these changes are prolonged whereas for others they are transient. Npy expression significantly increases whereas the gene expression of its receptors Npy1r, Npy2r, and Npy5r initially decreases. These decreases are followed by a significant increase for Npy2r, suggesting anticonvulsive adaptations following seizures. In summary, we find distinct changes in mRNA quantities that are characteristic for each gene. Considering the observed transitory and inverse changes in expression patterns, these data underline the importance of conducting measurements at several time points post-ECS.


Microneedle (MN)-based DNA vaccines have many advantages over conventional vaccines administered by hypodermic needles. However, an efficient strategy for delivering DNA vaccines to intradermal cells has not yet been established. Here, we report a new approach for delivering polyplex-based DNA vaccines using MN arrays coated with a pH-responsive polyelectrolyte multilayer assembly (PMA). This approach enabled rapid release of polyplex upon application to the skin. In addition to the polyplex-releasing MNs, we attempted to further maximize the vaccination by developing a polymeric carrier that targeted resident antigen presenting cells (APCs) rich in the intradermal area, as well as a DNA vaccine encoding a secretable fusion protein containing amyloid beta monomer (A1-42), an antigenic determinant. The resulting vaccination system was able to successfully induce a robust humoral immune response compared to conventional subcutaneous injection with hypodermal needles. In addition, antigen challenge after immunization elicited an immediate and strong recall immune response due to immunogenic memory. These results suggest the potential utility of MN-based polyplex delivery systems for enhanced DNA vaccination.
The watercolor effect is a long-range, assimilative, filling-in phenomenon induced by a pair of distant, wavy contours of different chromaticities. Here, we measured joint influences of the contour frequency and amplitude and the luminance of the interior contour on the strength of the effect. Contour pairs, each enclosing a circular region, were presented with two of the dimensions varying independently across trials (luminance/frequency, luminance/amplitude, frequency/amplitude) in a conjoint measurement paradigm (Luce &amp; Tukey, 1964). In each trial, observers judged which of the stimuli evoked the strongest fill-in color. Control stimuli were identical except that the contours were intertwined and generated little filling-in. Perceptual scales were estimated by a maximum likelihood method (Ho, Landy, &amp; Maloney, 2008). An additive model accounted for the joint contributions of any pair of dimensions. As shown previously using difference scaling (Devinck &amp; Knoblauch, 2012), the strength increases with luminance of the interior contour. The strength of the phenomenon was nearly independent of the amplitude of modulation of the contour but increased with its frequency up to an asymptotic level. On average, the strength of the effect was similar along a given dimension regardless of the other dimension with which it was paired, demonstrating consistency of the underlying estimated perceptual scales.
Background 4-Nonylphenol is a ubiquitous environmental toxin that is formed as a byproduct in the manufacturing and/or sewage treatment of regular household items. Previous work in our lab has implicated 4-NP in the progression of autoimmune diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease in which macrophages mistakenly attack the intestinal linings, causing chronic inflammation. Several key pro-and anti-inflammatory molecules have been shown to be involved in the manifestation of this disease, including IL-23A, COX-2, IL-8, TLR-4, and IL-10. Material and Methods 4-NP's effects on these known mediators of IBD were effectively analyzed using a novel model for IBD, by which 4-NP may promote an inflammatory response. Data were collected using DNA Microarray, RT-PCR, and ELISA, after 48 hour treatment of U937 histiocytic lymphocyte cells and COLO320DM human intestinal epithelial cells with 1 nM and 5 nM concentrations of 4-NP. Results Significant dysregulation of the expression of both pro- and anti-inflammatory genes was observed in U937 cells that would promote and prolong inflammation. However, TLR-4, IL-8, and COX-2 gene expressions showed unprecedented effects in COLO320DM cells suggesting that these genes mediate apoptotic processes within the gastrointestinal tract. Conclusions Overall, our results suggest that 4-NP administration engenders immune responses linked to apoptotic processes via dysregulation of macrophage signaling. In sum, 4-NP appears to increases the risk of developing inflammatory bowel disease by promoting or prolonging adverse progression of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract.

The apoptotic actions of p53 require its phosphorylation by a family of phosphoinositide-3-kinase-related-kinases (PIKKs), which include DNA-PKcs and ATM. These kinases are stabilized by the TTT (Tel2, Tti1, Tti2) cochaperone family, whose actions are mediated by CK2 phosphorylation. The inositol pyrophosphates, such as 5-diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (IP7), are generated by a family of inositol hexakisphosphate kinases (IP6Ks), of which IP6K2 has been implicated in p53-associated cell death. In the present study we report an apoptotic signaling cascade linking CK2, TTT, the PIKKs, and p53. We demonstrate that IP7, formed by IP6K2, binds CK2 to enhance its phosphorylation of the TTT complex, thereby stabilizing DNA-PKcs and ATM. This process stimulates p53 phosphorylation at serine 15 to activate the cell death program in human cancer cells and in murine B cells.
The anatomical and functional architecture of the human brain is mainly determined by prenatal transcriptional processes. We describe an anatomically comprehensive atlas of the mid-gestational human brain, including de novo reference atlases, in situ hybridization, ultra-high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and microarray analysis on highly discrete laser-microdissected brain regions. In developing cerebral cortex, transcriptional differences are found between different proliferative and post-mitotic layers, wherein laminar signatures reflect cellular composition and developmental processes. Cytoarchitectural differences between human and mouse have molecular correlates, including species differences in gene expression in subplate, although surprisingly we find minimal differences between the inner and outer subventricular zones even though the outer zone is expanded in humans. Both germinal and post-mitotic cortical layers exhibit fronto-temporal gradients, with particular enrichment in the frontal lobe. Finally, many neurodevelopmental disorder and human-evolution-related genes show patterned expression, potentially underlying unique features of human cortical formation. These data provide a rich, freely-accessible resource for understanding human brain development.
Comprehensive knowledge of the brain's wiring diagram is fundamental for understanding how the nervous system processes information at both local and global scales. However, with the singular exception of the C. elegans microscale connectome, there are no complete connectivity data sets in other species. Here we report a brain-wide, cellular-level, mesoscale connectome for the mouse. The Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas uses enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-expressing adeno-associated viral vectors to trace axonal projections from defined regions and cell types, and high-throughput serial two-photon tomography to image the EGFP-labelled axons throughout the brain. This systematic and standardized approach allows spatial registration of individual experiments into a common three dimensional (3D) reference space, resulting in a whole-brain connectivity matrix. A computational model yields insights into connectional strength distribution, symmetry and other network properties. Virtual tractography illustrates 3D topography among interconnected regions. Cortico-thalamic pathway analysis demonstrates segregation and integration of parallel pathways. The Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas is a freely available, foundational resource for structural and functional investigations into the neural circuits that support behavioural and cognitive processes in health and disease.
Down syndrome (DS) is the leading cause of genetically defined intellectual disability. Although speech and language impairments are salient features of this disorder, the nature of these phenotypes and the degree to which they are exacerbated by concomitant oromotor dysfunction and/or hearing deficit are poorly understood. Mouse models like Ts65Dn, the most extensively used DS animal model, have been critical to understanding the genetic and developmental mechanisms that contribute to intellectual disability. In the present study, we characterized the properties of the ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) emitted by Ts65Dn males during courtship episodes with female partners. USVs emitted by mice in this setting have been proposed to have some basic correlation to human speech. Data were collected and analyzed from 22 Ts65Dn mice and 22 of their euploid littermates. We found that both the minimum and maximum peak frequencies of Ts65Dn calls were lower than those produced by euploid mice, whereas the mean individual duration of &quot;down&quot; and &quot;complex&quot; syllable types was significantly longer. Peak, minimal and maximal, and the fundamental frequencies of short syllables generated by Ts65Dn mice were lower compared to those by euploid mice. Finally, Ts65Dn males made fewer multiple jumps calls during courtship and the mean total duration of their &quot;arc&quot;, &quot;u&quot;, and &quot;complex&quot; syllables was longer. We discuss the human correlates to these findings, their translational potential, and the limitations of this approach. To our knowledge, this is the first characterization of differences between adult Ts65Dn and euploid control mice with respect to USVs.

In humans, there is a documented association between anxiety disorders and cardiovascular disease. Putative underlying mechanisms may include an impairment of the autonomic nervous system control of cardiac function. The primary objective of the present study was to characterize cardiac autonomic modulation and susceptibility to arrhythmias in genetic lines of rats that differ largely in their anxiety level. To reach this goal, electrocardiographic recordings were performed in high-anxiety behavior (HAB, n=10) and low-anxiety behavior (LAB, n=10) rats at rest, during stressful stimuli and under autonomic pharmacological manipulations, and analyzed by means of time- and frequency-domain indexes of heart rate variability. During resting conditions, HAB rats displayed a reduced heart rate variability, mostly in terms of lower parasympathetic (vagal) modulation compared to LAB rats. In HAB rats, this relatively low cardiac vagal control was associated with smaller heart rate responsiveness to acute stressors compared to LAB counterparts. In addition, beta-adrenergic pharmacological stimulation induced a larger incidence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in HABs compared to LABs. At sacrifice, a moderate increase in heart-body weight ratio was observed in HAB rats. We conclude that high levels of anxiety-related behavior in rats are associated with signs of i) impaired autonomic modulation of heart rate (low vagally-mediated heart rate variability), ii) poor adaptive heart rate responsiveness to stressful stimuli, iii) increased arrhythmia susceptibility, and iv) cardiac hypertrophy. These results highlight the utility of the HAB/LAB model for investigating the mechanistic basis of the comorbidity between anxiety disorders and cardiovascular disease.
Photoperiodic regulation of aggression has been well established in several vertebrate species, with rodents demonstrating increased aggression in short day photoperiods as compared to long day photoperiods. Previous work suggests that estrogens regulate aggression via rapid nongenomic pathways in short days and act more slowly in long days, most likely via genomic pathways. The current study therefore examines the role of melatonin in mediating aggression and estrogen-dependent gene transcription. In Experiment 1, male California mice were housed under long day photoperiods and were treated with either 0.3 g/g of melatonin, 40 mg/kg of the melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole, or vehicle for 10 days. We found that melatonin administration significantly increased aggression as compared to mice receiving vehicle, but this phenotype was not completely ameliorated by luzindole. In Experiment 2, male California mice were injected with either 1mg/kg of the aromatase inhibitor letrozole or vehicle, and oxytocin receptor (OTR), estrogen receptor alpha (ER), and c-fos gene expression was examined in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and medial preoptic area (MPOA). In the BNST, but not MPOA, OTR mRNA was significantly downregulated following letrozole administration, indicating that OTR is an estrogen-dependent gene in the BNST. In contrast, ER was not estrogen dependent in either brain region. In the MPOA, OTR mRNA was inhibited by melatonin, and luzindole suppressed this effect. C-fos and ER did not differ between treatments in any brain region examined. These results suggest that it is unlikely that melatonin facilitates aggression via broad spectrum regulation of estrogen-dependent gene expression. Instead, melatonin may act via regulation of other transcription factors such as extracellular signal regulated kinase.
Obesity-induced changes in the metabolic and endocrine milieu elicit deficits in neuroplasticity, including increased risk for development of neuropsychiatric disorders such as depressive illness. We previously demonstrated that downregulation of hypothalamic insulin receptors (hypo-IRAS) elicits a phenotype that is consistent with features of the metabolic syndrome (MetS) and that rats with this phenotype exhibit deficits in neuronal plasticity, including depressive-like behaviors such as anhedonia. Since food restriction paradigms effectively inhibit obesity-induced neuroplasticity deficits, the aim of the current study was to determine whether food restriction could reverse obesity-induced anhedonia in hypo-IRAS rats. Compared to hypo-IRAS rats provided ad lib food access, food restriction paradigms that were initiated either prior to increases in body weight or following development of the MetS/obesity phenotype effectively restored sucrose intake in hypo-IRAS rats. Moreover, food restriction paradigms were able to prevent and reverse the changes in the endocrine/metabolic/inflammatory milieu observed in hypo-IRAS, such as increases in plasma leptin and triglyceride levels and increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6 and C-reactive protein (CRP). Collectively, these results demonstrate that obesity-induced anhedonia is a reversible process and identify some potential mechanistic mediators that may be responsible for co-morbid depression in obesity.
According to the heat dissipation limit theory, maximum metabolic turnover is limited by the capacity of the body to dissipate excess heat. Small mammals, including common voles (Microtus arvalis), face a heat dissipation limitation during lactation. Pup growth and milk production are reduced under higher ambient temperatures. Heat dissipation problems might in part be alleviated by modifying behavior, such as reducing nest attendance and being active at energetically optimal times of day. According to the circadian thermo-energetics hypothesis, animals can make use of daily ambient temperature fluctuations to alter their energetic expenditure. In this study we test whether heat challenged (housing at 30 C compared to 21 C) lactating common voles allocate their time differently among behaviors and whether their ultradian and circadian behavioral rhythmicity are altered. Behavior was scored every 13 min from automated picture recordings, while general locomotor activity was measured by passive infrared detectors to assess ultradian and circadian organization. The effects of ambient temperature on the ultradian organization of behavior were assessed by determining the ultradian period length and the distribution of activity within the ultradian bout. Changes in circadian organization were assessed by the distribution of activity over the light and dark phase. As a complementary measure nest temperature recordings were used to quantify nest attendance distribution between day and night. Lactating dams at 30 C reduced the fraction of time spent on the nest while increasing the fraction of time resting without pups away from the nest. The ultradian period of locomotor activity was longer in voles housed at 30 C during pregnancy and lactation, but not after weaning when the pups were removed. No differences in the distribution of activity within the ultradian bout could be detected. The circadian organization was also modulated by ambient temperature. Lactating voles housed at 30 C became more day active and a loss of day-night differences in nest temperature suggests a shift of nest attendance towards the night. Reducing the time attending the nest can reduce the risk of hyperthermia, and may be the behavioral component resulting in lower milk production and hence reproductive output. Becoming more day active allows feeding and nursing of the pups during the rest phase to occur during the night at which lower ambient temperatures are expected in the field. In natural situations this strategy will increase heat dissipation and lactation capacity. Whether there are similar benefits associated with a longer ultradian period is currently unknown, but these are likely to result from decreased energy turnover at 30 C. In conclusion, our study shows that lactating common voles facing heat dissipation problems re-organize their behavior in a way that can maximize heat dissipation capabilities and thereby optimize lactation capacity.
A conditioned flavor preference (CFP) can be produced by pairing a flavor (conditioned stimulus, CS+) with the sweet taste of fructose. Systemic dopamine (DA) D1, D2 and NMDA, but not opioid, receptor antagonists significantly reduce the acquisition of the fructose-CFP. A conditioned flavor avoidance (CFA) can be produced by pairing a CS+flavor with the bitter taste of quinine. To evaluate whether fructose-CFP and quinine-CFA share common neurochemical substrates, the present study determined the systemic effects of DA D1 (SCH23390: SCH), DA D2 (raclopride: RAC), NMDA (MK-801) or opioid (naltrexone: NTX) receptor antagonists on the acquisition of quinine-CFA. In Experiment 1, food-restricted male rats were trained over 8 alternating one-bottle sessions to drink an 8% fructose+0.2% saccharin solution (FS) mixed with one flavor (CS-, e.g., grape) and a different flavor (CS+, e.g., cherry) mixed in a solution (FSQ) containing fructose+saccharin and quinine at 0.001-0.030% concentrations. In six subsequent two-bottle choice tests (1-3: two sessions each) with the CS- and CS+ flavors presented in FS solutions, only rats trained with 0.03% quinine displayed a CS+ avoidance in Test 1. In Experiment 2, rats received vehicle (Veh), SCH (200 nmol/kg), RAC (200 nmol/kg), MK-801 (100 g/kg) or NTX (1 mg/kg) 30 min prior to the 8 one-bottle training sessions with CS-/FS and CS+/FSQ (0.03% quinine) solutions. An additional vehicle group (Veh 0.06%) was trained with a CS+/FSQ containing 0.06% quinine. In the two-bottle choice tests, the Veh and RAC groups avoided the CS+ flavor in Test 1 only, whereas the SCH, MK801, and NTX groups significantly avoided the CS+ in Tests 1-3. The Veh.06% group trained avoided the CS+ in Tests 1 and 2, but not Test 3. In Experiment 3, Veh and SCH groups were trained as in Experiment 2, but were tested with CS flavors presented in 0.2% saccharin solutions. The SCH group avoided the CS+ flavor in Tests 1-3 while the Veh group avoided the CS+ in Test 1 only. Thus whereas DA D1, DA D2 and NMDA, but not opioid receptor antagonism blocked acquisition of sweet taste-based CFP, DA D1, NMDA and opioid, but not DA D2 receptor antagonism enhanced the CFA produced by the bitter taste of quinine.























Neurons in the medial superior olive (MSO) encode interaural time differences (ITDs) with sustained firing rates of &gt;100 Hz. They are able to generate such high firing rates for several hundred milliseconds despite their extremely low-input resistances of only few megaohms and high synaptic conductances in vivo. The biophysical mechanisms by which these leaky neurons maintain their excitability are not understood. Since action potentials (APs) are usually assumed to be generated in the axon initial segment (AIS), we analyzed anatomical data of proximal MSO axons in Mongolian gerbils and found that the axon diameter is &lt;1 m and the internode length is 100 m. Using a morphologically constrained computational model of the MSO axon, we show that these thin axons facilitate the excitability of the AIS. However, for ongoing high rates of synaptic inputs the model generates a substantial fraction of APs in its nodes of Ranvier. These distally initiated APs are mediated by a spatial gradient of sodium channel inactivation and a strong somatic current sink. The model also predicts that distal AP initiation increases the dynamic range of the rate code for ITDs.
We investigated whether a frontal area that lacks granular layer IV, supplementary eye field, exhibits features of laminar circuitry similar to those observed in primary sensory areas. We report, for the first time, visually evoked local field potentials (LFPs) and spiking activity recorded simultaneously across all layers of agranular frontal cortex using linear electrode arrays. We calculated current source density from the LFPs and compared the laminar organization of evolving sinks to those reported in sensory areas. Simultaneous, transient synaptic current sinks appeared first in layers III and V followed by more prolonged current sinks in layers I/II and VI. We also found no variation of single- or multi-unit visual response latency across layers, and putative pyramidal neurons and interneurons displayed similar response latencies. Many units exhibited pronounced discharge suppression that was strongest in superficial relative to deep layers. Maximum discharge suppression also occurred later in superficial than in deep layers. These results are discussed in the context of the canonical cortical microcircuit model originally formulated to describe early sensory cortex. The data indicate that agranular cortex resembles sensory areas in certain respects, but the cortical microcircuit is modified in nontrivial ways.
Dopamine plays an important role in action selection, but little is known about the influence of different dopamine receptor systems on the subprocesses occurring during the cascading of actions. Because action selection and cascading can be accomplished in a serial manner or a parallel manner, we investigated the potential effects of DRD1 (rs4531) and DRD2 (rs6277) receptor polymorphisms on this dimension. We gathered behavioral and neurophysiological data from healthy human subjects (n = 162) and applied mathematical constraints to quantify their action selection strategy on a serial-parallel continuum. The behavioral results show a more serial and more effective action cascading strategy in homozygous DRD1 G allele carriers, who are assumed to have a higher D1 receptor efficiency than carriers of the A allele. In the group of homozygous DRD2 T-allele carriers, who have a higher striatal density of D2 receptors than C-allele carriers, we found a less effective and more parallel action cascading strategy. These findings suggest that, within the same sample, a higher D1 efficiency seems to shift the action cascading strategy toward a more serial processing mode, whereas the D2 receptors seem to promote a shift in the opposite direction by inducing a more parallel processing mode. Furthermore, the neurophysiological analysis shows that the observed differences are not based on attentional differences or basic inhibition. Instead, processes linking stimulus processing and response execution seem to differentiate between more serial and more parallel processing groups.
Previous studies have provided strong support for the notion that NMDAR-mediated increases in postsynaptic Ca(2+) have a crucial role in the induction of long-term depression (LTD). This view has recently been challenged, however, by findings suggesting that LTD induction is instead attributable to an ion channel-independent, metabotropic form of NMDAR signaling. Thus, to explore the role of ionotropic versus metabotropic NMDAR signaling in LTD, we examined the effects of varying extracellular Ca(2+) levels or blocking NMDAR channel ion fluxes with MK-801 on LTD and NMDAR signaling in the mouse hippocampal CA1 region. We find that the induction of LTD in the adult hippocampus is highly sensitive to extracellular Ca(2+) levels and that MK-801 blocks NMDAR-dependent LTD in the hippocampus of both adult and immature mice. Moreover, MK-801 inhibits NMDAR-mediated activation of p38-MAPK and dephosphorylation of AMPAR GluA1 subunits at sites implicated in LTD. Thus, our results indicate that the induction of LTD in the hippocampal CA1 region is dependent on ionotropic, rather than metabotropic, NMDAR signaling.
In this study, we took advantage of the reported role of EphA4 in determining the contralateral spinal projection of the corticospinal tract (CST) to investigate the effects of ipsilateral misprojections on voluntary movements and stereotypic locomotion. Null EphA4 mutations produce robust ipsilateral CST misprojections, resulting in bilateral corticospinal tracts. We hypothesize that a unilateral voluntary limb movement, not a stereotypic locomotor movement, will become a bilateral movement in EphA4 knock-out mice with a bilateral CST. However, in EphA4 full knock-outs, spinal interneurons also develop bilateral misprojections. Aberrant bilateral spinal circuits could thus transform unilateral corticospinal control signals into bilateral movements. We therefore studied mice with conditional forebrain deletion of the EphA4 gene under control by Emx1, a gene expressed in the forebrain that affects the developing CST but spares brainstem motor pathways and spinal motor circuits. We examined two conditional knock-outs targeting forebrain EphA4 during performance of stereotypic locomotion and voluntary movement: adaptive locomotion over obstacles and exploratory reaching. We found that the conditional knock-outs used alternate stepping, not hopping, during overground locomotion, suggesting normal central pattern generator function and supporting our hypothesis of minimal CST involvement in the moment-to-moment control of stereotypic locomotion. In contrast, the conditional knock-outs showed bilateral voluntary movements under conditions when single limb movements are normally produced and, as a basis for this aberrant control, developed a bilateral motor map in motor cortex that is driven by the aberrant ipsilateral CST misprojections. Therefore, a specific change in CST connectivity is associated with and explains a change in voluntary movement.
The Snail transcription factor plays a key role in regulating diverse developmental processes but is not thought to play a role in mammalian neural precursors. Here, we have examined radial glial precursor cells of the embryonic murine cortex and demonstrate that Snail regulates their survival, self-renewal, and differentiation into intermediate progenitors and neurons via two distinct and separable target pathways. First, Snail promotes cell survival by antagonizing a p53-dependent death pathway because coincident p53 knockdown rescues survival deficits caused by Snail knockdown. Second, we show that the cell cycle phosphatase Cdc25b is regulated by Snail in radial precursors and that Cdc25b coexpression is sufficient to rescue the decreased radial precursor proliferation and differentiation observed upon Snail knockdown. Thus, Snail acts via p53 and Cdc25b to coordinately regulate multiple aspects of mammalian embryonic neural precursor biology.
Here we demonstrate metaplastic effect of a change in NMDA receptor (NMDAR) number in the anterior piriform cortex (aPC) in rat induced by a 10 min pairing of peppermint odor + stroking, which significantly modifies later learning and memory. Using isolated synaptoneurosomes, we found NR1 receptor downregulation 3 h after training and upregulation at 24 h. Consistent with the NR1 pattern, the NMDAR-mediated EPSP was smaller at 3 h and larger at 24 h. Subunit composition was unchanged. Whereas LTP was reduced at both times by training, LTD was facilitated only at 3 h. Behaviorally, pups, given a pairing of peppermint + stroking 3 h after an initial peppermint + stroking training, lost the normally acquired peppermint preference 24 h later. To probe the pathway specificity of this unlearning effect, pups were trained first with peppermint and then, at 3 h, given a second training with peppermint or vanillin. Pups given peppermint training at both times lost the learned peppermint preference. Pups given vanillin retraining at 3 h had normal peppermint preference. Downregulating NR1 with siRNA prevented odor preference learning. Finally, the NMDAR antagonist MK-801 blocked the LTD facilitation seen 3 h after training, and giving MK-801 before the second peppermint training trial eliminated the loss of peppermint odor preference. A training-associated reduction in NMDARs facilitates LTD 3 h later; training at the time of LTD facilitation reverses an LTP-dependent odor preference. Experience-dependent, pathway-specific metaplastic effects in a cortical structure have broad implications for the optimal spacing of learning experiences.
Odor perception is hypothesized to be an experience-dependent process involving the encoding of odor objects by distributed olfactory cortical ensembles. Olfactory cortical neurons coactivated by a specific pattern of odorant evoked input become linked through association fiber synaptic plasticity, creating a template of the familiar odor. In this way, experience and memory play an important role in odor perception and discrimination. In other systems, memory consolidation occurs partially via slow-wave sleep (SWS)-dependent replay of activity patterns originally evoked during waking. SWS is ideal for replay given hyporesponsive sensory systems, and thus reduced interference. Here, using artificial patterns of olfactory bulb stimulation in a fear conditioning procedure in the rat, we tested the effects of imposed post-training replay during SWS and waking on strength and precision of pattern memory. The results show that imposed replay during post-training SWS enhanced the subsequent strength of memory, whereas the identical replay during waking induced extinction. The magnitude of this enhancement was dependent on the timing of imposed replay relative to cortical sharp-waves. Imposed SWS replay of stimuli, which differed from the conditioned stimulus, did not affect conditioned stimulus memory strength but induced generalization of the fear memory to novel artificial patterns. Finally, post-training disruption of piriform cortex intracortical association fiber synapses, hypothesized to be critical for experience-dependent odor coding, also impaired subsequent memory precision but not strength. These results suggest that SWS replay in the olfactory cortex enhances memory consolidation, and that memory precision is dependent on the fidelity of that replay.
Rodents use their whiskers to detect a variety of tactile features of their environment. They do so by using two functionally distinct whisker systems: the macrovibrissae and microvibrissae. To determine the functional role of unexplored microvibrissae, we recorded from the cortical area representing the frontobuccal pad in anesthetized rats while presenting moving textures of varying coarseness. We find that surface coarseness is coded by the discharge rates of frontobuccal pad cortical neurons. Cortical neurons can use this response measure to robustly and reliably discriminate between the different textures. While neuronal discharge rates carry tactile information, the highly reproducible firing patterns of these neurons suggest that a single spike train may contain sufficient information to encode the stimulus. Together, these results indicate that rodents may use their microvibrissae to distinguish between surfaces having subtly different textures and shapes.
G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels contribute to the resting membrane potential of many neurons, including dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). VTA DA neurons are bistable, firing in two modes: one characterized by bursts of action potentials, the other by tonic firing at a lower frequency. Here we provide evidence that these firing modes drive bidirectional plasticity of GIRK channel-mediated currents. In acute midbrain slices of mice, we observed that in vitro burst activation of VTA DA neurons potentiated GIRK currents whereas tonic firing depressed these currents. This plasticity was not specific to the metabotropic receptor activating the GIRK channels, as direct activation of GIRK channels by nonhydrolyzable GTP also potentiated the currents. The plasticity of GIRK currents required NMDA receptor and CaMKII activation, and involved protein trafficking through specific PDZ domains of GIRK2c and GIRK3 subunit isoforms. Prolonged tonic firing may thus enhance the probability to switch into burst-firing mode, which then potentiates GIRK currents and favors the return to baseline. In conclusion, activity-dependent GIRK channel plasticity may represent a slow destabilization process favoring the switch between the two firing modes of VTA DA neurons.
Trisomy 21, or Down's syndrome (DS), is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disability. Altered neurotransmission in the brains of DS patients leads to hippocampus-dependent learning and memory deficiency. Although genetic mouse models have provided important insights into the genes and mechanisms responsible for DS-specific changes, the molecular mechanisms leading to memory deficits are not clear. We investigated whether the segmental trisomy model of DS, Ts[Rb(12.1716)]2Cje (Ts2), exhibits hippocampal glutamatergic transmission abnormalities and whether these alterations cause behavioral deficits. Behavioral assays demonstrated that Ts2 mice display a deficit in nest building behavior, a measure of hippocampus-dependent nonlearned behavior, as well as dysfunctional hippocampus-dependent spatial memory tested in the object-placement and the Y-maze spontaneous alternation tasks. Magnetic resonance spectra measured in the hippocampi revealed a significantly lower glutamate concentration in Ts2 as compared with normal disomic (2N) littermates. The glutamate deficit accompanied hippocampal NMDA receptor1 (NMDA-R1) mRNA and protein expression level downregulation in Ts2 compared with 2N mice. In concert with these alterations, paired-pulse analyses suggested enhanced synaptic inhibition and/or lack of facilitation in the dentate gyrus of Ts2 compared with 2N mice. Ts2 mice also exhibited disrupted synaptic plasticity in slice recordings of the hippocampal CA1 region. Collectively, these findings imply that deficits in glutamate and NMDA-R1 may be responsible for impairments in synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus associated with behavioral dysfunctions in Ts2 mice. Thus, these findings suggest that glutamatergic deficits have a significant role in causing intellectual disabilities in DS.
Clustering of Na(+) channels at the nodes of Ranvier is coordinated by myelinating glia. In the peripheral nervous system, axoglial contact at the nodes is mediated by the binding of gliomedin and glial NrCAM to axonal neurofascin 186 (NF186). This interaction is crucial for the initial clustering of Na(+) channels at heminodes. As a result, it is not clear whether continued axon-glial contact at nodes of Ranvier is required to maintain these channels at the nodal axolemma. Here, we report that, in contrast to mice that lack either gliomedin or NrCAM, absence of both molecules (and hence the glial clustering signal) resulted in a gradual loss of Na(+) channels and other axonal components from the nodes, the formation of binary nodes, and dysregulation of nodal gap length. Therefore, these mice exhibit neurological abnormalities and slower nerve conduction. Disintegration of the nodes occurred in an orderly manner, starting with the disappearance of neurofascin 186, followed by the loss of Na(+) channels and ankyrin G, and then IV spectrin, a sequence that reflects the assembly of nodes during development. Finally, the absence of gliomedin and NrCAM led to the invasion of the outermost layer of the Schwann cell membrane beyond the nodal area and the formation of paranodal-like junctions at the nodal gap. Our results reveal that axon-glial contact mediated by gliomedin, NrCAM, and NF186 not only plays a role in Na(+) channel clustering during development, but also contributes to the long-term maintenance of Na(+) channels at nodes of Ranvier.






Intentional rounding is a structured approach whereby nurses conduct checks on patients at set times to assess and manage their fundamental care needs. Concerns about poor standards of basic nursing care have refocused attention on the need to ensure fundamental aspects of care are delivered reliably. A literature review was conducted to inform nurses planning to use this approach in their practice and to direct future research in this area. The aim is to explore the implementation and use of intentional rounding and its effectiveness in improving patient care.


Amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain (AICD) is a product of APP processing with transcriptional modulation activity, whose overexpression causes various Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related dysfunctions. Here we report that 1-(3',4'-dichloro-2-fluoro[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl)-cyclopropanecarboxylic acid) (CHF5074), a compound that favorably affects neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation and memory deficit in transgenic mouse models of AD, interacts with the AICD and impairs its nuclear activity. In neuroglioma-APPswe cells, CHF5074 shifted APP cleavage from A42 to the less toxic A38 peptide without affecting APP-C-terminal fragment, nor APP levels. As revealed by photoaffinity labeling, CHF5074 does not interact with -secretase, but binds to the AICD and lowers its nuclear translocation. In vivo treatment with CHF5074 reduced AICD occupancy as well as histone H3 acetylation levels and transcriptional output of the AICD-target gene KAI1. The data provide new mechanistic insights on this compound, which is under clinical investigation for AD treatment/prevention, as well as on the contribution of the AICD to AD pathology.























Hearing loss is most commonly caused by the destruction of mechanosensory hair cells in the ear. This condition is usually permanent: Despite the presence of putative hair-cell progenitors in the cochlea, hair cells are not naturally replenished in adult mammals. Unlike those of the mammalian ear, the progenitor cells of nonmammalian vertebrates can regenerate hair cells throughout life. The basis of this difference remains largely unexplored but may lie in molecular dissimilarities that affect how progenitors respond to hair-cell death. To approach this issue, we analyzed gene expression in hair-cell progenitors of the lateral-line system. We developed a transgenic line of zebrafish that expresses a red fluorescent protein in the presumptive hair-cell progenitors known as mantle cells. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting from the skins of transgenic larvae, followed by microarray-based expression analysis, revealed a constellation of transcripts that are specifically enriched in these cells. Gene expression analysis after hair-cell ablation uncovered a cohort of genes that are differentially regulated early in regeneration, suggesting possible roles in the response of progenitors to hair-cell death. These results provide a resource for studying hair-cell regeneration and the biology of sensory progenitor cells.
The cerebellum ensures the smooth execution of movements, a task that requires accurate neural signaling on multiple time scales. Computational models of cerebellar timing mechanisms have suggested that temporal information in cerebellum-dependent behavioral tasks is in part computed locally in the cerebellar cortex. These models rely on the local generation of delayed signals spanning hundreds of milliseconds, yet the underlying neural mechanism remains elusive. Here we show that a granular layer interneuron, called the unipolar brush cell, is well suited to represent time intervals in a robust way in the cerebellar cortex. Unipolar brush cells exhibited delayed increases in excitatory synaptic input in response to presynaptic stimulation in mouse cerebellar slices. Depending on the frequency of stimulation, delays extended from zero up to hundreds of milliseconds. Such controllable protraction of delayed currents was the result of an unusual mode of synaptic integration, which was well described by a model of steady-state AMPA receptor activation. This functionality extends the capabilities of the cerebellum for adaptive control of behavior by facilitating appropriate output in a broad temporal window.
Spatial patterns of gene expression in the vertebrate brain are not independent, as pairs of genes can exhibit complex patterns of coexpression. Two genes may be similarly expressed in one region, but differentially expressed in other regions. These correlations have been studied quantitatively, particularly for the Allen Atlas of the adult mouse brain, but their biological meaning remains obscure. We propose a simple model of the coexpression patterns in terms of spatial distributions of underlying cell types and establish its plausibility using independently measured cell-type-specific transcriptomes. The model allows us to predict the spatial distribution of cell types in the mouse brain.
During the synaptic vesicle cycle, synaptic vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane and recycle for repeated exo/endocytic events. By using activity-dependent N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino) styryl) pyridinium dibromide dye uptake combined with fast (&lt;1 s) microwave-assisted fixation followed by photoconversion and ultrastructural 3D analysis, we tracked endocytic vesicles over time, &quot;frame by frame.&quot; The first retrieved synaptic vesicles appeared 4 s after stimulation, and these endocytic vesicles were located just above the active zone. Second, the retrieved vesicles did not show any sign of a protein coat, and coated pits were not detected. Between 10 and 30 s, large labeled vesicles appeared that had up to 5 times the size of an individual synaptic vesicle. Starting at around 20 s, these large labeled vesicles decreased in number in favor of labeled synaptic vesicles, and after 30 s, labeled vesicles redocked at the active zone. The data suggest that readily releasable vesicles are retrieved as noncoated vesicles at the active zone.
The instinct of thirst was a cardinal element in the successful colonization by vertebrates of the dry land of the planet, which began in the Ordovician period about 400 million y ago. It is a commonplace experience in humans that drinking water in response to thirst following fluid loss is a pleasant experience. However, continuing to drink water once thirst has been satiated becomes unpleasant and, eventually, quite aversive. Functional MRI experiments reported here show pleasantness of drinking is associated with activation in the anterior cingulate cortex (Brodmann area 32) and the orbitofrontal cortex. The unpleasantness and aversion of overdrinking is associated with activation in the midcingulate cortex, insula, amygdala, and periaqueductal gray. Drinking activations in the putamen and cerebellum also correlated with the unpleasantness of water, and the motor cortex showed increased activation during overdrinking compared with drinking during thirst. These activations in motor regions may possibly reflect volitional effort to conduct compliant drinking in the face of regulatory mechanisms inhibiting intake. The results suggestive of a specific inhibitory system in the control of drinking are unique.





Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great promise for invitro generation of disease-relevant cell types, such as mesodiencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons involved in Parkinson's disease. Although iPSC-derived midbrain DA neurons have been generated, detailed genetic and epigenetic characterizations of such neurons are lacking. The goal of this study was to examine the authenticity of iPSC-derived DA neurons obtained by established protocols. We FACS purified mdDA (Pitx3 (Gfp/+) ) neurons derived from mouse iPSCs and primary mdDA (Pitx3 (Gfp/+) ) neurons to analyze and compare their genetic and epigenetic features. Although iPSC-derived DA neurons largely adopted characteristics of their invivo counterparts, relevant deviations in global gene expression and DNA methylation were found. Hypermethylated genes, mainly involved in neurodevelopment and basic neuronal functions, consequently showed reduced expression levels. Such abnormalities should be addressed because they might affect unambiguous long-term functionality and hamper the potential of iPSC-derived DA neurons for invitro disease modeling or cell-based therapy.
One of the major components of the subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenic niche is the specialized vasculature. The SVZ vasculature isthought to be important in regulating progenitor cell proliferation and migration. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a mitogen witha wide range of effects. When stem and progenitor cells in the rat SVZ are treated with EGF, using intracerebroventricular infusion,dysplastic polyps are formed. Upon extended infusion, blood vessels are recruited into the polyps. In the current study we demonstrate how polyps develop through distinct stages leading up to angiogenesis. As polyps progress, microglia/macrophages accumulate in the polyp core concurrent with increasing cell death. Both microglia/macrophage accumulation and cell death peak during angiogenesis and subsequently decline following polyp vascularization. This model of inducible angiogenesis in the SVZ neurogenic niche suggests involvement of microglia/macrophages in acquired angiogenesis and can be used in detail to study angiogenesis inthe adult brain.
Whether plasticity of white matter (WM) microstructure relates to therapeutic response in major depressive disorder (MDD) remains uncertain. We examined diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) correlates of WM structural connectivity in patients receiving electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), a rapidly acting treatment for severe MDD. Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) applied to DTI data (61 directions, 2.5 mm(3) voxel size) targeted voxel-level changes in fractional anisotropy (FA), and radial (RD), axial (AD) and mean diffusivity (MD) in major WM pathways in MDD patients (n=20, mean age: 41.15 years, 10.32 s.d.) scanned before ECT, after their second ECT and at transition to maintenance therapy. Comparisons made at baseline with demographically similar controls (n=28, mean age: 39.42 years, 12.20 s.d.) established effects of diagnosis. Controls were imaged twice to estimate scanning-related variance. Patients showed significant increases of FA in dorsal fronto-limbic circuits encompassing the anterior cingulum, forceps minor and left superior longitudinal fasciculus between baseline and transition to maintenance therapy (P&lt;0.05, corrected). Decreases in RD and MD were observed in overlapping regions and the anterior thalamic radiation (P&lt;0.05, corrected). Changes in DTI metrics associated with therapeutic response in tracts showing significant ECT effects differed between patients and controls. All measures remained stable across time in controls. Altered WM microstructure in pathways connecting frontal and limbic areas occur in MDD, are modulated by ECT and relate to therapeutic response. Increased FA together with decreased MD and RD, which trend towards normative values with treatment, suggest increased fiber integrity in dorsal fronto-limbic pathways involved in mood regulation.








Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor 1 (S1PR1) is critical for lymphocyte egress from lymphoid organs. Lymphocytes encounter low S1P concentrations near exit sites before transmigration, yet S1PR1 signaling is rapidly terminated after exposure to S1P. How lymphocytes maintain S1PR1 signaling in a low S1P environment near egress sites is unknown. Here we identify dynamin 2, an essential component of endocytosis, as a novel regulator of T cell egress. Mice with T cell-specific dynamin 2 deficiency had profound lymphopenia and impaired egress from lymphoid organs. Dynamin 2 deficiency caused impaired egress through regulation of S1PR1 signaling, and transgenic S1PR1 overexpression rescued egress in dynamin 2 knockout mice. In low S1P concentrations, dynamin 2 was essential for S1PR1 internalization, which enabled continuous S1PR1 signaling and promoted egress from both thymus and lymph nodes. In contrast, dynamin 2-deficient cells were only capable of a pulse of S1PR1 signaling, which was insufficient for egress. Our results suggest a possible mechanism by which T lymphocytes positioned at exit portals sense low S1P concentrations, promoting their egress into circulatory fluids.
T lymphocytes are key contributors to the acute phase of cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury, but the relevant T cell-derived mediators of tissue injury remain unknown. Using a mouse model of transient focal brain ischemia, we report that IL-21 is highly up-regulated in the injured mouse brain after cerebral ischemia. IL-21-deficient mice have smaller infarcts, improved neurological function, and reduced lymphocyte accumulation in the brain within 24 h of reperfusion. Intracellular cytokine staining and adoptive transfer experiments revealed that brain-infiltrating CD4(+) T cells are the predominant IL-21 source. Mice treated with decoy IL-21 receptor Fc fusion protein are protected from reperfusion injury. In postmortem human brain tissue, IL-21 localized to perivascular CD4(+) T cells in the area surrounding acute stroke lesions, suggesting that IL-21-mediated brain injury may be relevant to human stroke.






Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common heritable form of mental retardation, is characterized by synaptic dysfunction. Synaptic transmission depends critically on presynaptic calcium entry via voltage-gated calcium (CaV) channels. Here we show that the functional expression of neuronal N-type CaV channels (CaV2.2) is regulated by fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). We find that FMRP knockdown in dorsal root ganglion neurons increases CaV channel density in somata and in presynaptic terminals. We then show that FMRP controls CaV2.2 surface expression by targeting the channels to the proteasome for degradation. The interaction between FMRP and CaV2.2 occurs between the carboxy-terminal domain of FMRP and domains of CaV2.2 known to interact with the neurotransmitter release machinery. Finally, we show that FMRP controls synaptic exocytosis via CaV2.2 channels. Our data indicate that FMRP is a potent regulator of presynaptic activity, and its loss is likely to contribute to synaptic dysfunction in FXS.
The assumption that amongst internal organs of early arthropods only the digestive system withstands fossilization is challenged by the identification of brain and ganglia in early Cambrian fuxianhuiids and megacheirans from southwest China. Here we document in the 520-million-year-old Chengjiang arthropod Fuxianhuia protensa an exceptionally preserved bilaterally symmetrical organ system corresponding to the vascular system of extant arthropods. Preserved primarily as carbon, this system includes a broad dorsal vessel extending through the thorax to the brain where anastomosing branches overlap brain segments and supply the eyes and antennae. The dorsal vessel provides segmentally paired branches to lateral vessels, an arthropod ground pattern character, and extends into the anterior part of the abdomen. The addition of its vascular system to documented digestive and nervous systems resolves the internal organization of F. protensa as the most completely understood of any Cambrian arthropod, emphasizing complexity that had evolved by the early Cambrian.



Nutrient availability is the major regulator of life and reproduction, and a complex cellular signaling network has evolved to adapt organisms to fasting. These sensor pathways monitor cellular energy metabolism, especially mitochondrial ATP production and NAD(+)/NADH ratio, as major signals for nutritional state. We hypothesized that these signals would be modified by mitochondrial respiratory chain disease, because of inefficient NADH utilization and ATP production. Oral administration of nicotinamide riboside (NR), a vitamin B3 and NAD(+) precursor, was previously shown to boost NAD(+) levels in mice and to induce mitochondrial biogenesis. Here, we treated mitochondrial myopathy mice with NR. This vitamin effectively delayed early- and late-stage disease progression, by robustly inducing mitochondrial biogenesis in skeletal muscle and brown adipose tissue, preventing mitochondrial ultrastructure abnormalities and mtDNA deletion formation. NR further stimulated mitochondrial unfolded protein response, suggesting its protective role in mitochondrial disease. These results indicate that NR and strategies boosting NAD(+) levels are a promising treatment strategy for mitochondrial myopathy.

Although acute brain trauma often results from head damage in different accidents and affects a substantial fraction of the population, there is no effective treatment for it yet. Limitations of currently used animal models impede understanding of the pathology mechanism. Multiphoton microscopy allows studying cells and tissues within intact animal brains longitudinally under physiological and pathological conditions. Here, we describe two models of acute brain injury studied by means of two-photon imaging of brain cell behavior under posttraumatic conditions. A selected brain region is injured with a sharp needle to produce a trauma of a controlled width and depth in the brain parenchyma. Our method uses stereotaxic prick with a syringe needle, which can be combined with simultaneous drug application. We propose that this method can be used as an advanced tool to study cellular mechanisms of pathophysiological consequences of acute trauma in mammalian brain in vivo. In this video, we combine acute brain injury with two preparations: cranial window and skull thinning. We also discuss advantages and limitations of both preparations for multisession imaging of brain regeneration after trauma.

Evidence demonstrating that human exposure to various organophosphorus insecticides (OPs) is associated with neurobehavioral deficits in children continues to emerge. The present study focused on diazinon (DZ) and its active oxygen metabolite, diazoxon (DZO), and explored their ability to impair neurite outgrowth in rat primary hippocampal neurons as a mechanism of developmental neurotoxicity. Both DZ and DZO (0.5-10 M) significantly inhibited neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons, at concentrations devoid of any cyototoxicity. These effects appeared to be mediated by oxidative stress, as they were prevented by antioxidants (melatonin, N-t-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone, and glutathione ethyl ester). Inhibition of neurite outgrowth was observed at concentrations below those required to inhibit the catalytic activity of acetylcholinesterase. The presence of astrocytes in the culture was able to provide protection against inhibition of neurite outgrowth by DZ and DZO. Astrocytes increased neuronal glutathione (GSH) in neurons, to levels comparable to those of GSH ethyl ester. Astrocytes depleted of GSH by L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine no longer conferred protection against DZ- and DZO-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth. The findings indicate that DZ and DZO inhibit neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons by mechanisms involving oxidative stress, and that these effects can be modulated by astrocytes and astrocyte-derived GSH. Oxidative stress from other chemical exposures, as well as genetic abnormalities that result in deficiencies in GSH synthesis and regulation, may render individuals more susceptible to these developmental neurotoxic effects of OPs.



Diabetes mellitus is an increasingly common chronic medical condition. Approximately 30% of diabetic patients develop neuropathic pain, manifested as spontaneous pain, hyperalgesia and allodynia. Hyperglycemia induces metabolic changes in peripheral tissues and enhances oxidative stress in nerve fibers. The damages and subsequent reactive inflammation affect structural properties of Schwann cells and axons leading to the release of neuropoietic mediators, such as pro-inflammatory cytokines and pro-nociceptive mediators. Therefore, diabetic neuropathic pain (DNP) shares some histological features and underlying mechanisms with traumatic neuropathy. DNP displays, however, other distinct features; for instance, sensory input to the spinal cord decreases rather than increasing in diabetic patients. Consequently, development of central sensitization in DNP involves mechanisms that are distinct from traumatic neuropathic pain. In DNP, the contribution of spinal cord microglia activation to central sensitization and pain processes is emerging as a new concept. Besides inflammation in the periphery, hyperglycemia and the resulting production of reactive oxygen species affect the local microenvironment in the spinal cord. All these alterations could trigger resting and sessile microglia to the activated phenotype. In turn, microglia synthesize and release pro-inflammatory cytokines and neuroactive molecules capable of inducing hyperactivity of spinal nociceptive neurons. Hence, it is imperative to elucidate glial mechanisms underlying DNP for the development of effective therapeutic agents. The present review highlights the recent developments regarding the contribution of spinal microglia as compelling target for the treatment of DNP.
Adenosine A2A receptors are predominantly localized on striatopallidal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons, where they are colocalized with dopamine D2 receptors and are involved in the regulation of movement. Adenosine A2A receptor antagonists have been evaluated as a novel treatment for Parkinson's disease and have demonstrated efficacy in a broad spectrum of pharmacological and toxicological rodent and primate models. Fewer studies have been performed to evaluate the efficacy of adenosine A2A receptor antagonists in genetic models of hypodopaminergic states. SCH 412348 is a potent and selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist that shows efficacy in rodent and primate models of movement disorders. Here we evaluated the effects of SCH 412348 in the MitoPark mouse, a genetic model that displays a progressive loss of dopamine neurons. The dopamine cell loss is associated with a profound akinetic phenotype that is sensitive to levodopa (l-dopa). SCH 412348 (0.3-10mg/kg administered orally) dose dependently increased locomotor activity in the mice. Moreover, SCH 412348 retained its efficacy in the mice as motor impairment progressed (12-22 weeks of age), demonstrating that the compound was efficacious in mild to severe Parkinson's disease-like impairment in the mice. Additionally, SCH 412348 fully restored lost functionality in a measure of hind limb bradykinesia and partially restored functionality in a rotarod test. These findings provide further evidence of the anti-Parkinsonian effects of selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists and predict that they will retain their efficacy in both mild and severe forms of motor impairment.
Taurine is an endogenous brain substance with robust neuromodulatory and possible neuroprotective properties. Though other mechanisms of action have been reported, its interaction with the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) receptor is undocumented. We investigated taurine's interaction with the NMDA receptor using electrophysiological and receptor binding approaches. The effects of taurine on field potential responses in layer-5 of prelimbic cortex in rat brain slices evoked by single-pulse electrical stimulation of ventral medial cortex were determined. Picrotoxin (80 M) was present in all control and drug solutions to block the Cl(-) channels associated with the GABA-, taurine-, and strychnine sensitive glycine- receptors. A typical response consisted of an NBQX (2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo-[f]-quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide)-sensitive negative wave (N1) followed by a positive wave (P1) and a broad negativity (N2), both sensitive to dl-AP5 (dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid) inhibition. Taurine exerted a 41.5  8.3% (n = 9) voltage reduction within the late phase of N2. This taurine action was prevented by 100 M AP5, but not by 10 M nifedipine, supporting a direct modulation of NMDA receptor function by taurine, without requiring the involvement of the L-type Ca(2+) channel. Taurine did not alter specific [(3)H] MK-801 binding to rat cortical membranes in the presence of glycine or glutamate; but inhibited spermine-potentiated specific [(3)H] MK-801 binding to NMDA receptors by 15-20% in the presence of glycine. In addition, taurine reduced the apparent affinity of the NMDA receptor for glycine (in the presence of spermine) by 10-fold. These results show that taurine interacts directly with the NMDA receptor by multiple mechanisms.




The syndrome of cerebral palsy encompasses a large group of childhood movement and posture disorders. Severity, patterns of motor involvement, and associated impairments such as those of communication, intellectual ability, and epilepsy vary widely. Overall prevalence has remained stable in the past 40 years at 2-35 cases per 1000 livebirths, despite changes in antenatal and perinatal care. The few studies available from developing countries suggest prevalence of comparable magnitude. Cerebral palsy is a lifelong disorder; approaches to intervention, whether at an individual or environmental level, should recognise that quality of life and social participation throughout life are what individuals with cerebral palsy seek, not improved physical function for its own sake. In the past few years, the cerebral palsy community has learned that the evidence of benefit for the numerous drugs, surgery, and therapies used over previous decades is weak. Improved understanding of the role of multiple gestation in pathogenesis, of gene environment interaction, and how to influence brain plasticity could yield significant advances in treatment of the disorder. Reduction in the prevalence of post-neonatal cerebral palsy, especially in developing countries, should be possible through improved nutrition, infection control, and accident prevention.









Hyperexcitatory behaviors occurring after sevoflurane anesthesia are of serious clinical concern, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. These behaviors may result from the potentiation by sevoflurane of GABAergic depolarization/excitation in neocortical neurons, cells implicated in the genesis of consciousness and arousal. The current study sought to provide evidence for this hypothesis with rats, the neocortical neurons of which are known to respond to GABA (-aminobutyric acid) with depolarization/excitation at early stages of development (i.e., until the second postnatal week) and with hyperpolarization/inhibition during adulthood. Employing behavioral tests and electrophysiological recordings in neocortical slice preparations, we found: (1) sevoflurane produced PAHBs (post-anesthetic hyperexcitatory behaviors) in postnatal day (P)1-15 rats, whereas it failed to elicit PAHBs in P16 or older rats; (2) GABAergic PSPs (postsynaptic potentials) were depolarizing/excitatory in the neocortical neurons of P5 and P10 rats, whereas mostly hyperpolarizing/inhibitory in the cells of adult rats; (3) at P14-15, &lt;50% of rats had PAHBs and, in general, the cells of the animals with PAHBs exhibited strongly depolarizing GABAergic PSPs, whereas those without PAHBs showed hyperpolarizing or weakly depolarizing GABAergic PSPs; (4) bumetanide [inhibitor of the Cl- importer NKCC (Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter)] treatment at P5 suppressed PAHBs and depolarizing GABAergic responses; and (5) sevoflurane at 1% (i.e., concentration&lt;1 minimum alveolar concentration) potentiated depolarizing GABAergic PSPs in the neurons of P5 and P10 rats and of P14-15 animals with PAHBs, evoking action potentials in 50% of these cells. On the basis of these results, we conclude that sevoflurane may produce PAHBs by potentiating GABAergic depolarization/excitation in neocortical neurons.
Neural crest cells in the embryo migrate to reach target sites as neural crest-derived cells (NCDCs) where they differentiate into a variety of derivatives. Some NCDCs are maintained in an undifferentiated state throughout the life of the animal and are considered to be a useful cell source for regenerative medicine. However, no established method to obtain NCDCs sufficient for regenerative medicine from adults with high purity has been presented, since their distribution in adult tissues is not fully understood. It is critical to identify reliable markers for NCDCs in adults, as the expressions of P0 and Wnt1, the most reliable NCDC markers, are shut off in the embryonic stage. To analyze the characteristics of NCDCs in adult tissues, we utilized a double transgenic mouse strain, P0-Cre/CAG-CAT-EGFP transgenic mice (P0 mice), in which NCDCs were shown to express EGFP and we were able to recognize GFP-positive cells in those. We focused on the submandibular glands (SMGs), which are known to be derived from the neural crest. GFP-positive cells were shown to be scattered like islands in the SMGs of adult P0 mice. We surgically removed SMGs from adult mice and digested samples into single cell suspensions. GFP-positive cells separated using flow cytometry expressed a high level of Sox10, a marker of embryonic neural crest cells, suggesting successful isolation of NCDCs. To identify candidate marker genes in isolated NCDCs, we performed DNA microarray analyses and real-time PCR analysis of GFP-positive and -negative cells isolated from P0 mice, then selected genes showing differential gene expression patterns. As compared to GFP-negative cells, GFP-positive cells expressed Gpr4 and Ednrb at higher levels, whereas Pdgfra and Pdgfrb were expressed at lower levels. Furthermore, DNA microarray analysis showed that GFP-positive cells were positive for aquaporin 5, a marker for acinar cells. Together, our results indicate that NCDCs in adult SMGs have characteristic gene expression profiles specially their cell surface molecules. Cell sorting using a combination of these specific cell surface proteins would be a useful strategy for isolation of NCDCs from SMGs with high purity.

Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (ppTMS) can be used to assess short-interval intracortical inhibitory (SICI) and facilitatory (ICF) networks. Many methodological parameters may however influence the outcome. The aim of the study was to examine the influence of body positions (recline and supine), inter-stimulus intervals (ISI) between the test stimulus (TS) and conditioning stimulus (CS) and intensities of the TS and CS on the degree of SICI and ICF. In studies 1 and 2, fourteen and seventeen healthy volunteers participated respectively. ppTMS was applied over the &quot;hot-spot&quot; of the tongue motor cortex and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from contralateral tongue muscles. In study 1, single pulse and three ppTMS ISIs, 2, 10, and 15ms, were applied 8 times each in three blocks (TS: 120%, 140% and 160% of resting motor threshold (rMT); CS: 80% of rMT) in two different body positions (recline and supine) randomly. In study 2, single pulse and four ppTMS ISIs, 2, 2.5, 3, and 3.5ms, were applied 8 times each in randomized order in two blocks (CS: 70% and 80% of rMT; TS: 120% of rMT). There was a significant effect of body position (P=0.049), TS intensities (P&lt;0.001) and ISIs (P&lt;0.001) and interaction between intensity and ISIs (P=0.042) in study 1. In study 2, there was a significant effect of ISI (P&lt;0.001) but not CS intensity (P=0.984) on MEP amplitude. These results may be applied in future studies on the mechanisms of cortical plasticity in the tongue motor pathways using ppTMS and SICI and ICF.
PAT4, the fourth member of the SLC36/proton dependent amino acid transporter (PAT) family, is a high-affinity, low capacity electroneutral transporter of neutral amino acids like proline and tryptophan. It has also been associated with the function of mTORC1, a complex in the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. We performed in situ hybridization and immunohistological analysis to determine the expression profile of PAT4, as well as an RT-PCR study on tissue from mice exposed to leucine. We performed a phylogenetic analysis to determine the evolutionary origin of PAT4. The in situ hybridization and the immunohistochemistry on mouse brain sections and hypothalamic cells showed abundant PAT4 expression in the mouse brain intracellularly in both inhibitory and excitatory neurons, partially co-localizing with lysosomal markers and epithelial cells lining the ventricles. Its location in epithelial cells around the ventricles indicates a transport of substrates across the blood brain barrier. Phylogenetic analysis showed that PAT4 belongs to an evolutionary old family most likely predating animals, and PAT4 is the oldest member of that family.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel and a member of the Cys-loop family of receptors. Previous studies have shown 5-HT3 receptor expression in various neural cells of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Although the function and distribution of the 5-HT3 receptor has been well established, its role in the inner ear is still poorly understood. Moreover, no study has yet determined its localization and function in the peripheral vestibular nervous system. In the present study, we reveal mRNA expression of both 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B receptor subunits in the mouse vestibular ganglion (VG) by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization (ISH). We also show by ISH that 5-HT3 receptor mRNA is only expressed in the VG (superior and inferior division) in the peripheral vestibular nervous system. Moreover, we performed Ca(2+) imaging to determine whether functional 5-HT3 receptors are present in the mouse VG, using a selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist, SR57227A. In wild mice, 32% of VG neurons responded to the agonist, whereas there was no response in 5-HT3A receptor knockout mice. These results indicate that VG cells express functional 5-HT3 receptor channels and might play a modulatory role in the peripheral vestibular nervous system.
Inflammation has been implicated in the pathology of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinsons disease (PD). Studies using the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent inflammogen, show that systemic insults can trigger prolonged microglial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine production leading to degeneration of substantia nigra (SN) dopamine (DA) neurons, mimicking idiopathic PD. Because rapid effects of LPS on SN neurons had not been investigated previously, the focus of this study is to assess time-dependent alterations in SN neuroinflammation, DAergic neurons, and neuronal signaling cascades following LPS administration. LPS (5mg/kg, i.p.) or saline (0.9% NaCl) was administered to 8-month-old male mice. At 3h, 5h, and 12h post-injection, the morphology of the SN was assessed using antibodies directed against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, DAergic marker), Iba-1 (pan-microglial marker), phospho-ERK, and phospho-CREB (signaling). LPS administration significantly reduced TH-immunoreactivity (ir) at all time-points with the greatest reduction observed at 12h post-injection. Reduced TH-ir was accompanied by a significant increase in activated microglia at all time-points following LPS. By 12h post-injection, LPS-treated mice exhibited activated as well as reactive microglia, which can result in neuronal damage. These data demonstrate that the initial reduction in TH-ir observed after an LPS injection was not concomitant with morphological alterations in microglial cells, even though a significant increase in phospho-ERK was observed in glial cells as soon as 3h post-injection. It is possible that the initial alteration in DA phenotype (TH reduction) may perpetuate an inflammatory response that persists and leads to further DAergic damage.






Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disease characterized by a reduced synthesis of the mitochondrial iron chaperon protein frataxin as a result of a large GAA triplet-repeat expansion within the first intron of the frataxin gene. Despite neurodegeneration being the prominent feature of this pathology involving both the central and the peripheral nervous system, information on the impact of frataxin deficiency in neurons is scant. Here, we describe a neuronal model displaying some major biochemical and morphological features of FRDA. By silencing the mouse NSC34 motor neurons for the frataxin gene with shRNA lentiviral vectors, we generated two cell lines with 40% and 70% residual amounts of frataxin, respectively. Frataxin-deficient cells showed a specific inhibition of mitochondrial Complex I (CI) activity already at 70% residual frataxin levels, whereas the glutathione imbalance progressively increased after silencing. These biochemical defects were associated with the inhibition of cell proliferation and morphological changes at the axonal compartment, both depending on the frataxin amount. Interestingly, at 70% residual frataxin levels, the in vivo treatment with the reduced glutathione revealed a partial rescue of cell proliferation. Thus, NSC34 frataxin silenced cells could be a suitable model to study the effect of frataxin deficiency in neurons and highlight glutathione as a potential beneficial therapeutic target for FRDA.

Dividing neuroendocrine cells differentiate into a neuronal-like phenotype in response to ligands activating G protein-coupled receptors, leading to the elevation of the second messenger cAMP. Growth factors that act at receptor tyrosine kinases, such as nerve growth factor, also cause differentiation. We report here that two aspects of cAMP-induced differentiation, neurite extension and growth arrest, are dissociable at the level of the sensors conveying the cAMP signal in PC12 and NS-1 cells. Following cAMP elevation, neuritogenic cyclic AMP sensor/Rapgef2 is activated for signaling to ERK to mediate neuritogenesis, whereas Epac2 is activated for signaling to the MAP kinase p38 to mediate growth arrest. Neither action of cAMP requires transactivation of TrkA, the receptor for NGF. In fact, the differentiating effects of NGF do not require activation of any of the cAMP sensors protein kinase A, Epac, or neuritogenic cyclic AMP sensor/Rapgef2 but, rather, depend on ERK and p38 activation via completely independent signaling pathways. Hence, cAMP- and NGF-dependent signaling for differentiation are also completely insulated from each other. Cyclic AMP and NGF also protect NS-1 cells from serum withdrawal-induced cell death, again by two wholly separate signaling mechanisms, PKA-dependent for cAMP and PKA-independent for NGF.
The focal swellings of dendrites (&quot;dendritic beading&quot;) are an early morphological hallmark of neuronal injury and dendrotoxicity. They are associated with a variety of pathological conditions, including brain ischemia, and cause an acute disruption of synaptic transmission and neuronal network function, which contribute to subsequent neuronal death. Here, we show that increased synaptic activity prior to excitotoxic injury protects, in a transcription-dependent manner, against dendritic beading. Expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), a nuclear calcium-regulated gene and member of the core gene program for acquired neuroprotection, can protect against dendritic beading. Conversely, knockdown of ATF3 exacerbates dendritic beading. Assessment of neuronal network functions using microelectrode array recordings revealed that hippocampal neurons expressing ATF3 were able to regain their ability for functional synaptic transmission and to participate in coherent neuronal network activity within 48 h after exposure to toxic concentrations of NMDA. Thus, in addition to attenuating cell death, synaptic activity and expression of ATF3 render hippocampal neurons more resistant to acute dendrotoxicity and loss of synapses. Dendroprotection can enhance recovery of neuronal network functions after excitotoxic insults.






Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection remains a worldwide epidemic, and innovative therapies to combat the virus are needed. Developing a host-oriented antiviral strategy capable of targeting the biomolecules that are directly or indirectly required for viral replication may provide advantages over traditional virus-centric approaches. We used quantitative proteomics by SWATH-MS in conjunction with bioinformatic analyses to identify host proteins, with an emphasis on nucleic acid binding and regulatory proteins, which could serve as candidates in the development of host-oriented antiretroviral strategies. Using SWATH-MS, we identified and quantified the expression of 3608 proteins in uninfected and HIV-1-infected monocyte-derived macrophages. Of these 3608 proteins, 420 were significantly altered upon HIV-1 infection. Bioinformatic analyses revealed functional enrichment for RNA binding and processing as well as transcription regulation. Our findings highlight a novel subset of proteins and processes that are involved in the host response to HIV-1 infection. In addition, we provide an original and transparent methodology for the analysis of label-free quantitative proteomics data generated by SWATH-MS that can be readily adapted to other biological systems.



Experimental and epidemiological evidence reveal the profound influence that industrialized modern society has imposed on human social habits and physiology during the past 50 years. This drastic change in life-style is thought to be one of the main causes of modern diseases including obesity, type 2 diabetes, mental illness such as depression, sleep disorders, and certain types of cancer. These disorders have been associated to disruption of the circadian clock, an intrinsic time-keeper molecular system present in virtually all cells and tissues. The circadian clock is a key element in homeostatic regulation by controlling a large array of genes implicated in cellular metabolism. Importantly, intimate links between epigenetic regulation and the circadian clock exist and are likely to prominently contribute to the plasticity of the response to the environment. In this review, we summarize some experimental and epidemiological evidence showing how environmental factors such as stress, drugs of abuse and changes in circadian habits, interact through different brain areas to modulate the endogenous clock. Furthermore we point out the pivotal role of the deacetylase silent mating-type information regulation 2 homolog 1 (SIRT1) as a molecular effector of the environment in shaping the circadian epigenetic landscape.
The nervous system of higher organisms is characterized by an enormous diversity of cell types that function in concert to carry out a myriad of neuronal functions. Differences in connectivity, and subsequent physiology of the connected neurons, are a result of differences in transcriptional programs. The extraordinary complexity of the nervous system requires an equally complex regulatory system. It is well established that transcription factor combinations and the organization of cis-regulatory sequences control commitment to differentiation programs and preserve a nuclear plasticity required for neuronal functions. However, an additional level of regulation is provided by epigenetic controls. Among various epigenetic processes, nuclear organization and the control of genome architecture emerge as an efficient and powerful form of gene regulation that meets the unique needs of the post-mitotic neuron. Here, we present an outline of how nuclear architecture affects transcription and provide examples from the recent literature where these principles are used by the nervous system.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been increasingly appreciated as an integral component of gene regulatory networks. Genome-wide features of their origin and expression patterns ascribed a prominent role for lncRNAs to the regulation of protein-coding genes, and also suggest a potential link to many human diseases. Recent studies have begun to unravel the intricate regulatory mechanism of lncRNAs occurring at multiple levels. The brain is one of the richest sources of lncRNAs, many of which have already shown a close relationship with genes or genetic loci implicated in a wide range of neurological disorders. This review describes recently emerging mechanistic principles of lncRNA functions to provide neuroscientists with molecular insights that will help future research on lncRNAs in the brain.
The human brain has a remarkable capacity to adapt to and learn from a wide range of variations in the environment. However, environmental challenges can also precipitate psychiatric disorders in susceptible individuals. Why any given experience should induce one brain to adapt while another is edged toward psychopathology remains poorly understood. Like all aspects of psychological function, both nature (genetics) and nurture (life experience) sculpt the brain's response to stressful stimuli. Here we review how these two influences intersect at the epigenetic regulation of neuronal gene transcription, and we discuss how the regulation of genomic DNA methylation near key stress-response genes may influence psychological susceptibility or resilience to environmental stressors. Our goal is to offer a perspective on the epigenetics of stress responses that works to bridge the gap between the study of this molecular process in animal models and its potential usefulness for understanding stress vulnerabilities in humans.
Puberty is a critical period of development during which the reemergence of gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion from the hypothalamus triggers a cascade of hormone-dependent processes. Maturation of specific brain regions including the prefrontal cortex occurs during this window, but the complex mechanisms underlying these dynamic changes are not well understood. Particularly, the potential involvement of epigenetics in this programming has been under-examined. The epigenome is known to guide earlier stages of development, and it is similarly poised to regulate vital pubertal-driven brain maturation. Further, as epigenetic machinery is highly environmentally responsive, its involvement may also lend this period of growth to greater vulnerability to external insults, resulting in reprogramming and increased disease risk. Importantly, neuropsychiatric diseases commonly present in individuals during or immediately following puberty, and environmental perturbations including stress may precipitate disease onset by disrupting the normal trajectory of pubertal brain development via epigenetic mechanisms. In this review, we discuss epigenetic processes involved in pubertal brain maturation, the potential points of derailment, and the importance of future studies for understanding this dynamic developmental window and gaining a better understanding of neuropsychiatric disease risk.
During all stages of neural development-from the fate switches of neural precursor/progenitor cells to activity-dependent synapse maturation-chromatin-level modifications are important regulators of the gene expression that control developmental programs. Such modifications, including both alterations of histone tails and cytosine residues in the DNA, as well as changes in the chromatin structure, act dynamically throughout development and work together to determine the chromatin state at each time point. While many studies have shown localized action of chromatin modifiers at relevant gene loci, recent reports have also indicated that some chromatin modifications work on a more global scale, altering many loci throughout the genome. Here we review recent papers that describe the roles of chromatin-level regulation, at both the local and global scale, in the development of the mouse brain.
Abnormal gene regulation as a consequence of flawed epigenetic mechanisms may be central to the initiation and persistence of many human diseases. However, the association of epigenetic dysfunction with disease and the development of therapeutic agents for treatment are slow. Developing new methodologies used to visualize chromatin-modifying enzymes and their function in the human brain would be valuable for the diagnosis of brain disorders and drug discovery. We provide an overview of current invasive and noninvasive techniques for measuring expression and functions of chromatin-modifying enzymes in the brain, emphasizing tools applicable to histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzymes as a leading example. The majority of current techniques are invasive and difficult to translate to what is happening within a human brain in vivo. However, recent progress in molecular imaging provides new, noninvasive ways to visualize epigenetics in the human brain. Neuroimaging tool development presents a unique set of challenges in order to identify and validate CNS radiotracers for HDACs and other histone-modifying enzymes. We summarize advances in the effort to image HDACs and HDAC inhibitory effects in the brain using positron emission tomography (PET) and highlight generalizable techniques that can be adapted to investigate other specific components of epigenetic machinery. Translational tools like neuroimaging by PET and magnetic resonance imaging provide the best way to link our current understanding of epigenetic changes with in vivo function in normal and diseased brains. These tools will be a critical addition to ex vivo methods to evaluate - and intervene - in CNS dysfunction.
Childhood maltreatment (CM) has estimated prevalence among Western societies between 10% and 15%. As CM associates with increased risk of several psychiatric disorders, early age of illness onset, increased comorbidity and negative clinical outcome, it imposes a major public health, social and economic impact. Although the clinical consequences of CM are well characterized, a major challenge remains to understand how negative early-life events can affect brain function over extended periods of time. We review here both animal and human studies indicating that the epigenetic mechanism of DNA methylation is a crucial mediator of early-life experiences, thereby maintaining life-long neurobiological sequelae of CM, and strongly determining psychopathological risk.
Genetic factors are implicated in the heritability of drug abuse. However, even with advances in current technology no specific genes have been identified that are critical for the transmission of drug-induced phenotypes to subsequent generations. It is now evident that epigenetic factors contribute to disease heritability and represent a link between genes and the environment. Recently, epigenetic mechanisms have been shown to underlie drug-induced structural, synaptic, and behavioral plasticity by coordinating the expression of gene networks within the brain. Therefore, the epigenome provides a direct mechanism for drugs of abuse to influence the genetic events involved in the development of addiction as well as its heritability to subsequent generations. In this review we discuss the mechanisms underlying intergenerational epigenetic transmission, highlight studies that demonstrate this phenomenon with particular attention to the field of addiction, and identify gaps for future studies.
Recent advances in genomic technologies have allowed for tremendous progress in our understanding of the biology underlying medulloblastoma, a malignant childhood brain tumor. Consensus molecular subgroups have been put forth by the pediatric neuro-oncology community and next-generation genomic studies have led to an improved description of driver genes and pathways somatically altered in these subgroups. In contrast to the impressive pace at which advances have been made at the level of the medulloblastoma genome, comparable studies of the epigenome have lagged behind. Complementary data yielded from genomic sequencing and copy number profiling have verified frequent targeting of chromatin modifiers in medulloblastoma, highly suggestive of prominent epigenetic deregulation in the disease. Past studies of DNA methylation-dependent gene silencing and microRNA expression analyses further support the concept of medulloblastoma as an epigenetic disease. In this Review, we aim to summarize the key findings of past reports pertaining to medulloblastoma epigenetics as well as recent and ongoing genomic efforts linking somatic alterations of the genome with inferred deregulation of the epigenome. In addition, we predict what is on the horizon for medulloblastoma epigenetics and how aberrant changes in the medulloblastoma epigenome might serve as an attractive target for future therapies.
A large, and still rapidly expanding literature on epigenetic regulation in the nervous system has provided fundamental insights into the dynamic regulation of DNA methylation and post-translational histone modifications in the context of neuronal plasticity in health and disease. Remarkably, however, very little is known about the potential role of chromatin-bound RNAs, including many long non-coding transcripts and various types of small RNAs. Here, we provide an overview on RNA-mediated regulation of chromatin structure and function, with focus on histone lysine methylation and psychiatric disease. Examples of recently discovered chromatin-bound long non-coding RNAs important for neuronal health and function include the brain-derived neurotrophic factor antisense transcript (Bdnf-AS) which regulates expression of the corresponding sense transcript, and LOC389023 which is associated with human-specific histone methylation signatures at the chromosome 2q14.1 neurodevelopmental risk locus by regulating expression of DPP10, an auxillary subunit for voltage-gated K(+) channels. We predict that the exploration of chromatin-bound RNA will significantly advance our current knowledge base in neuroepigenetics and biological psychiatry.
Developing novel therapeutics and diagnostic tools based upon an understanding of neuroplasticity is critical in order to improve the treatment and ultimately the prevention of a broad range of nervous system disorders. In the case of mood disorders, such as major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD), where diagnoses are based solely on nosology rather than pathophysiology, there exists a clear unmet medical need to advance our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms and to develop fundamentally new mechanism experimental medicines with improved efficacy. In this context, recent preclinical molecular, cellular, and behavioral findings have begun to reveal the importance of epigenetic mechanisms that alter chromatin structure and dynamically regulate patterns of gene expression that may play a critical role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. Here, we will review recent advances involving the use of animal models in combination with genetic and pharmacological probes to dissect the underlying molecular mechanisms and neurobiological consequence of targeting this chromatin-mediated neuroplasticity. We discuss evidence for the direct and indirect effects of mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and antipsychotics, among their many other effects, on chromatin-modifying enzymes and on the epigenetic state of defined genomic loci, in defined cell types and in specific regions of the brain. These data, as well as findings from patient-derived tissue, have also begun to reveal alterations of epigenetic mechanisms in the pathophysiology and treatment of mood disorders. We summarize growing evidence supporting the notion that selectively targeting chromatin-modifying complexes, including those containing histone deacetylases (HDACs), provides a means to reversibly alter the acetylation state of neuronal chromatin and beneficially impact neuronal activity-regulated gene transcription and mood-related behaviors. Looking beyond current knowledge, we discuss how high-resolution, whole-genome methodologies, such as RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) for transcriptome analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-Seq) for analyzing genome-wide occupancy of chromatin-associated factors, are beginning to provide an unprecedented view of both specific genomic loci as well as global properties of chromatin in the nervous system. These methodologies when applied to the characterization of model systems, including those of patient-derived induced pluripotent cell (iPSC) and induced neurons (iNs), will greatly shape our understanding of epigenetic mechanisms and the impact of genetic variation on the regulatory regions of the human genome that can affect neuroplasticity. Finally, we point out critical unanswered questions and areas where additional data are needed in order to better understand the potential to target mechanisms of chromatin-mediated neuroplasticity for novel treatments of mood and other psychiatric disorders.
Chronic exposure to stress is associated with a number of psychiatric disorders, but little is known about the epigenetic mechanisms that underlie the stress response or resilience to chronic stress. We investigated histone acetylation in seven different brain regions of rats exposed to chronic social defeat stress: the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC), ventral hippocampus (vHPC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), basolateral amygdala (BLA), locus coeruleus (LC), paraventricular thalamus (PVT), and dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus. This stress paradigm was unique in that it allowed rats to display resilience in the form of an active coping mechanism. We found that there was an increase in acetylation of H3K9/14 (H3K9/14ac) and bulk acetylation of H4K5,8,12,16 (H4K5,8,12,16ac) in the DR nucleus of rats that were less resilient. Less resilient rats also displayed increased levels of H3K18 acetylation (H3K18ac) in the mPFC when compared to non-stressed controls. In the vHPC, there was an increase in H3K18ac and H4K12 (H4K12ac) in rats that were less resilient when compared to non-stressed control rats. In addition, there was a decrease in levels of H4K8 acetylation (H4K8ac) in both resilient and non-resilient rats as compared to controls. We assessed expression of histone modifying enzymes in the vHPC and the mPFC using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and found changes in expression of a number of targets. These included changes in Sirt1 and Sirt2 in the vHPC and changes in Kat5 in the mPFC. Overall, these results suggest that changes in histone acetylation and expression of histone modifying enzymes in these regions correlate with the behavioral response to stress in socially defeated rats.
While the importance of epigenetic mechanisms is well established for numerous aspects of cell differentiation and development, recent findings have shown epigenetic processes to be a critical regulatory component in postmitotic neurons. Particularly intriguing, and potentially significant, are data demonstrating epigenetic regulation of cognitive behaviors. Different aspects of learning and memory appear to be regulated at the level of epigenetic chromatin modifications. Furthermore, it is becoming clear that the dysfunction of epigenetic mechanisms can lead to various disorders accompanied by significant mental impairment. Here, we review the evidence for the epigenetic control of cognition and the role of epigenetic dysregulation in mental disorders. A better understanding of epigenetic mechanisms will increase our fundamental knowledge of cognition and also provide new and exciting avenues of treatment for various mental disorders.
From fertilization throughout development and until death, cellular programs in individual cells are dynamically regulated to fulfill multiple functions ranging from cell lineage specification to adaptation to internal and external stimuli. Such regulation is of major importance in brain cells, because the brain continues to develop long after birth and incorporates information from the environment across life. When compromised, these regulatory mechanisms can have detrimental consequences on neurodevelopment and lead to severe brain pathologies and neurodegenerative diseases in the adult individual. Elucidating these processes is essential to better understand their implication in disease etiology. Because they are strongly influenced by environmental factors, they have been postulated to depend on epigenetic mechanisms. This review describes recent studies that have identified epigenetic dysfunctions in the pathophysiology of several neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases. It discusses currently known pathways and molecular targets implicated in pathologies including imprinting disorders, Rett syndrome, and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Hungtinton's disease, and their relevance to these diseases.
Two major environmental developments have occurred in mammalian evolution which have impacted on the genetic and epigenetic regulation of brain development. The first of these was viviparity and development of the placenta which placed a considerable burden of time and energy investment on the matriline, and which resulted in essential hypothalamic modifications. Maternal feeding, maternal care, parturition, milk letdown and the suspension of fertility and sexual behaviour are all determined by the maternal hypothalamus and have evolved to meet foetal needs under the influence of placental hormones. Viviparity itself provided a new environmental variable for selection pressures to operate via the co-existence over three generations of matrilineal genomes (mother, developing offspring and developing oocytes) in one individual. Also of importance for the matriline has been the evolution of epigenetic marks (imprint control regions) which are heritable and undergo reprogramming primarily in the oocyte to regulate imprinted gene expression according to parent of origin. Imprinting of autosomal genes has played a significant role in mammalian evolutionary development, particularly that of the hypothalamus and placenta. Indeed, many imprinted genes that are co-expressed in the placenta and hypothalamus play an important role in the co-adapted functioning of these organs. Thus the action and interaction of two genomes (maternal and foetal) have provided a template for transgenerational selection pressures to operate in shaping the mothering capabilities of each subsequent generation. The advanced aspects of neocortical brain evolution in primates have emancipated much of behaviour from the determining effects of hormonal action. Thus in large brain primates, most of the sexual behaviour is not reproductive hormone dependent and maternal care can and does occur outside the context of pregnancy and parturition. The neocortex has evolved to be adaptable and while the adapted changes are not inherited, the epigenetic predisposing processes can be. This provides each generation with the same ability to generate new adaptations while retaining a &quot;cultural&quot; predisposition to retain others. A significant evolutionary contribution to this epigenetic dimension has again been the matriline. The extensive neocortical development which takes place post-natally does so in an environment which is predominantly that of the caring guidance of the mother. Evidence for the epigenetic regulation of neocortical development is best illustrated by the GABA-ergic neurons and their long tangential migratory pathway from the ganglionic eminence, in contrast to the radial migration of principle neurons. GABA-ergic neurons play an integral role both in the developmental formation of canonical localised circuits and in synchronising widespread functional activity by the regulation of network oscillations. Such synchronisation enables distributed regions of the neocortex to coordinate firing. GABA-ergic dysfunction contributes to a broad spectrum of neurological and psychiatric disorders which can differ even across identical monozygotic twins. Moreover, major treatments for schizophrenia over the past 40 years have included the drugs lithium and valproate, both of which we now know are histone deacetylases. It is rarely the heritable dysfunctioning of these epigenetic mechanisms that is at fault, but the timing, duration and place where they are deployed. The timing and complexity in the development of the neocortex makes this region of the brain more vulnerable to perturbations.
The foundations of brain architecture are established early in life through a continuous series of dynamic interactions in which environmental conditions and personal experiences have a significant impact on how genetic predispositions are expressed. New scientific research shows that early social experiences can actually influence how genes are expressed. Thus, the old-school concepts that genes are &quot;chiseled in stone&quot; or that they alone determine development have been disproven. The discovery of the epigenome provides an explanation, at the molecular level, for why and how early positive and negative social experiences give rise to a biological memory that can have lifelong impacts. Signatures associated with the epigenome can be temporary or permanent, affect multiple organ systems, and increase the risk not only for poor physical and mental health outcomes but also for impairments in future learning capacity and behavior. Here, we focus on recent evidence for a role of epigenetic DNA modifications as a potential mechanism that explains how early social life experiences become embedded in the circuitry of the developing brain and are associated with lifelong consequences.

Damage to the central nervous system caused by traumatic injury or neurological disorders can lead to permanent loss of voluntary motor function and muscle paralysis. Here, we describe an approach that circumvents central motor circuit pathology to restore specific skeletal muscle function. We generated murine embryonic stem cell-derived motor neurons that express the light-sensitive ion channel channelrhodopsin-2, which we then engrafted into partially denervated branches of the sciatic nerve of adult mice. These engrafted motor neurons not only reinnervated lower hind-limb muscles but also enabled their function to be restored in a controllable manner using optogenetic stimulation. This synthesis of regenerative medicine and optogenetics may be a successful strategy to restore muscle function after traumatic injury or disease.







Tubulins, and microtubule polymers into which they incorporate, play critical mechanical roles in neuronal function during cell proliferation, neuronal migration, and postmigrational development: the three major overlapping events of mammalian cerebral cortex development. A number of neuronally expressed tubulin genes are associated with a spectrum of disorders affecting cerebral cortex formation. Such &quot;tubulinopathies&quot; include lissencephaly/pachygyria, polymicrogyria-like malformations, and simplified gyral patterns, in addition to characteristic extracortical features, such as corpus callosal, basal ganglia, and cerebellar abnormalities. Epilepsy is a common finding in these related disorders. Here we describe two unrelated individuals with infantile-onset epilepsy and abnormalities of brain morphology, harboring de novo variants that affect adjacent amino acids in a beta-tubulin gene TUBB2A. Located in a highly conserved loop, we demonstrate impaired tubulin and microtubule function resulting from each variant in vitro and by using in silico predictive modeling. We propose that the affected functional loop directly associates with the alpha-tubulin-bound guanosine triphosphate (GTP) molecule, impairing the intradimer interface and correct formation of the alpha/beta-tubulin heterodimer. This study associates mutations in TUBB2A with the spectrum of &quot;tubulinopathy&quot; phenotypes. As a consequence, genetic variations affecting all beta-tubulin genes expressed at high levels in the brain (TUBB2B, TUBB3, TUBB, TUBB4A, and TUBB2A) have been linked with malformations of cortical development.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is the stroke subtype with the worst prognosis and has no established acute treatment. ICH is classified as lobar or nonlobar based on the location of ruptured blood vessels within the brain. These different locations also signal different underlying vascular pathologies. Heritability estimates indicate a substantial genetic contribution to risk of ICH in both locations. We report a genome-wide association study of this condition that meta-analyzed data from six studies that enrolled individuals of European ancestry. Case subjects were ascertained by neurologists blinded to genotype data and classified as lobar or nonlobar based on brain computed tomography. ICH-free control subjects were sampled from ambulatory clinics or random digit dialing. Replication of signals identified in the discovery cohort with p &lt; 1  10(-6) was pursued in an independent multiethnic sample utilizing both direct and genome-wide genotyping. The discovery phase included a case cohort of 1,545 individuals (664 lobar and 881 nonlobar cases) and a control cohort of 1,481 individuals and identified two susceptibility loci: for lobar ICH, chromosomal region 12q21.1 (rs11179580, odds ratio [OR] = 1.56, p = 7.0  10(-8)); and for nonlobar ICH, chromosomal region 1q22 (rs2984613, OR = 1.44, p = 1.6  10(-8)). The replication included a case cohort of 1,681 individuals (484 lobar and 1,194 nonlobar cases) and a control cohort of 2,261 individuals and corroborated the association for 1q22 (p = 6.5  10(-4); meta-analysis p = 2.2  10(-10)) but not for 12q21.1 (p = 0.55; meta-analysis p = 2.6  10(-5)). These results demonstrate biological heterogeneity across ICH subtypes and highlight the importance of ascertaining ICH cases accordingly.
Epigenetic marks such as DNA methylation have generated great interest in the study of human disease. However, studies of DNA methylation have not established population-epigenetics principles to guide design, efficient statistics, or interpretation. Here, we show that the clustering of correlated DNA methylation at CpGs was similar to that of linkage-disequilibrium (LD) correlation in genetic SNP variation but for much shorter distances. Some clustering of methylated CpGs appeared to be genetically driven. Further, a set of correlated methylated CpGs related to a single SNP-based LD block was not always physically contiguous-segments of uncorrelated methylation as long as 300 kb could be interspersed in the cluster. Thus, we denoted these sets of correlated CpGs as GeMes, defined as potentially noncontiguous methylation clusters under the control of one or more methylation quantitative trait loci. This type of correlated methylation structure has implications for both biological functions of DNA methylation and for the design, analysis, and interpretation of epigenome-wide association studies.



The ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ) is an extensive germinal niche containing neural stem cells (NSCs) in the walls of the lateral ventricles of the adult brain. How the adult brain's neural activity influences the behavior of adult NSCs remains largely unknown. We show that serotonergic (5HT) axons originating from a small group of neurons in the raphe form an extensive plexus on most of the ventricular walls. Electron microscopy revealed intimate contacts between 5HT axons and NSCs (B1) or ependymal cells (E1) and these cells were labeled by a transsynaptic viral tracer injected into the raphe. B1 cells express the 5HT receptors 2C and 5A. Electrophysiology showed that activation of these receptors in B1 cells induced small inward currents. Intraventricular infusion of 5HT2C agonist or antagonist increased or decreased V-SVZ proliferation, respectively. These results indicate that supraependymal 5HT axons directly interact with NSCs to regulate neurogenesis via 5HT2C.







Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a pathological CAG trinucleotide repeat expansion in the large multi-exon gene, huntingtin (HTT). Although multiple pathogenic mechanisms have been proposed for HD, there is increasing interest in the RNA processing of the HTT gene. In mammals, most multi-exon genes are alternatively spliced; however, few alternative transcripts have been described for HTT. Given the numerous protein bands detected in mouse and human brain tissue by Western blotting using anti-huntingtin antibodies, we examined whether alternative splicing of HTT may account for some of these fragments. Using RT-PCR in mouse brain, we detected two novel splice variants of Htt that lacked the 111-bp exon 29 (Httex29) or retained a 57-bp portion of intron 28 (Htt(+57)in28) via use of a cryptic splice site. The alternative transcripts were present in wild-type and homozygous Hdh(Q150/Q150) mouse brain at all ages and in all brain regions and peripheral tissues studied. Differential splicing of Httex29 was found in the cerebellum of Hdh(Q150/Q150) mice with a significant reduction in transcript levels in mutant animals. In human brain, we detected similar splice variants lacking exons 28 and 29. The ability of alternatively spliced transcripts to encode different protein isoforms with individual functions in the cell, combined with the known role of splicing in disease, renders these novel transcripts of interest in the context of HD pathogenesis.

Regulated endocytic trafficking is the central mechanism facilitating a variety of neuromodulatory events, by dynamically controlling receptor, ion channel, and transporter cell surface presentation on a minutes time scale.There is a broad diversity of mechanisms that control endocytic trafficking of individual proteins. Studies investigating the molecular underpinnings of trafficking have primarily relied upon surface biotinylation to quantitatively measure changes in membrane protein surface expression in response to exogenous stimuli and gene manipulation.However, this approach has been mainly limited to cultured cells, which may not faithfully reflect the physiologically relevant mechanisms at play in adult neurons.Moreover, cultured cell approaches may underestimate region-specific differences in trafficking mechanisms.Here, we describe an approach that extends cell surface biotinylation to the acute brain slice preparation.We demonstrate that this method provides a high-fidelity approach to measure rapid changes in membrane protein surface levels in adult neurons.This approach is likely to have broad utility in the field of neuronal endocytic trafficking.





Increases in brain blood flow, evoked by neuronal activity, power neural computation and form the basis of BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) functional imaging. Whether blood flow is controlled solely by arteriole smooth muscle, or also by capillary pericytes, is controversial. We demonstrate that neuronal activity and the neurotransmitter glutamate evoke the release of messengers that dilate capillaries by actively relaxing pericytes. Dilation is mediated by prostaglandin E2, but requires nitric oxide release to suppress vasoconstricting 20-HETE synthesis. In vivo, when sensory input increases blood flow, capillaries dilate before arterioles and are estimated to produce 84% of the blood flow increase. In pathology, ischaemia evokes capillary constriction by pericytes. We show that this is followed by pericyte death in rigor, which may irreversibly constrict capillaries and damage the blood-brain barrier. Thus, pericytes are major regulators of cerebral blood flow and initiators of functional imaging signals. Prevention of pericyte constriction and death may reduce the long-lasting blood flow decrease that damages neurons after stroke.
The hippocampus is critical for encoding declarative memory, our repository of knowledge of who, what, where and when. Mnemonic information is processed in the hippocampus through several parallel routes involving distinct subregions. In the classic trisynaptic pathway, information proceeds from entorhinal cortex (EC) to dentate gyrus to CA3 and then to CA1, the main hippocampal output. Genetic lesions of EC (ref. 3) and hippocampal dentate gyrus (ref. 4), CA3 (ref. 5) and CA1 (ref. 6) regions have revealed their distinct functions in learning and memory. In contrast, little is known about the role of CA2, a relatively small area interposed between CA3 and CA1 that forms the nexus of a powerful disynaptic circuit linking EC input with CA1 output. Here we report a novel transgenic mouse line that enabled us to selectively examine the synaptic connections and behavioural role of the CA2 region in adult mice. Genetically targeted inactivation of CA2 pyramidal neurons caused a pronounced loss of social memory--the ability of an animal to remember a conspecific--with no change in sociability or several other hippocampus-dependent behaviours, including spatial and contextual memory. These behavioural and anatomical results thus reveal CA2 as a critical hub of sociocognitive memory processing.







In prior studies, systemic opioid receptor antagonism with naltrexone (NTX) failed to block flavor preference conditioning by the sweet taste or post-oral actions of sugar despite reducing overall flavored saccharin intake. Further, NTX microinjections into the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell or core failed to alter the expression of preferences conditioned by the sweet taste or post-oral actions of sugars. In contrast, fructose-conditioned flavor preferences (CFP) were reduced or eliminated by systemic or intracerebral administration of dopamine (DA) D1 or D2 antagonists in the NAc, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), amygdala (AMY) or lateral hypothalamus (LH). The present study examined whether NTX microinjections into the mPFC, AMY or LH would alter expression of fructose-CFP and total flavored saccharin intake. Food-restricted rats with bilateral cannulae aimed at the mPFC, AMY or LH were trained to drink a fructose (8%)+saccharin (0.2%) solution mixed with one flavor (CS+, e.g., cherry) and a 0.2% saccharin solution mixed with another flavor (CS-, e.g., grape) during 10 one-bottle sessions. Two-bottle tests with the cherry and grape flavors in 0.2% saccharin solutions occurred 10min following total bilateral NTX doses of 0, 1, 25 and 50g administered into the mPFC, AMY or LH. Rats preferred the CS+ over CS- flavor following vehicle and all NTX doses administered into either the mPFC or LH. CS+ intake was significantly greater than CS- intake following vehicle and the low NTX dose in the AMY; however, at the 25 and 50g AMY NTX doses, CS+ intakes did not significantly exceed CS- intakes. Total flavored saccharin intake was significantly reduced by all three LH NTX doses (20-35%), by the 25 (14%) and 50 (22%)g AMY NTX doses, but not by mPFC NTX. Thus, opioid antagonism in the AMY, but not the mPFC or LH attenuated, but did not block the expression of fructose-CFP, and LH and AMY, but not mPFC, NTX significantly reduced total saccharin intake. Therefore, whereas opioid antagonism in the LH and AMY reduces sweet intake, they appear less effective in altering fructose-CFP.
Lithium, a first line treatment for bipolar disorder (BD), has been associated with significant weight gain, but the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are still unclear. It has been suggested that changes in production/release of adipokines - molecules secreted by adipose tissue presenting anti-inflammatory (adiponectin) and pro-inflammatory (leptin, resistin) properties - might be implicated. Adiponectin, resistin and leptin were assessed in 25 acutely depressed BD individuals (88% medication-free and 68% treatment-naive) at baseline and after 6 weeks of lithium therapy, and in 23 healthy controls matched by age. The 21-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale was used to assess depression severity. Levels of adiponectin significantly decreased after lithium monotherapy, while the levels of resistin and leptin remained stable after the follow-up period. Adipokine levels during depressive episodes in BD did not differ compared to controls. Pretreatment levels of leptin were higher in remitters and changes in resistin levels were negatively correlated to improvement of depressive symptoms with lithium. Our findings shed light in this pathophysiological process, which might be associated with metabolic syndrome, inflammation and other medical comorbidities in BD.
Gliomas represent the most frequent form of primary brain tumors in adults, the prognosis of which remains extremely poor. Inactivating mutations on the tumor suppressor TP53 were proposed as a key etiological trigger of glioma development. p53 has been recently identified as a transcriptional target of parkin. Interestingly, somatic mutations on parkin have also been linked to glioma genesis. We examined the possibility that a disruption of a functional interaction between p53 and parkin could contribute to glioma development in samples devoid of somatic parkin mutations or genetic allele deletion. We show here that parkin levels inversely correlate to brain tumor grade and p53 levels in oligodendrogliomas, mixed gliomas and glioblastomas. We demonstrate that p53 levels negatively and positively correlate to bax and Bcl2 respectively, underlying a loss of p53 transcriptional activity in all types of glial tumors. Using various cell models lacking p53 or harboring either transcriptionally inactive or dominant negative p53, as well as in p53 knockout mice brain, we establish that p53 controls parkin promoter transactivation, mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, we document an increase of parkin expression in mice brain after p53-bearing viral infection. Finally, both cancer-related p53 inactivating mutations and deletion of a consensus p53 binding sequence located on parkin promoter abolish p53-mediated control of parkin transcription, demonstrating that p53 regulates parkin transcription via its DNA binding properties. In conclusion, our work delineates a functional interplay between mutated p53 and parkin in glioma genesis that is disrupted by cancer-linked pathogenic mutations. It also allows envisioning parkin as a novel biomarker of glioma biopsies enabling to follow the progression of this type of cancers.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) plays a key role in the degradation of catecholamine neurotransmitters within the brain. A functional polymorphism COMT Val158Met has been associated with psychiatric disorders including suicidal behavior. In the present study we examined whether this polymorphism was related to COMT mRNA expression in frontal cortical regions, and whether the expression of COMT differed between depressed suicide victims and psychiatric healthy controls. The Val158Met polymorphism was determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis. The levels of COMT mRNA expression in the frontopolar cortex (FPC; 29 suicides vs. 27 controls) and orbital frontal cortex (OFC; 19 suicides vs. 15 controls) were significantly increased among depressed individuals that died by suicide relative to those of controls, being up-regulated by approximately 60% and 65% in the FPC and OFC, respectively. Furthermore, among individuals with the Met allele (Met/Met and Met/Val genotypes) who died by suicide COMT mRNA expression was elevated relative to that of the nondepressed Met allele carriers. However, significant differences were not detected between suicides (n=49) and controls (n=72) with respect to the Val158Met genotypic distribution and allelic frequencies. These results are consistent with the perspective that altered COMT mRNA expression in frontal cortical brain regions might contribute to suicide and/or depression, further supporting the role of dysregulation of catecholaminergic pathway genes in the pathophysiology of suicide behaviors.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a serious neurodevelopmental disorder with complex symptoms and unclear, multi-factorial pathogenesis. Animal (rodent) models of ASD-like behavior are extensively used to study genetics, circuitry and molecular mechanisms of ASD. The evolutionarily conserved nature of social behavior and its molecular pathways suggests that alternative experimental models can be developed to complement and enhance the existing rodent ASD paradigms. The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is rapidly becoming a popular model organism in neuroscience and biological psychiatry to study brain function, model human brain disorders and explore their genetic or pharmacological modulation. Representing highly social animals, zebrafish emerge as a strong potential model organism to study normal and pathological social phenotypes, as well as several other ASD-like symptoms. Here, we discuss the developing utility of zebrafish in modeling ASD as a new emerging field in translational neuroscience and drug discovery.
Autism spectrum disorders are heritable and behaviorally-defined neurodevelopmental disorders having skewed sex ratio. Serotonin as modulator of behavior and implication of serotonergic dysfunction in ASD etiology corroborates that serotonergic system genes are potential candidates for autism susceptibility. In the current study X-chromosomal gene, MAOA responsible for degradation of serotonin is investigated for possible association with ASD using population-based approach. Study covers analysis of 8 markers in 421 subjects including cases and ethnically-matched controls from West Bengal. MAOA marker, rs6323 and various haplotypes formed between the markers show significant association with the disorder. Stratification on the basis of sex reveals significant genetic effect of rs6323 with low activity T allele posing higher risk in males, but not in females. Haplotypic association results also show differential effect both in males and females. Contrasting linkage disequilibrium pattern between pair of markers involving rs6323 in male cases and controls further supports the sex-bias in genetic association. Bioinformatic analysis shows presence of Y-encoded SRY transcription factor binding sites in the neighborhood of rs1137070. C allele of rs1137070 causes deletion of GATA-2 binding site and GATA-2 is known to interact with SRY. This is the first study highlighting male-specific effect of rs6323 marker and its haplotypes in ASD etiology and it suggests sexual dimorphic effect of MAOA in this disorder. Overall results of this study identify MAOA as a possible ASD susceptibility locus and the differential genetic effect in males and females might contribute to the sex ratio differences and molecular pathology of the disorder.
The ATP release channel Pannexin1 (Panx1) is self-regulated, i.e. the permeant ATP inhibits the channel from the extracellular space. The affinity of the ATP binding site is lower than that of the purinergic P2X7 receptor allowing a transient activation of Panx1 by ATP through P2X7R. Here we show that the inhibition of Panx1 by ATP is abrogated by increased extracellular potassium ion concentration ([K(+)]o) in a dose-dependent manner. Since increased [K(+)]o is also a stimulus for Panx1 channels, it can be expected that a combination of ATP and increased [K(+)]o would be deadly for cells. Indeed, astrocytes did not survive exposure to these combined stimuli. The death mechanism, although involving P2X7R, does not appear to strictly follow a pyroptotic pathway. Instead, caspase-3 was activated, a process inhibited by Panx1 inhibitors. These data suggest that Panx1 plays an early role in the cell death signaling pathway involving ATP and K(+) ions. Additionally, Panx1 may play a second role once cells are committed to apoptosis, since Panx1 is also a substrate of caspase-3.












Despite ongoing clinical trials, the efficacy of anti-angiogenic drugs for the treatment of brain metastases (BM) is still questionable. The lower response rate to anti-angiogenic therapy in the presence of BM than in metastatic disease involving other sites suggests that BM may be insensitive to these drugs, although the biological reasons underlining this phenomenon are still to be clarified. With the aim of assessing whether the targets of anti-angiogenic therapies are actually present in BM, in the present study, we analyzed the microvessel density (MVD), a measure of neo-angiogenesis, and the vascular phenotype (mature vs. immature) in the tumor tissue of a series of BM derived from different primary tumors. By using immunohistochemistry against endoglin, a specific marker for newly formed vessels, we found that neo-angiogenesis widely varies in BM depending on the site of the primary tumor, as well as on its histotype. According to our results, BM from lung cancer displayed the highest MVD counts, while those from renal carcinoma had the lowest. Then, among BM from lung cancer, those from large cell and adenocarcinoma histotypes had significantly higher MVD counts than those originating from squamous cell carcinoma (p=0.0043; p=0.0063). Of note, MVD counts were inversely correlated with the maturation index of the endoglin-stained vessels, reflected by the coverage of smooth muscle actin (SMA) positive pericytes (r=-0.693; p&lt;0.0001). Accordingly, all the endoglin-positive vessels in BM from pulmonary squamous cell carcinoma and renal carcinoma, displayed a mature phenotype, while vessels with an immature phenotype were found in highly vascularized BM from pulmonary large cell and adenocarcinoma. The low MVD and mature phenotype observed in BM from some primary tumors may account for their low sensitivity to anti-angiogenic therapies. Although our findings need to be validated in correlative studies with a clinical response, this should be taken into account in therapeutic protocols in order to avoid the adverse effects of useless therapies.


Grid cells in the rodent medial entorhinal cortex exhibit remarkably regular spatial firing patterns that tessellate all environments visited by the animal. Two theoretical mechanisms that could generate this spatially periodic activity pattern have been proposed: oscillatory interference and continuous attractor dynamics. Although a variety of evidence has been cited in support of each, some aspects of the two mechanisms are complementary, suggesting that a combined model may best account for experimental data. The oscillatory interference model proposes that the grid pattern is formed from linear interference patterns or &quot;periodic bands&quot; in which velocity-controlled oscillators integrate self-motion to code displacement along preferred directions. However, it also allows the use of symmetric recurrent connectivity between grid cells to provide relative stability and continuous attractor dynamics. Here, we present simulations of this type of hybrid model, demonstrate that it generates intracellular membrane potential profiles that closely match those observed in vivo, addresses several criticisms aimed at pure oscillatory interference and continuous attractor models, and provides testable predictions for future empirical studies.
Many daily activities rely on the ability to produce meaningful sequences of movements. Motor sequences can be learned in an effector-specific fashion (such that benefits of training are restricted to the trained hand) or an effector-independent manner (meaning that learning also facilitates performance with the untrained hand). Effector-independent knowledge can be represented in extrinsic/world-centered or in intrinsic/body-centered coordinates. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and multivoxel pattern analysis to determine the distribution of intrinsic and extrinsic finger sequence representations across the human neocortex. Participants practiced four sequences with one hand for 4 d, and then performed these sequences during fMRI with both left and right hand. Between hands, these sequences were equivalent in extrinsic or intrinsic space, or were unrelated. In dorsal premotor cortex (PMd), we found that sequence-specific activity patterns correlated higher for extrinsic than for unrelated pairs, providing evidence for an extrinsic sequence representation. In contrast, primary sensory and motor cortices showed effector-independent representations in intrinsic space, with considerable overlap of the two reference frames in caudal PMd. These results suggest that effector-independent representations exist not only in world-centered, but also in body-centered coordinates, and that PMd may be involved in transforming sequential knowledge between the two. Moreover, although effector-independent sequence representations were found bilaterally, they were stronger in the hemisphere contralateral to the trained hand. This indicates that intermanual transfer relies on motor memories that are laid down during training in both hemispheres, but preferentially draws upon sequential knowledge represented in the trained hemisphere.
Oligomerized amyloid- (A) peptide is thought to contribute to synaptic damage, resulting in dysfunctional neuronal networks in patients with Alzheimer's disease. It has been previously suggested that A may be detrimental to neuronal health, at least in part, by triggering oxidative/nitrosative stress. However, the mechanisms underlying this process remain to be elucidated. Here, using rat primary cerebrocortical cultures, we demonstrate that A1-42 oligomers trigger a dramatic increase in intracellular nitric oxide (NO) concentration via a process mediated by activation of NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). Considering that synaptic NMDARs and extrasynaptic NMDARs (eNMDARs) can have opposite effects on neuronal viability, we explored their respective roles in A-induced increases in NO levels. Surprisingly, after pharmacological isolation of eNMDARs, we discovered that eNMDARs are primarily responsible for the increase in neuronal NO triggered by A oligomers. Moreover, we found that the eNMDAR-mediated increase in NO can produce S-nitrosylation of Drp1 (dynamin-related protein 1) and Cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5), targets known to contribute to A-induced synaptic damage. These results suggest that pharmacological intervention specifically aimed at eNMDARs may decrease A-induced nitrosative stress and thus ameliorate neurotoxic damage to synapses.
Detecting the location of salient sounds in the environment rests on the brain's ability to use differences in sounds arriving at both ears. Functional neuroimaging studies in humans indicate that the left and right auditory hemispaces are coded asymmetrically, with a rightward attentional bias that reflects spatial attention in vision. Neuropsychological observations in patients with spatial neglect have led to the formulation of two competing models: the orientation bias and right-hemisphere dominance models. The orientation bias model posits a symmetrical mapping between one side of the sensorium and the contralateral hemisphere, with mutual inhibition of the ipsilateral hemisphere. The right-hemisphere dominance model introduces a functional asymmetry in the brain's coding of space: the left hemisphere represents the right side, whereas the right hemisphere represents both sides of the sensorium. We used Dynamic Causal Modeling of effective connectivity and Bayesian model comparison to adjudicate between these alternative network architectures, based on human electroencephalographic data acquired during an auditory location oddball paradigm. Our results support a hemispheric asymmetry in a frontoparietal network that conforms to the right-hemisphere dominance model. We show that, within this frontoparietal network, forward connectivity increases selectively in the hemisphere contralateral to the side of sensory stimulation. We interpret this finding in light of hierarchical predictive coding as a selective increase in attentional gain, which is mediated by feedforward connections that carry precision-weighted prediction errors during perceptual inference. This finding supports the disconnection hypothesis of unilateral neglect and has implications for theories of its etiology.
Columnar organization of orientation selectivity and clustered horizontal connections linking orientation columns are two of the distinctive organizational features of primary visual cortex in many mammalian species. However, the functional role of these connections has been harder to characterize. Here we examine the extent and nature of horizontal interactions in V1 of the tree shrew using optical imaging of intrinsic signals, optogenetic stimulation, and multi-unit recording. Surprisingly, we find the effects of optogenetic stimulation depend primarily on distance and not on the specific orientation domains or axes in the cortex, which are stimulated. In addition, across a wide range of variation in both visual and optogenetic stimulation we find linear addition of the two inputs. These results emphasize that the cortex provides a rich substrate for functional interactions that are not limited to the orientation-specific interactions predicted by the monosynaptic distribution of horizontal connections.
Early in development, GABA, an inhibitory neurotransmitter in adults, is excitatory. NKCC1 (SLC12A2) encodes one of two cation chloride cotransporters mediating the conversion of GABA from excitatory to inhibitory. Using 3' and 5' RACE and PCR, we verified previously characterized alternative transcripts of NKCC1a (1-27) and NKCC1b (1-27(21)), identified new NKCC1 transcripts, and explored their expression patterns during human prefrontal cortical development. A novel ultra-short transcript (1-2a) was expressed preferentially in the fetus. Expression of NKCC1b and 1-2a were decreased in schizophrenia compared with controls (NKCC1b: 0.8-fold decrease, p = 0.013; 1-2a: 0.8-fold decrease, p = 0.006). Furthermore, the expression of NKCC1b was associated with NKCC1 polymorphism rs3087889. The minor allele at rs3087889, associated with reduced NKCC1b expression (homozygous for major allele: N = 37; homozygous for minor allele: N = 15; 1.5-fold decrease; p &lt; 0.01), was also associated with a modest increase in schizophrenia risk in a case-control sample (controls: N = 435; cases: N = 397, OR = 1.5). This same allele was then found associated with cognitive (n = 369) and fMRI (n = 313) intermediate phenotypes associated with schizophrenia-working memory (Cohen's d = 0.35), global cognition or g (d = 0.18), and prefrontal inefficiency (d = 0.36) as measured by BOLD fMRI during a working memory task. Together, these preclinical and clinical results suggest that variation in NKCC1 may increase risk for schizophrenia via alterations of mRNA expression at the molecular level and impairment of optimal prefrontal function at the macro or systems level.
In the healthy human brain, evidence for dissociable memory networks along the anterior-posterior axis of the hippocampus suggests that this structure may not function as a unitary entity. Failure to consider these functional divisions may explain diverging results among studies of memory adaptation in disease. Using task-based and resting functional MRI, we show that chronic seizures disrupting the anterior medial temporal lobe (MTL) preserve anterior and posterior hippocampal-cortical dissociations, but alter signaling between these and other key brain regions. During performance of a memory encoding task, we found reduced neural activity in human patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy relative to age-matched healthy controls, but no upregulation of fMRI signal in unaffected hippocampal subregions. Instead, patients showed aberrant resting fMRI connectivity within anterior and posterior hippocampal-cortical networks, which was associated with memory decline, distinguishing memory-intact from memory-impaired patients. Our results highlight a critical role for intact hippocampo-cortical functional communication in memory and provide evidence that chronic injury-induced functional reorganization in the diseased MTL is behavioral inefficient.
Brief, high-concentration (phasic) spikes in nucleus accumbens dopamine critically participate in aspects of food reward. Although physiological state (e.g., hunger, satiety) and associated hormones are known to affect dopamine tone in general, whether they modulate food-evoked, phasic dopamine specifically is unknown. Here, we used fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in awake, behaving rats to record dopamine spikes evoked by delivery of sugar pellets while pharmacologically manipulating central receptors for the gut &quot;hunger&quot; hormone ghrelin. Lateral ventricular (LV) ghrelin increased, while LV ghrelin receptor antagonism suppressed the magnitude of dopamine spikes evoked by food. Ghrelin was effective when infused directly into the lateral hypothalamus (LH), but not the ventral tegmental area (VTA). LH infusions were made in close proximity to orexin neurons, which are regulated by ghrelin and project to the VTA. Thus, we also investigated and found potentiation of food-evoked dopamine spikes by intra-VTA orexin-A. Importantly, intra-VTA blockade of orexin receptors attenuated food intake induced by LV ghrelin, thus establishing a behaviorally relevant connection between central ghrelin and VTA orexin. Further analysis revealed that food restriction increased the magnitude of dopamine spikes evoked by food independent of any pharmacological manipulations. The results support the regulation of food-evoked dopamine spikes by physiological state with endogenous fluctuations in ghrelin as a key contributor. Our data highlight a novel mechanism by which signals relating physiological state could influence food reinforcement and food-directed behavior.
Regions in the occipitotemporal cortex (OTC) show clear selectivity to static images of human body parts, and upper limbs in particular, with respect to other object categories. Such selectivity was previously attributed to shape aspects, which presumably vary across categories. Alternatively, it has been proposed that functional selectivity for upper limbs is driven by processing of their distinctive motion features. In the present study we show that selectivity to static upper-limb images and motion processing go hand in hand. Using resting-state and task-based functional MRI, we demonstrate that OTC voxels showing greater preference to static images of arms and hands also show stronger functional connectivity with motion coding regions within the human middle temporal complex (hMT+), but not with shape-selective midtier areas, such as hV4 or LO-1, suggesting a tight link between upper-limb selectivity and motion processing. To test this directly, we created a set of natural arm-movement videos where kinematic patterns were parametrically manipulated, while keeping shape information constant. Using multivariate pattern analysis, we show that the degree of (dis)similarity in arm-velocity profiles across the video set predicts, to a significant extent, the degree of (dis)similarity in multivoxel activation patterns in both upper-limb-selective OTC regions and the hMT+. Together, these results suggest that the functional specificity of upper-limb-selective regions may be partially determined by their involvement in the processing of upper-limb dynamics. We propose that the selectivity to static upper-limb images in the OTC may be a result of experience-dependent association between shape elements, which characterize upper limbs, and upper-limb-specific motion patterns.
In humans, electrophysiological correlates of error processing have been extensively investigated in relation to decision-making theories. In particular, error-related ERPs have been most often studied using response selection tasks. In these tasks, involving very simple motor responses (e.g., button press), errors concern inappropriate action-selection only. However, EEG activity in relation to inaccurate movement-execution in more complex motor tasks has been much less examined. In the present study, we recorded EEG while volunteers performed reaching movements in a force-field created by a robotic device. Hand-path deviations were induced by interspersing catch trials in which the force condition was unpredictably altered. Our goal was twofold. First, we wanted to determine whether a frontocentral ERP was elicited by sensory-prediction errors, whose amplitude reflected the size of kinematic errors. Then, we explored whether common neural processes could be involved in the generation of this ERP and the feedback-related negativity (FRN), often assumed to reflect reward-prediction errors. We identified a frontocentral negativity whose amplitude was modulated by the size of the hand-path deviations induced by the unpredictable mechanical perturbations. This kinematic error-related ERP presented great similarities in terms of time course, topography, and potential source-location with the FRN recorded in the same experiment. These findings suggest that the processing of sensory-prediction errors and the processing of reward-prediction errors could involve a shared neural network.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) inhibit repair following spinal cord injury. Here we use mammalian-compatible engineered chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) delivered via lentiviral vector (LV-ChABC) to explore the consequences of large-scale CSPG digestion for spinal cord repair. We demonstrate significantly reduced secondary injury pathology in adult rats following spinal contusion injury and LV-ChABC treatment, with reduced cavitation and enhanced preservation of spinal neurons and axons at 12 weeks postinjury, compared with control (LV-GFP)-treated animals. To understand these neuroprotective effects, we investigated early inflammatory changes following LV-ChABC treatment. Increased expression of the phagocytic macrophage marker CD68 at 3 d postinjury was followed by increased CD206 expression at 2 weeks, indicating that large-scale CSPG digestion can alter macrophage phenotype to favor alternatively activated M2 macrophages. Accordingly, ChABC treatment in vitro induced a significant increase in CD206 expression in unpolarized monocytes stimulated with conditioned medium from spinal-injured tissue explants. LV-ChABC also promoted the remodelling of specific CSPGs as well as enhanced vascularity, which was closely associated with CD206-positive macrophages. Neuroprotective effects of LV-ChABC corresponded with improved sensorimotor function, evident as early as 1 week postinjury, a time point when increased neuronal survival correlated with reduced apoptosis. Improved function was maintained into chronic injury stages, where improved axonal conduction and increased serotonergic innervation were also observed. Thus, we demonstrate that ChABC gene therapy can modulate secondary injury processes, with neuroprotective effects that lead to long-term improved functional outcome and reveal novel mechanistic evidence that modulation of macrophage phenotype may underlie these effects.
In the cerebellum, the bHLH transcription factors Ptf1a and Atoh1 are expressed in distinct neuroepithelial regions, the ventricular zone (VZ) and the rhombic lip (RL), and are required for producing GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons, respectively. However, it is unclear whether Ptf1a or Atoh1 is sufficient for specifying GABAergic or glutamatergic neuronal fates. To test this, we generated two novel knock-in mouse lines, Ptf1a(Atoh1) and Atoh1(Ptf1a), that are designed to express Atoh1 and Ptf1a ectopically in the VZ and RL, respectively. In Ptf1a(Atoh1) embryos, ectopically Atoh1-expressing VZ cells produced glutamatergic neurons, including granule cells and deep cerebellar nuclei neurons. Correspondingly, in Atoh1(Ptf1a) animals, ectopically Ptf1a-expressing RL cells produced GABAergic populations, such as Purkinje cells and GABAergic interneurons. Consistent results were also obtained from in utero electroporation of Ptf1a or Atoh1 into embryonic cerebella, suggesting that Ptf1a and Atoh1 are essential and sufficient for GABAergic versus glutamatergic specification in the neuroepithelium. Furthermore, birthdating analyses with BrdU in the knock-in mice or with electroporation studies showed that ectopically produced fate-changed neuronal types were generated at temporal schedules closely simulating those of the wild-type RL and VZ, suggesting that the VZ and RL share common temporal information. Observations of knock-in brains as well as electroporated brains revealed that Ptf1a and Atoh1 mutually negatively regulate their expression, probably contributing to formation of non-overlapping neuroepithelial domains. These findings suggest that Ptf1a and Atoh1 specify spatial identities of cerebellar neuron progenitors in the neuroepithelium, leading to appropriate production of GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons, respectively.
Short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity are cellular correlates of learning and memory of different durations. Little is known, however, how these two forms of plasticity interact at the same synaptic connection. We examined the reciprocal impact of short-term heterosynaptic or homosynaptic plasticity at sensorimotor synapses of Aplysia in cell culture when expressing persistent long-term facilitation (P-LTF) evoked by serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)]. Short-term heterosynaptic plasticity induced by 5-HT (facilitation) or the neuropeptide FMRFa (depression) and short-term homosynaptic plasticity induced by tetanus [post-tetanic potentiation (PTP)] or low-frequency stimulation [homosynaptic depression (HSD)] of the sensory neuron were expressed in both control synapses and synapses expressing P-LTF in the absence or presence of protein synthesis inhibitors. All forms of short-term plasticity failed to significantly affect ongoing P-LTF in the absence of protein synthesis inhibitors. However, P-LTF reversed to control levels when either 5-HT or FMRFa was applied in the presence of rapamycin. In contrast, P-LTF was unaffected when either PTP or HSD was evoked in the presence of either rapamycin or anisomycin. These results indicate that synapses expressing persistent plasticity acquire a &quot;new&quot; baseline and functionally express short-term changes as naive synapses, but the new baseline becomes labile following selective activations-heterosynaptic stimuli that evoke opposite forms of plasticity-such that when presented in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitors produce a rapid reversal of the persistent plasticity. Activity-selective induction of a labile state at synapses expressing persistent plasticity may facilitate the development of therapies for reversing inappropriate memories.






Shared, trial-to-trial variability in neuronal populations has a strong impact on the accuracy of information processing in the brain. Estimates of the level of such noise correlations are diverse, ranging from 0.01 to 0.4, with little consensus on which factors account for these differences. Here we addressed one important factor that varied across studies, asking how anesthesia affects the population activity structure in macaque primary visual cortex. We found that under opioid anesthesia, activity was dominated by strong coordinated fluctuations on a timescale of 1-2 Hz, which were mostly absent in awake, fixating monkeys. Accounting for these global fluctuations markedly reduced correlations under anesthesia, matching those observed during wakefulness and reconciling earlier studies conducted under anesthesia and in awake animals. Our results show that internal signals, such as brain state transitions under anesthesia, can induce noise correlations but can also be estimated and accounted for based on neuronal population activity.
Voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (CaVs) represent the principal source of Ca(2+) ions that trigger evoked neurotransmitter release from presynaptic boutons. Ca(2+) influx is mediated mainly via CaV2.1 (P/Q-type) and CaV2.2 (N-type) channels, which differ in their properties. Their relative contribution to synaptic transmission changes during development and tunes neurotransmission during synaptic plasticity. The mechanism of differential recruitment of CaV2.1 and CaV2.2 to release sites is largely unknown. Here, we show that the presynaptic scaffolding protein Bassoon localizes specifically CaV2.1 to active zones via molecular interaction with the RIM-binding proteins (RBPs). A genetic deletion of Bassoon or an acute interference with Bassoon-RBP interaction reduces synaptic abundance of CaV2.1, weakens P/Q-type Ca(2+) current-driven synaptic transmission, and results in higher relative contribution of neurotransmission dependent on CaV2.2. These data establish Bassoon as a major regulator of the molecular composition of the presynaptic neurotransmitter release sites.
Peptide neuromodulators are released from a unique organelle: the dense-core vesicle. Dense-core vesicles are generated at the trans-Golgi and then sort cargo during maturation before being secreted. To identify proteins that act in this pathway, we performed a genetic screen in Caenorhabditis elegans for mutants defective in dense-core vesicle function. We identified two conserved Rab2-binding proteins: RUND-1, a RUN domain protein, and CCCP-1, a coiled-coil protein. RUND-1 and CCCP-1 colocalize with RAB-2 at the Golgi, and rab-2, rund-1, and cccp-1 mutants have similar defects in sorting soluble and transmembrane dense-core vesicle cargos. RUND-1 also interacts with the Rab2 GAP protein TBC-8 and the BAR domain protein RIC-19, a RAB-2 effector. In summary, a pathway of conserved proteins controls the maturation of dense-core vesicles at the trans-Golgi network.
Reciprocal activation of flexor and extensor musclesconstitutes the fundamental mechanism that tetrapod vertebrates use for locomotion and limb-driven reflex behaviors. This aspect of motor coordination is controlled by inhibitory neurons in the spinal cord; however, the identity of the spinal interneurons that serve this function is not known. Here, we show that the production of an alternating flexor-extensor motor rhythm depends on the composite activities of two classes of ventrally located inhibitory neurons, V1 and V2b interneurons (INs). Abrogating V1 and V2b IN-derived neurotransmission in the isolated spinal cord results in a synchronous pattern of L2 flexor-related and L5 extensor-related locomotor activity. Mice lacking V1 and V2b inhibition are unable to articulate their limb joints and display marked deficits in limb-driven reflex movements. Taken together, these findings identify V1- and V2b-derived neurons as the core interneuronal components of thelimb central pattern generator (CPG) that coordinate flexor-extensor motor activity.
Motor variability can facilitate motor exploration necessary for learning. In this issue of Neuron, Woolley etal. (2014) record at different stages of the songbird basal ganglia and show that social-context modulation of motor variability first emerges in the pallidum.
How the circadian clock regulates the timing of sleep is poorly understood. Here, we identify a Drosophila mutant, wide awake (wake), that exhibits a marked delay in sleep onset at dusk. Loss of WAKE in a set of arousal-promoting clock neurons, the large ventrolateral neurons (l-LNvs), impairs sleep onset. WAKE levels cycle, peaking near dusk, and the expression of WAKE in l-LNvs is Clock dependent. Strikingly, Clock and cycle mutants also exhibit a profound delay in sleep onset, which can be rescued by restoring WAKE expression in LNvs. WAKE interacts with the GABAA receptor Resistant to Dieldrin (RDL), upregulating its levels and promoting its localization to the plasma membrane. In wake mutant l-LNvs, GABA sensitivity is decreased and excitability is increased at dusk. We propose that WAKE acts as a clock output molecule specifically for sleep, inhibiting LNvs at dusk to promote the transition from wake to sleep.
Local space is represented by a number of functionally specific cell types, including place cells in the hippocampus and grid cells, head direction cells, and border cells in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC). These cells form a functional map of external space already at the time when rat pups leave the nest for the first time in their life, at the age of 2.5 weeks. However, while place cells have adult-like firing fields from the outset, grid cells have irregular and variable fields until the fourth week, raising doubts about their contribution to place cell firing at young age. Recording in MEC of juvenile rats, we show that, unlike grid cells, border cells express adult-like firing fields from the first days of exposure to an open environment, at postnatal days 16-18. Thus, spatial signals from border cells may be sufficient to maintain spatially localized firing in juvenile hippocampal place cells.



It has been known for more than a century that interacting people can generally achieve more accurate decisions than single individuals. Here we show that interacting guppy fish (Poecilia reticulata) achieve a superior level of numerosity discrimination well beyond the average ability of the isolated individual fish. This enhancement of numerical acuity was observed in dyadic interactions when (Experiment 1) the dyad chose which larger shoal of guppies to join and when (Experiment 2) the dyad chose the higher or the lower numerosity among two decision options after having learned the task individually. Dyadic accuracy and that of the more competent member of each dyad matched closely, supporting the hypothesis that meritocratic leadership arises spontaneously between dyadically interacting fish, rather than the 'many wrongs' principle that has been used to explain group superiority in many species.




The National Institute of Mental Health seeks to address the gap between modern neuroscience and psychiatric training. The authors describe a two-pronged approach: first, to identify and support trainees in clinical neuroscience and second, to promote neuroscience literacy in psychiatric residency programs.


Educators of future psychiatrists tend to teach an array of approaches to the mind and brain, including among them the neurobiologic perspective and the psychoanalytic perspective. These may be considered at opposite ends of many spectra, including the fact that psychoanalysis takes a large-scale and treatment-oriented perspective and has helped countless patients over the years, while neuroscience has tended to be reductionistic, focused on understanding, and has helped very few people. A tension, therefore, exists for the educator in teaching neuroscience: is it wise to spend valuable time and energy teaching this interesting but, thus far, impractical field to future practitioners? Here, we argue that neuroscience is re-orienting itself towards more psychoanalytically relevant questions and is likely, in future years, to give new insights into the nature of basic drives and social relations. We additionally argue for balance on the part of providers in both acknowledging biologic underpinnings for clinical phenomena and yet continuing to take a stance oriented towards appropriate change. Given the burgeoning new focus within neuroscience on topics directly relating to the human internal experience and the novel challenges in both understanding those advances and appropriately using them, we encourage educators to continue to give future psychiatrists the educational foundation they need to follow neuroscientific discoveries into the future.










The olfactory bulb (OB) is one of the first brain regions in Parkinson's disease (PD) to contain alpha-synuclein (-syn) inclusions, possibly associated with nonmotor symptoms. Mechanisms underlying olfactory synucleinopathy, its contribution to progressive aggregation pathology and nigrostriatal dopaminergic loss observed at later stages, remain unclear. A second hit, such as environmental toxins, is suggestive for -syn aggregation in olfactory neurons, potentially triggering disease progression. To address the possible pathogenic role of olfactory -syn accumulation in early PD, we exposed mice with site-specific and inducible overexpression of familial PD-linked mutant -syn in OB neurons to a low dose of the herbicide paraquat. Here, we found that olfactory -syn per se elicited structural and behavioral abnormalities, characteristic of an early time point in models with widespread -syn expression, including hyperactivity and increased striatal dopaminergic marker. Suppression of -syn reversed the dopaminergic phenotype. In contrast, paraquat treatment synergistically induced degeneration of olfactory dopaminergic cells and opposed the higher reactive phenotype. Neither neurodegeneration nor behavioral abnormalities were detected in paraquat-treated mice with suppressed -syn expression. By increasing calpain activity, paraquat induced a pathological cascade leading to inhibition of autophagy clearance and accumulation of calpain-cleaved truncated and insoluble -syn, recapitulating biochemical and structural changes in human PD. Thus our results underscore the primary role of proteolytic failure in aggregation pathology. In addition, we provide novel evidence that olfactory dopaminergic neurons display an increased vulnerability toward neurotoxins in dependence to presence of human -syn, possibly mediating an olfactory-striatal dopaminergic network dysfunction in mouse models and early PD.





The use of tissue adhesives for internal clinical applications is limited due to a lack of materials that balance strong adhesion with biocompatibility. The use of substrate topography is explored to reduce the volume of a highly reactive and toxic glue without compromising adhesive strength. Micro-textured patches coated with a thin layer of cyanoacrylate glue achieve similar adhesion levels to patches employing large amounts of adhesive, and is superior to the level of adhesion achieved when a thin coating is applied to a non-textured patch. In vivo studies demonstrate reduced tissue inflammation and necrosis for patterned patches with a thinly coated layer of reactive glue, thus overcoming a significant challenge with existing tissue adhesives such as cyanoacrylate. Closure of surgical stomach and colon defects in a rat model is achieved without abdominal adhesions. Harnessing the synergy between surface topography and reactive chemistry enables controlled tissue adhesion with an improved biocompatibility profile without requiring changes in the chemical composition of reactive tissue glues.
Conducting polymer electrodes are developed on a flexible substrate for electroencephalography applications. These electrodes yield higher quality recordings than dry electrodes made from metal. Their performance is equivalent to commercial gel-assisted electrodes, paving the way for non-invasive, long-term monitoring of the human brain.
Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) and rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) and humans (Homo sapiens) share physiological and genetic characteristics, but have remarkably different life spans, with chimpanzees living 50-60% and the rhesus living 35-40% of maximum human survival. Since oxidative processes are associated with aging and longevity, we might expect to see species differences in age-related oxidative processes. Blood and extracellular fluid contain two major thiol redox nodes, glutathione (GSH)/glutathione-disulfide (GSSG) and cysteine (Cys)/cystine (CySS), which are subject to reversible oxidation-reduction reactions and are maintained in a dynamic non-equilibrium state. Disruption of these thiol redox nodes leads to oxidation of their redox potentials (EhGSSG and EhCySS) which affects cellular physiology and is associated with aging and the development of chronic diseases in humans. The purpose of this study was to measure age-related changes in these redox thiols and their corresponding redox potentials (Eh) in chimpanzees and rhesus monkeys. Our results show similar age-related decreases in the concentration of plasma GSH and Total GSH as well as oxidation of the EhGSSG in male and female chimpanzees. Female chimpanzees and female rhesus monkeys also were similar in several outcome measures. For example, similar age-related decreases in the concentration of plasma GSH and Total GSH, as well as age-related oxidation of the EhGSSG were observed. The data collected from chimpanzees and rhesus monkeys corroborates previous reports on oxidative changes in humans and confirms their value as a comparative reference for primate aging.
Aging correlates with a progressive impairment of mitochondrial homeostasis and is an influential factor for several forms of neurodegeneration. However, the mechanisms underlying age-related alterations in synaptosomal mitochondria, a neuronal mitochondria population highly susceptible to insults and critical for brain function, remain incompletely understood. Therefore this study investigates the synaptic mitochondrial proteomic and bioenergetic alterations that occur with age. The utilization of a state of the art quantitative proteomics approach allowed for the comparison of protein expression levels in synaptic mitochondria isolated from 5 (mature), 12 (old), and 24 (aged) month old mice. During the process of aging we find that dynamic proteomic alterations occur in synaptic mitochondria. Despite direct (mitochondrial DNA deletions) and indirect (increased antioxidant protein levels) signs of mitochondrial damage in the aged mice, there was an overall maintenance of mitochondrial function. Therefore the synaptic mitochondrial proteomic changes that occur with aging correlate with preservation of synaptic mitochondrial function.
The loss of cognitive function is a pervasive and often debilitating feature of the aging process for which there are no effective therapeutics. We hypothesized that a novel metal chaperone (PBT2; Prana Biotechnology, Parkville, Victoria, Australia) would enhance cognition in aged rodents. We show here that PBT2 rapidly improves the performance of aged C57Bl/6 mice in the Morris water maze, concomitant with increases in dendritic spine density, hippocampal neuron number and markers of neurogenesis. There were also increased levels of specific glutamate receptors (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate), the glutamate transporter (VGLUT1) and glutamate itself. Markers of synaptic plasticity [calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and phosphorylated CaMKII, CREB, synaptophysin] were also increased following PBT2 treatment. We also demonstrate that PBT2 treatment results in a subregion-specific increase in hippocampal zinc, which is increasingly recognized as a potent neuromodulator. These data demonstrate that metal chaperones are a novel approach to the treatment of age-related cognitive decline.








The structure of the hippopotamus brain is virtually unknown because few studies have examined more than its external morphology. In view of their semiaquatic lifestyle and phylogenetic relatedness to cetaceans, the brain of hippopotamuses represents a unique opportunity for better understanding the selective pressures that have shaped the organization of the brain during the evolutionary process of adaptation to an aquatic environment. Here we examined the histology of the cerebral cortex of the pygmy hippopotamus (Hexaprotodon liberiensis) by means of Nissl, Golgi, and calretinin (CR) immunostaining, and provide a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) structural and volumetric dataset of the anatomy of its brain. We calculated the corpus callosum area/brain mass ratio (CCA/BM), the gyrencephalic index (GI), the cerebellar quotient (CQ), and the cerebellar index (CI). Results indicate that the cortex of H. liberiensis shares one feature exclusively with cetaceans (the lack of layer IV across the entire cerebral cortex), other features exclusively with artiodactyls (e.g., the morphologiy of CR-immunoreactive multipolar neurons in deep cortical layers, gyrencephalic index values, hippocampus and cerebellum volumetrics), and others with at least some species of cetartiodactyls (e.g., the presence of a thick layer I, the pattern of distribution of CR-immunoreactive neurons, the presence of von Economo neurons, clustering of layer II in the occipital cortex). The present study thus provides a comprehensive dataset of the neuroanatomy of H. liberiensis that sets the ground for future comparative studies including the larger Hippopotamus amphibius.



Introduction: The precise burden of movement disorder conditions in our movement disorders centre is unclear. This study investigated the clinical burden of the Movement Disorders Clinic (MDC) in National Neuroscience Institute (NNI) over 10 years, aiming to identify the burden and spectrum of movement disorders conditions, to facilitate future resource allocation. Materials and Methods: We identified all patient visits from January 2002 to December 2011 at MDC from the Movement Disorders (MD) database using a standardised data collection form. Results: There was a linear increase in the clinical burden of MDC during this period. Parkinsonism comprised 71.6% of this clinical burden of which 84.8% were Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Dividing the incident cases of MD conditions into two 5 years' blocks, the proportion of PD cases had not changed. There was significant increase in time to diagnosis for PD, hemifacial spasm and dystonia. Conclusion: There was nearly 4-fold increase in the burden of movement disorders conditions in our tertiary condition within a decade. However, we did not find increasing proportion of PD cases which would be in line with an ageing population. This could be due to the fact that we are still in the early stages of an ageing population and we postulate that this proportion will go up in the future. The increased time to diagnosis may indicate increasing waiting time to see a movement disorders specialist and that current outreach effort to promote awareness may not be reaching its target audience. The upward trend of clinical burden indicates a need for increased resource allocation to cope with demand for movement disorders services.
Information from the central and peripheral nervous systems is continuously integrated to produce a stable gait pattern. However, stride duration fluctuates in a complex manner in healthy subjects, exhibiting long-range autocorrelations that can span over hundreds of consecutive strides. The present study was conducted to explore the mechanisms controlling the long-term fluctuation dynamics of gait. In the first part of the study, stride duration variability was evaluated on a treadmill during forward (FW) and backward walking (BW). Despite the modification of the biomechanical constraints imposed on the locomotor system, the characteristics of the long-range autocorrelations remained unchanged in both modes of locomotion (FW: H=0.790.04 and =0.580.13; BW: H=0.790.11 and =0.530.25). In the second part of the study, stride duration variability was assessed while the subjects were performing a dual-task paradigm that combined gait and mental calculation. The long-term variability of stride duration was similar during usual walking (H=0.800.06 and =0.570.13) and in dual-tasking (H=0.770.06 and =0.520.16), whereas walking altered the performance of the cognitive task. Hence, the biomechanical and cognitive interferences imposed in the present study were not sufficient to induce a modification of the long-range autocorrelations highlighted in walking variability. These observations underline the robustness of the long-range autocorrelations.
Obesity is a complex disease that results from increased energy intake and decreased energy expenditure. The gastrointestinal system plays a key role in the pathogenesis of obesity and facilitates caloric imbalance. Changes in gastrointestinal hormones and the inhibition of mechanisms that curtail caloric intake result in weight gain. It is not clear if the gastrointestinal role in obesity is a cause or an effect of this disease. Obesity is often associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Obesity is also associated with gastrointestinal disorders, which are more frequent and present earlier than T2DM and CVD. Diseases such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), cholelithiasis, or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis are directly related to body weight and abdominal adiposity. Our objective is to assess the role of each gastrointestinal organ in obesity and the gastrointestinal morbidity resulting in those organs from the effects of obesity.




This study determined the prevalence of lifetime and current smoking and the correlates of current smoking in nurses working in psychiatric and general hospitals in China. Of 807 distributed questionnaires, 799 nurses who were working in two psychiatric hospitals (n=387, 48.4%), and one general hospital (n=412, 51.6%) had analyzable data. Socio-demographic, alcohol use and smoking data were collected with a self-reported questionnaire. Work-related stress was evaluated with the Nurse Stress Inventory. In the whole sample, the lifetime smoking prevalence was 7.6% (females=2.1% vs. males=48.9%, p&lt;0.0001; psychiatric nurses=14.5% vs. non-psychiatric nurses=1.2%, p&lt;0.0001). The prevalence of current smoking was 7.1% (females=2.1% vs. males=44.7%, p&lt;0.0001; psychiatric nurses=13.4% vs. non-psychiatric nurses=1.2%, p&lt;0.0001). In a multiple logistic regression analysis, age 30 years or older, male gender, having children, being a psychiatric nurse and alcohol consumption were positively associated with smoking, while being a nursing officer was negatively associated with smoking (r(2) = 0.513, p&lt;0.0001). Considering the harmful effects of smoking as well as second-hand smoking in the presence of children, effective measures to promote smoking cessation for male, older and psychiatric nurses and those with children are warranted.
The term schizophrenia, which comes from the Greek roots &quot;skhizein&quot; and &quot;phren,&quot; was translated as &quot;Jungshinbunyeolbyung&quot; in East Asian Countries, including Japan, Korea, and China. The term literally means &quot;mind-splitting disease.&quot; This term has generated a misconception of the disorder as an untreatable chaotic personality, thus instilling stigma and causing suffering in patients and their families. This socio-cultural connotation has impeded medical treatment of schizophrenia. Recent neuroscience research has suggested neural network dysfunction in schizophrenia. Accordingly, a new term, &quot;Johyeonbyung (attunement disorder)&quot;, was coined in South Korea. This term literally refers to tuning a string instrument, and metaphorically it describes schizophrenia as a disorder caused by mistuning of the brain's neural network. We expect that the term Johyeonbyung will incite less prejudice and that its metaphoric description of the disorder may help patients to access medical treatment in the early phase. The name of a psychiatric disorder can influence others' attitudes toward patients; thus, discretion is crucial in naming psychiatric disorders.




This study follows 40 children who were participants in a randomized controlled early intervention trial (Kasari etal.) from early childhood (2-5 years of age) to elementary school age (8-10 years). To fully utilize the available longitudinal data, the general linear mixed model was the primary analytical approach. The growth trajectories of joint attention skills (pointing, coordinated joint looking, and showing) and expressive language outcomes in these children were estimated based on five time points during the measurement period. The children were grouped by diagnosis at the last follow-up (autism, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), no diagnosis) and by their original treatment group assignment (joint attention, symbolic play, control), and differences between these groups were evaluated. Results showed that joint attention skills of coordinated joint looking and showing increased over time, and pointing to share interest increased over the first year measured and decreased thereafter. These trajectories were influenced by both original treatment assignment and diagnostic status at follow-up. In addition, a cross-lagged panel analysis revealed a causal relationship between early pointing and later language development. This study highlights the longitudinal and developmental importance of measures of early core deficits in autism, and suggests that both treatment and ASD symptomatology may influence growth in these skills over time.
Increasing clinical and experimental evidence links immune and inflammatory alterations with the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Autistic individuals show signs of neuroinflammation, altered inflammatory responses, and immune abnormalities throughout life. Mice injected subcutaneously with 600 mg/kg valproic acid (VPA600) at gestational day 12.5 show reduced social interaction in adulthood (at 8 weeks of age), and they have been proposed as a mouse model of autism. Here, we show that these adult animals present signs of chronic glial activation in the hippocampus and the cerebellum. Moreover, when they are challenged with a peripheral inflammatory stimulus (intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharides, LPS), VPA600 animals show an exacerbated inflammatory response. Two hours after LPS injection, VPA600 animals secrete more corticosterone to the blood than control mice, and show an increase in the levels of expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the spleen. After LPS challenge, VPA600 mice also show signs of increased neuroinflammation compared with control mice: they have more microglial cells in the hippocampus, and they show higher levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the cerebellum. Our results provide evidence of basal neuroinflammation and an altered inflammatory response in the VPA model of autism. We propose that this model can be used to evaluate the contribution of inflammatory reactivity to autism-related behaviors. These studies will contribute to elucidate the role of the inflammatory alterations observed in ASD individuals.
The goal of this study was to create a heat map indicating the probabilistic location of major ganglia of the cervical sympathetic trunk (CST). Detailed dissections of human cadaveric specimens, followed by spatial registration and analysis of the cervical sympathetic ganglia in the neck and upper thorax regions (C1-T1) were performed in 104 neck specimens (both sides from 52 cadavers). Unbiased parametric mapping, visualized with a heat map, revealed a general pattern of two major ganglia located on both sides of the neck: The superior cervical ganglion (SCG) was located 80-90 mm superior to the point at which the vertebral artery entered the transverse foramen (VA-TF); the stellate ganglion (SG) was located approximately 10 mm inferior to the VA-TF in 80% of our sample, or surrounding the VA-TF in the remaining 20% of our sample. In between these ganglia, a highly variable number of smaller and less prevalent ganglia were present on either side of the neck. The middle ganglia on the right side of the neck were located closer to the SCG, possibly indicative of the middle cervical ganglion. On the left side the middle ganglia were located closer to the SG, perhaps indicative of the vertebral ganglion or the inferior cervical ganglion. Individual specimens could be classified into one of seven different patterns of cervical trunks. The results may help surgeons and anesthesiologists more accurately target and preserve these structures during medical procedures.
Autonomic screening tests (AST) are useful for assessing autonomic dysfunction. Our aim was to delineate the referral pattern, abnormalities, technical difficulties and final diagnoses of ASTs at a Tertiary General Hospital. Referring diagnoses was classified into: orthostatic symptoms, assessment of known/suspected disease associated with dysautonomia, thermoregulatory complaints and neurological disorders. Medication history, patient cooperation and test results were collated. Usefulness of AST in answering the clinical questions was ranked on a 3-point scale. 248 patients were studied. Orthostatic symptoms were the commonest referring diagnosis (71.4%) followed by assessment of a known/suspected disease associated with dysautonomia (13.3%), thermoregulatory complaints (7.7%) and neurological disorders (7.3%). 49.6% of ASTs were abnormal, 40.7% were normal and 9.7% were inconclusive. The first 2 referral categories had the highest proportion of abnormal ASTs while only 5.3% of patients with thermoregulatory complaints had abnormal AST. The most frequent final diagnosis was orthostatic hypotension (OH). It was seen in 31.7% of the cohort; however, 41% of these were attributed to medications. With regard to answering the clinical question, ASTs were very helpful in 56.0% and not helpful in 9.3%. 58.0% of inconclusive ASTs were attributed to poor performance of test maneuvers, 8.0% to medications, 17.0% to both and 17.0% to irregular heart rhythms and pacemakers. 34.7% of patients with diabetes mellitus and 38.2% of patients with Parkinsonism had signs of autonomic dysfunction. About 7% of diabetic and a quarter of Parkinsonism patients had OH secondary to medications. We believe these findings can contribute to better application of AST.

A current need in the neuroscience field is a simple method to monitor autophagic activity in vivo in neurons. Until very recently, most reports have been based on correlative and static determinations of the expression levels of autophagy markers in the brain, generating conflicting interpretations. Autophagy is a fundamental process mediating the degradation of diverse cellular components, including organelles and protein aggregates at basal levels, whereas alterations in the process (i.e., autophagy impairment) operate as a pathological mechanism driving neurodegeneration in most prevalent diseases. We have recently described a new simple method to deliver and express an autophagy flux reporter through the peripheral and central nervous system of mice by the intracerebroventricular delivery of adeno-associated viruses (AAV) into newborn mice. We obtained a wide expression of a monomeric tandem mCherry-GFP-LC3 construct in neurons through the nervous system and demonstrated efficient and accurate measurements of LC3 flux after pharmacological stimulation of the pathway or in disease settings of axonal damage. Here we discuss the possible applications of this new method to assess autophagy activity in neurons in vivo.
APO866, an inhibitor of NAD biosynthesis, exhibits potent antitumor properties in various malignancies. Recently, it has been shown that APO866 induces apoptosis and autophagy in human hematological cancer cells, but the role of autophagy in APO866-induced cell death remains unclear. Here, we report studies on the molecular mechanisms underlying APO866-induced cell death with emphasis on autophagy. Treatment of leukemia and lymphoma cells with APO866 induced both autophagy, as evidenced by an increase in autophagosome formation and in SQSTM1/p62 degradation, but also increased caspase activation as revealed by CASP3/caspase 3 cleavage. As an underlying mechanism, APO866-mediated autophagy was found to deplete CAT/catalase, a reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, thus promoting ROS production and cell death. Inhibition of autophagy by ATG5 or ATG7 silencing prevented CAT degradation, ROS production, caspase activation, and APO866-induced cell death. Finally, supplementation with exogenous CAT also abolished APO866 cytotoxic activity. Altogether, our results indicated that autophagy is essential for APO866 cytotoxic activity on cells from hematological malignancies and also indicate an autophagy-dependent CAT degradation, a novel mechanism for APO866-mediated cell killing. Autophagy-modulating approaches could be a new way to enhance the antitumor activity of APO866 and related agents.
We have reported previously that autophagy is responsible for amyloid precursor protein-C-terminal fragment (APP-CTF) degradation and therefore A clearance. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, using LC3 affinity purification and mass spectrometry analysis, immunoprecipitation (IP), as well as live imaging analysis, we identified and demonstrated that the adaptor-related protein complex 2 (AP2) and PICALM (phosphatidylinositol binding clathrin assembly protein) are in a complex with LC3 and APP-CTF. Taken together, this new set of data suggests that the AP2-PICALM complex functions as an autophagic cargo receptor for the recognition and shipment of APP-CTF from the endocytic pathway to the LC3-dependent autophagic degradation pathway. Interestingly this AP2-LC3 connection seems to be involved in chemically-induced APP-CTF clearance as we observed using the small compound SMER28. The effect observed following SMER28 was significantly reduced after silencing AP2. While more work is required to elucidate the detailed molecular mechanisms involved, our actual data suggest that there is some level of specificity in the steps mentioned above.
Modifications of histones, the chief protein components of the chromatin, have emerged as critical regulators of life and death. While the &quot;apoptotic histone code&quot; came to light a few years ago, accumulating evidence indicates that autophagy, a cell survival pathway, is also heavily regulated by histone-modifying proteins. In this review we describe the emerging &quot;autophagic histone code&quot; and the role of histone modifications in the cellular life vs. death decision.
In ovariectomized rats, administration of estradiol, or selective estrogen receptor agonists that activate either the  or  isoforms, have been shown to enhance spatial cognition on a variety of learning and memory tasks, including those that capitalize on the preference of rats to seek out novelty. Although the effects of the putative estrogen G-protein-coupled receptor 30 (GPR30) on hippocampus-based tasks have been reported using food-motivated tasks, the effects of activation of GPR30 receptors on tasks that depend on the preference of rats to seek out spatial novelty remain to be determined. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to determine if short-term treatment of ovariectomized rats with G-1, an agonist for GPR30, would mimic the effects on spatial recognition memory observed following short-term estradiol treatment. In Experiment 1, ovariectomized rats treated with a low dose (1 g) of estradiol 48 h and 24 h prior to the information trial of a Y-maze task exhibited a preference for the arm associated with the novel environment on the retention trial conducted 48 h later. In Experiment 2, treatment of ovariectomized rats with G-1 (25 g) 48 h and 24 h prior to the information trial of a Y-maze task resulted in a greater preference for the arm associated with the novel environment on the retention trial. Collectively, the results indicated that short-term treatment of ovariectomized rats with a GPR30 agonist was sufficient to enhance spatial recognition memory, an effect that also occurred following short-term treatment with a low dose of estradiol.
The effects of kappa opioid receptors (KOR) on motivated behavior are well established based on studies in male rodents, but relatively little is known about the effects of KOR in females. We examined the effects of KOR activation on conditioned place aversion and social interaction in the California mouse (Peromyscus californicus). Important differences were observed in long-term (place aversion) and short-term (social interaction) effects. Females but not males treated with a 2.5 mg/kg dose of U50,488 formed a place aversion, whereas males but not females formed a place aversion at the 10 mg/kg dose. In contrast the short term effects of different doses of U50,488 on social interaction behavior were similar in males and females. Acute injection with 10 mg/kg of U50,488 (but not lower doses) reduced social interaction behavior in both males and females. The effects of U50,488 on phosphorylated extracellular signal regulated kinase (pERK) and p38 MAP kinase were cell type and region specific. Higher doses of U50,488 increased the number of pERK neurons in the ventrolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminals in males but not females, a nucleus implicated in male aggressive behavior. In contrast, both males and females treated with U50,488 had more activated p38 cells in the nucleus accumbens shell. Unexpectedly, cells expressing activated p38 co-expressed Iba-1, a widely used microglia marker. In summary we found strong sex differences in the effects of U50,488 on place aversion whereas the acute effects on U50,488 induced similar behavioral effects in males and females.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of agmatine on nicotine induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in male albino mice. Intra-peritoneal (ip) administration of nicotine (1mg/kg) significantly increased time spent in drug-paired compartment. Agmatine (20 and 40 mg/kg, ip) co-administered with nicotine during the 6 days conditioning sessions completely abolished the acquisition of nicotine-induced CPP in mice. Concomitant administration of neuropeptide Y (NPY) (1 pg/mouse, icv) or [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (0.1 pg/mouse, icv), selective NPY Y1 receptor agonist potentiated the inhibitory effect of agmatine (10 mg/kg, ip) on nicotine CPP. Conversely, pretreatment with NPY Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP3226 (0.01 ng/mouse, icv) blocked the effect of agmatine (20 mg/kg, ip) on nicotine induced CPP. In immunohistochemical study, nicotine decreased NPY-immunoreactivity in nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh), bed nucleus of stria terminalis, lateral part (BNSTl), arcuate nucleus (ARC) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Conversely, administration of agmatine prior to the nicotine significantly reversed the effect of nicotine on NPY-immunoreactivity in the above brain nuclei. This data indicate that agmatine attenuate nicotine induced CPP via modulation of NPYergic neurotransmission in brain.
Homocysteine (Hcy) is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) acts as an endogenous neuromodulator and neuroprotectant. It has been shown that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is involved in the pathological mechanisms of the learning and memory dysfunctions and that H2S exerts its neuroprotective role via suppressing ER stress. In the present work, we explored the effects of intracerebroventricular injection of Hcy on the formation of learning and memory, the generation of endogenous H2S, and the expression of ER stress in the hippocampus of rats. We found that intracerebroventricular injection of Hcy in rats leads to learning and memory dysfunctions in the Morris water maze and novel of object recognition test and decreases in the expression of cystathionine--synthase, the major enzyme responsible for endogenous H2S generation, and the generation of endogenous H2S in the hippocampus of rats. We also showed that exposure of Hcy could up-regulate the expressions of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), CHOP, and cleaved caspase-12, which are the major mark proteins of ER stress, in the hippocampus of rats. Taken together, these results suggest that the disturbance of hippocampal endogenous H2S generation and the increase in ER stress in the hippocampus are related to Hcy-induced defect in learning and memory.
Clinically, Huntington's disease (HD) is well known for the predominant motor symptom chorea, which is a hyperkinetic motor disorder. The only experimental model currently described in the literature, as far as we are aware of, exhibiting hyperkinetic movements is the transgenic rat model of HD. We assessed and characterized these hyperkinetic movements in detail and investigated the effect of tetrabenazine (TBZ) treatment. TBZ is an effective drug in the treatment of chorea in HD patients. Our results showed that the hyperkinetic movements fulfilled the clinical-behavioral criteria of a choreiform movement. Administration of TBZ reduced the number of these hyperkinetic movements substantially. These findings suggest that the hyperkinetic movements observed in this animal model can be considered as a choreiform movement disorder. This makes these animals unique and provides opportunities for chorea-research.
This study determined the effects of adolescent nicotine administration on adult alcohol preference in rats exhibiting high or low behavioral reactivity to a novel environment, and ascertained whether nicotine altered FosB in the ventral striatum (vStr) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) immediately after drug administration or after rats matured to adulthood. Animals were characterized as exhibiting high (HLA) or low (LLA) locomotor activity in the novel open field on postnatal day (PND) 31 and received injections of saline (0.9%) or nicotine (0.56 mg free base/kg) from PND 35 to 42. Ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) was assessed on PND 68 following 8 days conditioning in a biased paradigm; FosB was measured on PND 43 or PND 68. Following adolescent nicotine exposure, HLA animals demonstrated a CPP when conditioned with ethanol; LLA animals were unaffected. Further, adolescent nicotine exposure for 8 days increased levels of FosB in limbic regions in both HLA and LLA rats, but this increase persisted into adulthood only in LLA animals. Results indicate that adolescent nicotine exposure facilitates the establishment of an ethanol CPP in HLA rats, and that sustained elevations in FosB are not necessary or sufficient for the establishment of an ethanol CPP in adulthood. These studies underscore the importance of assessing behavioral phenotype when determining the behavioral and cellular effects of adolescent nicotine exposure.
Male and female Wistar rats were treated postnatally (PND 5-16) with BSO (l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine) to provide a rat model of schizophrenia based on transient glutathione deficit. In the watermaze, BSO-treated male rats perform very efficiently in conditions where a diversity of visual information is continuously available during orientation trajectories [1]. Our hypothesis is that the treatment impairs proactive strategies anticipating future sensory information, while supporting a tight visual adjustment on memorized snapshots, i.e. compensatory reactive strategies. To test this hypothesis, BSO rats' performance was assessed in two conditions using an 8-arm radial maze task: a semi-transparent maze with no available view on the environment from maze centre [2], and a modified 2-parallel maze known to induce a neglect of the parallel pair in normal rats [3-5]. Male rats, but not females, were affected by the BSO treatment. In the semi-transparent maze, BSO males expressed a higher error rate, especially in completing the maze after an interruption. In the 2-parallel maze shape, BSO males, unlike controls, expressed no neglect of the parallel arms. This second result was in accord with a reactive strategy using accurate memory images of the contextual environment instead of a representation based on integrating relative directions. These results are coherent with a treatment-induced deficit in proactive decision strategy based on multimodal cognitive maps, compensated by accurate reactive adaptations based on the memory of local configurations. Control females did not express an efficient proactive capacity in the semi-transparent maze, neither did they show the significant neglect of the parallel arms, which might have masked the BSO induced effect. Their reduced sensitivity to BSO treatment is discussed with regard to a sex biased basal cognitive style.
Cook et al. argue that mirror neurons originate in sensorimotor associative learning and that their function is determined by their origin. Both these claims are hard to accept. It is here suggested that a major role in the origin of the mirror mechanism is played by top-down connections rather than by associative learning.
The description of the mirror neuron system provided by Cook et al. is incomplete for the macaque, and incorrect for humans. This is relevant to exaptation versus associative learning as the underlying mechanism generating mirror neurons, and to the sensorimotor learning as evidence for the authors' viewpoint. The proposed additional testing of the mirror system in rodents is unrealistic.
Cook et al. overstate the evidence supporting their associative account of mirror neurons in humans: most studies do not address a key property, action-specificity that generalizes across the visual and motor domains. Multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) of neuroimaging data can address this concern, and we illustrate how MVPA can be used to test key predictions of their account.
Cook et al. argue that mirror neurons originate from associative learning processes, without evolutionary influence from social-cognitive mechanisms. We disagree with this claim and present arguments based upon cross-species comparisons, EEG findings, and developmental neuroscience that the evolution of mirror neurons is most likely driven simultaneously and interactively by evolutionarily adaptive psychological mechanisms and lower-level biological mechanisms that support them.
Ever since their discovery, mirror neurons have generated much interest and debate. A commonly held view of mirror neuron function is that they transform &quot;visual information into knowledge,&quot; thus enabling action understanding and non-verbal social communication between con-specifics (Rizzolatti &amp; Craighero 2004). This functionality is thought to be so important that it has been argued that mirror neurons must be a result of selective pressure.
Hebbian Learning should not be reduced to contiguity, as it detects contingency and causality. Hebbian Learning accounts of mirror neurons make predictions that differ from associative learning: Through Hebbian Learning, mirror neurons become dynamic networks that calculate predictions and prediction errors and relate to ideomotor theories. The social force of imitation is important for mirror neuron emergence and suggests canalization.
From the viewpoint of pattern recognition and computational learning, mirror neurons form an interesting multimodal representation that links action perception and planning. While it seems unlikely that all details of such representations are specified by the genetic code, robust learning of such complex representations likely requires an appropriate interplay between plasticity, generalization, and anatomical constraints of the underlying neural architecture.
We challenge Cook et al.'s claim about the vagueness of the notion of action understanding in relation with mirror neurons. We show the multidimensional nature of action understanding and provide a definition of motor-based action understanding, shedding new light on the various components of action understanding and on their relationship. Finally, we propose an alternative perspective on the origin of mirror neurons, stressing the necessity to abandon the dichotomy between genetic and associative hypotheses.
In the past decade many studies have demonstrated the existence of a mirror mechanism that matches the sensory representation of a biological stimulus with its somatomotor and visceromotor representation. This mechanism, likely phylogenetically very old, explains several types of mirroring behaviours, at different levels of complexity. The presence in primates of dedicated neuroanatomical pathways for specific sensorimotor integrations processes implies, at least in the primate lineage, a hard-wired mirror mechanism for social cognitive functions.
The Selfish Goal model challenges traditional agentic models that place conscious systems at the helm of motivation. We highlight the need for ongoing supervision and intervention of automatic goals by higher-order conscious systems with examples from social cognitive affective neuroscience. We contend that interplay between automatic and supervisory systems is required for adaptive human behavior.
I applaud Huang &amp; Bargh's (H&amp;B's) theory that places goals at the center of cognition, and I discuss two ingredients missing from that theory. First, I argue that the brains of organisms much simpler than those of humans are already configured for goal achievement in situated interactions. Second, I propose a mechanistic view of the &quot;reconfiguration principle&quot; that links the theory with current views in computational neuroscience.
Recognizing that there is a multiplicity of motives-and that the accessibility and strength of each one varies chronically and temporarily-is essential if motivational scientists are to achieve genuine theoretical and empirical integration. We agree that system justification is a case of nonconscious goal pursuit and discuss implications of the fact that it conflicts with many other psychological goals.
A pervasive finding in animal models of substance abuse is that associations form quickly between contexts and drugs of abuse, such as cocaine. Studies of conditioned place preference (CPP) demonstrate that animals approach cues previously paired with cocaine. This is a commonly used preparation, but the configuration of the CPP apparatus differs across laboratories. Two common apparatus configurations for CPP are one compartment (in which the animal has access to the entire apparatus and spatial cues are irrelevant) or two compartments (in which access is restricted to one half of the apparatus and spatial cues are relevant). We compared the effects of acquisition and extinction of cocaine-induced CPP as a function of configuration. During CPP acquisition, C57BL/6J mice received cocaine paired with one tactile floor (conditioned stimulus; CS+) and saline paired with the other (CS-). CS+ and CS- trials occurred on alternate days in one of three configurations: one-compartment (exposure to the entire apparatus during CS+ or CS-), two-compartment consistent position (exposure to CS+ or CS- in adjacent, spatially distinct compartments), or two-compartment alternating position (exposure to CS+ or CS- in adjacent compartments that alternated spatial locations across days). A stronger preference for the CS+ floor occurred in two- versus one-compartment groups, with the strongest preference observed when cocaine was paired with alternating chamber positions. In contrast, greater loss of preference occurred after extinction in a one-compartment procedure, regardless of one- or two-compartment acquisition history. These findings suggest that a two-compartment configuration facilitated acquisition but attenuated extinction of a cocaine-induced CPP. The use of different CPP configurations may distinguish the underlying substrates and relevant cues for acquisition and extinction processes in cocaine abuse.
Binge eating palatable foods has been shown to have behavioral and neurochemical similarities to drug addiction. GS 455534 is a highly selective reversible aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 inhibitor that has been shown to reduce alcohol and cocaine intake in rats. Given the overlaps between binge eating and drug abuse, we examined the effects of GS 455534 on binge eating and subsequent dopamine release. Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on a sugar (experiment 1) or fat (experiment 2) binge eating diet. After 25 days, GS 455534 was administered at 7.5 and 15 mg/kg by an intraperitoneal injection, and food intake was monitored. In experiment 3, rats with cannulae aimed at the nucleus accumbens shell were maintained on the binge sugar diet for 25 days. Microdialysis was performed, during which GS 455534 15 mg/kg was administered, and sugar was available. Dialysate samples were analyzed to determine extracellular levels of dopamine. In experiment 1, GS 455534 selectively decreased sugar intake food was made available in the Binge Sugar group but not the Ad libitum Sugar group, with no effect on chow intake. In experiment 2, GS 455534 decreased fat intake in the Binge Fat group, but not the Ad libitum Fat group, however, it also reduced chow intake. In experiment 3, GS 455534 attenuated accumbens dopamine release by almost 50% in binge eating rats compared with the vehicle injection. The findings suggest that selective reversible aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 inhibitors may have the therapeutic potential to reduce binge eating of palatable foods in clinical populations.
An internet-delivered cognitive behavioral treatment (ICBT) based on systematic exposure exercises has previously shown beneficial effects for patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Exposure exercises may be perceived as difficult for patients to perform because of the elicited short-term distress and clinicians may be reluctant to use these interventions. The aim of this study was to compare ICBT with the same protocol without systematic exposure (ICBT-WE) to assess if exposure had any incremental value. This randomized controlled dismantling study included 309 participants diagnosed with IBS. The treatment interventions lasted for 10 weeks and included online therapist contact. ICBT-WE comprised mindfulness, work with life values, acceptance, and encouraged reduced avoidance behaviors, while ICBT also included systematic exposure to IBS symptoms and related situations. Severity of IBS symptoms was measured with the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale - IBS version (GSRS-IBS). The between-group Cohen's d on GSRS-IBS was 0.47 (95% CI: 0.23-0.70) at post-treatment and 0.48 (95% CI: 0.20-0.76) at 6-month follow-up, favoring ICBT. We conclude that the systematic exposure included in the ICBT protocol has incremental effects over the other components in the protocol. This study provides evidence for the utility of exposure exercises in psychological treatments for IBS.
-Secretase catalyzes the final cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), resulting in the production of amyloid- (A) peptides with different carboxyl termini. Presenilin (PSEN) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutations linked to early onset familial Alzheimer's disease modify the profile of A isoforms generated, by altering both the initial -secretase cleavage site and subsequent processivity in a manner that leads to increased levels of the more amyloidogenic A42 and in some circumstances A43. Compounds termed -secretase modulators (GSMs) and inverse GSMs (iGSMs) can decrease and increase levels of A42, respectively. As GSMs lower the level of production of pathogenic forms of long A isoforms, they are of great interest as potential Alzheimer's disease therapeutics. The factors that regulate GSM modulation are not fully understood; however, there is a growing body of evidence that supports the hypothesis that GSM activity is influenced by the amino acid sequence of the -secretase substrate. We have evaluated whether mutations near the luminal border of the transmembrane domain (TMD) of APP alter the ability of both acidic, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-derived carboxylate and nonacidic, phenylimidazole-derived classes of GSMs and iGSMs to modulate -secretase cleavage. Our data show that point mutations can dramatically reduce the sensitivity to modulation of cleavage by GSMs but have weaker effects on iGSM activity. These studies support the concept that the effect of GSMs may be substrate selective; for APP, it is dependent on the amino acid sequence of the substrate near the junction of the extracellular domain and luminal segment of the TMD.
Protein kinase CK2 is a pleiotropic serine/threonine kinase responsible for the generation of a substantial proportion of the human phosphoproteome. CK2 is generally found as a tetramer with two catalytic,  and ' and two non catalytic  subunits. CK2 C-terminal tail phosphorylation is regulated during the mitotic events and the absence of these phosphosites in ' suggests an isoform specialization. We used a proteomic approach to identify proteins specifically phosphorylated by a CK2 phosphomimetic mutant, CK2T344ET360ES362ES370E (CK24E), in human neuroblastoma SKNBE cellular extract. One of these proteins is lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1 or KDM1A), an important player of the epigenetic machinery. LSD1 is a FAD-dependent amine oxidase and promotes demethylation of lysine 4 and lysine 9 of mono- and di-methylated histone H3. We found that LSD1 is a new substrate and an interacting partner of protein kinase CK2. Three CK2 phosphosites, (Ser131, Ser137 and Ser166) in the N-terminal region of LSD1 have been identified. This domain is found in all chordates but not in more ancient organisms and it is not essential for LSD1 catalytic event while it could modulate the interaction with CK2 and with other partners in gene repressing and activating complexes. Our data support the view that the phosphorylation of the N-terminal domain by CK2 may represent a mechanism for regulating histone methylation, disclosing a new role for protein kinase CK2 in epigenetics.
Accumulation of transactive response DNA binding protein (TDP-43) fragments in motor neurons is a post mortem hallmark of different neurodegenerative diseases. TDP-43 fragments are the products of the apoptotic caspases-3 and -7. Either excessive or insufficient cellular Ca(2+) availability is associated with activation of apoptotic caspases. However, as far as we know, it is not described whether activation of caspases, due to restricted intracellular Ca(2+), affects TDP-43 cleavage. Here we show that in various cell lineages with restricted Ca(2+) availability, TDP-43 is initially cleaved by caspases-3 and -7 and then, also by caspases-6 and -8 once activated by caspase-3. Furthermore, we disclose the existence of a TDP-43 caspase-mediated fragment of 15kDa, in addition to the well-known fragments of 35 and 25kDa. Interestingly, with respect to the other two fragments this novel fragment is the major product of caspase activity on murine TDP-43 whereas in human cell lines the opposite occurs. This outcome should be considered when murine models are used to investigate TDP-43 proteinopathies.
A study is presented on the expression of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation complexes in exponentially growing and serum-starved, quiescent human fibroblast cultures. The functional levels of respiratory complexes I and III and complex V (adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase) were found to be severely depressed in serum-starved fibroblasts. The depression of oxidative phosphorylation system (OXPHOS) complexes was associated with reduced levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1) and the down-stream nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF1) and mitochondrial transcription factors (TFAM). In serum-starved fibroblasts decrease of the catalytic activity of AMP cyclic dependent protein kinase (PKA) and phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), the transcription coactivator of the PGC-1 gene, was found. Hydroxytyrosol prevented the decline in the expression of the PGC-1 transcription cascade of OXPHOS complexes in serum-starved fibroblast cultures. The positive effect of HT was associated with activation of PKA and CREB phosphorylation. These results show involvement of PKA, CREB and PGC-1 in the regulation of OXPHOS in cell transition from the replicating to the quiescent state.
Several general anesthetics produce their sedative effect by activating endogenous sleep pathways. We propose that general anesthesia is a two-step process targeting sleep circuits at low doses, and synaptic release mechanisms across the entire brain at the higher doses required for surgery. Our hypothesis synthesizes data from a variety of model systems, some which require sleep (e.g. rodents and adult flies) and others that probably do not sleep (e.g. adult nematodes and cultured cell lines). Non-sleeping systems can be made insensitive (or hypersensitive) to some anesthetics by modifying a single pre-synaptic protein, syntaxin1A. This suggests that the synaptic release machinery, centered on the highly conserved SNARE complex, is an important target of general anesthetics in all animals. A careful consideration of SNARE architecture uncovers a potential mechanism for general anesthesia, which may be the primary target in animals that do not sleep, but a secondary target in animals that sleep.
Gestational factors play a role in the development of several neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and autism. In utero conditions influence future mental health through epigenetic mechanisms, which alter gene expression without affecting DNA coding sequence. Environmental factors account for at least 60% of the risk for developing major depression, and earlier onset of depressive illness has been observed over the past decades. I speculate that gestational factors may play a greater role in programing depression than previously recognized. Here, I examine recent evidence for a role for gestational factors in programing mood disorders, and how epigenetic mechanisms mediate this effect.

Structural and functional connectivity methods are changing how researchers conceptualize and explore neuropsychiatric disease. Here, we summarize emerging evidence of large-scale network dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease and behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, focusing on the divergent impact these disorders have on the default mode network and the salience network. We update a working model for understanding the functions of these networks within a broader anatomical context and highlight the relevance of this model for understanding psychiatric illness. Finally, we look ahead to persistent challenges in the application of network-based imaging methods to patients with Alzheimer's disease, behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, and other neuropsychiatric conditions. Recent advances and persistent needs are discussed, with an eye toward anticipating the hurdles that must be overcome for a network-based framework to clarify the biology of psychiatric illness and aid in the drug discovery process.

Componential theories assume that emotion episodes consist of emergent and dynamic response changes to relevant events in different components, such as appraisal, physiology, motivation, expression, and subjective feeling. In particular, Scherer's Component Process Model hypothesizes that subjective feeling emerges when the synchronization (or coherence) of appraisal-driven changes between emotion components has reached a critical threshold. We examined the prerequisite of this synchronization hypothesis for appraisal-driven response changes in facial expression. The appraisal process was manipulated by using feedback stimuli, presented in a gambling task. Participants' responses to the feedback were investigated in concurrently recorded brain activity related to appraisal (event-related potentials, ERP) and facial muscle activity (electromyography, EMG). Using principal component analysis, the prediction of appraisal-driven response changes in facial EMG was examined. Results support this prediction: early cognitive processes (related to the feedback-related negativity) seem to primarily affect the upper face, whereas processes that modulate P300 amplitudes tend to predominantly drive cheek region responses.
Several bioengineering approaches have been proposed for peripheral nervous system repair, with limited results and still open questions about the underlying molecular mechanisms. We assessed the biological processes that occur after the implantation of collagen scaffold with a peculiar porous micro-structure of the wall in a rat sciatic nerve transection model compared to commercial collagen conduits and nerve crush injury using functional, histological and genome wide analyses. We demonstrated that within 60 days, our conduit had been completely substituted by a normal nerve. Gene expression analysis documented a precise sequential regulation of known genes involved in angiogenesis, Schwann cells/axons interactions and myelination, together with a selective modulation of key biological pathways for nerve morphogenesis induced by porous matrices. These data suggest that the scaffold's micro-structure profoundly influences cell behaviors and creates an instructive micro-environment to enhance nerve morphogenesis that can be exploited to improve recovery and understand the molecular differences between repair and regeneration.
Devices implanted into the body become encapsulated due to a foreign body reaction. In the central nervous system (CNS), this can lead to loss of functionality in electrodes used to treat disorders. Around CNS implants, glial cells are activated, undergo gliosis and ultimately encapsulate the electrodes. The primary cause of this reaction is unknown. Here we show that the mechanical mismatch between nervous tissue and electrodes activates glial cells. Both primary rat microglial cells and astrocytes responded to increasing the contact stiffness from physiological values (G'  100 Pa) to shear moduli G'  10 kPa by changes in morphology and upregulation of inflammatory genes and proteins. Upon implantation of composite foreign bodies into rat brains, foreign body reactions were significantly enhanced around their stiff portions in vivo. Our results indicate that CNS glial cells respond to mechanical cues, and suggest that adapting the surface stiffness of neural implants to that of nervous tissue could minimize adverse reactions and improve biocompatibility.
Analogs of the dual orexin receptor antagonist filorexant were prepared. Replacement of the ether linkage proved highly sensitive toward modification with an acetylene linkage providing compounds with the best in vitro and in vivo potency profiles.


OBJECTIVES. Surgical site infections (SSIs) may be devastating for the patient and they carry high economic costs. Studies of SSI after neurosurgery report an incidence of 1-11%. However, patient material, follow-up time and definition of SSI have varied. In the present study we prospectively recorded the prevalence of SSI 3 months after standard intracranial neurosurgical procedures. The incidence, impact and risk factors of SSI were analysed. METHODS. We included patients admitted during 2010 to our unit for postoperative care after standard neurosurgical procedures. SSI was defined as evident with positive cultures from surgical samples or CSF, and/or purulent discharge during reoperation. Follow-up was done after 3 and 12 months and statistics was obtained after 3 months. The predictive values on the outcome of demographic and clinical factors describing the surgical procedure were evaluated using linear regression. RESULTS. A total of 448 patients were included in the study and underwent a total of 466 procedures. Within 3 and 12 months, 33 and 88 patients, respectively, had died. Of the surviving patients, 20 (4.3% of procedures) developed infections within 3 months and another 3 (4.9% of procedures) within 12 months. Risk factors for SSI were meningioma, longer operation time, craniotomy, dural substitute, and staples in wound closure. Patients with SSI had significantly longer hospital stay. Multivariate analysis showed that factors found significant in univariate analysis frequently occur together. DISCUSSION. We studied the prevalence of SSI after 3 and 12 months in a prospective 1-year material with standard neurosurgical procedures and found it to be 4.3% and 4.9%, respectively. The analysis of the results showed that a combination of parameters indicating a longer and more complicated procedure predicted the development of SSI. Our conclusion is that the prevention of SSI has to be done at many levels, especially with patients undergoing long surgical procedures.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective death of upper and lower motor neurons which ultimately leads to paralysis and ultimately death. Pathological changes in ALS are closely associated with pronounced and progressive changes in mitochondrial morphology, bioenergetics and calcium homeostasis. Converging evidence suggests that impaired mitochondrial function could be pivotal in the rapid neurodegeneration of this condition. In this review, we provide an update of recent advances in understanding mitochondrial biology in the pathogenesis of ALS and highlight the therapeutic value of pharmacologically targeting mitochondrial biology to slow disease progression.



Dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome due to SLC6A3 mutations is the first inherited dopamine 'transportopathy' to be described, with a classical presentation of early infantile-onset progressive parkinsonism dystonia. In this study we have identified a new cohort of patients with dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome, including, most significantly, atypical presentation later in childhood with a milder disease course. We report the detailed clinical features, molecular genetic findings and in vitro functional investigations undertaken for adult and paediatric cases. Patients presenting with parkinsonism dystonia or a neurotransmitter profile characteristic of dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome were recruited for study. SLC6A3 mutational analysis was undertaken in all patients. The functional consequences of missense variants on the dopamine transporter were evaluated by determining the effect of mutant dopamine transporter on dopamine uptake, protein expression and amphetamine-mediated dopamine efflux using an in vitro cellular heterologous expression system. We identified eight new patients from five unrelated families with dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome. The median age at diagnosis was 13 years (range 1.5-34 years). Most significantly, the case series included three adolescent males with atypical dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome of juvenile onset (outside infancy) and progressive parkinsonism dystonia. The other five patients in the cohort presented with classical infantile-onset parkinsonism dystonia, with one surviving into adulthood (currently aged 34 years) and labelled as having 'juvenile parkinsonism'. All eight patients harboured homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in SLC6A3, of which the majority are previously unreported variants. In vitro studies of mutant dopamine transporter demonstrated multifaceted loss of dopamine transporter function. Impaired dopamine uptake was universally present, and more severely impacted in dopamine transporter mutants causing infantile-onset rather than juvenile-onset disease. Dopamine transporter mutants also showed diminished dopamine binding affinity, reduced cell surface transporter, loss of post-translational dopamine transporter glycosylation and failure of amphetamine-mediated dopamine efflux. Our data series expands the clinical phenotypic continuum of dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome and indicates that there is a phenotypic spectrum from infancy (early onset, rapidly progressive disease) to childhood/adolescence and adulthood (later onset, slower disease progression). Genotype-phenotype analysis in this cohort suggests that higher residual dopamine transporter activity is likely to contribute to postponing disease presentation in these later-onset adult cases. Dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome remains under-recognized and our data highlights that dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome should be considered as a differential diagnosis for both infantile- and juvenile-onset movement disorders, including cerebral palsy and juvenile parkinsonism.
Benign childhood epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes (BCECTS) is a unique form of non-lesional age-dependent epilepsy with rare seizures, focal electroencepalographic abnormalities affecting the same well delineated cortical region in most patients, and frequent mild to moderate cognitive dysfunctions. In this condition, it is hypothesized that interictal electroencepalographic discharges might interfere with local brain maturation, resulting in altered cognition. Diffusion tensor imaging allows testing of this hypothesis by investigating the white matter microstructure, and has previously proved sensitive to epilepsy-related alterations of fractional anisotropy and diffusivity. However, no diffusion tensor imaging study has yet been performed with a focus on BCECTS. We investigated 25 children suffering from BCECTS and 25 age-matched control subjects using diffusion tensor imaging, 3D-T1 magnetic resonance imaging, and a battery of neuropsychological tests including Conner's scale and Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (fourth revision). Electroencephalography was also performed in all patients within 2 months of the magnetic resonance imaging assessment. Parametric maps of fractional anisotropy, mean-, radial-, and axial diffusivity were extracted from diffusion tensor imaging data. Patients were compared with control subjects using voxel-based statistics and family-wise error correction for multiple comparisons. Each patient was also compared to control subjects. Fractional anisotropy and diffusivity images were correlated to neuropsychological and clinical variables. Group analysis showed significantly reduced fractional anisotropy and increased diffusivity in patients compared with control subjects, predominantly over the left pre- and postcentral gyri and ipsilateral to the electroencephalographic focus. At the individual level, regions of significant differences were observed in 10 patients (40%) for anisotropy (eight reduced fractional anisotropy, one increased fractional anisotropy, one both), and 17 (56%) for diffusivity (13 increased, one reduced, three both). There were significant negative correlations between fractional anisotropy maps and duration of epilepsy in the precentral gyri, bilaterally, and in the left postcentral gyrus. Accordingly, 9 of 12 patients (75%) with duration of epilepsy&gt;12 months showed significantly reduced fractional anisotropy versus none of the 13 patients with duration of epilepsy12 months. Diffusivity maps positively correlated with duration of epilepsy in the cuneus. Children with BCECTS demonstrate alterations in the microstructure of the white matter, undetectable with conventional magnetic resonance imaging, predominating over the regions displaying chronic interictal epileptiform discharges. The association observed between diffusion tensor imaging changes, duration of epilepsy and cognitive performance appears compatible with the hypothesis that interictal epileptic activity alters brain maturation, which could in turn lead to cognitive dysfunction. However, such cross-sectional association does not demonstrate causality, and other hitherto unidentified factors could represent the common cause to part or all of the observed findings.
Diabetes mellitus renders both widespread and localized irreversible damage to peripheral axons while imposing critical limitations on their ability to regenerate. A major failure of regenerative capacity thereby imposes a 'double hit' in diabetic patients who frequently develop focal neuropathies such as carpal tunnel syndrome in addition to generalized diffuse polyneuropathy. The mechanisms of diabetic neuron regenerative failure have been speculative and few approaches have offered therapeutic opportunities. In this work we identify an unexpected but major role for PTEN upregulation in diabetic peripheral neurons in attenuating axon regrowth. In chronic diabetic neuropathy models in mice, we identified significant PTEN upregulation in peripheral sensory neurons of messenger RNA and protein compared to littermate controls. In vitro, sensory neurons from these mice responded to PTEN knockdown with substantial rises in neurite outgrowth and branching. To test regenerative plasticity in a chronic diabetic model with established neuropathy, we superimposed an additional focal sciatic nerve crush injury and assessed morphological, electrophysiological and behavioural recovery. Knockdown of PTEN in dorsal root ganglia ipsilateral to the side of injury was achieved using a unique form of non-viral short interfering RNA delivery to the ipsilateral nerve injury site and paw. In comparison with scrambled sequence control short interfering RNA, PTEN short interfering RNA improved several facets of regeneration: recovery of compound muscle action potentials, reflecting numbers of reconnected motor axons to endplates, conduction velocities of both motor and sensory axons, reflecting their maturation during regrowth, numbers and calibre of regenerating myelinated axons distal to the injury site, reinnervation of the skin by unmyelinated epidermal axons and recovery of mechanical sensation. Collectively, these findings identify a novel therapeutic approach, potentially applicable to other neurological conditions requiring specific forms of molecular knockdown, and also identify a unique target, PTEN, to treat diabetic neuroregenerative failure.
Impulsivity is common in Parkinson's disease even in the absence of impulse control disorders. It is likely to be multifactorial, including a dopaminergic 'overdose' and structural changes in the frontostriatal circuits for motor control. In addition, we proposed that changes in serotonergic projections to the forebrain also contribute to response inhibition in Parkinson's disease, based on preclinical animal and human studies. We therefore examined whether the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram improves response inhibition, in terms of both behaviour and the efficiency of underlying neural mechanisms. This multimodal magnetic resonance imaging study used a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled crossover design with an integrated Stop-Signal and NoGo paradigm. Twenty-one patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (46-76 years old, 11 male, Hoehn and Yahr stage 1.5-3) received 30 mg citalopram or placebo in addition to their usual dopaminergic medication in two separate sessions. Twenty matched healthy control subjects (54-74 years old, 12 male) were tested without medication. The effects of disease and drug on behavioural performance and regional brain activity were analysed using general linear models. In addition, anatomical connectivity was examined using diffusion tensor imaging and tract-based spatial statistics. We confirmed that Parkinson's disease caused impairment in response inhibition, with longer Stop-Signal Reaction Time and more NoGo errors under placebo compared with controls, without affecting Go reaction times. This was associated with less stop-specific activation in the right inferior frontal cortex, but no significant difference in NoGo-related activation. Although there was no beneficial main effect of citalopram, it reduced Stop-Signal Reaction Time and NoGo errors, and enhanced inferior frontal activation, in patients with relatively more severe disease (higher Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score). The behavioural effect correlated with the citalopram-induced enhancement of prefrontal activation and the strength of preserved structural connectivity between the frontal and striatal regions. In conclusion, the behavioural effect of citalopram on response inhibition depends on individual differences in prefrontal cortical activation and frontostriatal connectivity. The correlation between disease severity and the effect of citalopram on response inhibition may be due to the progressive loss of forebrain serotonergic projections. These results contribute to a broader understanding of the critical roles of serotonin in regulating cognitive and behavioural control, as well as new strategies for patient stratification in clinical trials of serotonergic treatments in Parkinson's disease.
Leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation is a disorder caused by recessive mutations in the gene DARS2, which encodes mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase. Recent observations indicate that the phenotypic range of the disease is much wider than initially thought. Currently, no treatment is available. The aims of our study were (i) to explore a possible genotype-phenotype correlation; and (ii) to identify potential therapeutic agents that modulate the splice site mutations in intron 2 of DARS2, present in almost all patients. A cross-sectional observational study was performed in 78 patients with two DARS2 mutations in the Amsterdam and Helsinki databases up to December 2012. Clinical information was collected via questionnaires. An inventory was made of the DARS2 mutations in these patients and those previously published. An assay was developed to assess mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase enzyme activity in cells. Using a fluorescence reporter system we screened for drugs that modulate DARS2 splicing. Clinical information of 66 patients was obtained. The clinical severity varied from infantile onset, rapidly fatal disease to adult onset, slow and mild disease. The most common phenotype was characterized by childhood onset and slow neurological deterioration. Full wheelchair dependency was rare and usually began in adulthood. In total, 60 different DARS2 mutations were identified, 13 of which have not been reported before. Except for 4 of 42 cases published by others, all patients were compound heterozygous. Ninety-four per cent of the patients had a splice site mutation in intron 2. The groups of patients sharing the same two mutations were too small for formal assessment of genotype-phenotype correlation. However, some combinations of mutations were consistently associated with a mild phenotype. The mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase activity was strongly reduced in patient cells. Among the compounds screened, cantharidin was identified as the most potent modulator of DARS2 splicing. In conclusion, the phenotypic spectrum of leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation is wide, but most often the disease has a relatively slow and mild course. The available evidence suggests that the genotype influences the phenotype, but because of the high number of private mutations, larger numbers of patients are necessary to confirm this. The activity of mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase is significantly reduced in patient cells. A compound screen established a 'proof of principle' that the splice site mutation can be influenced. This finding is promising for future therapeutic strategies.
Depleted of dopamine, the dynamics of the parkinsonian brain impact on both 'action' and 'resting' motor behaviour. Deep brain stimulation has become an established means of managing these symptoms, although its mechanisms of action remain unclear. Non-invasive characterizations of induced brain responses, and the effective connectivity underlying them, generally appeals to dynamic causal modelling of neuroimaging data. When the brain is at rest, however, this sort of characterization has been limited to correlations (functional connectivity). In this work, we model the 'effective' connectivity underlying low frequency blood oxygen level-dependent fluctuations in the resting Parkinsonian motor network-disclosing the distributed effects of deep brain stimulation on cortico-subcortical connections. Specifically, we show that subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation modulates all the major components of the motor cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loop, including the cortico-striatal, thalamo-cortical, direct and indirect basal ganglia pathways, and the hyperdirect subthalamic nucleus projections. The strength of effective subthalamic nucleus afferents and efferents were reduced by stimulation, whereas cortico-striatal, thalamo-cortical and direct pathways were strengthened. Remarkably, regression analysis revealed that the hyperdirect, direct, and basal ganglia afferents to the subthalamic nucleus predicted clinical status and therapeutic response to deep brain stimulation; however, suppression of the sensitivity of the subthalamic nucleus to its hyperdirect afferents by deep brain stimulation may subvert the clinical efficacy of deep brain stimulation. Our findings highlight the distributed effects of stimulation on the resting motor network and provide a framework for analysing effective connectivity in resting state functional MRI with strong a priori hypotheses.


Set-shifting is essential to cognitive flexibility and relies on frontal lobe function. Previous studies have mostly focused on feedback processes following shifting rather than set-shifting itself. We designed an MEG paradigm without feedback to directly investigate the neural correlates of set-shifting. Adults (n=16) matched one of two coloured images with a third stimulus, the target, by either the colour or shape dimension of the target. Half of the shift trials involved colour-to-colour or shape-to-shape (intra-dimensional: ID) shifting and the other half involved colour-to-shape or shape-to-colour (extra-dimensional: ED) shifting. MEG was continuously recorded on a 151 channel CTF system. We used beamforming to analyze responses to the first (shift) and the third (repeat) trials in each set. These trials were contrasted separately for ID and ED sets. Shift versus repeat trials showed larger MEG activations for intra-dimensional shifting in the right inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47), left medial frontal gyrus (BA 10) and right superior frontal gyrus (BA 9) as early as 100ms, and in left middle frontal gyrus (BA 11) between 250-500ms. Activations related to extra-dimensional shifting were detected in left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 44), left middle frontal gyrus (BA 11), and right middle frontal gyrus (BA 46) between 100ms and 350ms, followed by superior frontal gyrus (BA 8/BA 10) between 250-500ms. Intra-dimensional and extra-dimensional shifting also activated bilateral and right parietal areas, respectively. This study establishes the location and timing of frontal and parietal activations during an intra-dimensional versus extra-dimensional shifting task.
Human memory is an enigmatic component of cognition which many researchers have attempted to comprehend. Accumulating studies on functional connectivity see brain as a complex dynamic unit with positively and negatively correlated networks in perfect coherence during a task. We aimed to examine coherence of network connectivity during visual memory encoding and retrieval in the context of education. School Educated (SE) and College Educated (CE) healthy volunteers (n=60) were recruited and assessed for visual encoding and retrieval. Functional connectivity using seed to voxel based connectivity analysis of the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) was evaluated. We noticed that there were reciprocal dynamic changes in both dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) region and PCC regions during working memory encoding and retrieval. In agreement with the previous studies, there were more positively correlated regions during retrieval compared to encoding. The default mode network (DMN) networks showed greater negative correlations during more attentive task of visual encoding. In tune with the recent studies on cognitive reserve we also found that number of years of education was a significant factor influencing working memory connectivity. SE had higher positive correlation to DLPFC region and lower negative correlation to DMN in comparison with CE during encoding and retrieval.
The goal of the present investigation was to test the somatosensory processing model's (SPM) assertion that tactile actions and perceptions are mediated via egocentric and allocentric frames of reference, respectively (Dijkerman &amp; de Hann's 2007: Behavioral and Brain Sciences). To accomplish that objective, Experiment 1 required that participants use their right hand to grasp and manually estimate differently sized objects placed on the forearm and palm of their left hand. Following each manual estimation trial, participants grasped the target object to equate tasks (i.e., grasping vs. manual estimation) for terminal tactile feedback. Notably, the different object locations (i.e., forearm and palm) were used to examine whether location-specific differences in mechanoreceptor density impacts the percept of object size (i.e., Weber's illusion). In addition, we computed just-noticeable-difference (JND) scores to determine whether grasping and manual estimations adhere to, or violate, the allocentric principles of Weber's law. Results for the grasping task elicited a null expression of Weber's illusion and JNDs for this task violated Weber's law. Results for the manual estimation task similarly exhibited a null expression of Weber's illusion; however, JNDs for the palm but not the forearm condition adhered to Weber's law. Experiment 2 showed that withdrawing terminal tactile feedback during forearm condition manual estimations resulted in responses that adhered to Weber's law. Thus, results provide some support for the SPM's contention that grasping and manual estimations are mediated via ego- and allocentric frames of reference, respectively. However, results further indicate that the dissociation is not complete and is, in part, influenced by the sensory consequences (i.e., terminal tactile feedback) associated with the response.
Recent studies have used non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) techniques, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), to increase dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) activity and, consequently, working memory (WM) performance. However, such experiments have yielded mixed results, possibly due to small sample sizes and heterogeneity of outcomes. Therefore, our aim was to perform a systematic review and meta-analyses on NIBS studies assessing the n-back task, which is a reliable index for WM. From the first data available to February 2013, we looked for sham-controlled, randomized studies that used NIBS over the DLPFC using the n-back task in PubMed/MEDLINE and other databases. Twelve studies (describing 33 experiments) matched our eligibility criteria. Active vs. sham NIBS was significantly associated with faster response times (RTs), higher percentage of correct responses and lower percentage of error responses. However, meta-regressions showed that tDCS (vs. rTMS) presented only an improvement in RT, and not in accuracy. This could have occurred in part because almost all tDCS studies employed a crossover design, possibly due to the reliable tDCS blinding. Study design was also associated with no improvement in correct responses in the active vs. sham groups. To conclude, rTMS of the DLPFC significantly improved all measures of WM performance whereas tDCS significantly improved RT, but not the percentage of correct and error responses. Mechanistic insights on the role of DLPFC in WM are further discussed, as well as how NIBS techniques could be used in neuropsychiatric samples presenting WM deficits, such as major depression, dementia and schizophrenia.
The decade-long endeavor to link brain structure with brain function has met with varying degrees of success. Recent advances in imaging techniques allow a fresh look at the issue, however. In the current investigation, functional magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) were employed to directly investigate the link between functional connectivity during a verb generation task and the underlying structural substrate. Nineteen participants performed a verb generation task during functional scanning and also underwent DTI. A psychophysiological interaction analysis was used to map the functional networks recruited during the task and as an index of functional connectivity. The degree to which this correlated with diffusion measures was used to explore the existence of anatomofunctional relationships within the identified connections. A significant correlation was seen for the middle frontal (MFG) to precentral gyrus pathway, where a pattern of low fractional anisotropy and high perpendicular diffusion was associated with low functional connectivity. A second pathway between the MFG and inferior temporal gyrus did not show a significant correlation, which may be attributed to two independent factors that might be influencing the structural properties of this pathway. The variation in structure function relationships within this network may relate to each pathways involvement in different cognitive functions.
Idiopathic photosensitive occipital lobe epilepsy (IPOE) is an idiopathic localization-related epilepsy characterized by age-related onset, specific mode of precipitation, occipital photic-induced seizures--frequently consisting of visual symptoms--and good prognosis. This uncommon epilepsy, which usually starts in childhood or adolescence, has rarely been observed in families in which idiopathic generalized epilepsy also affects other members. We describe a nuclear family in which the proband showed electro-clinical features of idiopathic photosensitive occipital lobe epilepsy in childhood, which subsequently evolved into absences and a single generalized tonico-clonic seizure in early adolescence. His mother had features suggestive of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. This case illustrates a continuum between focal and generalized entities in the spectrum of the so-called idiopathic (genetically determined) epileptic syndromes.

