We have analyzed Msx1 expression in the mature mouse brain using in situ hybridization and beta-galactosidase activity in Msx1(nLacZ) mice. The study revealed that Msx1 is strongly expressed in the circumventricular organs, such as the subcommissural organ and choroid plexus, and in some epithelia, such as that of the dorsal, but not the ventral part of the third ventricle. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the Msx1-expressing cells of the hippocampus and fimbria are astrocytes, oligodendrocytes or immature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, no co-expression was detected in these structures using several neuronal markers. These results were confirmed, using transmission electron microscopy, by the presence of 5-bromo-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactopyranosideprecipitates in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in both sites. Moreover, using an anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein antibody (GFAP), our study reveals two populations of astrocytes in the adult hippocampus and other areas, such as the fimbria, namely Msx1+/GFAP+ and Msx1-/GFAP+. Beta-galactosidase activity was also observed in endothelial cells of hippocampal fissure blood vessels. We also observed co-localization of polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule, a marker of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule, in Msx1-expressing cells in the fimbria. These cells may be precursors of glial cells and originate from the epithelium of the fimbria. The present study indicates, in the mature mouse brain, that Msx1 may be linked to secretory activity in circumventricular organs, and to glial proliferation and differentiation in the hippocampus and fimbria, and presumably also in other cerebral areas. We suggest that Msx1 could be associated with brain homeostasis and blood-brain barrier function.
Hippocampal neurogenesis in adult mammals is influenced by many factors. Lesioning of the entorhinal cortex is a standard model used to study injury and repair in the hippocampus. Here we use bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling combined with immunohistochemical identification using cell type specific markers to follow the fate of neural progenitors in the hippocampus following entorhinal cortex lesioning in mice. We show that unilateral entorhinal cortex lesioning does not alter the rate of neural progenitor proliferation in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus during the first 3 days after lesioning. However it enhances cell survival at 42 days post-lesioning leading to an increased number of beta-III tubulin and calbindin-immunoreactive neurons being produced. By contrast, when BrdU was administered 21 days post-lesioning, the number of surviving cells 21 days later was similar on the lesioned and non-lesioned sides. Thus, acutely entorhinal cortex lesioning promotes neurogenesis by enhancing survival of either neural progenitors or their progeny. However, this stimulus to neurogenesis is not sustained into the recovery period.
An important output of amygdaloid nuclei, the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) not only mediates negative emotional behaviors, but also participates in the stimulus-reward learning and expression of motivational aspects of many drugs of abuse, and links environmentally stressful conditions such as fear to endogenous pain-inhibiting mechanisms. The endogenous opioid system in the CeA is crucial for both reward behaviors and environmental stress-induced analgesia. In this study using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings, we investigated synaptic inputs and the postsynaptic effects of opioid agonists in CeA neurons. We found that synaptic inputs evoked within the CeA were mediated by both glutamate and GABA, but those evoked from the basolateral amygdala were primarily glutamatergic. Based on membrane properties, three types of cells were characterized. Type A neurons had no spike accommodation while type B neurons displayed characteristic accommodating response. Type A neurons were further classified as either A1 or A2, based on differences in resting membrane potential and the amplitude of after-hyperpolarizing potential. micro-Opioid receptor agonists hyperpolarized a subpopulation of CeA neurons, of which the vast majority was type A1. This micro agonist-induced hyperpolarization was mediated by the opening of inwardly rectifying potassium channels. In contrast, the kappa-opioid receptor agonist hyperpolarized only type B neurons. These results illustrate three types of CeA neurons with distinctive membrane properties and differential responses to opioid agonists. They may represent functionally distinct CeA cell groups for the integration and execution of CeA outputs in the aforementioned CeA functions.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal neurodegenerative disorder, caused by expansion of a glutamine repeat in the Huntingtin protein. Pathogenesis in HD includes the cytoplasmic cleavage of Huntingtin and release of an amino-terminal fragment capable of nuclear localization, where expanded-Huntingtin (Exp-Htt) might lead to aberrant transcriptional regulation, neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. Recent evidence, from hippocampal cell lines, also implicates altered interaction of Exp-Htt with components of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) cascade. However, there is yet no proven implication of the JNK/c-Jun module in degeneration of striatal neurons, the more vulnerable cell population, in HD. In the present study, we used primary striatal neurons in culture to analyze c-Jun activation by Exp-Htt. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged exon 1 of human Huntingtin either in its normal (25Q, normal-Htt) or expanded (103Q, Exp-Htt) version was transiently transfected in these cells. We first set out, in our conditions, the time course of striatal degeneration produced by Exp-Htt, and found it occurred rapidly. At 48 h post-transfection, 60% of striatal neurons expressing Exp-Htt had apoptotic characteristics including DNA fragmentation and neuritic retraction. Most of these neurons also showed nuclear aggregates of GFP-Exp Htt. Kinetics of c-Jun activation were tested in transfected cells using immunocytochemical detection of phospho-c-Jun. We found a significant activation and induction of c-Jun in Exp-Htt but not normal-Htt-transfected neurons. Of interest, these events occurred prior to nuclear translocation of Exp-Htt. Finally, overexpression of a dominant negative version of c-Jun, as well as pharmacological inhibition of JNK strongly protected against DNA fragmentation and neuritic retraction induced by Exp-Htt. Thus our data suggest that c-Jun activation and induction, is an early event in the pathogenesis of HD, occurring prior to formation of nuclear aggregates of Exp-Htt.
Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are a class of excitatory, glutamatergic interneurons occurring at high density in the granular layer of the vestibulo-cerebellum. UBCs are intermediate in size between granule cells, which in rat originate postnatally from precursors in the external granular layer, and Golgi cells, which are generated prenatally and postnatally from precursors in the ventricular zone that continue to divide while they migrate toward the cortex. The origin of the UBCs is still poorly understood. In this study, we set forth to ascertain the possible prenatal origin of UBCs, taking advantage of the immunocytochemical 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) method to label dividing cells in combination with antisera to cell population markers, that distinguish UBCs from granule and Golgi cells. Pregnant rat dams received six i.p. injections of BrdU (total 36 mg/animal) over 2 successive days at different stages of prenatal development (embryonic day [E]14/15-E20/21). Adult offspring were analyzed for histology. Using antibodies against the ionotropic glutamate receptor GluR2 and the calcium binding protein calretinin we found two populations of UBCs. A subset of about 30% of UBCs was calretinin and GluR2 positive, while the majority of the UBCs were calretinin negative and GluR2 positive. Results indicate that UBCs originate from precursors proliferating between E16 and E21. However, UBCs defined by calretinin immunoreactivity were primarily born in a narrow time window at E17-18. UBCs immunostained with antiserum to GluR2, but not labeled with calretinin were generated later, from E19 to E21. Our data also indicate that a part of GluR2 positive UBCs are born around and after E22. The subset of later born, calretinin negative UBCs may coincide with the pale cells, a group of cerebellar interneurons previously identified by [3H]thymidine labeling.
The significance of Galphai2 in neural signal transmission is well defined. However, the function of its alternative splice variant named sGi2 is unknown. Therefore here, we have studied the localization of sGi2 protein in rat and monkey brain at light and electron microscopy level. We found that this novel protein is widely expressed in rat and monkey brain regions, which are known to play crucial role in brain functions. Hippocampus, cerebral cortex, amygdala, thalamus, striatum, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and dopaminergic cell groups of substantia nigra, hypothalamus and olfactory bulb showed strong labeling with anti-sGi2. At subcellular level, sGi2 protein was localized in intracellular compartments, including endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complex, mitochondria and nucleus. This protein was also found localized extra-synaptically in both axons and spines, which were making excitatory as well as inhibitory synaptic contacts. Moreover, the frequent localization of sGi2 protein in neck of spines further suggests that this protein may not engage directly in neuronal signal transmission but could influence other participating proteins of this process.
The MRL/MpJ mouse has a greatly enhanced healing response and an absence of scarring compared with other mouse strains. Following lesions to the CNS mammals show a scarring response known as reactive gliosis, and this CNS scar tissue blocks regeneration of cut axons. We have therefore compared reactive gliosis in the MRL/MpJ mouse and the Swiss Webster mouse, which exhibits normal scarring in the periphery. The lesion model was a stab lesion to the cortex, in which reactive gliosis has previously been quantified. Axon regeneration was examined following a cut lesion to the dopaminergic projection from the substantia nigra to the striatum used in previous regeneration experiments. In the MRL/MpJ following the lesion compared with Swiss Webster mice there was greater cell loss around the lesion followed by greater and more widespread and more prolonged cellular proliferation. Early after the lesion there was a greater loss of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes around the injury site in the MRL/MpJ, and an enhancement and prolongation of the microglial inflammatory response. This was accompanied by greater and more widespread blood-brain barrier leakage following injury. RNA levels for the matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 as well as for the thrombin receptors PAR-1 and PAR-4 were also greater at the MRL/MpJ injury site. All of these differences were transient and by 14 days post-injury there were no differences observed between MRL/MpJ and control mice. No axonal regeneration was observed following axotomy to the nigrostriatal pathway of the MRL/MpJ or the Swiss Webster mice at any time point.
The cortical stab injury has been widely used for biochemical analysis of molecular changes following CNS injury. However, the cellular responses to this injury have not been accurately quantified. In order to provide a baseline for biochemical studies and future experiments on the manipulation of the CNS injury response we have undertaken a quantitative analysis of this injury. The proliferative and reactive responses of oligodendrocyte precursor cells, astrocytes and microglia were measured, using antibodies to NG2, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and the cd11-b clone OX-42 to characterise these cell types at 2, 4, 7 and 14 days post-injury. Oligodendrocyte precursors and microglia proliferated rapidly during the first week, mostly within 0.3 mm of the lesion. Of the dividing cells over 60% were oligodendrocyte precursor cells with microglia making up the balance of the dividing cells. Minimal numbers of astrocytes divided in response to the lesion. Large cells with one or two short processes that were both NG2 and OX-42 positive were identified very close to the lesion at 2 and 4 days post-lesion but not thereafter. They are likely to be blood-derived cells that express NG2 or have ingested it. NG2 immunohistochemistry and platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor (PDGFalpha-R) in situ hybridisation on neighbouring sections was performed. In the lesioned area only 12% of NG2 positive (+ive) cells were PDGFalpha-R +ive (a ratio of 1:8 for PDGFalpha-R +ive cells: NG2 +ive cells) compared with 33% in the unlesioned cortex and an almost 100% overlap in the spinal cord.
Superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) relay the majority of cortical input projections to the hippocampus, whereas deep layers of the EC mediate a large portion of hippocampal output projections back to other cortical areas, suggesting a functional segregation between superficial and deep layers of the EC as input and output structures of the hippocampus, respectively. However, deep layers of the EC send associational projections to superficial layers, suggesting a potential interaction between neocortical input and hippocampus-processed output in superficial layers. This possibility was investigated by examining whether deep to superficial EC projections support long-term synaptic plasticity, and whether they interact with other pathways in superficial layers in rat medial EC slice preparations. Synaptic responses of the deep-to-superficial layer projections were verified based on field potential profiles, paired-pulse facilitation, physical separation between superficial and deep layers, and pharmacological manipulation. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was reliably induced in the deep-to-superficial layer projections by burst stimulations that emulated theta or sharp wave electroencephalogram (EEG),and it was blocked by an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist (D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid) and a calcium channel blocker (nifedipine). Prolonged low frequency stimulation induced long-term depression. A weak stimulation of deep layers, which induced a small degree of LTP by itself, generated a much larger degree of LTP when paired with a strong stimulation of superficial layers, indicating that the deep-to-superficial layer projections cooperate with other pathways in the superficial EC to enhance synaptic weights. Our results suggest that neocortical input and hippocampal output information are integrated in superficial layers of the EC.
Gonadal steroids such as testosterone and estrogen are necessary for the normal activation of male rat sexual behavior. The medial preoptic area (MPOA), an important neural substrate regulating mating, accumulates steroids and also expresses functional androgen receptors (AR). The MPOA is intimately connected with other regions implicated in copulation, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala. Inputs to the MPOA arise from several areas within the brainstem, synapsing preferentially onto steroid sensitive MPOA cells which are activated during sexual activity. Given that little is known about the distribution of AR protein in the brainstem of male rats, we mapped the distribution of AR expressing cells in the pons and medulla using immunocytochemistry. In agreement with previous reports, AR immunoreactivity (AR-ir) was detected in ventral spinal motoneurons and interneurons. In addition, AR-ir was detected in areas corresponding to the solitary tract, lateral paragigantocellular and alpha and ventral divisions of the gigantocellular reticular nuclei, area postrema, raphe pallidus, ambiguus nucleus, and intermediate reticular nucleus. Several regions within the pons contained AR-ir, such as the tegmental and central gray, parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, Barrington's nucleus, periaqueductal gray, and dorsal raphe. In contrast with in situ hybridization studies, auditory and somatosensory areas were AR-ir negative, and, except for very light staining in the prepositus nucleus, areas carrying vestibular information did not display AR-ir. Additionally, cranial nerve motoneurons of the hypoglossal, facial, dorsal vagus, and spinal trigeminal did not display AR-ir in contrast to previous reports. The data presented here indicate that androgens may influence numerous cell groups within the brainstem. Some of these probably constitute a steroid sensitive circuit linking the MPOA to motoneurons in the spinal cord via androgen responsive cells in the caudal ventral medulla.
In stargazer mutant mice, a mutation in the gene encoding stargazin results in absence epilepsy, cerebellar ataxia, and a characteristic abnormal motor syndrome. The main goal of the current studies was to characterize the nature and source of the abnormal motor behavior. Because the stargazer motor syndrome resembles that of other rodents with vestibular dysfunction, the motor abnormalities were compared with those of normal mice treated with toxins known to damage the vestibular system. Quantitative open field assessments revealed that the stargazer mice display a motor syndrome very similar to that exhibited by mice with toxin-induced vestibulopathy. However, stargazer mice also displayed several additional behaviors, such as ataxic gait and sustained extensor movements of the neck. In addition, stargazer mice performed worse than mice with toxin-induced vestibulopathy in most standard tests of motor function. Motor function was also impaired on each of four behavioral tests sensitive to vestibular function. Because of the close associations between the vestibular and auditory systems, tests of auditory function were also employed. The stargazer mutants exhibited relatively normal auditory brainstem evoked responses but no apparent acoustic startle reflex. Histological examination of vestibular sensory epithelium at the light and electron microscopic levels confirmed the existence of abnormalities in the stargazer mutants. These results imply a previously unrecognized role for stargazin in the normal functions of the vestibular system and indicate that some, but not all, of the abnormal motor syndrome of stargazer mice can be attributed to vestibular dysfunction.
The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of distinct categories of stressors on beta-endorphin (beta-EP) release in the arcuate nucleus (ArcN) and nucleus accumbens (NAcb) using in vivo microdialysis. Adult male rats were implanted with a cannula aimed at either the NAcb or the ArcN. On the day of testing, a 2 mm microdialysis probe was inserted into the cannula, and artificial cerebrospinal fluid was infused at 2.0 microl/min. After three baseline collections, animals either had a clothespin applied to the base of their tail for 20 min (a physical/tactile stressor), were exposed to fox urine odour for 20 min (a psychological stressor/species-specific threat), or were administered 2.4 g ethanol/kg body weight, 16.5% w/v, i.p. (a chemical/pharmacological stressor) with control animals receiving an equivalent volume of saline. Both tail-pinch and fox odour significantly increased beta-EP release from the ArcN (P&lt;0.05), whilst only tail-pinch enhanced beta-EP release from the NAcb (P&lt;0.01). On the other hand, alcohol stimulated beta-EP release in the NAcb as compared with saline-treated controls (P&lt;0.01), but not in the ArcN. Although the increase in extracellular beta-EP produced by the other stressors was relatively rapid, there was a 90-min delay before alcohol administration caused beta-EP levels to exceed that of saline-injected controls. In conclusion, the fact that physical and fear-inducing psychological stressors stimulate beta-EP release in the ArcN and only physical stressors stimulate beta-EP release in the NAcb, indicates that stressors with different properties are processed differently in the brain. Also, an injection of alcohol caused a delayed increase of beta-EP in the NAcb but not the ArcN, indicating that alcohol may recruit a mechanism that is, at least partially, distinct from stress-related pathways.
Neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies suggest that pain may play a major role in determining cortical somatosensory rearrangements even in the adult brain. The re-organizational power of pain, however, has been tested in models in which massive deafferentation co-existed with pain (e.g. in phantom pain). Moreover, information on whether spinal and brainstem changes contribute to pain-related plasticity in humans is meagre. We used the non-invasive somatosensory evoked potentials technique in patients with right primary trigeminal neuralgia and no clinical signs of large-diameter fibers of trigeminal deafferentation to assess whether pain may induce plastic changes at multiple levels in the somatosensory system. Subcortical and cortical potentials evoked by stimulation of the right median and posterior tibial nerves ipsilateral to the facial pain were compared with those obtained following stimulation of the left median and tibial nerves and with those obtained in a control group tested in comparable conditions. Amplitudes of parietal N20 and P27 and frontal N30 potentials observed following stimulation of the right median nerve ipsilateral to the facial pain were greater than those of the left median nerve and showed a positive correlation with magnitude of pain. This right-left asymmetry was absent following stimulation of the patients' tibial nerves and in control subjects. No changes were found in spinal N13 and brainstem P14. That facial pain is associated with neuroplastic changes within the somatic cortical representation of the hand suggests a pain-related topographic cortical reorganisation.
Previously we reported that a non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding site is up-regulated in rat brainstem nuclei as a result of unilateral nodose ganglionectomy. In the present study, we compared non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding with microglia/macrophage activation following nodose ganglionectomy, using both in vitro autoradiography and immunohistochemistry. Specific [(125)I] CGP42112 binding was observed in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and revealed an AT(2) receptor component as well as a non-angiotensin II receptor component. Subsequent to unilateral nodose ganglionectomy, [(125)I] CGP42112 binding in the ipsilateral NTS was increased approximately two-fold and was also induced in the ipsilateral dorsal motor nucleus (DMX) and the nucleus ambiguus (n.amb). This non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding site was displaced by CGP42112 but not other ligands. Increased [(3)H] PK11195 binding (a known marker of reactive gliosis) was also observed in the same brainstem nuclei as non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding after nodose ganglionectomy. The similarity in binding patterns between [(125)I] CGP42112 and [(3)H] PK11195 was shown to be primarily due to retrograde degeneration in the ipsilateral NTS, DMX and n.amb, as both radioligands were localized to similar cellular targets within the interstial space and over cellular debris. Immunohistochemical data confirmed reactive gliosis within the ipsilateral NTS, DMX and n.amb, following nodose ganglionectomy, which was predominantly characterized by an increase in OX-42 immunoreactivity (a marker for activated microglia/macrophages), with only a small increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity (a marker of astrogliosis) detected. These data demonstrate for the first time that non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding is associated with activated microglia, as well as macrophages, following unilateral nodose ganglionectomy. Furthermore, these studies also demonstrate the potential use of non-angiotensin II [(125)I] CGP42112 binding as a marker for quantitating inflammatory events which occur as a result of damage to the CNS.
alpha9/alpha10 Subunits are thought to constitute the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediating cholinergic efferent modulation of vertebrate hair cells. The present report describes the cloning and sequence analysis of subunits of the alpha9-containing receptor of a hair-cell layer from the saccule of the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). A major alpha9 subunit, termed alpha9-I, displayed typical features of a nicotinic alpha subunit, with total coding sequence of 572 amino acids including a 16 amino-acid signal peptide. It possessed an extended cytoplasmic loop between membrane-spanning regions M3 and M4, compared with mammalian homologs. Transcript for alpha9-I was robustly expressed in the saccular hair cell layer and less prominently in trout olfactory mucosa, spleen, pituitary gland, and liver, as determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. alpha9-I cDNA was not detected in trout brain, skeletal muscle, retina, and kidney. The alpha9-I nicotinic receptor protein was immunolocalized, with an affinity-purified antibody directed against a trout alpha9-I epitope, to hair-cell and neural sites in the saccular hair-cell layer. Foci were found at basal and basolateral membrane sites on hair cells as well as on afferent nerve. Receptor clustering was observed in hair cells bordering non-sensory epithelium. Since in higher vertebrates the alpha9 is reported to associate with another nicotinic subunit, alpha10, we examined the possibility of expression of additional nicotinic subunits in trout saccular hair cells. Message for another nicotinic subunit, termed alpha9-II, was found to be expressed in the hair cells, although more difficult to amplify than alpha9-I. In contrast to alpha9-I, alpha9-II was expressed in brain, as well as in olfactory mucosa, less prominently in pituitary gland and liver, but not in spleen, skeletal muscle, retina, or kidney. The cloned alpha9-II had a total coding sequence of 550 amino acids, which included a 17-amino-acid signal peptide, and an extended M3-M4 loop. A third nicotinic subunit message, termed alpha9-III, was PCR-amplified from trout olfactory mucosa where it was strongly expressed. However, message for alpha9-III was not detected in hair cells. Message for alpha9-III was moderately expressed in trout brain, retina, and pituitary gland but not in trout spleen, skeletal muscle, liver, and kidney. Thus, alpha9-I and alpha9-II may together contribute to the formation of the hair-cell nicotinic receptor of teleosts, where no ortholog of alpha10 appears to exist. The current work is, to our knowledge, the first description of alpha9 coding sequences directly from a vertebrate hair cell source. Further, the generality of hair cell expression of subunits for the alpha9-containing nicotinic cholinergic receptor has been extended to fishes, suggesting a similar efferent mechanism across all vertebrate octavolateralis sensory systems.
The medial preoptic area (MPOA) is important for reproductive behavior in females. However, the descending pathways mediating these responses to the spinal motor output are unknown. The MPOA does not directly innervate the spinal cord. Therefore, pathways mediating MPOA-induced changes in sexual behavior must relay in the brain. The nucleus paragigantocellularis (nPGi) projects heavily to spinal circuits involved in female sexual reflexes and is involved in the tonic inhibition of genital reflexes. However, the periaqueductal gray (PAG) is also important for female sexual behavior. The present study examined the hypothesis that the MPOA output relays through PAG and the nPGi before descending to the spinal cord. We used anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques to examine the descending pathways and relay sites from the MPOA to the spinal cord and the nPGi in the female rat. Injection of biotinylated dextran amine into the MPOA produced dense labeling in specific regions of the PAG and Barrington's nucleus; anterogradely labeled fibers terminated close to neurons retrogradely labeled from the spinal cord in the PAG, Barrington's nucleus, nPGi, lateral hypothalamus and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Anterogradely labeled fibers and varicosities were also found close to neurons retrogradely labeled from the nPGi in the PAG, lateral hypothalamus and PVN. These results suggest that the major MPOA output relays in the PAG and nPGi before descending to innervate spinal circuits regulating female genital reflexes and that the MPOA plays a multifaceted role in female reproductive behavior through its modulation of PAG output systems.
The activation of GABA receptor subtype A (GABA(A)) and GABA receptor subtype B (GABA(B)) receptors mediates differential effects on GABAergic and non-GABAergic transmission in the basal ganglia. To further characterize the anatomical substrate that underlies these functions, we used immunogold labeling to compare the subcellular and subsynaptic localization of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Our findings demonstrate major differences and some similarities in the distribution of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in the monkey STN. The immunoreactivity for GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunits is mostly bound to the plasma membrane, whereas GABA(B) R1 subunit alpha1 immunoreactivity is largely expressed intracellularly. Plasma membrane-bound GABA(A) alpha1 subunit aggregate in the main body of putative GABAergic synapses, while GABA(B) R1 receptors are found at the edges of putative glutamatergic or GABAergic synapses. A large pool of plasma membrane-bound GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors is extrasynaptic. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate a significant degree of heterogeneity between the distributions of the two major GABA receptor subtypes in the monkey STN. Their pattern of synaptic localization puts forward interesting questions regarding their mechanisms of activation and functions at GABAergic and non-GABAergic synapses.
Evidence suggests that galanin plays an important role in the regulation of reproduction in the rat. Galanin is colocalized with luteinizing hormone (LH)-releasing hormone (LHRH) in a subset of LHRH neurons in female rats and galanin-immunoreactive (galanin-IR) nerve terminals innervate LHRH neurons. Recent studies indicate that galanin may control gonadal functions in rats at two different levels: (i) via direct modulation of pituitary LH secretion and/or (ii) indirectly via the regulation of the hypothalamic LHRH release. However, the morphological substrate of any similar modulation is not known in human. In the present series of experiments we first mapped the galanin-IR and LHRH-IR neural elements in human brain, utilizing single label immunohistochemistry. Then, following the superimposition of the maps of these systems, the overlapping sites were identified with double labeling immunocytochemistry and examined in order to verify the putative juxtapositions between galanin-IR and LHRH-IR structures. LHRH and galanin immunoreactivity were detected mainly in the medial basal hypothalamus, in the medial preoptic area and along the diagonal band of Broca. Careful examination of the IR elements in the overlapping areas revealed close, bi-directional contacts between galanin-IR and LHRH-IR structures, which have been verified in semithin plastic sections. These galanin-LHRH and LHRH-galanin juxtapositions were most numerous in the medial preoptic area and in the infundibulum/median eminence of the human diencephalon. In conclusion, the present study is the first to reveal bi-directional juxtapositions between galanin- and LHRH-IR neural elements in the human diencephalon. These galanin-LHRH and LHRH-galanin contacts may be functional synapses, and they may be the morphological substrate of the galanin-controlled gonadal functions in humans.
Aquaporins (AQPs) are membrane proteins involved in water transport in many fluid-transporting tissues. Aquaporins AQP1, AQP4, and AQP9 have been identified in brain and hypothesized to participate in brain water homeostasis. Here we use reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blotting and immunohistochemistry to describe the expression and immunolocalization of AQPs in adult mouse spinal cord. AQP4 was expressed in glial cells, predominantly in gray matter, and in astrocytic end-feet surrounding capillaries in spinal cord white matter. AQP9 expression extensively co-localized with glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytes, located predominantly in the white matter. AQP5 was detected by RT-PCR but not by immunohistochemical analysis. Interestingly, AQP8 was detected primarily in ependymal cells lining the fluid-filled central canal. The aquaporin expression pattern in spinal cord suggests involvement in water homeostasis and diseases associated with abnormal water fluxes such as spinal cord injury and syringomyelia.
Although large increases in neuronal intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) are lethal, moderate increases in [Ca(2+)](i) of 50-200 nM may induce immediate or long-term tolerance of ischemia or other stresses. In neurons in rat hippocampal slice cultures, we determined the relationship between [Ca(2+)](i), cell death, and Ca(2+)-dependent neuroprotective signals before and after a 45 min period of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Thirty minutes before OGD, [Ca(2+)](i) was increased in CA1 neurons by 40-200 nM with 1 nM-1 microM of a Ca(2+)-selective ionophore (calcimycin or ionomycin-&quot;Ca(2+) preconditioning&quot;). Ca(2+) preconditioning greatly reduced cell death in CA1, CA3 and dentate during the following 7 days, even though [Ca(2+)](i) was similar (approximately 2 microM) in preconditioned and control neurons 1 h after the OGD. When pre-OGD [Ca(2+)](i) was lowered to 25 nM (10 nM ionophore in Ca(2+)-free medium) or increased to 8 microM (10 microM ionophore), more than 90% of neurons died. Increased levels of the anti-apoptotic protein protein kinase B (Akt) and the MAP kinase ERK (p42/44) were present in preconditioned slices after OGD. Reducing Ca(2+) influx, inhibiting calmodulin, and preventing Akt or MAP kinase p42/44 upregulation prevented Ca(2+) preconditioning, supporting a specific role for Ca(2+) in the neuroprotective process. Further, in continuously oxygenated cultured hippocampal/cortical neurons, preconditioning for 30 min with 10 nM ionomycin reduced cell death following a 4 microM increase in [Ca(2+)](i) elicited by 1 microM ionomycin. Thus, a zone of moderately increased [Ca(2+)](i) before a potentially lethal insult promotes cell survival, uncoupling subsequent large increases in [Ca(2+)](i) from initiating cell death processes.
Protons play a key role in nociception caused by inflammation and ischaemia, but little is known about the relative sensitivities of different dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. We have therefore examined the responses in vitro of rat DRG cells classified according to whether or not they bind Griffonia simplicifolia IB4 (IB4), a lectin which is widely used to distinguish between two major populations of small diameter neurons. Under voltage-clamp conditions, proton-activated inward currents were found in approximately 90% of small DRG neurons and showed one of three waveforms: transient, sustained or mixed. The majority of IB4-positive (IB4+) neurons (63%) gave rise to sustained inward currents that were sensitive to capsazepine. In contrast, the most prevalent waveform in small IB4-negative (IB4-) neurons (69%) was a mixed response containing transient and sustained components. The transient component was inhibited by amiloride whilst the sustained component showed a variable sensitivity to capsazepine. We also found that more IB4+ cells responded to capsaicin and, on average, gave rise to a larger magnitude of response than small IB4- neurons, consistent with their higher prevalence and greater amplitude of vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1)-like acid responses. The increase in intracellular Ca(2+) induced by capsaicin was also slightly greater in IB4+ neurons and in these cells its magnitude correlated with the level of TRPV1 immunoreactivity. Our data suggest that acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) and TRPV1 are the major acid-sensitive receptors in small IB4- neurons, whilst TRPV1 is the predominant one in IB4+ neurons. Because ASIC-like responses were approximately 10-fold more sensitive to changes in H(+) than TRPV1-like responses, we speculate that small IB4- rather than IB4+ neurons play an essential role in sensing acid. Our results also highlight differences in capsaicin responses between IB4+ and IB4- small neurons and reveal the close link between capsaicin responses and levels of TRPV1 expression.
We have reported recently that the microtubule-associated protein tau is phosphorylated in vitro by Akt, an important kinase in anti-apoptotic signaling regulated by insulin and growth factors. We also established that Akt phosphorylates tau separately at T212 and S214, two sites previously shown to be phosphorylated by glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) and protein kinase A (PKA), respectively. In the present studies, we examined the relationship between Akt and T212/S214 in primary cultures of human neurons and astrocytes, and evaluated the contribution of two other kinases. In intact cells, we found a very low content of active (phospho-S473) form of Akt. We also found a low content of phospho-S214 but not phospho-T212 of tau, suggesting that only phospho-S212 may depend on Akt activity in situ. We upregulated Akt activity using two experimental models: treatment with a protein phosphatase inhibitor, okadaic acid, and transfection with a constitutively active Akt gene construct (c-Akt). Under these conditions, phosphorylation of tau at T212 and S214 was regulated independently, with little change or downregulation of phospho-T212 and dynamic upregulation of phospho-S214. Our studies revealed that Akt may influence the phospho-S214 content in a meaningful manner. They also revealed that PKA may only partially contribute to the phosphorylation of S214. In comparison, okadaic acid treatment severely depleted the content of GSK3beta and downregulated the remaining GSK3beta activity by Akt-dependent inhibition, consistent with minimal changes in phospho-T212. In summary, these results strongly suggest that in primary cultures, Akt selectively phosphorylates tau at S214 rather than T212. Our studies raise the possibility that tau S214 may participate in Akt-mediated anti-apoptotic signaling.
We investigated the role of calcium (Ca(2+))/calmodulin (CaM) signaling pathways in modulating GABA synaptic transmission at CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices. Whole-cell pipettes were used to record type A GABA receptor (GABA(A)R)-gated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and to perfuse intracellularly modulators in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists. GABA(A)R-gated IPSCs were enhanced by the postsynaptic infusions of adenophostin (1 microM), a potent agonist of inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP(3)R) that induces Ca(2+) release. The enhancement was blocked by co-infusing either 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (10 mM) or CaM-binding peptide (100 microM). Moreover, the postsynaptic infusion of Ca(2+)-CaM (40/10 microM) enhanced both evoked and spontaneous GABA(A)R-gated IPSCs. The enhancement was attenuated by co-infusing 100 microM CaM-KII(281-301), an autoinhibitory peptide of CaM-dependent protein kinases. These results indicate that postsynaptic Ca(2+)-CaM signaling pathways essentially enhance GABAergic synaptic transmission. In the investigation of synaptic targets for the enhancement, we found that IP(3)R agonist-enhanced GABA(A)R-gated IPSCs were attenuated by co-infusing colchicine (30 microM), vincristine (3 microM) or cytochalasin D (1 microM) that inhibits tubulin or actin polymerization, implying that actin filament and microtubules are involved. We conclude that postsynaptic Ca(2+)-CaM signaling pathways strengthen the function of GABAergic synapses via a cytoskeleton-mediated mechanism, probably the recruitment of receptors in the postsynaptic membrane.
Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in the neocortex are principally mediated by glutamate receptors. Termination of excitation requires rapid removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft following release. Glutamate transporters are involved in EPSC termination but the effect of uptake inhibition on excitatory neurotransmission varies by brain region. Epileptiform activity is largely mediated by a synchronous synaptic activation of cells in local cortical circuits, presumably associated with a large release of glutamate. The role of glutamate transporters in regulating epileptiform activity has not been addressed. Here we examine the effect of glutamate transport inhibition on EPSCs and epileptiform events in layer II/III pyramidal cells in rat neocortex. Inhibiting glutamate transporters with DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA; 30 microM) had no effect on the amplitude or decay time of evoked, presumably alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazolepropionic acid-mediated, EPSCs. In contrast, the amplitude and duration of epileptiform discharges were significantly enhanced. TBOA resulted also in a decreased threshold for evoking epileptiform activity and an increased probability of occurrence of spontaneous epileptiform discharges. TBOA's effects were not inhibited by the group I and II metabotropic glutamate receptors antagonist (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine or the kainate receptor antagonist [(3S,4aR, 6S, 8aR)-6-((4-carboxyphenyl)methyl-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid]. D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid could both prevent excitability changes by TBOA and block already induced changes. Dihydrokainate (300 microM) had effects similar to TBOA suggesting involvement of the glial transporter GLT-1. Inhibiting glutamate transport increases local network excitability under conditions where there is an enhanced release of glutamate. Our results indicate that uptake inhibition produces an elevation of extracellular glutamate levels and activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Although there has been growing interest in the neuroanatomical and physiological mechanisms underlying aggressive behavior, little work has focused on possible mechanisms controlling natural plasticity in aggression. In the current study, we used naturally occurring changes in aggression level displayed by female Peromyscus californicus across the estrous cycle and parallel changes in c-fos expression to examine possible brain regions involved in mediating this plasticity. We found that c-fos expression was increased in females exposed to a conspecific female intruder compared with control females in numerous brain regions thought to be involved in the control of aggression. More importantly, we found that c-fos increased in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and ventral lateral septum (LSv) only in the more aggressive, diestrous females, and not in the less aggressive, proestrous and estrous females. Conversely, c-fos increased in the medial amygdala (MeA) across all stages of estrus compared with controls, suggesting the MeA is not involved in mediating changes in individual levels of aggression. Moreover, we found correlations between several measures of aggression and c-fos expression in the BNST and LSv but not the MeA, again suggesting a role in mediating aggression plasticity for the former two but not the latter brain region. We further hypothesize that the BNST and the LSv may be involved more generally in mediating natural changes in aggression, such as increases often observed after individuals win aggressive interactions against conspecifics.
Tg2576 transgenic mice (mice overexpressing the &quot;Swedish&quot; mutation in the human amyloid precursor protein 695) demonstrated a decreased capacity for cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus compared with non-transgenic littermates at 3 months, 6 months and 9 months of age. Isolation stress induced by individually housing each mouse from the time of weaning further decreased hippocampal cell proliferation in Tg2576 mice as well as in non-transgenic littermates at 6 months of age. Decreases in hippocampal cell proliferation in isolated Tg2576 mice were associated with impairments in contextual but not cued memory. Fluoxetine administration increased cell proliferation and improved contextual memory in isolated Tg2576 mice. Further, isolation stress accelerated the age-dependent deposition of beta-amyloid 42 plaques in Tg2576 mice. Numerous beta-amyloid plaques were found in isolated but not non-isolated Tg2576 mice at 6 months of age. These results suggest that Tg2576 mice, a mouse model of Alzheimer disease, have an impaired ability to generate new cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and that the magnitude of this impairment can be modulated by behavioral interventions and drugs known to have effects on hippocampal neurogenesis in normal rodents. Unexpectedly, isolation stress also appeared to accelerate the underlying process of beta-amyloid plaque deposition in Tg2576 mice. These results suggest that stress may have an impact on the underlying disease process associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Medial septal neurons innervate the entire hippocampal formation. This input provides a potent regulation of hippocampal formation physiology (e.g. theta) and memory function. Medial septal neurons are rich in cholinergic receptors and thus are potential targets for the development of cognitive enhancers. Direct intraseptal infusion of cholinomimetics alters hippocampal physiology and can produce either promnestic or amnestic effects. Several variables (e.g. age of animal, integrity of septohippocampal circuits, task difficulty) may influence treatment outcome. We have previously demonstrated that intraseptal carbachol (12.5-125 ng) infusion immediately after the sample session of a delayed-non-match-to-sample radial maze paradigm produces a dose-dependent amnesia. The present study examined whether manipulating the timing of intraseptal carbachol infusion with respect to the sample session would alter the amnestic effect. A within-subjects design was used to examine the effect of intraseptal carbachol (125 ng/0.5 microl) in a delayed-non-match to sample radial maze task. During a sample session, rats retrieved rewards from six of 12 maze arms. At the test session (3 h later), only the alternate set contained reward and entries into the sample set arms constituted errors. Intraseptal carbachol was administered: 1) 30 min prior; 2) immediately prior; 3) immediately after and 4) 90 min after the sample session. Intraseptal carbachol prior to the sample had no effect on any index of accuracy. Infusion immediately after the sample, or delayed 90 min into the retention interval, produced an acute amnesia. These findings demonstrate that the timing of treatment is a critical variable in determining the memory effects of septohippocampal manipulations and that dynamic changes in cholinergic tone are important for memory.
Cholinergic disturbances have been implicated in schizophrenia. In a recent study we found that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) delivery of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin, that effectively destroys cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain to hippocampus and cortex cerebri, leads to a marked facilitation of amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in adult rats. The aim of the present experiments was to evaluate the contribution of the septohippocampal versus the basalocortical cholinergic projections for the amphetamine hyper-response seen previously in i.c.v. 192 IgG-saporin injected rats. Since i.c.v. delivery of 192 IgG-saporin also destroys a population of Purkinje neurons in cerebellum, this cell loss needs to be taken into consideration as well. Cortex cerebri and hippocampus were selectively cholinergically denervated by intraparenchymal injections of 192 IgG-saporin into nucleus basalis magnocellularis and the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca, respectively. Selective loss of Purkinje cells in cerebellum was achieved by i.c.v. delivery of OX7 saporin. Possible effects of these three lesions on spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity were assessed in locomotor activity cages. We find that selective cholinergic denervation of cortex cerebri, but not denervation of hippocampus or damage to cerebellum can elicit dopaminergic hyper-reactivity similar to that seen in previous i.c.v. 192 IgG-saporin experiments. Our data are compatible with the hypothesis that disturbances of cholinergic neurotransmission in cortex cerebri may be causally involved in forms of schizophrenia.
Proinflammatory cytokines often sensitize neuronal, hormonal, and behavioral responses to subsequent challenge. Recently, it was observed that exposure to inescapable tailshock enhances peripheral and central proinflammatory cytokine and corticosterone (CORT) responses to subsequent immune challenge up to 4 days later. Thus, we examined the role of central interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in stress-induced sensitization of proinflammatory cytokine and CORT responses to a subsequent immune challenge. Rats were administered IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) or vehicle into the intra-cisterna magna 1 h prior to tailshock (100, 1.6 mA 5 s shocks) exposure. Twenty-four hours later, rats were challenged i.p. with 10 microg/kg lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and killed 1 h later. IL-1ra had no effect on basal proinflammatory cytokines, but completely blocked the stress-induced enhancement in central and pituitary IL-1beta and plasma IL-6 release following LPS challenge. IL-1ra had no effect on stress-induced enhancement in CORT responses following LPS challenge. Additional rats were administered i.c.v. hrIL-1beta or vehicle and returned to their home cage. Twenty-four hours later, rats were challenged i.p. with either saline or 10 microg/kg LPS and killed 1 h later. Central hrIL-1beta administration significantly elevated central IL-1beta levels and plasma CORT following LPS challenge compared with vehicle-injected controls. These data demonstrate that elevations in central IL-1beta, whether stress-induced or exogenously administered, are sufficient for sensitizing central IL-1beta and CORT responses to subsequent immune challenge. However, during times of stress, exogenous central IL-1ra administration only blocked sensitization of subsequent central IL-1beta responses, not CORT responses, suggesting other factors during the stress response can sensitize CORT responses.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is a well-known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Dysfunctions in cholinergic signaling, and in particular in the function of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), have also been linked with AD and cognition. To address whether there is a link between ApoE and nAChR function, we used electrophysiological techniques to test the effects of synthetic ApoE-mimetic peptides derived from the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) binding domain for the ability to modulate nAChR activity in hippocampal interneurons. ApoE(133-149) completely inhibited ACh-evoked responses in a dose-dependent manner, yielding an IC(50) value of 720+/-70 nM. A shorter peptide spanning residues 141-148 mimicked this effect while a second peptide spanning residues 133-140 was without effect, indicating that the arginine-rich domain is responsible for nAChR interaction. Inhibition of ACh-evoked responses was voltage-independent, and displayed partial receptor specificity as no effect on glycine- or GABA-evoked responses occurred. These results demonstrate that peptides derived from the LDLR binding domain of ApoE block the function of nAChRs in hippocampal slices, an interaction that may have implications for AD.
Sleep is superior to waking for promoting performance improvements between sessions of visual perceptual and motor learning tasks. Few studies have investigated possible effects of sleep on auditory learning. A key issue is whether sleep specifically promotes learning, or whether restful waking yields similar benefits. According to the &quot;interference hypothesis,&quot; sleep facilitates learning because it prevents interference from ongoing sensory input, learning and other cognitive activities that normally occur during waking. We tested this hypothesis by comparing effects of sleep, busy waking (watching a film) and restful waking (lying in the dark) on auditory tone sequence learning. Consistent with recent findings for human language learning, we found that compared with busy waking, sleep between sessions of auditory tone sequence learning enhanced performance improvements. Restful waking provided similar benefits, as predicted based on the interference hypothesis. These findings indicate that physiological, behavioral and environmental conditions that accompany restful waking are sufficient to facilitate learning and may contribute to the facilitation of learning that occurs during sleep.
The amygdala and hippocampus are key limbic structures of the temporal lobe, and are implicated in the pathology of mood disorders. Bcl-2, an intracellular protein, has recently been identified in the primate amygdala and hippocampus, and is now recognized as an intracellular target of mood stabilizing drugs. However, there are few data on the cellular phenotypes of bcl-2-expressing cells, or their distribution in specific subregions of the amygdala and hippocampus. We used a number of histochemical markers to define specific subregions of the primate amygdala and hippocampus, and examined phenotype-specific distributions of bcl-2 immunoreactive cells within each subregion. Immature-appearing bcl-2 labeled neurons, which co-contain class III beta-tubulin immunoreactivity, are found in distinct subregions in each structure. In the amygdala, bcl-2 positive neurons with an immature morphology are densely distributed in the paralaminar nucleus and intercalated cell islands, the parvicellular basal nucleus, and the ventral periamygdaloid cortex and amygdalohippocampal area. In the hippocampus, immature-appearing bcl-2-labeled cells are confined to the polymorph layer (subgranular zone), and base of the granule cell layer in the dentate gyrus. Well-differentiated neurons also express bcl-2. In the amygdala, labeled cells with mature phenotypes are concentrated in the parvicellular basal nucleus, the accessory basal nucleus, and the periamygdaloid cortex. The medial nucleus and central extended amygdala also contain many well-differentiated bcl-2 positive cells. In the hippocampus, the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn contain many bcl-2 immunoreactive nonpyramidal cells. These are preferentially distributed in the rostral hippocampus. CA3 and CA2 contain relatively higher concentrations of bcl-2-labeled cells than CA1 and the subiculum. Bcl-2 is thus important in intrinsic circuitry of the hippocampus, and in amygdaloid subregions modulated by the hippocampus. In addition, the extended amygdala, a key amygdaloid output, is richly endowed with bcl-2 positive cells. This distribution suggests a role for bcl-2 in circuits mediating emotional learning and memory which may be targets of mood stabilizing drugs.
In mammals, the circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) is mainly synchronized to photic cues provided by the daily light/dark cycle. Phase-shifts produced by light exposure during the night are correlated with rapid induction of two clock genes, Per1 and Per2, in the SCN. Nonphotic stimuli such as behavioral and pharmacological cues, when presented during the subjective day, induce behavioral phase-advances and a down-regulation of Per1 and Per2 expression in the SCN. When applied during the subjective day, dark pulses in continuous light also produce phase-advances. These phase-shifting effects have been interpreted as reflecting either a photic image mirror, nonphotic cues, or a combination of both. Here we evaluated in Syrian hamsters housed in constant light how dark pulses applied in late subjective day affect levels of Per1, Per2 and Cry1 mRNA. Four-hour dark pulses with no access to a wheel produced 1.2+/-0.4 h phase-advances of locomotor activity rhythm while control manipulation induced non-significant shifts (0.1+/-0.2 h). Dark pulses transiently down-regulated Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels in the SCN by 40 and 20% respectively, while the levels of Cry1 mRNA remained unaffected. In behaviorally split hamsters in which Per oscillations were asymmetric between the left and right sides of the SCN, dark pulses reduced Per expression in the half-SCN with high Per. This study shows that exposure during the late subjective day to dark pulses independent of wheel-running have nonphotic-like effects on the SCN clock at both behavioral and molecular levels.
Orexins (OX), also called hypocretins, are bioactive peptides secreted from glucose-sensitive neurons in the lateral hypothalamus linking appetite, arousal and neuroendocrine-autonomic control. Here, OX-A was found to cause a slow-onset long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission (LTPOX) in the hippocampus of young adult mice. LTPOX was induced at Schaffer collateral-CA1 but not mossy fiber-CA3 synapses, and required transient sharp wave-concurrent population field-burst activity generated by the autoassociative CA3 network. Exogenous long theta-frequency stimulation of Schaffer collateral axons erased LTPOX in intact hippocampal slices but not mini slices devoid of the CA3 region. Pharmacological analysis revealed that LTPOX requires co-activation of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamatergic, GABAergic, as well as noradrenergic and cholinergic receptors. Together these data indicate that OX-A induces a state-dependent metaplasticity in the CA1 region associated with sharp-wave and theta rhythm activity as well as glutamatergic, GABAergic, aminergic, and cholinergic transmission. Thus, orexins not only regulate arousal threshold and body weight but also threshold and weight of synaptic connectivity, providing a molecular prerequisite for homeostatic and behavioral state-dependent control of neuronal plasticity and presumably memory functions.
Involvement of adenosinergic A1 systems in the occurrence of respiratory perturbations encountered in newborns following an in utero caffeine exposure has been investigated on pontomedullary-spinal cord, caudal pons-medullary-spinal cord and medullary-spinal cord preparations isolated from newborn rats. According to the drinking fluid of dams (tap water or 0.02% caffeine), two groups of preparations were distinguished, no-caffeine and caffeine. In the no-caffeine group, adenosine A1 receptor activation induces a decrease in respiratory frequency (Rf) in caudal pons-medullary-spinal cord and medullary-spinal cord preparations whereas, in presence of the rostral pons, an increase is observed. A parallel Fos detection indicates that this discrepancy may be due to the excitatory action of the medial parabrachial nucleus at the rostral pontine level that surpasses inhibitory influence of the adenosine A1 receptor activation at the medullary level particularly in the ventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla. In caffeine group, an increase in the baseline Rf in presence of the pons and no change in medullary-spinal cord preparations have been observed. Depending on Fos detection, we assume that the medial parabrachial nucleus is the main region involved in the exaggeration of Rf. Moreover, adenosine A1 receptor activation was modified by in utero caffeine exposure with an overcharge of the Rf increase in pontomedullary-spinal cord preparations and an exaggeration of the Rf decrease in medullary-spinal cord preparations. Based on Fos detection, we link the overcharge in Rf of pontomedullary spinal cord preparations to an increase in the medial parabrachial nucleus neuronal activity. Similarly, exaggeration of Rf decrease observed without the pons is linked with a decrease in activity of the ventrolateral reticular neurons. This study brings evidence for the involvement of adenosinergic A1 systems in the occurrence of respiratory perturbations in newborns following in utero caffeine exposure and the importance of rostral pons in the adenosinergic A1 modulation of the respiratory control.
Conventional brain microdialysis was used to assess basal and cocaine-induced dopamine (DA) levels in the nucleus accumbens of wildtype (WT) C57BL/6J mice and mice with constitutive deletion of ether mu- or delta-opioid receptors (MOR or DOR knockout [KO], respectively). Locomotor activity was assessed in these same animals. Basal locomotor activity of DOR KO was elevated relative to MOR KO, but did not differ from that of WT mice. DOR mice, but not WT or MOR KO, exhibited a significant increase in activity in response to an injection of saline. The acute administration of cocaine produced a dose-related increase in locomotor activity in the three genotypes. The locomotor activating effects of a low dose (10 mg/kg) of cocaine were enhanced in DOR KO mice whereas the locomotor activating effects of both a low and higher (20 mg/kg) dose of cocaine were reduced in MOR KO animals. Microdialysis studies revealed no difference between genotypes in basal DA levels. Acute administration of cocaine, but not saline, increased DA levels in WT and KO animals. Paradoxically, however, the magnitude of this effect was smaller in DOR KO as compared with that in either WT or MOR KO. These data indicate that constitutive deletion of either MOR or DOR results in contrasting effects upon responsiveness to cocaine, which is consistent with the distinct phenotypes previously described for these mutants.
We investigated the CNS delivery of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), a 7.65 kDa protein neurotrophic factor, following intranasal administration and the possible pathways and mechanisms underlying transport from the nasal passages to the CNS. Anesthetized adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given [125I]-IGF-I intranasally or intravenously and then killed by perfusion-fixation within 30 min. Other animals were killed following cisternal puncture and withdrawal of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or intranasal administration of unlabeled IGF-I or vehicle. Both gamma counting of microdissected tissue and high resolution phosphor imaging of tissue sections showed that the tissue concentrations and distribution following intranasal administration were consistent with two routes of rapid entry into the CNS: one associated with the peripheral olfactory system connecting the nasal passages with the olfactory bulbs and rostral brain regions (e.g. anterior olfactory nucleus and frontal cortex) and the other associated with the peripheral trigeminal system connecting the nasal passages with brainstem and spinal cord regions. Intranasal administration of [125I]-IGF-I also targeted the deep cervical lymph nodes, consistent with their possible role in lymphatic drainage of both the nasal passages and the CNS. Cisternal CSF did not contain [125I]-IGF-I following intranasal administration. Intravenous [125I]-IGF-I resulted in blood and peripheral tissue exposure similar to that seen following intranasal administration but CNS concentrations were significantly lower. Finally, delivery of IGF-I into the CNS activated IGF-I signaling pathways, confirming some portion of the IGF-I that reached CNS target sites was functionally intact. The results suggest intranasally delivered IGF-I can bypass the blood-brain barrier via olfactory- and trigeminal-associated extracellular pathways to rapidly elicit biological effects at multiple sites within the brain and spinal cord.
Neurokinins such as substance P and neurokinin A have long been thought to act as neurotransmitters or modulators in the nucleus tractus solitarius. However, the role and location of the receptors for these peptides have remained unclear. We examined the consequences of activation of the neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor subtype in the rat nucleus tractus solitarius using whole-cell patch clamp recordings in brain slices. Application of delta-Ala-Phe-Phe-Pro-MeLeu-D-Pro[spiro-gamma-lactam]-Leu-Trp-NH2 (a specific NK1 agonist) or neurokinin A resulted in depolarization, evident as a slow inward current, mediated by direct postsynaptic NK1 receptor activation. The effect was conserved in the presence of tetrodotoxin, and protein kinase C-dependent since it was blocked by 2-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)indol-3-yl]-3-(indol-3-yl)maleimide, a specific protein kinase C inhibitor. In addition, an increase in the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents was observed, reflecting increased glutamate release induced by NK1 receptor activation. This effect was abolished by tetrodotoxin, suggesting that it resulted from increased firing in afferent neurons, subsequent to somatodendritic excitation via NK1 receptors. Furthermore, spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents were increased in frequency and amplitude showing that GABA release was promoted by NK1 receptor activation. However, amplitude of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was unaltered by NK1 receptor activation, but the increase in frequency persisted. These findings suggest that NK1 receptors are located on presynaptic terminals as well as at somatodendritic sites of GABAergic neurons. The increase in GABA release was also shown to be protein kinase C-dependent. The data presented here show NK1 receptors in the rat nucleus tractus solitarius are present both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. Activation of these receptors can result in increases in release of both GABA and glutamate, suggesting a crucial modulatory role for NK1 receptors in the rat nucleus tractus solitarius.
Neurons in pelvic ganglia receive nicotinic excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) from sacral preganglionic neurons via the pelvic nerve, lumbar preganglionic neurons via the hypogastric nerve or both. We tested the effect of a range of calcium channel antagonists on EPSPs evoked in paracervical ganglia of female guinea-pigs after pelvic or hypogastric nerve stimulation. omega-Conotoxin GVIA (CTX GVIA, 100 nM) or the novel N-type calcium channel antagonist, CTX CVID (100 nM) reduced the amplitude of EPSPs evoked after pelvic nerve stimulation by 50-75% but had no effect on EPSPs evoked by hypogastric nerve stimulation. Combined addition of CTX GVIA and CTX CVID was no more effective than either antagonist alone. EPSPs evoked by stimulating either nerve trunk were not inhibited by the P/Q calcium channel antagonist, omega-agatoxin IVA (100 nM), nor the L-type calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine (30 microM). SNX 482 (300 nM), an antagonist at some R-type calcium channels, inhibited EPSPs after hypogastric nerve stimulation by 20% but had little effect on EPSPs after pelvic nerve stimulation. Amiloride (100 microM) inhibited EPSPs after stimulation of either trunk by 40%, while nickel (100 microM) was ineffective. CTX GVIA or CTX CVID (100 nM) also slowed the rate of action potential repolarization and reduced afterhyperpolarization amplitude in paracervical neurons. Thus, release of transmitter from the terminals of sacral preganglionic neurons is largely dependent on calcium influx through N-type calcium channels, although an unknown calcium channel which is resistant to selective antagonists also contributes to release. Release of transmitter from lumbar preganglionic neurons does not require calcium entry through either conventional N-type calcium channels or the variant CTX CVID-sensitive N-type calcium channel and seems to be mediated largely by a novel calcium channel.
The natural beta-carbolines (BC) closely resemble the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in structure. The N-methylated beta-carbolinium ions (BC+) are potent inhibitors of mitochondrial respiration and are nigrostriatal neurotoxins. Utilizing [3H]BC, we have identified several proteins to which BC binds with high affinity (e.g. the chaperone member glucose regulated protein 78, the enzyme carboxylesterase, the cytochrome P450 2E1, the enzyme monoamine oxidase B and a small G-protein of the Rho subfamily). In the present study we isolated a protein from bovine brain to which [3H]BC binds with high affinity and identified it being the enzyme triosephosphate isomerase (TPI; EC 5.3.1.1.). 2,9-Dimethyl-BC+ was the most potent inhibitor of TPI, clearly more potent than the known inhibitors. TPI deficiency is a rare disorder in humans characterized by a severe progressive extrapyramidal course. Thus, TPI inhibition could contribute to neurodegeneration observed after injection of BCs into substantia nigra. Furthermore, the findings fit into the hypothesis of BCs as endogenous toxins responsible for neurodegeneration.
The expression of purinoceptor (P2)Y-subtypes on astrocytes in vivo under physiological conditions and after stab wound injury was investigated. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction with specific primers for the receptor-subtypes P2Y1,2,4,6,12 in tissue extracts of the nucleus accumbens of untreated rats revealed the presence of all P2Y receptor mRNAs investigated. Double immunofluorescence visualized with laser scanning microscopy indicated the expression of the P2Y1,4 receptors on glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-labeled astrocytes under physiological conditions. After stab wound injury the additional expression of the P2Y2 and P2Y6 receptors, and an up-regulation of the P2Y1,4 receptor-labeling on astrocytic cell bodies and/or processes was observed. Astrocytes of cortical, in contrast to accumbal areas exhibited P2Y1,2,4,6 receptor-immunoreactivity (IR) under control conditions, which was up-regulated after stab would injury. Labeling for the P2Y12 receptor was not observed on GFAP-positive cortical and accumbal astrocytes under any of the conditions used. For the first time, the co-localization of different P2 receptor-subtypes (e.g. P2Y1 and P2X3) on the same astrocyte was shown immunocytochemically. The up-regulation of P2Y1 receptor-IR on astrocytes and non-glial cells after mechanical injury could be facilitated by microinfusion of the P2Y1,12,13 receptor agonist adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (ADPbetaS). Proliferative changes after ADPbetaS-microinjection were characterized by means of double-staining with antibodies against GFAP and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. The non-selective P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid, the P2Y1 receptor antagonist N6-methyl-2'-deoxyadenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate and the P2Y1 receptor-antibody itself inhibited the agonist-induced effects. The data indicate the region-specific presence of P2Y receptors on astrocytes in vivo and their up-regulation after injury as well as the co-localization of P2X and P2Y receptor-subtypes on the same astrocyte. The dominant role of P2Y1 receptors in proliferation and the additional stimulation of non-P2Y1 receptors has been demonstrated in vivo suggesting the involvement of this receptor-type in the gliotic response under physiological and pathological conditions.
The cloned mu opioid receptor MOR-1 undergoes alternative splicing. Extensive 3'-splicing downstream from exon 3 leads to a number of C-terminal splice variants that are differentially expressed within the CNS. Recently, 5'-splicing has been observed with eight additional variants containing exon 11, a new exon located approximately 10 kb upstream from exon 1 that is under the control of a different promoter located even further upstream. Three of these variants generate the same protein as MOR-1 itself, but under the control of the new exon 11 promoter. Three variants in which exon 11 is translated have been identified within the brain, including MOR-1G, MOR-1M and MOR-1N. The present paper defines immunohistochemically the distribution of these variants using an exon 11-specific antiserum. The expression of exon 11-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was seen primarily in the olfactory tubercle, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra. We did not observe exon 11-LI in a number of regions expressing MOR-1. Within the caudate-putamen, the general pattern of labeling was diffuse, in contrast to the pattern seen with an exon 4-generated antiserum that labels MOR-1 itself. However, we did observe in the caudate-putamen co-expression of exon 4- and exon 11-LI in cells that were apposed to dopaminergic terminals. These results provide new insights regarding the potential physiological significance of these exon 11-containing variants.
The Hering-Breuer reflex is one of the fundamental respiratory reflexes and is mediated by second-order relay neurons of the slowly adapting lung stretch receptors. These neurons, which are called pump cells, are located in the nucleus tractus solitarii and include a population of inhibitory neurons. We aimed to determine which transmitter, GABA or glycine, the inhibitory pump cells use. In addition, we examined whether or not second-order relay neurons of the rapidly-adapting lung stretch receptors (RAR-cells), whose excitatory or inhibitory nature is not known, use these inhibitory neurotransmitters. In Nembutal-anesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked and artificially ventilated rats, we labeled pump cells (n=33) and RAR-cells (n=26) with Neurobiotin and processed the tissues for detection of mRNA encoding either glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67) or glycine transporter 2 (GLYT2) using in situ hybridization. The pump cells were located in the interstitial nucleus and its vicinity and the RAR-cells in the commissural subnucleus. The majority (64%) of the pump cells examined for GAD67 mRNA and many (26%) of the pump cells examined for GLYT2 mRNA expressed respective mRNAs. Of the eight pump cells in which both mRNAs were double-detected, three expressed both mRNAs and one expressed GAD67 mRNA but not GLYT2 mRNA, the other four expressing neither mRNAs. On the other hand, RAR-cells expressed neither GAD67 mRNA nor GLYT2 mRNA. The results suggest that the inhibitory pump cells are basically GABAergic and some of them may corelease GABA and glycine, and that RAR-cells are neither GABAergic nor glycinergic. These findings expand our understanding of the networks of lung receptor-mediated reflexes including the Hering-Breuer reflex.
Evidence suggests that nicotinic receptors play a role in nigrostriatal function, a finding that may be relevant to Parkinson's disease. Knowledge of the conditions that regulate nicotinic receptor expression is therefore important. Previous studies showed that several different nicotinic receptors, including alpha-conotoxinMII (alpha-CtxMII)-sensitive receptors, are decreased after nigrostriatal damage. Nigrostriatal dopaminergic terminals also demonstrate a capacity for recovery after lesioning. The present experiments were therefore done to determine whether there were changes in striatal nicotinic receptors with recovery. To address this, we used two well-characterized animal models of nigrostriatal damage produced using the selective dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Studies in mice showed that striatal 125I-alpha-CtxMII, as well as 125I-epibatidine and 125I-A85380 binding sites significantly recovered 1 month after lesioning, suggesting that alpha6* and most likely alpha4* receptors are increased. Experiments were next done in monkeys since striatal 125I-alpha-CtxMII receptors constitute a large percentage of nicotinic receptors and are more vulnerable to nigrostriatal damage in this model that closely mirrors Parkinson's disease. In monkeys allowed to recover from the toxic effects of MPTP for a 1-2 year period, there was a significant improvement in the Parkinson disability score. There was also a reversal in lesion-induced declines in striatal alpha-CtxMII-sensitive receptors, but no significant change in 125I-epibatidine and 125I-A85380 receptors. These findings suggest that alpha3*/alpha6* sites are selectively increased in monkey striatum with recovery. The present data show that recovery of 125I-alpha-CtxMII receptors occurs in parallel with the dopamine transporter, indicating that these nicotinic receptors sites are localized to presynaptic dopamine terminals in both species.
Environmental thermal stimuli result in specific and coordinated thermoregulatory response in homeothermic animals. Warm exposure activates numerous brain areas within the cortex, hypothalamus, pons and medulla oblongata. We identified these thermosensitive cell groups in the medulla and pons that were suggested but not outlined by previous physiological studies. Using Fos immunohistochemistry, we localized all the nuclei and cell groups in the rat brain that were activated by warm and cold ambient exposure. These neurons located in the hypothalamus and the brainstem, are part of a network responsible for the thermospecific response elicited by thermal stress. Comparison of the distribution of Fos-immunoreactive cells throughout the rat brain revealed topographical differences between the patterns of activated cells following warm and cold environmental exposure. Among several brain regions, warm exposure elicited c-fos expression specifically in the ventrolateral part of the medial preoptic area, the central subdivision of the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the caudal part of the peritrigeminal nucleus, whereas cold stress resulted in c-fos expression in the ventromedial part of the medial preoptic area, the external subdivision of the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the rostral part of the peritrigeminal nucleus. These neurons are part of a network coordinating specific response to warm or cold exposure. The topographical differences suggest that well-defined cell groups and subdivisions of nuclei are responsible for the specific physiological (endocrine, autonomic and behavioral) changes observed in different thermal environment.
Ibogaine is a tremorigenic hallucinogen that has been proposed for clinical use in treating addiction. We previously reported that ibogaine, administered systemically, produces degeneration of a subset of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum, primarily within the vermis. Ablation of the inferior olive affords protection against ibogaine-induced neurotoxicity leading to the interpretation that ibogaine itself is not directly toxic to Purkinje cells. We postulated that ibogaine produces sustained excitation of inferior olivary neurons that leads to excessive glutamate release at climbing fiber terminals, causing subsequent excitotoxic injury to Purkinje cells. The neuronal degeneration induced by ibogaine provides an animal model for studying excitotoxic injury in order to analyze the contribution of glutamate receptors to this injury and to evaluate neuroprotective strategies. Since non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediate Purkinje cell excitation by climbing fibers, we hypothesized that 1-4-aminophenyl-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine (GYKI-52466), which antagonizes non-NMDA receptors, may have a neuroprotective effect by blocking glutamatergic excitation at climbing fiber synapses. To test this hypothesis, rats were administered systemic ibogaine plus GYKI-52466 and the degree of neuronal injury was analyzed in cerebellar sections. The results indicate that the AMPA antagonist GYKI-52466 (10 mg/kg i.p. x 3) does not protect against Purkinje cell injury at the doses used. Rather, co-administration of GYKI-52466 with ibogaine produces increased toxicity evidenced by more extensive Purkinje cell degeneration. Several hypotheses that may underlie this result are discussed. Although the reason for the increased toxicity found in this study is not fully explained, the present results show that a non-NMDA antagonist can produce increased excitotoxic injury under some conditions. Therefore, caution should be exercised before employing glutamate antagonists to reduce the risk of neuronal damage in human clinical disorders. Moreover, the contribution of different glutamate receptors to excitotoxic injury is complex and merits further analysis.
The morphology, distribution and relative frequency of GABAergic neurons in the medial mamillary nucleus (MMN) of normal human individuals was studied using a glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antiserum. GAD-immunoreactive (GAD-IR) neurons were found sparsely distributed throughout the MMN and most displayed a simple bipolar morphology. A small population of large diameter GAD-IR neurons was found in the white matter capsule adjacent to the ventral border of the MMN. Results of double-labeling experiments revealed no evidence of calretinin, parvalbumin or calbindin immunoreactivities co-localizing with GAD-IR neurons. GAD-IR neurons of the MMN had an average somal area of 138+/-41 microm2, compared with the average somal area of 384+/-137 microm2 for the population of MMN neurons as a whole. GAD-IR neurons had a tendency to cluster in groups of two (and occasionally three) and showed a distribution gradient across the MMN with higher densities being found near the insertion of the fornix, the origin of the mamillo-thalamic tract and toward the medial MMN border. Quantitative estimates of GAD-IR neuron frequency revealed the GAD-IR phenotype to constitute an average of 1.7% percent of the total neuron population within the human MMN. These findings suggest that inhibitory activity within the human MMN is regulated in part by a small population of intrinsic GABAergic interneurons.
Protein phosphatase (PP) 2A (PP2A), a major serine/threonine phosphatase highly active in the brain, is known to regulate programmed cell death by different mechanisms including downregulation of Ca++/calmodulin-dependent kinase IV (CaMK IV). Previous studies have shown that CaMK IV activity is increased following cerebral hypoxia. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that PP2A activity and expression in neuronal nuclei are decreased following hypoxia in newborn piglets. PP and PP2A activities were determined in cerebral subcellular fractions spectrophotometrically using a serine phosphopeptide in the presence or absence of microcystine. The activity of CaMK IV in neuronal nuclei was determined by 33P-incorporation into syntide 2 in the presence or absence of either 1 mM EGTA or 0.8 mM CaCl2 and 1 mM calmodulin. The expressions of PP2A and CaMK IV were measured using Western blot. Following hypoxia, nuclear Ca++-dependent kinase IV activity increased two-fold (P&lt;0.001), whereas PP2A and PP activities significantly decreased (P&lt;0.05) in the neuronal nuclei and membranes but not in the cytosol (P=NS). The distribution of the activity of PP2A was 60% in the cytosol, 35% in membranes and 5% in the neuronal nuclei. The expression of PP2A protein showed a 14% increase and for CaMK IV protein a 100% increase during hypoxia. We propose that due to the decreased activity of PP and PP2A following hypoxia in the neuronal nuclei there is a shift in the balance of the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation system toward increased phosphorylated state thereby increasing activity of the nuclear CaMK IV, modulator of programmed cell death. Since there is only slight increase in the PP2A protein expression, we conclude that the changes observed in the activity of PP2A are due to hypoxia-induced modification of the enzyme itself. We also provide evidence that PP2A is a potential regulator of CaMK IV during hypoxia.
The present study investigated the functional magnetic resonance tomography correlates of taste perception in the human primary taste cortex. There is conflicting evidence in the literature about chemotopical organization in this brain region. The topography of hemodynamic activity elicited by five taste stimuli (sweet, sour, salty, bitter and umami) was analyzed on the flattened cortical surfaces of six single subjects. A high inter-individual topographical variability had to be noted. The results showed different patterns of hemodynamic activity for the investigated tastes with some considerable overlap. However, the taste specific patterns were stable over time in each subject. Such an individual taste specific pattern was also found for the umami taste within the primary taste cortex of each subject. These results suggest that input from glutamate receptors on the tongue might be processed in an exclusive way in the primary taste cortex rather than as a combination of inputs from the classical taste receptors.
Focal cerebral lesions in rat brain induced by photothrombosis lead to an impaired inhibitory neurotransmission. A reduced gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition has been revealed by electrophysiological recordings associated with a diminished immunostaining of GABA handling proteins. Changes were found in ipsi- as well as in contralateral brain areas. Inhibition is mediated by interneurons using GABA as neurotransmitter. These cells use GAD (glutamate decarboxylase) to synthesize GABA. To analyze the vulnerability of GABAergic neurons in rats with a lesioned hindlimb area, cells expressing GAD65/67 mRNA were labeled using in situ hybridization. Positive somata were counted 7 and 30 days after focal ischemia in different cortical (hindlimb cortex, frontal cortex, primary and secondary somatosensory cortex) and hippocampal subsectors (pyramidal cell layer, stratum oriens and stratum radiatum/lacunosum-moleculare). The lesioned hemispheres were compared with the intact brain sides and with control brains. GABAergic interneurons survived the injury for up to 30 days in all investigated brain regions. Therefore it is unlikely that a loss of GABAergic neurons contributes to the reduced inhibition.

The presence of ongoing neurogenesis in the adult mammalian brain raises the exciting possibility that endogenous progenitor cells may be able to generate new neurons to replace cells lost through brain injury or neurodegenerative disease. We have recently demonstrated increased cell proliferation and the generation of new neurons in the Huntington's disease human brain. In order to better understand the potential role of endogenous neuronal replacement in neurodegenerative disorders and extend our initial observations in the human Huntington's disease brain, we examined the effect of striatal cell loss on neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the adult rodent forebrain using the quinolinic acid (QA) lesion rat model of Huntington's disease. Cell proliferation and neurogenesis were assessed with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling and immunocytochemistry for cell type-specific markers. BrdU labeling demonstrated increased cell proliferation in the SVZ ipsilateral to the QA-lesioned striatum, resulting in expansion of the SVZ in the lesioned hemisphere. Quantification revealed that QA lesion-induced striatal cell loss produced a significant increase in the area of BrdU-immunoreactivity in the SVZ ipsilateral to the lesioned hemisphere between 1 and 14 days post-lesion compared with sham-lesioned animals, with the greatest increase observed at 7 days post-lesion. These changes were associated with an increase in cells in the anterior SVZ ipsilateral to the lesioned striatum expressing the antigenic marker for SVZ neuroblasts, doublecortin (Dcx). Importantly, we observed Dcx-positive cells extending from the SVZ into the QA-lesioned striatum where a subpopulation of newly generated cells expressed markers for immature and mature neurons. This study demonstrates that loss of GABAergic medium spiny projection neurons following QA striatal lesioning of the adult rat brain increases SVZ neurogenesis, leading to the putative migration of neuroblasts to damaged areas of the striatum and the formation of new neurons.
We have used the P23H line 1 homozygous albino rat to study how progressive photoreceptor degeneration affects rod and cone relay pathways. We examined P23H retinas at different stages of degeneration by confocal microscopy of immunostained sections and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings. By 21 days of age in the P23H rat retina, there is already substantial loss of rods and reduction in rod bipolar dendrites along with reduction of metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6) and rod-associated bassoon staining. The cone pathway is relatively unaffected. By 150 days, when rods are absent from much of the retina, some rod bipolars remain and dendrites of rod and cone bipolar cells form synaptic complexes associated with cones and horizontal cell processes. These complexes include foci of mGluR6 and bassoon staining; they develop further by 270 days of age. Over the course of degeneration, beginning at 21 days, bipolar axon terminals atrophy and the inner retina undergoes further changes including a reduced and disorganized AII amacrine cell population and thinning of the inner plexiform layer. Electroretinogram (ERG) results at 23 days show reductions in a-wave amplitude, in rod and cone-associated b-waves (using a double flash paradigm) and in the amplitude of oscillatory potentials (OPs). By 38 days, rod scotopic a-wave responses and OPs are lost. B-wave amplitudes decline until 150 days, at which point they are purely cone-driven and remain stable up to 250 days. The results show that during the course of photoreceptor loss in the P23H rat, there are progressive degenerative changes, particularly in the rod relay pathway, and these are reflected in the changing ERG response patterns. Later reactive changes involving condensation of cone terminals and neurotransmitter receptors associated with rod and cone bipolar dendrites and with horizontal cell processes suggest that at this stage, there are likely to be complex changes in the relay of sensory information through the retina.
The present study was designed to assess the possibility that sub-total ventral hippocampal lesions might leave intact a mechanism for only highly accurate navigation, whereas sub-total dorsal hippocampal lesions might leave intact a mechanism only for less precise navigation. Animals with selective dorsal, ventral or complete hippocampal lesions were tested in a water maze, in which the target platform was moved from trial to trial, but always within a defined area, instead of being at a fixed location. Hence, an animal that searched at exactly the point where the platform had been found on a previous trial would be disadvantaged, in comparison with an animal that searched in the right general area. This might favor animals capable of less precise navigation over those with very precise navigational abilities. In subsequent phases of the experiment, we additionally assessed, for comparison, performance with a fixed platform location, reversal learning in the water-maze, and performance on an elevated T-maze. Our results revealed no sign of any qualitative difference between the effects of the selective sub-total lesions when the water maze hidden platform location was varied within the defined area, and the effects in subsequent more conventionally used tests. Ventral hippocampal damage never led to a performance deficit. Dorsal hippocampal damage led to significantly poorer performance in only some test phases, and never led to any sign of improved performance.
Generalized seizures produced by electrical kindling of the amygdala in laboratory rats are a widely used animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy. In addition to seizure evolution amygdala kindling enhances emotionality. The relative roles of electrical stimulation and seizure induction in fear responding are unclear. Here we investigate this issue using extinction and reinstatement of fear-potentiated startle. After classical conditioning (light+footshock pairings) laboratory rats were fear extinguished with each light presentation followed by nonepileptogenic amygdala stimulation. In contrast to the normal extinction learning of control subjects, amygdala stimulated animals exhibited conditioned fear after 120 presentations of the nonreinforced conditioned stimulus (CS). In a second experiment electrical stimulation of the amygdala restored extinguished fear responding and the fear reinstatement was specific to extinction context. The reinstatement effect did not involve sensitized fear to the CS produced by amygdala stimulation. The possibility that electrical activation of the amygdala produces unconditioned fear was considered. Animals uniformly failed to demonstrate fear-potentiated startle using electrical stimulation of the amygdala as the unconditioned stimulus. This was the case with a subthreshold afterdischarge stimulus and a stimulation schedule that produced kindled seizures. The extinction deficit and fear reinstatement results were interpreted to suggest that amygdala stimulation activates acquired excitatory stimulus-affect neural connections formed during Pavlovian fear conditioning. Our data supports a model in which excitation of an amygdala-based memory-retrieval system reinforces the expression of learned fear behaviors.
Few behavioral tests are available to evaluate extrapyramidal dysfunctions after focal cerebral ischemia in rodents, although extrapyramidal motor dysfunctions are often observed clinically in patients with cerebral infarction. We evaluated the methamphetamine (MP)-induced rotation test for the detection and quantification of extrapyramidal motor dysfunction induced by striatal infarction in gerbils after focal cerebral ischemia. Mongolian gerbils (n=79) underwent the left common carotid artery occlusion (CCAO) for 10, 15, or 20 min. Spontaneous and MP-induced rotation tests were repeated postischemia, and the results compared with the extent of ischemic tissue injury. The density of dopaminergic neurons immunostained with a tyrosine hydroxylase antibody in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) also was measured. Histological examination revealed selective neuronal death of the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) sector in 10-min CCAO animals, infarction confined to the striatum and hippocampal neuronal death in 15-min CCAO animals, and widespread hemispheric infarction in 20-min CCAO animals. Dopaminergic neurons in the SNpc were preserved in 10- and 15-min CCAO animals but were significantly reduced in 20-min CCAO animals. In MP-induced rotation tests, 15-min CCAO animals showed biased rotation ipsilateral to the lesioned side. Biased rotation persisted 4 weeks postischemia, and the number of rotations significantly correlated with the regional infarction volume of the striatum. Twenty-minute CCAO animals showed biased rotation contralateral to the lesioned side; rotation number was not correlated with the infarction volume. Our results show that biased rotation behavior is a sensitive parameter of the extent of striatal injury after focal cerebral ischemia provided the lesion is not extended to the ipsilateral cortex. MP-induced rotation in rodents probably coordinates with the extrapyramidal motor dysfunction after striatal infarction in patients with vascular Parkinsonism.
Desensitization of post-synaptic serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptors may underlie the clinical improvement of neuropsychiatric disorders. In the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, Galphaz proteins mediate the 5-HT1A receptor-stimulated increases in hormone release. Regulator of G protein signaling-Z1 (RGSZ1) is a GTPase-activating protein selective for Galphaz proteins. RGSZ1 regulates the duration of interaction between Galphaz proteins and effector systems. The present investigation determined the levels of RGSZ1 in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of rats subjected to four different treatment protocols that produce desensitization of 5-HT1A receptors. These protocols include: daily administration of beta estradiol 3-benzoate (estradiol) for 2 days; daily administration of fluoxetine for 3 and 14 days; daily administration of cocaine for 7 or 14 days; and acute administration of (+/-)-1-(2,5 dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-amino-propane HCl (DOI; a 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist). Estradiol treatment was the only protocol that increased the levels of RGSZ1 protein in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in a dose-dependent manner (46%-132% over control). Interestingly, previous experiments indicate that only estradiol produces a decreased Emax of 5-HT1A receptor-stimulation of hormone release, whereas fluoxetine, cocaine and DOI produce a shift to the right (increased ED50). Thus, the desensitization of 5-HT1A receptors by estradiol might be attributable to increased levels of RGSZ1 protein. These findings may provide insight into the adaptation of 5-HT1A receptor signaling during pharmacotherapies of mood disorders in women and the well-established gender differences in the vulnerability to depression.
Numerous studies indicate that monoaminergic systems are sensitive to both peripheral and central inflammatory stimuli, and in particular dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal system degenerate after local injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). However, data about the response of other dopaminergic groups to local inflammation are very sparse. In this study, we have examined the effect of i.c.v. injection of LPS on the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system by using biochemical and morphological parameters. Our results show that 6 h after i.c.v. injection of LPS, in parallel to a transient and intense immunoreaction to interleukin-1beta in arcuate microglial cells, there is a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity in the median eminence and in the number of TH- and TH mRNA-positive cells in the arcuate nucleus, and at 12 h, an increase of prolactin levels in serum. Posterior changes were found in the TH mRNA labeling pattern, mostly in the ventrolateral region of the arcuate nucleus, but they were not accompanied by any changes in TH activity and immunoreactivity and TH-cell count. This suggests that the TIDA system is functionally susceptible to local inflammation, but the effects are transient and do not induce neurodegeneration.
We showed marked sex differences in the GABA outflow in the medial preoptic area of intact rats. To further determine the sexually dimorphic effects of estrogen on the GABA outflow, an in vivo microdialysis study was performed in gonadectomized rats 3-5 days after the estrogen- or cholesterol-priming. Dialysates and sequential blood samples (150 microl each) were simultaneously collected under freely moving conditions. Serum estradiol concentrations at 72 and 84 h after the estrogen capsule implantation were approximately 75 pg/ml in both sexes. Ovariectomized estrogen-primed (OVX+E(2)) rats showed high GABA outflow from the late night through the morning, which was significantly declined until the onset of surge like secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) in the afternoon (N=7). Ovariectomized cholesterol-primed (OVX+C) rats consistently showed low GABA outflow and high serum LH concentration (N=8). Conversely, orchidectomized estrogen-primed (ORX+E(2)) rats showed high and episodic GABA outflow without any daily changes (N=7), which was significantly greater than orchidectomized cholesterol-primed (ORX+C; N=8) and OVX+C rats. Only OVX+E(2) rats showed significant daily changes in the GABA outflow and serum LH concentration. Fitting with the double cosinor method demonstrated that the acrophase of the GABA outflow in OVX+E(2) rats occurs in the early morning, whereas the acrophases in OVX+C, ORX+C, and ORX+E(2) rats occur at various times of day. The present findings suggest that sex-specific effects of estrogen on the daily GABA release in the medial preoptic area may be involved in the sex difference of LH release in rats.
Anesthetics used in electrophysiological studies alter the effects of cocaine and amphetamine on neural activity in the striatum. However, the mechanism underlying this alteration has not been established. In the present study, we examined the effects of anesthetics on cocaine-induced neural activity in the striatum. We first assayed the ability of 20 mg/kg cocaine to induce Fos expression in the striatum following pretreatment with 400 mg/kg chloral hydrate or 1.3 g/kg urethane, two of the most commonly used anesthetics for in vivo electrophysiology. Chloral hydrate blocked, while urethane strongly attenuated cocaine-induced Fos expression without affecting basal levels of expression. We then examined dopaminergic and glutamatergic mechanisms for anesthetic effects on cocaine-induced Fos expression. Chloral hydrate and urethane did not attenuate basal or cocaine-induced increases of dopamine levels as assessed by microdialysis in dorsal striatum. In contrast, chloral hydrate attenuated glutamatergic neurotransmission as assessed by microdialysis in the presence of the glutamate transport blocker L-trans-pyrrolidone-2,4-dicarboxylic acid. Chloral hydrate attenuated basal levels of glutamate by 70%, while cocaine had no effect on glutamate levels. Since glutamate levels were tetrodotoxin-sensitive, the majority of glutamate measured in our assay was by synaptic release. To assess a causal role for a reduction of glutamatergic neurotransmission in anesthetic effects on cocaine-induced Fos expression, we injected the glutamate receptor agonists AMPA and NMDA into the dorsal striatum of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. The glutamate receptor agonists partially reinstated cocaine-induced Fos expression in anesthetized rats. We conclude anesthetics attenuate cocaine-induced neuronal activity by reducing glutamatergic neurotransmission.
A target neuron of adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists to exert anti-parkinsonian activities has been currently identified to be, at least in part, striatopallidal medium spiny neurons (MSNs). In the present study, we determine whether A(2A) receptor-mediated modulation is associated with changes in the release of GABA and glutamate in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), an output structure of the whole basal ganglia network, using in vivo microdialysis in a rat Parkinson's disease (PD) model. In 6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA)-lesioned rats compared with normal rats, basal extracellular GABA levels in the SNr show no change, whereas basal glutamate levels are significantly increased. Oral administration of the A(2A) receptor-selective antagonist (E-1,3-diethyl-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1-H-purine-2,6-dion (KW-6002) to 6-OHDA-lesioned rats at 1 mg/kg caused a marked and sustained increase of GABA and glutamate levels in the SNr. The increase of nigral glutamate by KW-6002 was abolished by a kainic acid-induced lesion of the globus pallidus (GP) or subthalamic nucleus (STN) in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, whereas the increase of nigral GABA was completely blocked by the GP-lesion but only partially blocked by the STN-lesion. These results indicate that changes in neurotransmitter release in the SNr brought about by KW-6002 are largely attributable to blockade of A(2A) receptor-mediated modulation of striatopallidal MSNs. Thus, these actions of KW-6002 on striatopallidal MSNs may be the main mechanism for ameliorating PD by A(2A) antagonists.
The primate orbitofrontal cortex is a site of convergence of information from primary taste, olfactory and somatosensory cortical areas. We describe the discovery of a population of single neurons in the macaque orbitofrontal cortex that responds to the temperature of a liquid in the mouth. The temperature stimuli consisted of water at 10 degrees C, 23 degrees C, 37 degrees C and 42 degrees C. Twenty-six of the 1149 neurons analyzed (2.3%) responded to oral temperature. The tuning profiles of the neurons to temperature showed that some of the neurons had graded responses to increasing temperature (27%), others responded to cold (10 degrees C) stimuli (27%), and others were tuned to temperature (46%). The neuronal responses were also measured to taste stimuli, viscosity stimuli (carboxymethyl-cellulose in the range 1-10,000 cP), and capsaicin (10 microM). Of 70 neurons with responses to any of these stimuli, 7.1% were unimodal temperature; 11.3% were temperature and taste-sensitive; 7.1% were temperature and viscosity-sensitive; and 11.3% were temperature, taste and viscosity sensitive. Capsaicin activated 15.7% of the population of responsive neurons tested. These results provide the first evidence of how the temperature of what is in the mouth is represented at the neuronal level in the orbitofrontal cortex and the first evidence for any primate cortical area that in some cases this information converges onto single neurons with inputs produced by other sensory properties of food, including taste and texture. The results provide a basis for understanding how particular combinations of oral temperature, taste, and texture can influence the palatability of foods.
Somatostatin has antinociceptive effects by acting on somatostatin (sst) receptors in primary afferent neurons. Five sst receptor subtypes (sst(1-5)) have been identified. In the present study we assessed the expression and localization of the sst receptor subtypes in lumbar dorsal root ganglia of normal rats and of rats with unilateral antigen-induced arthritis (AIA) in the knee joint. We used polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of material from dorsal root ganglia and immunohistochemistry in dorsal root ganglion paraffin sections. PCR data show that sst(1), sst(2(a)), sst(2(b)), sst(3), and sst(4) receptors are expressed in lumbar dorsal root ganglia of the rat. The sst(5) receptor was expressed in a few samples. Available antibodies revealed sst(2(a)) and sst(2(b)) receptor-like immunoreactivity in the vast majority of neurons, and sst(4) receptor-like immunoreactivity in about 40% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons and in some satellite cells. Real time PCR at 3, 10 and 21 days after induction of AIA did not reveal changes in receptor expression. Immunohistochemistry showed that a similar high proportion of neuronal profiles expressed sst(2(b)) receptor-like IR in control and AIA rats, but the proportion of neuronal profiles with sst(2(a)) receptor-like IR was significantly lower in acute and chronic AIA rats than in control rats. Although the proportion of neuronal profiles with sst(4) receptor-like IR was significantly higher at 21 days than at 3 days values at 3 or at 21 days were not significantly different from control. These data show that the majority of dorsal root ganglion neurons exhibit somatostatin receptor-like IR thus suggesting a high potential for inhibition by somatostatin. The reduction in the proportion of neuronal profiles with sst(2(a)) immunoreactivity suggests that inhibition of neuronal activity by somatostatin is reduced during painful arthritis.
We examined the effects of repeated stress and D1 receptor activation in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) on acute-cocaine-induced locomotor activity in rats. Male rats were given 7 days of either handling (Controls) or a variety of stressors. After 8-17 days' withdrawal, rats received an intra-mPFC microinjection of the full D1 agonist, SKF 81297: 0, 0.03, 0.1 or 0.3 microg/side followed by an i.p. saline or cocaine injection (15 mg/kg, i.p.). The target sites were either the dorsal or ventral mPFC. We also divided rats into either high or low responders based on their locomotor response to an acute cocaine injection. In the dorsal PFC, low responder Control and Stress groups demonstrated an augmentation of cocaine-induced increases in activity after SKF 81297, compared with vehicle, microinjection. In contrast, high responder rats demonstrated a suppression of cocaine-induced increases in activity after intra-mPFC SFK 81297 infusion, with an apparent 10 times higher sensitivity in the Stress group. In the ventral PFC, low responder Controls showed no changes after SKF 81297 infusion, while the Stress group showed an increase in cocaine-induced activity in response to SKF 81297. In high responders given SFK 81297 into the ventral mPFC, cocaine-induced activity was suppressed in Controls, while stress pretreatment rendered animals resistant to SKF 81297 effects. These results indicate that D1 receptor activation effects in the mPFC are bidirectional depending on whether rats have a high or low locomotor response to cocaine. Further, daily stress alters the sensitivity of the mPFC to SKF 81297, which is dependent on whether the dorsal or ventral mPFC is targeted.
Long-lasting neuroadaptations that occur during drug use and remain after withdrawal are thought to contribute to the persisting and compulsive nature of drug addiction and relapse. At the molecular and cellular levels, mechanisms that have been implicated in the normal process of memory formation are increasingly being identified as potential contributors to the persistence of the addicted state. To investigate the effect of cocaine self-administration on synaptic plasticity, rats were allowed to self-administer 0.5 mg/kg/infusion cocaine or 0.9% NaCl during 90 min sessions for 15 consecutive days. These cocaine and saline self-administration subjects were then restricted to their home cages for 3, 30, or 100 days (3, 30, and 100 day cocaine/saline withdrawal groups) before the assessment of the induction and reversal of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices. The magnitude of LTP was increased in the 3-day cocaine withdrawal group as compared with the 3-day saline withdrawal group, but this effect was short lived, as the 30-day cocaine and saline withdrawal groups exhibited similar LTP magnitudes. Interestingly, LTP was significantly decreased in the 100-day cocaine withdrawal group compared with the 100-day saline withdrawal group. These results support the hypothesis that the capacity for LTP is persistently altered after withdrawal from exposure to an addictive substance. In addition, this alteration can be differentially expressed such that depending upon the duration of the withdrawal period following the last drug exposure, LTP may be enhanced, unchanged, or suppressed.
In this study the ultrastructural appearance of primary sensory neurones labelled by the injection of the plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B(4) (BSI-B(4)) into a peripheral nerve has been examined in the rat. Electron microscopy of the somata of retrogradely labelled neurones showed the lectin to be associated with the inner surface of cytoplasmic vesicles, supporting the premise that the uptake of BSI-B(4) into sensory neurones is by the process of receptor-mediated endocytosis. Light and electron microscopic analysis of the spinal cord revealed transganglionically transported lectin in unmyelinated axons in the dorsolateral funiculus and axon terminals concentrated mainly within lamina II of the dorsal horn. Detailed analysis of 1377 of these axon terminals revealed that the majority were glomerular in shape and surrounded by up to 14 other unlabelled profiles. These findings suggest that primary sensory neurones which transganglionically transport BSI-B(4) have a synaptic ultrastructure similar to that which has been previously reported for unmyelinated primary sensory neurones. Moreover, it appears that the axon terminals of these neurones are subjected to extensive modulation. Examination of the vesicle content of lectin labelled axon terminals revealed that the majority contained small agranular vesicles while large granular vesicles were observed only occasionally. These findings support the suggestion that the populations of neurones expressing binding sites for BSI-B(4) are fairly distinct from those containing neuroactive peptides. In conclusion, the results of the current study suggest that the lectin BSI-B(4) can be used as a histological marker for a subpopulation of small diameter primary sensory neurones and provide further evidence for the potential of this lectin as a useful tool in the study of pain.
p21(Cip1/WAF1), known as a cell-cycle inhibitory protein, facilitates neurite outgrowth from neurons when present in the cytoplasm. The molecular mechanism of this action is that p21(Cip1/WAF1) forms a complex with Rho-kinase and inhibits its activity. As myelin-derived inhibitors of axonal outgrowth act on neurons by activating Rho, that is responsible for the lack of spontaneous regeneration of the injured central nervous system (CNS), Rho-kinase may be a good molecular target against injuries in the CNS. In this study, we delivered TAT-fusion protein of cytoplasmic p21(Cip1/WAF1) locally after dorsal hemisection of the thoracic spinal cord in rats. The treatment significantly stimulated axonal regeneration and recovery of hindlimb function, and inhibited the cavity formation in the spinal cord after the injury. Cytoplasmic p21(Cip1/WAF1) may provide a potential therapeutic agent that produces functional regeneration following CNS injuries.
Monoaminergic neurons are present in small numbers and in multiple distinct locations of the vertebrate CNS. They are involved in important functions such as movement coordination, motivation, and the response to environmental stress. However, the mechanisms involved in their subtype specification are not well understood. In this study, we examined the states of forebrain dopaminergic (DA) and serotonergic (5HT) neurons in larval and adult zebrafish of wild type and the too few mutant. The majority of DA and 5HT neuronal subgroups that were found in adults were established in the 6-day old larval zebrafish. Rather than affecting all monoaminergic neurons in the forebrain, selective subgroups of these neurons are reduced in the too few mutant, starting from the larval stage. Taken together, our study establishes that similar to DA neurons, distinct subtypes of 5HT neurons exist in larval as well as adult zebrafish. The development of a subset of these monoaminergic neurons is dependent on the too few gene product. Thus, this mutant is potentially important for understanding the development as well as the function of forebrain DA and 5HT neurons.
The development of the dendritic tree of a neuron is a complex process which is thought to be regulated strongly by signals from afferent fibers. In particular the synaptic activity of afferent fibers and activity-dependent signaling by neurotrophic factors are thought to affect dendritic growth. We have studied Purkinje cell dendritic arbor development in organotypic cultures under suppression of glutamate-mediated excitatory neurotransmission, achieved with multiple combinations of blockers of glutamate receptors. Despite the presence of either single receptor blockers or combinations of blockers predicted to fully suppress glutamate-mediated excitatory neurotransmission Purkinje cell dendritic arbors developed similar to those of control cultures. Furthermore, Purkinje cell dendritic arbors in organotypic cultures from brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) knockout mice or after pharmacological blockade of trk-receptors also developed in a way similar to control cultures. Our results demonstrate that during the stage of rapid dendritic arbor growth signals from afferent fibers are of minor importance for Purkinje cell dendritic development because a seemingly normal Purkinje cell dendritic tree developed in the absence of excitatory neurotransmission and BDNF signaling. Our results suggest that many aspects of Purkinje cell dendritic development can be achieved by an intrinsic growth program.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) plays important roles in the development and plasticity of the brain, and it has recently been identified as a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia. Though there are rodent data, little is known about its distribution in the human brain. The aim of this study was to ascertain the localization of NRG-1 and its mRNA in multiple regions of the normal adult human brain. We investigated NRG-1 mRNA in 11 subjects using in situ hybridization and northern analysis, and NRG-1 protein in six subjects using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. NRG-1 mRNA was present as bands of approximately 2, 3 and 6 kb. It was clearly detected in the prefrontal cortex (middle laminae), hippocampal formation (except CA1), cerebellum, oculomotor nucleus, superior colliculus, red nucleus and substantia nigra pars compacta. At the cellular level, NRG1 mRNA was abundant in hippocampal and cortical pyramidal neurons and some interneurons, and in cerebellar Purkinje cells and Golgi cells. NRG-1 protein was detected as bands of approximately 140, 110, 95 and 60 kD. Immunohistochemistry revealed NRG-1 in many cell populations, consistent with the mRNA data, being prominent in pyramidal neurons, Purkinje cells, several brainstem nuclei, and white matter neurons. Moderate NRG-1 immunoreactivity was also observed in cerebellar and dentate gyrus granule cells, and some glia. Within neurons, NRG-1 staining was primarily somatodendritic; in the cell body staining was granular, with clustering close to the plasma and nuclear membranes. There was also labeling of some fiber tracts, and local areas of neuropil (e.g. in the dentate nucleus) suggestive of a pre-synaptic location of NRG-1. The data show a widespread expression of NRG-1 in the adult human brain, including, but not limited to, brain areas and cell populations implicated in schizophrenia. Using these normative data, future studies can ascertain whether the role of NRG-1 in the disease is mediated, or accompanied, via alterations in its expression.
Transient hypoxia-ischemia (HI) leads to delayed neuronal death in both mature and immature neurons but the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. To understand whether the pathogenesis of HI-induced neuronal death is different between mature and immature neurons, we used a rat HI model at postnatal days 7 (P7), 15 (P15), 26 (P26) and 60 (P60) in order to investigate ultrastructural changes and active caspase-3 distribution in HI-injured neurons as a function of developmental age. In P7 pups, despite more than 95% of HI-injured neurons highly expressing active caspase-3, most of these active caspase-3-positive neurons revealed mixed features of apoptosis and necrosis (a chimera type) under electron microscopy (EM). Classical apoptosis was observed only in small populations of HI-injured P7 neurons. Furthermore, in rats older than P7, most HI-injured neurons displayed features of necrotic cell death under EM and, concomitantly, active caspase-3-positive neurons after HI declined dramatically. Classical apoptosis after HI was rarely found in neurons older than P15. In P60 rats, virtually all HI-injured neurons showed the shrinkage necrotic morphology under EM and were negative for active caspase-3. These results strongly suggest that pathogenesis of HI-induced neuronal death is shifting from apoptosis to necrosis during brain development.
Interactions between cannabinoid and opioid systems have been implicated in reward and drug seeking behaviors involving neuronal circuitry in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell and core. To determine the relevant sites, we examined the electron microscopic localization of cannabinoid type-1 (CB1) receptors and mu-opioid receptors in each Acb compartment in rat brain. CB1 receptor immunogold labeling was seen on the plasma membrane and within the cytoplasm of neuronal and glial profiles throughout the Acb. These neuronal profiles included somata and dendrites as well as axon terminals, many of which formed excitatory-type, asymmetric synapses with notable perforations that are often associated with synaptic plasticity. The number of CB1-labeled terminals within the neuropil of the Acb shell was significantly greater than in the core. Mu-opioid receptors were also detected in axonal and dendritic profiles. These dendrites were most prevalent in the Acb shell, where mu-receptors also were located in 21% of the dendritic profiles and 3% of the axon terminals containing CB1 receptors. More of the CB1-labeled terminals contacted dendrites expressing mu-opioid receptors in the shell (19%) compared with the core (13%). Conversely, of the synaptic mu-labeled terminals, 20% in the shell and 10% in the core contacted dendrites containing CB1 receptors. These findings provide ultrastructural evidence that cannabinoid-opioid interactions are mediated by activation of CB1 and mu-opioid receptors within the same or synaptically linked neurons in the Acb shell and core. They also suggest a particularly important role for presynaptic CB1 receptors in the reward circuit of the Acb shell.
Signaling by a variety of ligands including epidermal growth factor, betacellulin and neuregulin is mediated by the ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases. Studies on the prostate have shown that ErbB2 phosphorylation and signaling can be regulated by prostatic acid phosphatase, a histidine acid phosphatase which can dephosphorylate phospho-tyrosine residues in the ErbB2 receptor. Here we report that the histidine acid phosphatase ACPT (testicular acid phosphatase), which is highly homologous to the prostatic acid phosphatase, can dephosphorylate the ErbB4 receptor, which is known to play important roles in neuronal differentiation and synaptogenesis. ACPT and ErbB4 are both expressed in the brain where they are enriched at post-synaptic sites, and furthermore they can be co-immunoprecipitated from brain. We demonstrate that ACPT can inhibit basal and neuregulin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of ErbB4. We also show that ACPT-dependent dephosphorylation can regulate the proteolytic cleavage of ErbB4, and this process can be reversed by applying the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, pervanadate. Furthermore, neuregulin-dependent differentiation of PC12 cells expressing ErbB4 is prevented by co-expressing ACPT. These results indicate that ACPT acts as a tyrosine phosphatase to modulate signals mediated by ErbB4 that are important for neuronal development and synaptic plasticity.
The principal cells of the chick tangential nucleus are second-order vestibular neurons involved in the vestibuloocular and vestibulocollic reflexes. The spontaneous synaptic activity of morphologically identified principal cells was characterized in brain slices from 1-day-old hatchlings (H1) using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings and Cs-gluconate pipet solution. The frequency was 1.45 Hz for spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and 1.47 Hz for spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). Using specific neurotransmitter receptor antagonists, all of the sEPSCs were identified as AMPA receptor-mediated events, whereas 56% of the sIPSCs were glycine and 44% were GABA(A) receptor-mediated events. On exposure to TTX, the frequency of EPSCs decreased by 68%, while the frequency of IPSCs decreased by 33%, indicating greater EPSC dependency on presynaptic action potentials. These data on spontaneous synaptic activity at H1 were compared with those obtained in previous studies of 16-day old embryos (E16). After birth, the spontaneous synaptic activity exhibited increased EPSC frequency, increased ratio for excitatory to inhibitory events, increased percentage of TTX-dependent EPSCs, and faster kinetics. In addition, the ratio for glycine/GABA receptor-mediated events increased significantly. Altogether, these data indicate that at hatching spontaneous synaptic activity of vestibular nucleus neurons in brain slices of the chick tangential nucleus undergoes appreciable changes, with increased frequency of EPSCs and glycinergic activity playing more important roles compared with the late-term chick embryo when GABAergic activity prevailed. The definition of this developmental pattern of synaptic activity in vestibular nucleus neurons should contribute to understanding how vestibular reflex activity is established in the hatchling chick.
More dendritic spine synapses occur on mature neurons in hippocampal slices by 2 h of incubation in vitro, than in perfusion-fixed hippocampus. What conditions initiate this spinogenesis and how rapidly do the spines begin to proliferate on mature neurons? To address these questions, CA1 field of the hippocampus neurons expressing green fluorescent protein in living slices from mature mice were imaged with two-photon microscopy. Spines disappeared and dendrites were varicose immediately after slice preparation in ice-cold artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF). Electron microscopy (EM) revealed disrupted dendritic cytoplasm, enlarged or free-floating postsynaptic densities, and excessive axonal endocytosis. Upon warming dendritic varicosities shrank and spines rapidly reappeared within a few minutes illustrating the remarkable resilience of mature hippocampal neurons in slices. When membrane impermeant sucrose was substituted for NaCl in ACSF dendrites remained spiny at ice-cold temperatures and EM revealed less disruption. Nevertheless, spine number and length increased within 30 min in warm ACSF even when the extracellular calcium concentration was zero and synaptic transmission was blocked. When slices were first recovered for several hours and then chilled in 6 degrees C ACSF many spines disappeared and the dendrites became varicose. Upon re-warming varicosities shrank and spines reemerged in the same position from which they disappeared. In addition, new spines formed and spines were longer suggesting that chilling, not the initial injury from slicing, caused the spines to disappear while re-warming triggered the spine proliferation on mature neurons. The new spines might be a substrate for neuronal recovery of function, when neurons have been chilled or exposed to other traumatic conditions that disrupt ionic homeostasis.
We investigated the interference of protein-kinase C (PKC)-dependent Na(+) channel phosphorylation on the inhibitory effect that the antiepileptic drug topiramate (TPM) has on persistent Na(+) currents (I(NaP)) by making whole cell patch-clamp and intracellular recordings of rat sensorimotor cortex neurons. The voltage-dependent activation of I(NaP) was significantly shifted in the hyperpolarizing direction when PKC was activated by 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG). TPM reduced the peak amplitude of I(NaP), but it did not counteract the OAG-induced shift in I(NaP) activation. Firing property experiments showed that the firing threshold was lowered by OAG. TPM was unable to counteract this effect, which may be due to OAG-dependent enhancement of the contribution of subthreshold I(NaP). These data suggest that PKC activation may limit the effect of the anticonvulsant TPM on the persistent fraction of Na(+) currents. The channel phosphorylation that may occur in cortical neurons as a result of physiological or pathological (e.g. epileptic) events can modulate the action of TPM on Na(+) currents.
Despite many studies on the functional expression of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), an exhaustive description of the long-term effects of nicotine (Nic) stimulation in cerebellar granules is still far to be completed. For this reason, we addressed the experiments stimulating cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) with Nic, focusing on the effects on cell motility and survival. Using electrophysiological and Ca(2+)-fluorescence techniques, we found a subset of rat CGN that responded to Nic by inward whole cell currents and by short-delay Ca(2+) transients. These responses were mediated through both homomeric and heteromeric nAChRs, as assessed by their sensitivity to alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX), dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), methyllicaconitine (MLA) and 5-hydroxyindole (5OH-indole). Once established the expression of alpha-BTX-sensitive and insensitive nAChRs and their ability to trigger Ca(2+) responses in CGN, we aimed at investigating their possible role on cell survival and motility. We demonstrate that Nic stimulation significantly increases the survival of CGN exposed to the apoptosis-promoting low K(+) medium. This anti-apoptotic effect is likely mediated through alpha7* nAChRs since we found that it was mimicked by choline, was insensitive to DHbetaE and was fully inhibited by alpha-BTX. Furthermore, we report that Nic negatively modulates CGN motility, reducing the basal cell movement through a pored membrane by the activation of alpha-BTX-insensitive nAChRs. We conclude that CGN express various types of nAChRs, which are differently involved in regulating Nic-mediated modulation of cell survival and migration, and we suggest potential regulatory roles for cholinergic receptors during cerebellar development.
There is a growing recognition of choroid plexus functioning as a source of neuropeptides, cytokines and growth factors in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with diffusional access into brain parenchyma. In this study, choroid plexus and other components of the CSF circulatory system were investigated by Western blotting, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry for production of interleukin-6-related cytokines characterized by neuroactivity [cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), ciliary neurotrophic factor, leukemia inhibitory factor, oncostatin M] and signaling through the gp130/leukemia inhibitory factor receptor-beta receptor heterodimer. Western blot analysis showed that CT-1 was the only cytokine family member detectable in adult rat choroid plexus, as in leptomeninges. The specificity of detection was verified with blots of the same tissues from CT-1-deficient mice. Levels of both CT-1 mRNA and protein were constitutively high in rat from birth through adulthood in choroid plexus, up-regulated postnatally in leptomeninges and undetectable in brain parenchyma. Using antigen retrieval, CT-1 immunolocalized to choroid epithelial cells in all choroid plexuses in addition to leptomeninges (arachnoid and pial-glial membranes). Ependymal cells lining the ventricular neuroaxis, unlike the central canal, were also CT-1-immunoreactive. Western blots indicated rat choroid epithelial cells express and release CT-1 immunoreactivity under defined culture conditions and also revealed the presence of a CT-1-like protein in human choroid plexus and CSF. Previously, CT-1 has been conceptualized to function as a target-derived factor for PNS neurons. Our study clearly demonstrates production of CT-1 in the postnatal and adult CNS, specifically by cell types comprising the blood-CSF barrier, and its accumulation in ventricular ependyma. This finding has broad implications for CT-1 functioning apart from other leukemia inhibitory factor receptor ligands as a CSF-borne signal of brain homeostasis, one possibly involving regulation of the barrier itself, the ependyma or target cells in the surrounding parenchyma, including the subventricular zone. A rationale for studies examining CT-1-deficient mice in these respects is provided by the data.
Intermittent administration of psychostimulants such as cocaine and amphetamine can result in behavioral sensitization, which is believed to model the onset of drug addiction, as well as possible neural adaptations that lead to addictive behaviors. The dorsal striatum and the nucleus accumbens (NAc) have been shown to play an integral role in this phenomenon. However, these structures comprise a complex neuroanatomical organization, and few studies have correlated anatomical differentiation within these brain regions with functional (i.e. behavioral) outcome, particularly after psychostimulant exposure. Parvalbumin (PV)-containing GABAergic interneurons are a key neuronal cell population that can significantly regulate input-output functions in these brain regions. The present study quantified parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in subterritories of the striatum and NAc in animals behaviorally sensitized to cocaine. Rats received a sensitization-inducing regimen of cocaine (twice-daily injections of 15 mg/kg i.p. for 5 consecutive days). Two or 14 days following the last injection, rats were given a challenge injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p.), and killed 2 h later. Sections through the striatum (including the NAc) were processed for parvalbumin immunoreactivity, and the number of immunoreactive neurons was quantified. Repeated cocaine administration resulted in robust sensitization that correlated with transient increases in the number of PV immunoreactive neurons in the ventrolateral, dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatum. After a 2-week withdrawal period, sensitized animals showed a significant decrease in the number of PV+ neurons in the ventrolateral shell of the NAc and dorsomedial striatum, and no significant difference in any other area examined. These data suggest a dichotomous role for PV interneurons in different subterritories of the striatum and NAc during the short-term (induction) vs. long-term (expression) phases of cocaine sensitization.
This study investigated the relationship between the orexins and patterns of activity in the diurnal Nile grass rat, Arvicanthis niloticus. Some individuals of this species switch to a more nocturnal pattern when given access to a running wheel, while others continue to be most active during the day. In both day- and night-active grass rats, the percentages of orexin A (OXA) and orexin B (OXB) cells expressing Fos were highest when animals were actively running in wheels. In night-active animals, removal of the running wheel significantly decreased OXA and OXB cell Fos expression. Additionally, in night-active animals, clear regional differences were apparent. In these animals the presence of a wheel induced higher percentages of Fos in both OXA and OXB cells in medial regions of the lateral hypothalamus than in lateral regions. In night-active animals without access to wheels, this medial-lateral gradient was present only in OXA cells. No regional differences were observed in day-active animals. This study demonstrates that individual differences in the patterns of activation of OXA and OXB cell populations are related to differences in the temporal pattern of wheel running. We also present evidence that orexin cells have projections to the intergeniculate leaflet that appear to make contact with neuropeptide-Y cells. We discuss the possibility that these fibers may be involved in relaying feedback regarding the activity state of the animal to the circadian system through these projections.
Diurnal and nocturnal species are profoundly different in terms of the temporal organization of daily rhythms in physiology and behavior. The neural bases for these divergent patterns are at present unknown. Here we examine functional differences in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and one of its primary targets in a diurnal rodent, the unstriped Nile grass rat (Arvicanthis niloticus) and in a nocturnal one, the laboratory rat (Rattus norvegicus). Grass rats and laboratory rats were housed in a 12:12 light:dark cycle, and killed at six time points. cFos-immunoreactive rhythms in the SCN of grass rats and laboratory rats were similar to those reported previously, with peaks early in the light phase and troughs in the dark phase. However, cFos-immunoreactivity in the lower subparaventricular zone (LSPV) of grass rats rose sharply 5 h into the dark phase, and remained high through the first hour after light onset, whereas in laboratory rats it peaked 1 h after light onset and was low at all other sampling times. Daily cFos rhythms in both the SCN and the LSPV persisted in grass rats, but not in laboratory rats, after extended periods in constant darkness. In grass rats, the endogenous cFos rhythm in the LSPV, but not the SCN, was present both in calbindin-positive and in calbindin-negative cells. Cells that expressed cFos at night in the region of the LSPV in grass rats were clearly outside of the boundaries of the SCN as delineated by Nissl stain and immunoreactivity for vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. The LSPV of the grass rat, a region that receives substantial input from the SCN, displays a daily rhythm in cFos expression that differs from that of laboratory rats with respect to its rising phase, the duration of the peak and its dependence on a light/dark cycle. These characteristics may reflect the existence of mechanisms in the LSPV that enable it to modulate efferent SCN signals differently in diurnal and nocturnal species.
Glutamate (which facilitates peripheral nociception) releases adenosine (which inhibits peripheral nociception via adenosine A(1) receptors) when injected locally into the rat hindpaw. The present study determined whether this locally released adenosine could modulate spontaneous pain behaviors produced by a local injection of 1.5% formalin, by determining the effect of 8-cyclopentyl-theophylline (CPT; selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist) on flinching produced by formalin/glutamate combinations. Experiments were performed following a prior conditioning injection of 2.5% formalin into the contralateral hindpaw 3-4 days earlier. CPT augmented flinching behaviors produced by 1.5% formalin/1 micromol glutamate, but had no effect on behaviors produced by formalin or glutamate alone. CPT also augmented flinches generated by formalin/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and formalin/kainic acid, but not by formalin/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) combinations. The conditioning leads to a clearer expression of the peripheral inhibitory effect of adenosine (inhibitory effect of an inhibitor of adenosine kinase on flinching also was observed), rather than an increased release of adenosine (no enhanced release observed by microdialysis). Microglia appear to be involved in the conditioning, as microglia are activated in the dorsal spinal cord 3 days following injection of 2.5% formalin, and augmentation of formalin/glutamate-induced flinching by CPT is inhibited by the glial metabolic inhibitor fluorocitrate. The augmentation of flinching by CPT is also eliminated following a spinal pretreatment with MK-801 (NMDA receptor antagonist), cyclohexyladenosine (adenosine A(1) receptor agonist), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester HCl (nitric oxide synthetase inhibitor), and chelerythrine (protein kinase C inhibitor). The conditioning pretreatment with 2.5% formalin does not lead to a generalized chemical or thermal hypersensitivity in the contralateral hindpaw. This study demonstrates that prior exposure to 2.5% formalin in the contralateral hindpaw reveals an inhibitory effect of adenosine on peripheral nociception in the presence of glutamate; this conditioning involves microglia and other mechanisms involved in central sensitization.
Upregulating the operation of spinal locomotor networks is one mechanism to restore, at least partially, lesion-impaired locomotion. We investigated if the K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) could facilitate spinal locomotor networks in addition to its well-known effect on motor nerve conduction. Fictive locomotor patterns were recorded from ventral roots (VRs) of the isolated spinal cord of the neonatal rat. 4-AP (0.1-50 microM) produced synchronous VR oscillations which did not develop into fictive locomotion. These oscillations had network origin, required intact glutamatergic transmission and were probably amplified via electrotonic coupling because of their depression by the selective gap junction blocker carbenoxolone. 4-AP (5 microM) slightly increased input resistance of lumbar motoneurons without affecting their action or resting potentials. Dorsal root (DR) evoked synaptic responses were enhanced (217 +/- 65%) by 5 microM 4-AP without changes in axon conduction. 4-AP (5 microM) accelerated fictive locomotion induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and serotonin (5-HT) without altering cycle amplitude and facilitated the onset of fictive locomotion in the presence of sub-threshold concentrations of NMDA and 5-HT. Furthermore, in the presence of 4-AP, weak DR stimuli, previously insufficient to activate locomotor patterns, generated alternating VR discharges. Thus, although 4-AP per se could not directly activate the locomotor network of the spinal cord, it could strongly facilitate the locomotor program initiated by neurochemicals or electrical stimuli. These data suggest that the reported improvement by 4-AP in locomotor activity of spinal-injury patients may include activation of locomotor networks when low concentrations of this drug are administered in coincidence with appropriate stimuli.
Stress and stress-related hormones induce structural changes in neurons of the adult CNS. Neurons in the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex undergo neurite remodeling after chronic stress. In the hippocampus some of these effects can be mimicked with chronic administration of adrenal steroids. These changes in neuronal structure may be mediated by certain molecules related to plastic events such as the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). The expression of PSA-NCAM persists in the adult hippocampus and it is up-regulated after chronic stress. The piriform cortex also displays considerable levels of PSA-NCAM during adulthood and indirect evidence suggests that it may also be the target of stress and stress related-hormones. Using immunohistochemistry we have studied the expression of PSA-NCAM and doublecortin (DCX; another protein implicated in neuronal structural plasticity) in the piriform cortex of adult rats subjected either to 21 days of chronic restraint stress or to oral corticosterone administration during the same period. Our results indicate that chronic stress and chronic corticosterone administration have differential effects on the expression of PSA-NCAM and DCX. While chronic stress increases the number of PSA-NCAM- and DCX-immunoreactive cells in the piriform cortex layer II, chronic corticosterone administration decreases these numbers. These findings indicate that stress and adrenal steroids affect the piriform cortex and suggest that in this region, as in the hippocampus, they may induce structural changes. This is a potential mechanism by which stress and corticosterone modulate functions of this limbic region, such as its participation in olfactory memory.
Both the amygdala and hippocampus are damaged in drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), suggesting that amygdalo-hippocampal interconnectivity is compromised in TLE. Therefore, we examined one of the major projections from the amygdala to the hippocampus, the projection from the amygdala to the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus/subiculum border region, and assessed whether it is preserved in rats with spontaneous seizures. Male Wistar rats were injected with kainic acid (9 mg/kg, i.p.) to induce chronic epilepsy. The occurrence of spontaneous seizures was monitored 5 or 15 weeks later by video-recording the rats for up to 5 days. Saline-injected animals served as controls. Thereafter, the retrograde tracer Fluoro-gold was injected into the border region of the temporal CA1/subiculum. Rats were perfused for histology 1-2 weeks later and sections were immunohistochemically processed to detect Fluoro-gold-positive cells. Comparison of the labeling in control and epileptic tissue indicated that a large cluster of retrogradely labeled cells in the parvicellular division of the basal nucleus was well preserved in epilepsy, even when the neuronal damage in the amygdala was substantial. Another large cluster of retrogradely labeled cells in the lateral division of the amygdalo-hippocampal area, the posterior cortical nucleus (part of the vomeronasal amygdala), and the periamygdaloid cortex (part of the olfactory amygdala), however, had disappeared in epileptic brain in parallel to severe neuronal loss in these nuclei. These data demonstrate that a projection from the parvicellular division of the basal nucleus to the temporal CA1/subiculum region is resistant to status epilepticus-induced neuronal damage and provides a candidate pathway by which seizure activity can spread and propagate from the amygdala to the hippocampal formation.
It is currently believed that the mechanisms underlying spindle oscillations are related to those that generate spike and wave (SW) discharges. The mechanisms of transition between these two types of activity, however, are not well understood. In order to provide more insight into the dynamics of the neuronal networks leading to seizure generation in a rat experimental model of absence epilepsy we developed a computational model of thalamo-cortical circuits based on relevant (patho)physiological data. The model is constructed at the macroscopic level since this approach allows to investigate dynamical properties of the system and the role played by different mechanisms in the process of seizure generation, both at short and long time scales. The main results are the following: (i) SW discharges represent dynamical bifurcations that occur in a bistable neuronal network; (ii) the durations of paroxysmal and normal epochs have exponential distributions, indicating that transitions between these two stable states occur randomly over time with constant probabilities; (iii) the probabilistic nature of the onset of paroxysmal activity implies that it is not possible to predict its occurrence; (iv) the bistable nature of the dynamical system allows that an ictal state may be aborted by a single counter-stimulus.
Various neurobiological studies of aging indicate that elevated levels of circulating glucocorticoids lead to hippocampal vulnerability to stress, though little is known about the molecular mechanism underlying stress vulnerability in the elderly. We have compared the gene expression profiles in the hippocampus of aged (20 months) and adult (3 months) rats in response to repeated variable stress (RVS) for 4 days, using a cDNA array technique and real-time quantitative PCR, to identify putative genes involved in the mechanism of stress vulnerability in the elderly. We found a significant decrease in the levels of amphiphysin 1 mRNA in aged rats subjected to RVS compared with treated and untreated adult rats or to untreated aged rats. Similarly, we found a significant decrease in hippocampal levels of amphiphysin 1 mRNA in aged rats subjected to RVS for 8 days, but not in those subjected to a single VS. These findings suggest that the decrease in the hippocampal levels of amphiphysin 1 mRNA in response to repeated stress may be involved in the stress vulnerability in the elderly, and may lead to the disturbance of learning and memory under stressful conditions in the elderly.
The post-receptorial mechanism of the amnesic action of the alpha2-agonists clonidine and guanabenz was investigated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Animals were i.c.v. injected with pertussis toxin (PTX) or with antisense oligonucleotides, complementary to the sequence of the alpha-subunit mRNA of Gi1, Gi2, Gi3, Go1 and Go2 proteins. The administration of PTX (0.25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) reversed the amnesia induced by both alpha2-agonists. Similarly, anti-Gialpha1 (6.25-12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Gialpha3 (3.12-12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Goalpha1 (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) antagonised the detrimental effect induced by clonidine and guanabenz. By contrast, pretreatment with anti-Gialpha2 (3.12-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Goalpha2 (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) never modified the impairment of memory processes induced by the alpha2-agonists. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination (rota rod test), nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, (hole board test). These results indicate the involvement of Gi1, Gi3, and Go1, but not Gi2 and Go2, protein subtypes in the transduction mechanism responsible for the induction of amnesia by clonidine and guanabenz.
The brain substrates involved in the pharmacological effects of neuropeptide FF (NPFF, Phe-Leu-Phe-Gln-Pro-Gln-Arg-Phe-NH2) including interactions with opioid systems, were investigated with the [14C]-2-deoxyglucose ([14C]-2-DG) autoradiography technique in mouse. The changes in cerebral activity were mapped after i.p. administration of 1DMe ([D-Tyr1,(NMe)Phe3]NPFF; 70 mg/kg), a neuropeptide FF analogue partially resistant to peptidases, alone or in combination with morphine (15 mg/kg). 1DMe induced a rapid decrease in the cerebral activity in the thalamus, the pontine reticular nuclei and the cerebellar cortex, brain regions involved in the control of motor activity and/or the processing of sensory data. This decrease, observed when 1DMe was administered 5 min before [14C]-2-DG, was reversed by morphine, which was devoid of significant effect at this time. When administered 30 min before the radioisotope, 1DMe was without effect, whereas morphine induced a significant increase in cerebral glucose utilization in the caudate putamen, the primary somatosensory cortex, the thalamus, the superior colliculus, the pontine reticular nuclei and the spinal cord. The association of morphine and 1DMe significantly increased cerebral glucose utilization in the same regions as morphine alone and also in three additional regions: the auditory cortex, the inferior colliculus and the dorsomedial periaqueductal gray. Following systemic administration, 1DMe and morphine modulated cerebral activity in brain regions involved in pain transmission and motor control, but their effects were temporally shifted, as were their effects on horizontal locomotor activity. However, neuropeptide FF-induced changes in brain activity were modulated in part by opioid receptors activation.
Vitamin E has been shown to have protective effects against cerebral ischemia, possibly due to its anti-oxidant effects. However, its non-anti-oxidant, intracellular molecular mechanism remains elusive. For in vivo experiments in rats, orally administered vitamin E significantly reduced not only the brain infarct volume but also space navigation disability after permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. The level of anti-oxidant after MCA occlusion was significantly increased specifically in the ipsilateral brain tissues of vitamin E-treated rats. For in vitro experiments, posttreatment with vitamin E protected primary cultured neurons from nitric oxide-induced insult. Vitamin E induced the expression of the alpha subunit of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) and its target genes, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and heme oxygenase-1. The hypoxia response element on the VEGF promoter was responsible for this vitamin E-induced transcriptional activation of VEGF gene. Taken together, these results suggest that cerebral infarction increased the permeability of vitamin E across the blood-brain barrier, and this increased vitamin E in brain tissue elicited neuroprotective effects not only through scavenging oxidants, as are previously well reported, but also by transactivating HIF-1-dependent genes, which results in protection of brains from ischemic insults.
Phenylethylidenehydrazine (PEH), an analog of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, beta-phenylethylhydrazine (phenelzine), inhibits the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) catabolic enzyme GABA-transaminase and increases brain levels of GABA. GABA is the predominant fast inhibitory transmitter counteracting glutamatergic excitation, and increased neural GABA could influence a wide range of synaptic and circuit properties under both physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions. To examine the scope of these effects, we applied PEH (or vehicle) to rat hippocampal slices and measured basal glutamatergic transmission, synaptic plasticity, and epileptiform activity using extracellular field and whole cell patch clamp recordings. In vitro pre-treatment with PEH (100 microM) increased the GABA content of hippocampal slices by approximately 60% over vehicle-treated controls, but it had no effect on basal field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, tonic GABA currents, paired-pulse facilitation, or long-term potentiation. In contrast, pre-incubation with PEH caused a dose- and time-dependent reduction in epileptiform burst frequency induced by superfusion with Mg2+-free or high-K+ artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Thus, the inhibitory effects of PEH are state-dependent: hyper-excitation during epileptiform bursting was reduced, whereas synaptic transmission and plasticity were unaffected.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a family of multifunctional protein kinases that activates signaling pathways. The present study was designed to ascertain whether CaMKII could play a substantial role in the expression of morphine-induced antinociception, hyperlocomotion and rewarding effect in the mouse. An i.c.v. pretreatment with a CaMKII inhibitor KN-93 failed to affect the antinociception and hyperlocomotion induced by s.c. administration of a prototype micro-opioid receptor agonist morphine. In contrast, the morphine-induced place preference was significantly attenuated by i.c.v. pretreatment with KN-93. The levels of phosphorylated-CaMKII (p-CaMKII) in the limbic forebrain, but not in the frontal cortex and the lower midbrain, were significantly increased in morphine-conditioned mice, whereas the levels of CaMKII in three brain regions obtained from morphine-conditioned mice were not changed. This up-regulation of p-CaMKII in the limbic forebrain obtained from morphine-conditioned mice was significantly inhibited by i.c.v. pretreatment with KN-93. These results provide evidence that the increase in CaMKII activity in the mouse limbic forebrain may contribute to the rewarding effect, but not the antinociception and the hyperlocomotion, induced by morphine.
Pelvic ganglia innervate the urogenital organs and contain both sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons. Previous studies have shown that within days of cutting either the lumbar or sacral preganglionic axons that innervate pelvic ganglia, many axon collaterals grow and appear to form specific connections with denervated pelvic neurons. Here we have examined the longer term consequences of partial deafferentation by studying pelvic ganglia up to 7 weeks after hypogastric nerve (HGN) crush, a lesion which also allows faster regeneration of spinal axons. Noradrenergic neurons were denervated by HGN crush, as demonstrated by loss of varicosities immunostained for the synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and synapsin. A week after HGN crush, axon collaterals grew from parasympathetic pelvic ganglion neurons, shown by the presence of numerous varicose fibers immunostained for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). These VIP fibers were poorly stained or unstained for synaptophysin, even after 7 weeks. At early post-operative times the VIP fibers grew irregularly; however, with longer post-operative times they appeared to target particular VIP-negative, noradrenergic neurons. Our results also indicate that some lumbar preganglionic axons regenerated during the post-operative period, although this only affected a minority of sympathetic neurons. These reinnervated sympathetic neurons were not associated with VIP fibers, suggesting that the new intrinsic connections may have precluded regeneration or targeting of preganglionic axons. Together these results demonstrate that there is considerable remodelling within pelvic ganglia after partial deafferentation. This occurs under conditions where spinal preganglionic axons can regenerate. New intra-ganglionic connectivity may be permanent and may impact on this regeneration.
The lateral spinal nucleus (LSN) in the rat spinal cord contains projection neurons that are densely innervated by peptidergic varicosities which probably originate from spinal interneurons. The alpha2C-adrenoceptor (alpha2C-AR) is present on axon terminals in this nucleus and therefore norepinephrine is likely to modulate input to LSN neurons. We investigated the involvement of LSN neurons in nociceptive transmission and their relationship with axons that possess alpha2C-ARs. Double-labeling immunostaining experiments showed that alpha2C-ARs are present on axon terminals of excitatory and inhibitory interneurons that frequently contain colocalised peptides. Electron microscopy revealed that alpha2C-AR terminals are presynaptic to dendrites and somata of LSN neurons and predominantly form asymmetric synapses. We retrogradely labeled LSN neurons that project to the caudal ventrolateral medulla and combined this with induction of c-Fos expression by peripheral noxious thermal stimulation along with immunolabelling for the alpha2C-AR and the substance P (neurokinin-1) receptor. This enabled us to identify neuronkinin-1 projection neurons in the LSN that express c-Fos and to determine if such cells receive contacts from alpha2C-AR terminals. The results show that some LSN neurons are activated by noxious stimulation and that this input is likely to be modulated by norepinephrine acting on alpha2C-ARs which are present on axon terminals that are presynaptic to LSN neurons.
In this study we have employed the selective glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) and GlyT-2 transporter inhibitors R-(-)-N-methyl-N-[3-[(4-trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-3-phenyl-propyl]glycine (1:1) lithium salt (Org 24598) and 4-benzyloxy-3,5-dimethoxy-N-[1-(dimethylaminocyclopently)methyl]benzamide (Org 25543), respectively, and microdialysis perfusion to determine the effect of GlyT transporter inhibition on extracellular amino acid concentrations in the lumbar dorsal spinal cord of the halothane-anaesthetised rat. Reverse dialysis of Org 24598 (0.1-10 microM) induced a concentration-related increase in extracellular glycine accompanied by a progressive increase in citrulline, but not aspartate, glutamate or GABA, efflux. Org 25543 (10 microM) by the same route induced a similar increase in glycine levels without affecting the efflux of other amino acids quantified. To test the hypothesis that the increase in citrulline efflux resulted from activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R)/nitric oxide synthase (NOS) signalling cascade, the sensitivity was determined of GlyT-1 inhibition-induced effects to NMDA-R antagonism or NOS inhibition. Co-administration by reverse dialysis of the selective NMDA-R channel blocker MK-801 (0.5 mM) or the selective antagonist of the strychnine-insensitive glycine site, 7-chlorokynurenic acid (1 mM), with Org 24598 (10 microM) did not affect the uptake inhibition-induced increase in glycine efflux, but did significantly attenuate the increase in extracellular citrulline. Similarly, co-administration with Org 24598 of the isoform non-selective and selective neuronal NOS inhibitors Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (1 mM) or 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)imidazole (0.2 mM), respectively, prevented Org 24598-induced citrulline efflux with no effect on increased glycine efflux. These data provide evidence that the observed increased in extracellular citrulline is a consequence of positive modulation of NMDA-R, secondary to increased extracellular glycine and support a protective role for GlyT-1 against fluctuations in extracellular glycine uptake at glutamatergic synapses in the dorsal spinal cord. Such a mechanism could be important to NMDA-R-mediated synaptic plasticity in the spinal cord and be of relevance to the clinical usage of GlyT-1 inhibitors.
Despite of the fact that the impact of various stressful stimuli on catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme gene expression, activity and immunoreactive protein has been intensively studied, less is known about the aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), the enzyme, which catalyzes decarboxylation of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine to dopamine. We focused on the identification of AADC mRNA and immunoprotein in various mice tissues and detected both in selected mice neuronal tissues (adrenal medulla, sympathetic stellate and cervical ganglia) and also in non-neuronal tissues (liver, spleen, kidney and all four parts of the heart). Surprisingly, although we failed to detect AADC mRNA in mice thymus, lungs and abdominal fat, we found presence of the AADC immunoprotein in lungs as well as in the abdominal fat. We also tested the hypothesis, whether single or repeated immobilization stress can affect the AADC mRNA or immunoprotein levels in mice stellate ganglia. We revealed that single immobilization stress exposure did not affect the AADC mRNA or immunoprotein levels, while repeated immobilization stress produced significant elevation of both, AADC mRNA and immunoprotein levels in stellate ganglia. The aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase is generally not considered to be limiting in regulation of the catecholamine biosynthesis. However, our data suggest a possible participation of this enzyme in the regulation of catecholamine biosynthesis in stellate ganglia of repeatedly stressed mice.
We demonstrated the occurrence of marked regeneration of the corticospinal tract (CST) after a single transection and failure of regeneration after a repeated transection in young rats. To provide convincing evidence for the complete transection and regeneration we used retrograde neuronal double labeling. Double-labeled neurons that took up the first tracer from the transection site and the second tracer from the injection site caudal to the transection site were observed in the sensorimotor cortex. The anterograde tracing method revealed various patterns of regeneration. In the most successful cases the vast majority of regenerated fibers descended in the normal tract and terminated normally whereas a trace amount of fibers coursed aberrantly. In the less successful cases fibers descended partly normally and partly aberrantly or totally aberrantly. To clarify the role of astrocytes in determining the success or failure of regeneration we compared expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin and neurofilament (NF) immunoreactivity (IR) in the lesion between single and repeated transections. In either transection, astrocytes disappeared from the CST near the lesion site as early as 3 h after lesioning. However, by 24 h after a single transection, immature astrocytes coexpressing GFAP- and vimentin-IR appeared in the former astrocyte-free area and NF-positive axons crossed the lesion. By contrast, after a repeated transection the astrocyte-free area spread and NF-positive axons never crossed the lesion. It appears likely that the major sign, and possibly cause of failure of regeneration is the prolonged disappearance of astrocytes in the lesioned tract area.
Alterations in the opioid system in the hippocampal formation and some of the possible functional consequences were investigated in adult male rats that were prenatally exposed to either saline or morphine (10 mg/kg twice daily on gestational days 11-18). In situ hybridization and Northern blots were used to measure proenkephalin and prodynorphin mRNA, and radioimmunoassays quantified proenkephalin- and prodynorphin-derived peptide levels in the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1 subfields of the hippocampal formation. Prenatal morphine exposure in male rats decreases proenkephalin and increases prodynorphin mRNA selectively in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Similarly, met-enkephalin peptide levels are decreased and dynorphin B peptide levels are increased in the dentate gyrus but not CA3 or CA1 of prenatally morphine-exposed males. In addition, there are decreases in dynorphin-derived peptides in the CA3 subfield. Receptor autoradiography revealed increases in the density of micro but not delta receptor labeling in discrete strata of specific hippocampal subfields in morphine-exposed males. Because alterations in the hippocampal opioid system suggest possible alterations in the excitability of the hippocampal formation, changes in opioid regulation of seizures were examined. Morphine exposure, however, does not alter the latency to onset or number of episodes of wet dog shakes or clonic seizures induced by infusion of 10 nmol [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin into the ventral hippocampal formation. Interestingly, a naloxone (5 mg/kg) injection 30 min before bicuculline administration reverses the increased latency to onset of clonic and tonic-clonic seizures in morphine-exposed males. Thus, the present study suggests that exposure of rats to morphine during early development alters the hippocampal opioid system, suggesting possible consequences for hippocampal-mediated functions.
Synthesis of the multifunctional cytokine basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is up-regulated after sciatic nerve lesion. In this study, the effects of low and high molecular weight FGF-2 isoforms on axonal elongation and branching of dissociated rat sensory neurons derived from adult lumbar dorsal root ganglia were investigated. These neurons express FGF receptor (FGFR) type I in the cytoplasmic/membrane compartment and in nuclear speckles. FGF-2 isoforms increase the number of axonal branches in cultures obtained from control rats, but do not promote axonal elongation. In response to a preconditioning lesion, i.e. transection of the sciatic nerve 1 week before culture, the axonal length of ipsilateral lumbar sensory neurons increases two-fold when compared with non-lesioned control rats, and this response is significantly enhanced by FGF-2 isoforms but not by nerve growth factor (NGF). Neurons dissociated from ganglia located contralaterally to the lesion exhibit a smaller increase in axon elongation (30%). The stimulating effects of FGF-2 isoforms on axon growth are fully blocked, and the enhanced regeneration of prelesioned neurons is reduced by the FGFR inhibitor SU5402 suggesting an involvement of endogenous FGF signaling in response to a lesion. The present data support a direct neurotrophic role of the 18 kD and 23 kD FGF-2 isoforms on adult axonal regeneration which may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of peripheral nerve lesions. Furthermore, evidence is provided for an enhanced regenerative capacity not only of preaxotomized neurons but also of homonymous non-axotomized neurons.
Postganglionic parasympathetic neurons in guinea-pig cardiac ganglia exhibit choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactivity, and a large fraction (60%) of the ChAT-positive cardiac neurons co-express somatostatin-immunoreactivity. This co-expression remained when the cardiac ganglia explants were maintained in culture for 72 h (40% somatostatin-immunoreactive). The guinea-pig cardiac ganglia neurons express the high affinity pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP)-selective PAC1 receptor, and treatment of the ganglia explants with 20 nM PACAP27 for 72 h to evaluate PACAP regulation of somatostatin expression revealed a dramatic 85% decrease in the number of somatostatin-IR neurons (6% somatostatin-IR neurons) compared with untreated control explant preparations. The decrease in percentage of somatostatin-IR neurons by PACAP27 was time- and concentration-dependent, and selective for PACAP27; PACAP38 and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were less effective. PACAP6-38, a PACAP antagonist, eliminated the PACAP27-induced change in somatostatin positive neurons. The PACAP-mediated decrease in somatostatin-IR neurons was eliminated in calcium-deficient solutions and by the addition of nifedipine, indicating a requirement for calcium influx through L-type calcium channels. The addition of either the calmodulin inhibitor N-(4-aminobutyl)-1-naphthalenesulfonamide or the MEK inhibitor PD98059, also eliminated the PACAP27-induced decrease in somatostatin-IR cells. The PACAP27-mediated effect on somatostatin expression was not affected by inhibitors of protein kinase A or phospholipase C, but was reduced by the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor SQ22356, suggesting cAMP involvement. Semiquantitative and quantitative reverse transcription PCR prosomatostatin transcript measurements showed that cardiac ganglia prosomatostatin mRNA levels were not diminished by chronic PACAP27 exposure despite the dramatic decrement in somatostatin-expressing neurons. Neuronal peptide-IR content represents a balance between production and secretion. These results suggested that one of the primary effects of PACAP exposure may be enhanced levels of neuropeptide release that exceeded production levels, resulting in somatostatin depletion and a decrement in the number of identifiable somatostatin-expressing cardiac neurons.
Neurosteroids are synthesized de novo in the brain and the cerebellar Purkinje cell is a major site for neurosteroid formation. We have demonstrated that the rat Purkinje cell actively produces progesterone de novo from cholesterol only during neonatal life and progesterone promotes dendritic growth, spinogenesis and synaptogenesis via its nuclear receptor in this neuron. On the other hand, 25-Dx, a putative membrane progesterone receptor, has been identified in the rat liver. In this study, we therefore investigated the expression and localization of 25-Dx in the Purkinje cell to understand the mode of progesterone actions in this neuron. Reverse transcription-PCR and Western immunoblot analyses revealed the expressions of 25-Dx mRNA and 25-Dx-like protein in the rat cerebellum, which increased during neonatal life. By immunocytochemistry, the expression of 25-Dx-like protein was localized in the Purkinje cell and external granule cell layer. At the ultrastructural level, we further found that 25-Dx-like immunoreactivity was associated with membrane structures of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus in the Purkinje cell. These results indicate that the Purkinje cell expresses the putative membrane progesterone receptor, 25-Dx during neonatal life. Progesterone may promote dendritic growth, spinogenesis and synaptogenesis via 25-Dx as well as its nuclear receptor in the Purkinje cell in the neonate.
Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), as occurs in obstructive sleep apnea (SA), is associated with substantial cortico-hippocampal damage leading to impairments of neurocognitive, respiratory and cardiovascular functions. Previous studies in a rat model have shown that CIH increases brain cortical neuronal cell death. However, the molecular events leading to CIH-mediated neuronal cell death remain largely undefined. The oscillation of O2 concentrations during CIH remarkably mimics the processes of ischemia/re-oxygenation and could therefore increase cellular production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We extended the CIH paradigm to a mouse model of SA to identify the molecular mechanisms underlying cortical neuronal cell death. A significant increase of ROS production in mouse brain cortex and cortical neuronal cells was detected by fluorescent oxidation assays upon exposure of mice to CIH, followed by increased expression of oxidative stress response markers, c-Fos, c-Jun and NF-kappaB in mouse brain cortex, as revealed by immunohistochemical and LacZ reporter assays respectively. Long-term exposure of mice to CIH increased the levels of protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and nucleic acid oxidation in mouse brain cortex. Furthermore, exposure of mice to CIH induced caspase-3 activation and increased some cortical neuronal cell apoptosis. On the other hand, transgenic mice overexpressing Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase exposed to CIH conditions had a lower level of steady-state ROS production and reduced neuronal apoptosis in brain cortex compared with that of normal control mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that the increased ROS production and oxidative stress propagation contribute, at least partially, to CIH-mediated cortical neuronal apoptosis and neurocognitive dysfunction.
Alzheimer's disease is a learning and memory disorder pathologically characterized by the deposition of beta-amyloid plaques and loss of neurons and synapses in affected areas of the brain. Mutations in presenilin 1 (PS1) lead to the most aggressive form of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD), and are associated with accelerated plaque deposition. However, since the function of PS1 is pleiotropic, we reasoned that the FAD mutations may alter multiple PS1-mediated pathways, and the combination of which may account for the early onset nature of the disease phenotype. Using the PS1M146V knockin mice in which the M146V mutation was incorporated into the endogenous mouse PS1 gene, we report here that the FAD mutation results in impaired hippocampus-dependent associative learning, as measured by a contextual fear conditioning paradigm, at 3 months of age. This is correlated with reduced adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. However, short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity in both area CA1 and dentate gyrus are not affected. Our results suggest that impaired adult neurogenesis may contribute to the memory deficit associated with FAD.
Amyloid beta-peptide (AbetaP), the central constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, has been shown to be a source of free radical oxidative stress that may lead to neurodegeneration. In particular, it is well known that oxidation of methionine 35, is strongly related to the pathogenesis of AD, since it represents the residue in AbetaP most susceptible to oxidation in vivo. In the present study, we used the fragment 31-35 of AbetaP, which has a single methionine at residue 35, in order to investigate the influence of the oxidation state of methionine-35 on the toxic and pro-apoptotic effects induced by Abeta(31-35) on isolated brain mitochondria. The obtained results show that exposure of isolated mitochondria from rat brain to AbetaP(31-35) determines (i) a large release of cytochrome c (ii) a significant reduction in mitochondrial respiration and (iii) a slight drop in the mitochondrial membrane potential (deltapsi). In contrast, the amplitude of these events resulted attenuated or completely abrogated in isolated brain mitochondria exposed to the AbetaP(31-35)Met35OX, in which methionine 35 was oxidized to methionine sulfoxide. We have further characterized the action of AbetaP(31-35) and Abeta(31-35)Met35OX peptide on PC12 cells. Although these two peptides, compromised mitochondrial function at a different extent as assessed by MTT reduction, neither one of them decreased cell viability as measured by Trypan Blue exclusion assay. The results obtained in this study support the hypothesis that the oxidative state of Met-35 may play a critical role in the mechanisms responsible of neurotoxicity exerted by this peptide.
We previously measured the time courses of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), hydroxyl radical (*OH), and catalytic iron increases following traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). This study determines whether the SCI-elevated level of *OH causes cell death. OH was generated by administering H2O2 and Fe2+ at the concentrations attained following SCI, each through a separate microdialysis fiber inserted laterally into the gray matter of the cord. The duration of *OH generation mimics the duration of its elevation after SCI. The death of neurons and astrocytes was characterized at 24 h post-*OH exposure and quantitated by counting surviving cells along the fiber track in sections stained with Cresyl Violet, or immunohistochemically stained with anti-neuron-specific enolase (anti-NSE) and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (anti-GFAP). DNA fragmentation in neurons was characterized by double staining with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) and anti-NSE. Using a one way ANOVA followed by the Tukey test, we demonstrated that *OH generated in the cord induced significant losses of neurons in both Cresyl Violet (P&lt;0.001) and anti-NSE-stained sections (P&lt;0.001), and of astrocytes in GFAP-stained sections (P=0.001). *OH generated in the cord increased numbers of TUNEL-positive neurons compared with Ringer's solution administered as a control (P=0.001). Mn (III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin (MnTBAP), a superoxide dismutase mimetic and a broad spectrum reactive species scavenger, significantly reduced *OH-induced death of neurons (P&lt;0.001 in anti-NSE stained sections and P=0.002 in the Cresyl Violet-stained sections) and astrocytes (P=0.03). It also reduced the numbers of TUNEL-positive neurons (P=0.01). Electron microscopy confirmed that generated *OH induced neuronal and glial death with characteristic features of both necrosis and apoptosis. We conclude that 1) SCI-elevated *OH is sufficient to induce both necrosis and apoptosis, criteria for identifying an endogenous secondary damaging agent; 2) MnTBAP reduces *OH-induced cell death, perhaps by removing H2O2 administered in the tissue, thereby blocking formation of *OH, and also by scavenging downstream reactive species.
Abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau and cholinergic deficit occur in the early stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and relate to the dementia symptom. Hyperphosphorylation of tau, neurofilament (NF) and other proteins in AD brain appears to be caused by a down-regulation of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), but the mechanism leading to cholinergic deficit is still unknown. In this study, we selectively inhibited PP2A by injection of okadaic acid (OA) into the Meynert nucleus basalis of rats. We found that injection of OA induced hyperphosphorylation of tau and NF and decreased acetylcholine (ACh) level in the nucleus basalis of Meynert. These alterations were accompanied by spatial memory deficit in OA-injected rats. We also demonstrated that the OA-induced ACh reduction may be due to a failure of intraneuronal transport of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) from cell body to the neuronal terminals rather than an alteration of activity of ChAT or acetylcholinesterase. This study suggests that a down-regulation of PP2A may underlie both abnormal hyperphosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins leading to neurofibrillary degeneration and cholinergic deficiency in AD.
Phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes of 15 kDa (PEA-15) is an abundant phosphoprotein in primary cultures of mouse brain astrocytes. Its capability to interact with members of the apoptotic and mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades endows PEA-15 with anti-apoptotic and anti-proliferative properties. We analyzed the in vivo cellular sources of PEA-15 in the normal adult mouse brain using a novel polyclonal antibody. Immunohistochemical assays revealed numerous PEA-15-immunoreactive cells throughout the brain of wild-type adult mice while no immunoreactive signal was observed in the brain of PEA-15 -/- mice. Cell morphology and double immunofluorescent staining showed that both astrocytes and neurons could be cellular sources of PEA-15. Closer examination revealed that in a given area only part of the astrocytes expressed the protein. The hippocampus was the most striking example of this heterogeneity, a spatial segregation restricting PEA-15 positive astrocytes to the CA1 and CA3 regions. A PEA-15 immunoreactive signal was also observed in a few cells within the subventricular zone and the rostral migratory stream. In vivo analysis of an eventual PEA-15 regulation in astrocytes was performed using a model of astrogliosis occurring along motor neurons degeneration, the transgenic mouse expressing the mutant G93A human superoxyde-dismutase-1, a model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We observed a marked up-regulation of PEA-15 in reactive astrocytes that had developed throughout the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord of the transgenic mice. The heterogeneous cellular expression of the protein and its increased expression in pathological situations, combined with the known properties of PEA-15, suggest that PEA-15 expression is associated with a particular metabolic status of cells challenged with potentially apoptotic and/or proliferative signals.
The basal forebrain is the major source of acetylcholine in the neocortex, and this projection has been variously described as either diffuse or highly specific. We used in vivo microdialysis to examine this discrepancy by collecting acetylcholine release simultaneously from visual, somatosensory and prefrontal cortical areas. Urethane-anesthetized rats were presented with visual and somatosensory stimulation in counter-balanced order and acetylcholine was measured using HPLC. Evoked acetylcholine release was modality-specific, i.e. visual stimulation evoked a large (75%) increase from visual cortex and little (24%) change from the somatosensory area whereas skin stimulation had the opposite effect. No increase was apparent in prefrontal cortex with either stimulation protocol. This experiment extends early studies using cortical cups to collect acetylcholine, and is consistent with the concept of functional specificity within the cholinergic basal forebrain with respect to both its sensory inputs and projections to the neocortex. This functional specificity within the cholinergic basal forebrain might be utilized in the modulation of different cortical regions during selective attention and plasticity.
The intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) is an area of the domestic chick forebrain that stores information acquired through the learning process of imprinting. The effects of visual imprinting on the release of the amino acids aspartate, arginine, citrulline, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, glycine and taurine from the left and right IMHVs in vitro were measured at 3.5, 10 and 24 h after training. Chicks were exposed to an imprinting stimulus for 1 h, their preferences measured 10 min afterward and a preference score calculated as a measure of the strength of learning. Potassium stimulation was used to evoke amino acid release from the IMHVs of trained and untrained chicks in the presence and absence of extracellular Ca2+. Ca2+-dependent, K+-evoked release of glutamate was significantly (34.4%) higher in trained than in untrained chicks. This effect was not influenced by time after training or by side (left or right IMHV). Training influenced the evoked release of GABA and taurine from the left IMHV at both 3.5 and 10 h. The training effects at the two times were statistically homogeneous so data (&lt; or = 10 h group) were combined for each amino acid respectively. For this &lt; or = 10 h group, evoked release increased significantly with preference score. In contrast, for the 24 h group, evoked release of GABA and taurine was not significantly correlated with preference score. There were no significant correlations between preference score and GABA or taurine release in the right IMHV at any time, nor in the absence of extracellular calcium. No significant effects of training condition, time or side were observed for any other amino acid in the study. The present findings suggest that soon after chicks have been exposed to an imprinting stimulus glutamatergic excitatory transmission in IMHV is enhanced, and remains enhanced for at least 24 h. In contrast, the learning-related elevations in taurine and GABA release are not sustained over this period. The change in GABA release may reflect a transient increase in inhibitory transmission in the left IMHV.
Prenatal ethanol exposure causes a persistent reduction in the spontaneous electrical activity of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in adult animals. Because DA neuron activity matures into adult pattern during postnatal development, it is possible that reduced activity in VTA DA neurons after prenatal ethanol exposure is caused by impaired postnatal development. This possibility was investigated in the present study using the in vivo extracellular single-unit recording and brain stimulation techniques. The results show an age-dependent decrease in the number of spontaneously active VTA DA neurons from 2 to 4 weeks of age in both the control and prenatal ethanol-exposed animals. In ethanol-exposed animals, the age-dependent decrease was more prominent after 3 weeks of age, resulting in lower numbers of spontaneously active VTA DA neurons in 4-week-old and adult animals. In both the control and ethanol-exposed animals, there were age-dependent increases in the firing rates and burst firing activity of VTA DA neurons after 2 weeks of age. Ethanol exposure led to slightly lower firing rates in 4-week-old and adult animals and did not impact the burst firing pattern in any age groups. There were no changes in axon conduction velocity and antidromic spike characteristics of VTA DA neurons. These results indicate that reduced activity of VTA DA neurons during adulthood after prenatal ethanol exposure does not begin prenatally. Instead, it is a result of impaired postnatal development manifested only when animals reach 4 weeks of age. These results suggest that early intervention may be an effective treatment strategy for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, a behavioral dysfunction related to the abnormalities of DA systems and often observed in children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) is the area promoting emotional motor responses, reproductive behaviors and analgesia. Recent studies suggest that neurons in the PAG may be crucial for regulating the micturition reflex in both experimental animals and humans. We examined single neuronal activities in the PAG and the adjacent area in response to isovolumetric spontaneous micturition reflexes in 20 supracollicular decerebrated cats. In total, 84 neurons were recorded in the PAG that were related to urinary storage/micturition cycles. Of the neurons recorded, the most common were tonic storage neurons (43%), followed by tonic micturition neurons (29%), phasic storage neurons (15%) and phasic micturition neurons (13%). In addition to the tonic/phasic as well as storage/micturition classification, the neurons showed diverse discharge patterns: augmenting, constant and decrementing, with the constant discharge pattern being most common. Of the 16 neurons located within the PAG that had similar discharge patterns to those just ventral to the PAG, the micturition neurons were distributed in a broader area, whereas the storage neurons seemed to be concentrated in the middle part of the PAG (P0-1, Horsley-Clarke coordinate). High-frequency stimulation (HFS; 0.2-ms duration, 100 Hz) applied in the PAG elicited inhibition of the micturition reflex. Effective amplitude of the electrical stimulation for evoking inhibitory responses was less than 50 microA. In conclusion, the results of the present study showed that HFS of the PAG inhibited the micturition reflex and there were micturition-related neuronal firings in the PAG in cats, suggesting that the PAG is involved in neural control of micturition.
Spectrally broadband stimulation of neurons has been an effective method for studying their dynamic responses to simulated synaptic inputs. Previous studies with such stimulation were mostly based upon the direct intracellular injection of noisy current waveforms. In the present study we analyze and compare the firing output of various identified molluscan neurons to aperiodic, broadband current signals using three types of stimulus paradigms: 1. direct injection in current clamp mode, 2. conductance injection using electrotonic coupling of the input waveform to the neuron, and 3. conductance injection using a simulated chemical excitatory connection. The current waveforms were presented in 15 successive trials and the trial-to-trial variations of the spike responses were analyzed using peri-stimulus spike density functions. Comparing the responses of the neurons to the same type of input waveforms, we found that conductance injection resulted in more reliable and precise spike responses than direct current injection. The statistical parameters of the response spike trains depended on the spectral distribution of the input. The reliability increased with increasing cutoff frequency, while the temporal jitter of spikes changed in the opposite direction. Neurons with endogenous bursting displayed lower reproducibility in their responses to noisy waveforms when injected directly; however, they fired far more reliably and precisely when receiving the same waveforms as conductance inputs. The results show that molluscan neurons are capable of accurately reproducing their responses to synaptic inputs. Conductance injection provides an enhanced experimental technique for assessing the neurons' spike timing reliability and it should be preferred over direct current injection of noisy waveforms.
The anterior piriform cortex (APC) functions as a chemosensor for indispensable amino acid deficiency and responds to this deficiency with increased activity, as indicated by observations including averaged evoked-potentials and c-fos expression in the APC. Little is known of the intracellular signaling mechanisms that mediate this deficiency-related increase in neuronal excitability, but previous studies have shown effects on intracellular Ca2+ in deficient APC slices in vitro. In the present study we hypothesized that indispensable amino acid deficiency increases intraneuronal Ca2+, resulting in autophosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (CaMKII) in vivo. Results demonstrated that phosphorylation levels of CaMKII (pCaMKII) in APC neurons increased at 20 and 40 min after a single meal of threonine-devoid diet. Phosphorylation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit (GluR1) at the serine 831 (S831) site was modestly increased in the APC in response to a threonine-devoid meal. The GluR1 subunit also showed increased phosphorylation at the 845 (S845) site, suggesting additional signaling mechanisms. Although phosphorylation of CaMKII was sustained, phosphorylation of the GluR1 subunit returned to control levels by 40 min. These effects of amino acid deficiency did not occur throughout the brain as neither CaMKII nor GluR1 showed increased phosphorylation in the neocortex. These findings support the notion that calcium and glutamate signaling in the APC, but not throughout the brain, are triggered during early responses to amino acid deficiency. They also suggest that longer-term changes in APC neurons in response to such a deficiency may be mediated at least in part by CaMKII.
Tumors including sarcomas and breast, prostate, and lung carcinomas frequently grow in or metastasize to the skeleton where they can induce significant bone remodeling and cancer pain. To define products that are released from tumors that are involved in the generation and maintenance of bone cancer pain, we focus here on endothelin-1 (ET-1) and endothelin receptors as several tumors including human prostate and breast have been shown to express high levels of ETs and the application of ETs to peripheral nerves can induce pain. Here we show that in a murine osteolytic 2472 sarcoma model of bone cancer pain, the 2472 sarcoma cells express high levels of ET-1, but express low or undetectable levels of endothelin A (ETAR) or B (ETBR) receptors whereas a subpopulation of sensory neurons express the ETAR and non-myelinating Schwann cells express the ETBR. Acute (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or chronic (10 mg/kg/day, p.o.) administration of the ETAR selective antagonist ABT-627 significantly attenuated ongoing and movement-evoked bone cancer pain and chronic administration of ABT-627 reduced several neurochemical indices of peripheral and central sensitization without influencing tumor growth or bone destruction. In contrast, acute treatment (30 mg/kg, i.p.) with the ETBR selective antagonist, A-192621 increased several measures of ongoing and movement evoked pain. As tumor expression and release of ET-1 has been shown to be regulated by the local environment, location specific expression and release of ET-1 by tumor cells may provide insight into the mechanisms that underlie the heterogeneity of bone cancer pain that is frequently observed in humans with multiple skeletal metastases.
Electrical and optical recordings were made from slice preparations including the piriform and gustatory cortices. Electrical stimulation of the gustatory cortex evoked a characteristic field potential in the endopiriform nucleus. A field potential was induced in the endopiriform nucleus by stimulation of the piriform cortex. Voltage-sensitive dye studies showed that stimulation of the piriform cortex induced signal propagation from the piriform cortex to endopiriform nucleus, whereas stimulation of the gustatory cortex did the same from the gustatory cortex to endopiriform nucleus via the agranular division of the insular cortex. After stimulation of the endopiriform nucleus, optical signals propagated not only to the piriform cortex but also to the gustatory cortex via the agranular division of the insular cortex. The olfactory and gustatory pathways appeared to be reciprocally connected. Unit recordings indicated that olfactory and gustatory activity converged onto a single neuron of the endopiriform nucleus. It is suggested that the cortical integration of olfactory and gustatory information could modulate mechanisms involved in food selection and emotional reactions relating to the chemical senses.
Central neurotensin (NT) administration can both facilitate and inhibit somatic and visceral nociception, depending on the dose and administration site. NT microinjection in the rostroventral medulla facilitates nociception at low doses, while NT antagonist microinjection can markedly attenuate nociception, supporting the hypothesis that endogenous NT facilitates nociception. However, higher doses of NT produce a mu-opioid receptor-independent analgesia, similar to that resulting from various intense stressors. Furthermore, intense stress results in increased NT expression in several hypothalamic nuclei that have been implicated in stress-induced antinociception (SIAN); however, there is little direct evidence that endogenous NT is required for SIAN. We have investigated the role of endogenous NT in both basal visceral nociception and SIAN using both NT knockout mice and pharmacological approaches in rats. Visceral nociception was monitored by measuring visceromotor responses during colorectal distension both prior to and following water avoidance stress. Visceral nociception was significantly attenuated in both NT knockout mice and rats pre-treated with the NT antagonist SR 48692. Disruption of NT signaling also blocked SIAN, revealing a novel stress-induced hyperalgesic response that was significantly greater in female than in male rats. NT was also required for acetic acid-induced hyperalgesia. These results indicate that endogenous NT normally facilitates visceral pain responses, is required for irritant-induced hyperalgesia, and plays a critical role in SIAN.
Inflammation of the primary afferent proximal to the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the DRG itself is known to produce radicular pain. Here, we examined pain-related behaviors and the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in the DRG after inflammation near the DRG somata. Inflammation of the L4/5 nerve roots and DRG induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) produced mechanical allodynia on the ipsilateral hindpaw and induced an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK, mainly in tyrosine kinase (trk) A-expressing small- and medium-size neurons. This CFA-induced increase in ERK phosphorylation was mediated through trk receptors, because intrathecal treatment with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, K252a, reduced the activation of ERK. On the other hand, an increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA/protein in the DRG concomitant with the ERK activation was also observed. Furthermore, we found that nerve growth factor (NGF) injection directly into the L4/5 nerve roots and DRG produced mechanical allodynia, and an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK and BDNF expression in the DRG, but the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase1/2 inhibitor, U0126, inhibited the effects induced by NGF. Therefore, we suggest that after inflammation near the cell body, NGF synthesized within the nerve root and DRG induces BDNF expression through trkA receptors and intracellular ERK-MAPK. The activation of MAPK in the primary afferents may be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of inflammation-induced radiculopathy and MAPK pathways in the primary afferents may be potential targets for pharmacological intervention for neuropathic pain produced by inflammation near the DRG somata.
Voltage-gated K+ channels (Kv) are divided into eight subfamilies (Kv1-8) and play a major role in determining the excitability of neurones. Members of the Kv3 subfamily are highly abundant in the CNS, with each Kv3 gene (Kv3.1-Kv3.4) exhibiting a unique pattern of expression, although single neurones can express more than one subtype. Of the Kv3 subunits relatively little is known of the Kv3.4 subunit distribution in the nervous system, particularly in the brainstem and spinal cord of the rat. We performed immunohistochemistry to determine both the cellular and sub-cellular distribution of the Kv3.4 subunit in these areas. Kv3.4 subunit immunoreactivity (Kv3.4-IR) was widespread, with dense, punctate staining in many regions including the intermediolateral cell column (IML) and the dorsal vagal nucleus (DVN), nucleus ambiguus (NA) and nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). In the ventral horn a presynaptic location was confirmed by co-localization of Kv3.4-IR with the synaptic vesicle protein, SV2 and also with the glutamate vesicle markers vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT) 1, VGluT2 or the glycine transporter GlyT2, suggesting a role for the channel in both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. Electron microscopy confirmed a presynaptic terminal location of Kv3.4-IR in the VH, IML, DVN, NA and NTS. Interestingly however, patches of Kv3.4-IR were also revealed postsynaptically in dendritic and somatic structures throughout these areas. This staining was striking due to its localization at synaptic junctions at terminals with morphological features consistent with excitatory functions, suggesting an association with the postsynaptic density. Therefore the pre and postsynaptic localization of Kv3.4-IR suggests a role both in the control of transmitter release and in regulating neuronal excitability.
This study examines the distribution of prostaglandin E2 receptors of subtype EP3 and EP4 among brain stem parabrachial neurons that were characterized with respect to their neuropeptide expression. By using a dual-labeling in situ hybridization method, we show that preprodynorphin mRNA expressing neurons in the dorsal and central lateral subnuclei express EP3 receptor mRNA. Such receptors are also expressed in preproenkephalin, calcitonin gene related peptide and preprotachykinin mRNA positive neurons in the external lateral subnucleus, whereas preprodynorphin mRNA expressing neurons in this subnucleus are EP receptor negative. In addition, EP3 receptor expression is seen among some enkephalinergic neurons in the Klliker-Fuse nucleus. Neurons in the central part of the cholecystokininergic population in the regions of the superior lateral subnucleus express EP4 receptor mRNA, whereas those located more peripherally express EP3 receptors. Taken together with previous findings showing that discrete peptidergic cell groups mediate nociceptive and/or visceral afferent information to distinct brain stem and forebrain regions, the present results suggest that the processing of this information in the parabrachial nucleus is influenced by prostaglandin E2. Recent work has shown that prostaglandin E2 is released into the brain following peripheral immune challenge; hence, the parabrachial nucleus may be a region where humoral signaling of peripheral inflammatory events may interact with neuronal signaling elicited by the same peripheral processes.
Fetal brain c-fos and cardiovascular responses after i.v. or i.c.v. angiotensin II administrations was determined in the near-term ovine fetuses. Both routes of angiotensin II markedly increased fetal mean arterial pressure. The latency of pressor responses by i.v. angiotensin II administration was shorter than by the i.c.v. route. The increased fetal mean arterial pressure was greater and transient by the i.v. route in comparison to that caused by i.c.v. angiotensin II administration. Following the i.v. administration of angiotensin II, the fetal heart rate was significantly decreased. Associated with fetal pressor responses and bradycardia, c-fos expression induced by i.v. angiotensin II was in the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus, and the area postrema, the tractus solitarius nuclei, and the lateral parabrachial nuclei in the brain stem. After i.c.v. angiotensin II administration, fetal blood pressure was also increased in association with the intensive c-fos expression in the PVN and the hindbrain. However, fetal heart rate was not affected by the central injection of angiotensin II. These results indicate that the central pathways between the forebrain circumventricular organs and the PVN have developed, and suggest that the neural activity in the hindbrain associated with bradycardia may be linked to the baroreflex. In the face of i.c.v. angiotensin II, sympathetic activation may play a predominant role in pressor responses. Taken together, these results suggest that central and peripheral angiotensin II-induced fetal pressor responses may be mediated by separate mechanisms, and these regulatory mechanisms start to function by near-term or early.
Laminins are the major glycoproteins present in basement membrane, a type of extracellular matrix. We showed that the LAMB1 gene, which encodes the laminin beta1 subunit, is transcriptionally activated by retinoic acid in embryonic stem cells. However, little information is available concerning LAMB1 developmental regulation and spatial expression in the adult mouse brain. In this study we used transgenic mice expressing different lengths of LAMB1 promoter driving beta-galactosidase to investigate developmental and adult transcriptional regulation in the regions of the brain in which the laminin beta1 protein is expressed. CNS expression was not observed in transgenic mice carrying a 1.4LAMB1betagal construct. Mice carrying a 2.5LAMB1betagal construct expressed the LAMB1 transgene, as assayed by X-gal staining, only in the molecular layer of the neonatal cerebellum. In contrast, a 3.9LAMB1betagal transgene showed broad regional expression in the adult mouse brain, including the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, colliculi, striatum, and substantia nigra. Similar expression patterns were observed for the endogenous laminin beta1 protein and for the 3.9LAMB1betagal transgene, analyzed with an antibody against the beta-galactosidase protein. The 3.9LAMB1betagal transgene expression in the hippocampal tri-synaptic circuit suggests a role for the LAMB1 gene in learning and memory.
To elucidate chronic actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on GABAergic synapses, we examined effects of a long-term application of BDNF for 10-15 days on autapses (synapses) of solitary GABAergic neurons cultured from rat visual cortex. Solitary neuron preparations were used to exclude a possible contamination of BDNF actions on excitatory neurons in dissociated neuron culture or slice preparations. Neurons were confirmed to be GABAergic pharmacologically with bicuculline, a selective antagonist for GABAA receptors and immunocytochemically with antibody against glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, a GABA synthesizing enzyme. To evaluate GABAergic synaptic function, evoked and/or miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were recorded in the whole-cell voltage-clamp mode. The treatment with BDNF at a concentration of 100 ng/ml enhanced the amplitude of evoked IPSCs and the frequency of miniature IPSCs. In contrast, BDNF did not have a detectable effect on the amplitude of miniature IPSCs and the paired pulse ratio of IPSCs evoked by two, successive activations. To evaluate morphological changes, neurons were immunocytochemically stained with antibodies against microtubule-associated protein 2, to visualize somatodendritic region and synapsin I, to visualize presynaptic sites. The quantitative analysis indicated that BDNF increased the area of soma, the numbers of primary dendrites and dendritic branching points, the total length of dendrites and the number of synaptic sites. Such an action of BDNF was seen in both subgroups of GABAergic neurons, parvalbumin-positive and -negative neurons. To visualize functionally active presynaptic sites, neurons were stained with a styryl dye, FM1-43. BDNF increased the number of stained sites that was correlated with the frequency of miniature IPSCs. These results suggest that the chronic treatment with BDNF promotes dendritic and synaptic development of GABAergic neurons in visual cortex.
Up-regulation of nestin expression was significantly induced in the caudate-putamen of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice in our previous observation [Brain Res 925 (2002) 9]. We hypothesized that the nestin-expressing cells might play an important role in the pathogenesis of parkinsonian model, and characterization of these nestin-expressing cells was studied by RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and semi-quantitative analysis for various markers of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), S-100, neuronal nuclear specific protein (NeuN), beta-tubulin, Ki-67 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in MPTP-treated C57/BL mice. Firstly, significant increasing in both nestin protein and mRNA was found in MPTP-treated mice. Up-regulation of nestin expression started at day 1, peaked at day 3, and gradually went down at days 7-21 in the neostriatum after MPTP treatment. Secondly, double immunofluorescence indicated that almost all of nestin-positive cells exhibited GFAP (98%) or S-100 (96%)-immunoreactivity, whereas NeuN or beta-tubulin was hardly detected in these nestin-positive cells. Thirdly, a minor population (7.0%) of nestin-positive cells showed Ki-67 (cell proliferation marker)-immunoreactivity, showing some of them went into cell mitotic state. Finally but more interestingly, a major population (86%) of nestin-expressing cells also exhibited immunoreactivity for BDNF, one neurotrophic factor. These results present time-dependent up-regulation of nestin expression in neostriatum, the proliferative and neurotrophic properties of nestin-expressing astroglial cells in MPTP-treated C57/BL mice. Taken together with previous observations, this study suggests that nestin-expressing activated astroglial cells, possibly partially through synthesizing and releasing neurotrophic factors such as BDNF in the basal ganglia, may play important roles in protection of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons and in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease in mammals.
The ability of fimbria-fornix bilateral axotomy to elicit calpain and caspase-3 activation in the rat septohippocampal pathway was determined using antibodies that selectively recognize either calpain- or caspase-cleaved products of the cytoskeletal protein alphaII-spectrin. Radioenzymatically determined choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) activity was elevated in the septum at day 5, but reduced in the dorsal hippocampus at days 3, 5 and 7, after axotomy. Prominent accumulation of calpain-, but not caspase-3-, cleaved spectrin proteolytic fragments was observed in both the septum and dorsal hippocampus 1-7 days after axotomy. ChAT-positive neuronal cell bodies in the septum also displayed calpain-cleaved spectrin indicating that calpain activation occurred in cholinergic septal neurons as a consequence of transection of the septohippocampal pathway. Calpain-cleaved alphaII-spectrin immunoreactivity was observed in cholinergic fibers coursing through the fimbria-fornix, but not in pyramidal neurons of the dorsal hippocampus, suggesting that degenerating cholinergic nerve terminals were the source of calpain activity in the dorsal hippocampus following axotomy. Accumulation of calpain-cleaved spectrin proteolytic fragments in the dorsal hippocampus and septum at day 5 after axotomy was reduced by i.c.v. administration of two calpain inhibitors. Calpain inhibition partially reduced the elevation of ChAT activity in the septum produced by transection but failed to decrease the loss of ChAT activity in the dorsal hippocampus following axotomy. These findings suggest that calpain activation contributes to the cholinergic cell body response and hippocampal axonal cytoskeletal degradation produced by transection of the septohippocampal pathway.
The senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) is a murine model of accelerated senescence that was established using phenotypic selection. The SAMP series includes nine substrains, each of which exhibits characteristic disorders. SAMP8 is known to exhibit age-dependent learning and memory deficits. In our previous study, we reported that brains from 12-month-old SAMP8 have greater protein oxidation, as well as lipid peroxidation, compared with brains from 4-month-old SAMP8 mice. In order to investigate the relation between age-associated oxidative stress on specific protein oxidation and age-related learning and memory deficits in SAMP8, we used proteomics to identify proteins that are expressed differently and/or modified oxidatively in aged SAMP8 brains. We report here that in 12 month SAMP8 mice brains the expressions of neurofilament triplet L protein, lactate dehydrogenase 2 (LDH-2), heat shock protein 86, and alpha-spectrin are significantly decreased, while the expression of triosephosphate isomerase (TPI) is increased compared with 4-month-old SAMP8 brains. We also report that the specific protein carbonyl levels of LDH-2, dihydropyrimidinase-like protein 2, alpha-spectrin and creatine kinase, are significantly increased in the brain of 12-month-old SAMP8 mice when compared with the 4-month-old SAMP8 brain. These findings are discussed in reference to the effect of specific protein oxidation and changes of expression on potential mechanisms of abnormal alterations in metabolism and neurochemicals, as well as to the learning and memory deficits in aged SAMP8 mice.
Nerve cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNPC) are known to express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). By means of light and electron microscopical immunohistochemical techniques, we have shown that the dopaminergic neurons of SNPC express also kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT-I), the enzyme taking part in the formation of kynurenic acid, a neuroprotectant which is one of the endogeneous antagonists of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. It was also found that microglial cells and astrocytes express KAT-I. It has been shown that the highly selective dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), widely used as a model of Parkinson's disease (PD), affects not only TH of dopaminergic neurons in the SNPC but also their KAT-I immunoreactivity as well: MPTP treatment decreased the number and optical density of KAT-I immunoreactive SNPC neurons. Decrease of KAT-I after MPTP treatment has been proved also by Western blot analysis. MPTP also reduced KAT-I immunoreactivity of microglial cells, except for those involved in reactive gliosis, which were arranged in groups surrounding affected neurons of the SNPC; also the number of KAT-I immunoreactive (IR) astroglial cells was increased in SNPC. We conclude that MPTP treatment may have a dual effect: in addition to being deleterious for neurons expressing TH and KAT-I, it also affects glial cells which could exacerbate the neurodegenerative process characterizing PD.
Apoptosis was induced in cultured cerebellar granule cells by lowering extracellular K+ concentrations (usually from 25 to 10 mM). The apoptotic phenotype was preceded by an early and transient increase in the intracellular levels of the disialoganglioside, GD3, which behaves as a putative pro-apoptotic factor. We examined whether activation of Fas receptor mediates the increase in GD3 formation in granule cells committed to die. Degenerating granule cells showed increased expression of both Fas receptor and its ligand (Fas-L), at times that coincided with the increase in GD3 levels and the induction of GD3 synthase mRNA. Addition of neutralizing anti-Fas-L antibodies reduced the extent of 'low-K+'-induced apoptosis and abolished the increase in GD3 levels and GD3 synthase mRNA. Similar reductions were observed in cultures prepared from gld or lpr mice, which harbor loss-of-function mutations of Fas-L and Fas receptor, respectively. In addition, exogenous application of soluble Fas-L further enhanced both the increase in GD3 formation and cell death in cultured granule cells switched from 25 into 10 mM K+. We conclude that activation of Fas receptor is entirely responsible for the increase in GD3 levels and contributes to the development of apoptosis by trophic deprivation in cultured cerebellar granule cells.
This study examines the expression and cellular distribution pattern of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms, nitrotyrosine-derived complexes, and the nitric oxide (NO) production in the cerebellum of rats with cirrhosis induced by thioacetamide (TAA). The results showed local changes in the tissue distribution pattern of the NOS isoforms and nitrated proteins in the cerebellum of these animals. Particularly, eNOS immunoreactivity in perivascular glial cells of the white matter was detected only in TAA-treated animals. In addition, although neither neuronal NOS (nNOS) nor inducible NOS (iNOS) cerebellar protein levels appeared to be affected, the endothelial NOS (eNOS) isoform significantly increased its expression, and NO production slightly augmented in TAA-treated rats. These NOS/NO changes may contribute differently to the evolution of the hepatic disease either by maintaining the guanosine monophosphate-NO signal transduction pathways and the physiological cerebellar functions or by inducing oxidative stress and cell damage. This model gives rise to the hypothesis that the upregulation of the eNOS maintains the physiological production of NO, while the iNOS is silenced and the nNOS remains unchanged. The differential NOS-distribution and expression pattern may be one of the mechanisms involved to balance cerebellar NO production in order to minimize TAA toxic injury. These data help elucidate the role of the NOS/NO system in the development and progress of hepatic encephalopathy associated with TAA cirrhosis.
In the present study, the temporal and spatial alterations of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) immunoreactivity in the gerbil hippocampus after 5 min transient forebrain ischemia were investigated as followed up 7 days after ischemic insult, and the effects of ACTH after ischemic insult were also investigated 4 days after ischemic insult. The ectopic expression of ACTH (1-24 fragments) immunoreactive neurons in the cornus ammonis 1 (CA1) region of hippocampus and hilar region of the dentate gyrus 1 day after the ischemic insult was observed. Judging from the double immunofluorescence study, these neurons contain GABA. Four days after ischemic insult, the ACTH immunoreactivity was localized in CA1 pyramidal cells and glia near the stratum pyramidale, which normally do not express ACTH. In addition, in the saline-treated groups, the percentage of the detected Cresyl Violet positive neurons was 11.2% compared with the sham-operated group 4 and 7 days after ischemic insult. In these groups, the OX-42 immunoreactive microglia were detected in the strata pyramidale, oriens and radiatum. However, in the Org2766 (analog of ACTH)-treated group, 57.8% neurons compared with the sham-operated group were stained with Cresyl Violet 4 and 7 days after ischemic insult. In these groups, the OX-42 immunoreactive microglia were significantly reduced in the stratum pyramidale. These results suggest that transient forebrain ischemia may provoke selective ectopic and enhanced expression of ACTH in the hippocampus, and further suggest that ACTH plays an important role in reducing the ischemic damage.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its cognate receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) play important roles in regulating survival, structure, and function of CNS neurons. One method of studying the functions of these molecules has utilized in vitro hippocampal slice preparations. An important caveat to using slices, however, is that slice preparation itself might alter the expression of BDNF, thereby confounding experimental results. To address this concern, BDNF immunoreactivity was examined in rodent slices using two different methods of slice preparation. Rapid and anatomically selective regulation of BDNF content followed slice preparation using both methodologies; however, different patterns of altered BDNF immunoreactivity were observed. First, in cultured slices, BDNF content decreased in the dentate molecular layer and increased in the CA3 pyramidal cell layer and the mossy fiber pathway of the hippocampus after 30 min. Furthermore, an initially &quot;punctate&quot; pattern of BDNF labeling observed in the mossy fiber pathway of control sections changed to homogenous labeling of the pathway in vitro. In contrast to these findings, slices prepared as for acute slice physiology exhibited no change in BDNF content in the molecular layer and mossy fiber pathway 30 min after slicing, but exhibited significant increases in the dentate granule and CA3 pyramidal cell layers. These findings demonstrate that BDNF protein content is altered following slice preparation, that different methods of slice preparation produce different patterns of BDNF regulation, and raise the possibility that BDNF release and TrkB activation may also be regulated. These consequences of hippocampal slice preparation may confound analyses of exogenous or endogenous BDNF on hippocampal neuronal structure or function.
The forced swim test (FST) has been considered as a pharmacologically valid test of the depressive syndrome in rodents. However, few studies have focused on neurochemical and behavioral responses during FST in both male and female rats. Thus, we investigated certain behavioral and neuroendocrine responses as well as the serotonergic activity after the application of FST in both sexes. Our data show that the duration of immobility was increased in both male and female rats during the 2nd session of the FST. Sex differences are observed in some behavioral responses, such as head swinging that is mostly present in male rats. In female rats FST induced a decrease in serotonergic activity in hippocampus and hypothalamus while in male rats it induced an increase in serotonergic activity in hypothalamus. Corticosterone serum levels were elevated in both sexes. However, hippocampal GR mRNA levels tended to be increased in males and females respectively. Moreover, hypothalamic serotonin (5-HT)1A mRNA levels were decreased in female rats while in male rats hippocampal 5-HT1A mRNA levels were increased. These data have shown that FST induces &quot;depressive like symptoms&quot; in both sexes and provide evidence that sex differences characterize certain behavioral aspects in the FST. Notably, hippocampal and hypothalamic serotonergic activity has been differentially modified in male rats compared with female rats and these neurochemical findings could be relevant to the differentiated expression of 5-HT1A receptor. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity was also affected by FST application in a sex specific manner. The present results support that FST induced behavioral, neurochemical and neurobiological alterations, which are sex dependent.
The medial nucleus of the amygdala (MeA), a sexually dimorphic area, contains estrogen and androgen receptors and has an integrative role in behavioral, vegetative and endocrine activities of rats. The density of dendritic spines along the first 40 microm of dendritic length was studied in neurons from the anterodorsal (MeAD), posterodorsal (MePD) and posteroventral (MePV) aspects of the MeA in males, in virgin females during the four phases of the estrous cycle and in multiparous females in diestrus. The single-section Golgi method was employed (N=48 observations per experimental group). In the three MeA subnuclei males showed more dendritic spines than virgin females (P&lt;0.001), with the only exception being the MePD data of females in diestrus (P&gt;0.05). In virgin females, whereas more dendritic spines were found in diestrus, a decline in these values was found during the proestrus, estrus and metaestrus in the MePD and MePV (P&lt;0.05) but not in the MeAD (P&gt;0.05). Compared with virgin females in diestrus, postpartum rats showed more spines in the MeAD (P&lt;0.001) and fewer in the MePD (P&lt;0.001) but no difference was found in the MePV (P&gt;0.05). These data suggest that there are subregion-specific differences in the density of dendritic spines within the MeA and that they appear to be affected by sex, cyclic fluctuations in the levels of ovarian steroids and following pregnancy in rats. These findings may add to the understanding of the MeA neuronal plastic changes that affect the ongoing processing of sensory information and the organization of the neuroendocrine and behavioral basis of reproduction.
Pontine acetylcholine (ACh) contributes to the regulation of electroencephalographic and behavioral arousal in all mammals so far investigated. The mouse is recognized as a powerful model for pharmacogenomics but the synaptic mechanisms regulating ACh release in mouse pontine reticular formation have not been characterized. Drug delivery by microdialysis was used in isoflurane-anesthetized C57BL/6J (B6) mice (n=33) to test the hypothesis that muscarinic autoreceptors modulate ACh release in the pontine reticular nucleus, oral part (PnO). Dialysis delivery of tetrodotoxin to the PnO significantly decreased ACh by 58% below control levels, confirming that measured ACh reflected neurotransmitter release. The muscarinic antagonist scopolamine increased ACh release in the PnO by 21% (3 nM), 48% (10 nM), 56% (30 nM), and 104% (100 nM). The muscarinic agonist bethanechol dialyzed into the PnO significantly decreased ACh release by 60% compared with control. Dialysis delivery of relatively subtype selective muscarinic antagonists to the PnO revealed the following order of potency for increasing ACh release: scopolamine (3 nM)&gt;AF-DX 116 (100 nM)=pirenzepine (100 nM). These data support the conclusion that ACh release in PnO of B6 mouse is modulated by non-M1 muscarinic receptors.
Microinjecting the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine into the pontine reticular formation of C57BL/6J (B6) mouse causes a rapid eye movement (REM) sleep-like state. This finding is consistent with similar studies in cat and both sets of data indicate that the REM sleep-like state is caused by increasing levels of endogenous acetylcholine (ACh). Muscarinic cholinergic receptors have been localized to the pontine reticular formation of B6 mouse but no previous studies have examined which of the five muscarinic receptor subtypes participate in cholinergic REM sleep enhancement. This study examined the hypothesis that M2 receptors in pontine reticular formation of B6 mouse contribute to the REM sleep-like state caused by pontine reticular formation administration of neostigmine. B6 mice (n=13) were implanted with electrodes for recording states of sleep and wakefulness and with microinjection cannulae aimed for the pontine reticular formation. States of sleep and wakefulness were recorded for 4 h following pontine reticular formation injection of saline (control) or neostigmine. Experiments designed to gain insight into the muscarinic receptor subtypes mediating REM sleep enhancement involved pontine reticular formation administration of neostigmine after pertussis toxin, neostigmine after methoctramine, and neostigmine after pirenzepine. Pertussis toxin was used to block effects mediated by M2 and M4 receptors. Methoctramine was used to block M2 and M4 receptors, and pirenzepine was used to block M1 and M4 receptors. Pertussis toxin and methoctramine significantly decreased the neostigmine-induced REM sleep-like state. In contrast, pretreatment with pirenzepine did not significantly decrease the REM sleep-like state caused by neostigmine. These results support the interpretation that M2 receptors in the pontine reticular formation of B6 mouse contribute to the generation of REM sleep.
Food intake is an essential human activity regulated by homeostatic and hedonic systems in the brain which has mostly been ignored by the cognitive neurosciences. Yet, the study of food intake integrates fundamental cognitive and emotional processes in the human brain, and can in particular provide evidence on the neural correlates of the hedonic experience central to guiding behaviour. Neuroimaging experiments provide a novel basis for the further exploration of the brain systems involved in the conscious experience of pleasure and reward, and thus provide a unique method for studying the hedonic quality of human experience. Recent neuroimaging experiments have identified some of the regions involved in the cortical networks mediating hedonic experience in the human brain, with the evidence suggesting that the orbitofrontal cortex is the perhaps strongest candidate for linking food and other kinds of reward to hedonic experience. Based on the reviewed literature, a model is proposed to account for the roles of the different parts of the orbitofrontal cortex in this hedonic network.
The alpha2-adrenoreceptor (AR) is the most investigated noradrenergic receptor with regard to modulation of seizure activity. However, because of the complexity of multiple alpha2-AR subtypes and their distribution, the exact role of this receptor in modulating seizure activity is not clear. alpha2A- and alpha2C-ARs function as both autoreceptors (presynaptic) on noradrenergic neurons, where they regulate norepinephrine (NE) release, and as postsynaptic receptors on neurons that receive noradrenergic innervation, where they regulate the release of other neurotransmitters (heteroreceptor). The nonselective alpha2-AR agonist clonidine produced a proconvulsant effect on seizure susceptibility, while the selective alpha2A-AR agonist guanfacine was anticonvulsant. The effects of both alpha2-AR agonists were absent in alpha2a knockout mice, suggesting that the alpha2A-AR mediates the proconvulsant and anticonvulsant effect of alpha2-AR agonists on seizure susceptibility. To determine whether the alpha2-AR agonists were acting on inhibitory presynaptic autoreceptors to decrease NE release or on postsynaptic receptors on NE target neurons, the effects of clonidine and guanfacine were determined in dopamine beta-hydroxylase knockout (Dbh -/-) mice that lack NE. The anticonvulsant effect of guanfacine persisted in Dbh -/- mice, suggesting that guanfacine may act preferentially on alpha2A-postsynaptic receptors that regulate the action of NE on target neurons. In contrast, the proconvulsant effect of clonidine was lost in Dbh -/- mice, suggesting that clonidine may act on presynaptic autoreceptors to decrease NE release. We hypothesize that the alpha2A-presynaptic autoreceptor is responsible for the proconvulsant effect of alpha2-AR agonists, while the alpha2A-postsynaptic receptor is responsible for the anticonvulsant effect of alpha2-AR agonists. These data help to clarify the inconsistent effects of alpha2-AR agonists on seizure activity.
Experiments were done in urethane-anesthetized adult male Wistar rats to investigate the role of glutamate receptors in the medial subnucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS) in mediating the carotid sinus baroreflex responses. The carotid sinus on one side was isolated from the general circulation and perfused with a warm perfusion fluid (37 degrees C; pH 7.4) saturated with 100% oxygen. The carotid sinus was then connected to an apparatus that permitted application of pressure increments (20-100 mm Hg) to stimulate specifically baroreceptors. The mNTS ipsilateral to the isolated carotid sinus was identified by microinjections (100 nL) of L-glutamate (5 mM). The stereotaxic coordinates for mNTS were: 0.5-0.6 mm rostral to the calamus scriptorius, 0.5-0.6 mm lateral to the midline, and 0.5-0.6 mm deep from the dorsal medullary surface. Microinjections of either D(-)-2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid, which is an N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist (5 mM) or 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (a non-NMDA receptor antagonist; 2 mM) significantly attenuated the depressor responses elicited by carotid baroreceptor stimulation. Simultaneous blockade of NMDA and non-NMDA receptors in the ipsilateral mNTS completely abolished the depressor responses to carotid baroceptor stimulation. Microinjections of either (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; 50 mM) or (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphono-phenyl-glycine (CPPG; 80 mM) did not alter baroreflex responses. AIDA blocked group I and III while CPPG blocked all three groups of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGLURs). These results suggest that ionotropic glutamate receptors, but not mGLURs, in the mNTS mediate the reflex depressor responses to carotid baroreceptor stimulation in the rat.
The purpose of the present work was to assess whether upregulation of trophic factors and protection from damage induced in the retina by optic nerve section are associated with changes in the flash electroretinogram (ERG). We have examined the ERG in adult pigmented rat at different survival times over a period of 3 months following section of the optic nerve. The a-wave was analyzed using the Lamb-Pugh model and the parameters of best fit were estimated in control animals and at successive survival times. The amplitudes of the a- and b-waves were reduced over the first 7 days after nerve section. The a-wave recovered its relative amplitude by 21 days, but the b-wave remained depressed 5 weeks following nerve section. Analysis of the a-wave indicated a 20-30% reduction in the dark current of sectioned eyes at 7 days survival. A significant reduction of the amplification constant was observed in both nerve-sectioned and nerve-intact eyes, relative to normal and sham-operated controls. This reduction persisted to the longest survival time examined. The reduction of the a-wave at 7 days after nerve section coincides with a period of upregulation of ciliary nerve trophic factor. The amplification factor is influenced over a longer time course, which corresponds with a period of up-regulation of basic fibroblast growth factor. These changes in growth factor expression and ERG parameters are in turn associated with protection of photoreceptors against light damage. Present results suggest that the sensitivity of the retina to light may be regulated by mechanisms which protect photoreceptors against stress.
Extracellular ATP acting via P2 receptors in the inner ear initiates a variety of signaling pathways that may be involved in noise-induced cochlear injury. Nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase (NTPDase)1/CD39 and NTPDase2/CD39L1 are key elements for regulation of extracellular nucleotide concentrations and P2 receptor signaling in the cochlea. This study characterized the effect of noise exposure on regulation of NTPDase1 and NTPDase2 expression in the cochlea using a combination of real-time RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and functional studies. Adult Wistar rats were exposed to broad band noise at 90 dB and 110 dB sound pressure level (SPL) for 72 h. Exposure to 90 dB SPL induced a small and temporary change of auditory thresholds (temporary threshold shift), while exposure to 110 dB SPL induced a robust and permanent change of auditory thresholds (permanent threshold shift). NTPDase1 and NTPDase2 mRNA transcripts were upregulated in the cochlea exposed to 110 dB SPL, while mild noise (90 dB SPL) altered only NTPDase1 mRNA expression levels. Changes in NTPDases expression did not correlate with levels of circulating corticosterone, implying that the up-regulation of NTPDases expression was not stress-related. Semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry in the cochlea exposed to 110 dB SPL localized the increased NTPDase1 and NTPDase2 immunostaining in the stria vascularis and up-regulation of NTPDase2 in the intraganglionic spiral bundle. In contrast, NTPDase1 was down-regulated in the cell bodies of the spiral ganglion neurones. Distribution of NTPDases was not altered in the cochlea exposed to 90 dB SPL. Functional studies revealed increased ectonucleotidase activities in the cochlea after exposure to 110 dB SPL, consistent with up-regulation of NTPDases. The changes in NTPDases expression may reflect adaptive response of cochlear tissues to limit ATP signaling during noise exposure.
Recently, we have reported that following s.c. injection of a solution containing the whole bee-venom (BV; Apis mellifera), into one hind paw of a rat, the experimentally produced honeybee's sting, the animal shows altered pain-related behaviors and inflammation relevant to pathological pain state. To see whether melittin, the major (over 50%) toxic component of the BV, is responsible for the above abnormal pain behavioral changes, the present study was designed to investigate the effects of s.c. melittin on either nociceptive behaviors in conscious rats or spinal dorsal horn neuronal responses in anesthetized rats. In the behavioral surveys, s.c. injection of three doses of both melittin (5, 25 and 50 microg) and BV (10, 50 and 100 microg) into the posterior surface of one hind paw of rats produced an immediate tonic nociceptive response displaying as persistent spontaneous paw flinching reflex. Similar to the BV test, the melittin response was also monophasic and dose-dependent in terms of both intensity and time course. As an accompanied consequence, both heat and mechanical hypersensitivity (hyperalgesia and allodynia) and inflammatory responses (paw swelling and plasma extravasation) were induced by s.c. melittin injections. In the electrophysiological recordings, s.c. injection of the same three doses of melittin into the cutaneous receptive field produced an immediate, dose-dependent increase in spontaneous spike discharges of spinal dorsal horn wide-dynamic-range (WDR) neurons which are believed to be responsible for the spinally-organized nociceptive flexion reflex. The melittin-induced ongoing spike responses are similar to the behavioral flinching reflex in terms of both duration and frequency. Furthermore, the responsiveness of the WDR neurons to both heat (42 degrees C, 45 degrees C, 47 degrees C and 49 degrees C) and mechanical (brush, pressure and pinch) stimuli was significantly enhanced by s.c. injection of melittin shown as a leftward shift of the stimulus-response functional curves. Taken together, the present results suggest that melittin, the major toxin of the whole BV, is likely to be responsible for production of the long-term spinal neuronal changes as well as persistent spontaneous nociception, heat/mechanical hypersensitivity and inflammatory responses that are produced by experimental honeybee's sting.
The maturation of dorsal root reflexes (DRRs) in lumbar roots was characterized in neonatal rats at 1, 2 and 3 weeks after birth using an in vitro isolated spinal cord preparation with attached dorsal roots and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Changes of DRRs in rats of increasing age were also tested by administration of capsaicin to the DRG and related to spinal mechanisms of hyperalgesia by defining the behavioral responses of neonatal rats to intradermal capsaicin. DRRs evoked by stimulating the adjacent root in 1 week old rats are characterized by highly desynchronized waveforms with power spectra concentrated at frequencies greater than 200 Hz. DRRs in 1 week old rats show very little change in amplitude or area with increasing afferent stimulation strength. In contrast DRRs in 2 and 3 weeks old rats are highly synchronized with power concentrated at frequencies less than 100 Hz and show a graded increase in amplitude and area with increasing stimulus strength. The recovery of DRR amplitude in a paired pulse stimulus protocol is faster in 1 week rats than in 2 or 3 weeks old rats. Finally, DRRs in 2 and 3 week old rats show increased amplitude and area following application of capsaicin to the DRG of the stimulating root whereas those in 1 week old rats do not. These changes parallel the behavioral responses of neonatal rats as 2 and 3 weeks old rats show secondary mechanical hyperalgesia following intradermal capsaicin, but 1 week old rats do not. Our data indicate that the spinal circuitry for DRRs in the neonatal period undergoes rapidly dynamic development in the rat. This development is sufficiently rapid that mechanisms of spinal sensitization induced by capsaicin can be studied in rats 2 weeks old and older.
The piriform cortex (PC) is thought to be critically involved in the generation and propagation of forebrain (limbic type) seizures in the rat. The PC extends over a large area at the ventrolateral side of the rat brain with an anterior part highly sensitive for bicuculline-induced and a central part most sensitive for electrically induced seizures. Therefore, distinct parts of the PC might be differentially involved in the generation and spread of seizure activity. Since previous studies indicated that a loss of GABAergic inhibition in the PC is involved in the generation of epileptic activity, we microinjected the GABA-transaminase blocker vigabatrin bilaterally in the anterior, central and posterior PC of previously amygdala-kindled rats and repeatedly tested its effect on kindled seizures. Vigabatrin was anticonvulsant in all groups for up to 13 days with a maximal effect 24 h after injection. However, the anticonvulsant effect on seizure generalization was strongest after microinjection in the central PC suggesting that GABAergic synapses in this part are critically involved in the development of generalized seizures. Since differences in anatomical connections of the PC regions may be responsible for differences in seizure susceptibility, we addressed this question by injection of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in different PC subregions. Although there were similarities in the projections from different PC subregions, we also found differences between the PC subregions in their projections to structures known to be important in the limbic seizure network, such as the perirhinal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum. These differences in anatomical connectivity between PC subregions may be involved in the differences in seizure susceptibility observed in the present and previous studies.
The present study was designed to investigate the roles of different subtypes of opioid receptors in ventrolateral orbital cortex (VLO) opioid-evoked antinociception in formalin test by using an automatic detection system for recording the nociceptive behavior (agitation) and a manual method for detecting the duration of licking the injected paw in the conscious rat. Formalin (5%, 50 microl) s.c. injected into the hindpaw produced a biphasic agitation response or lengthening duration of licking. Morphine (5 microg) microinjected unilaterally into VLO significantly inhibited the agitation response and the licking time, and these effects were blocked by pre-administration of the non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1.0 microg) into the same site. Microinjection of endomorphin-1 (5 microg), a selective micro-receptor agonist, and [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]-enkephalin (DADLE, 10 microg), a delta-/micro-receptor agonist also inhibited the nociceptive behaviors, and both the effects were blocked by selective mu-receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine hydrochloride (beta-FNA; 3.75 microg), but the DADLE-evoked inhibition was not influenced by the selective delta-receptor antagonist naltrindole (5 microg). Microinjection of selective kappa-receptor agonist (+/-)-trans-U-50488 methanesulfonate salt (1.5 microg) failed to alter the nociceptive behaviors induced by formalin injection. The beta-FNA and naloxone applied into VLO and morphine into the adjacent regions ventral and dorsal to VLO had no effect on the formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviors. These results suggest that mu- but not delta- or kappa-opioid receptor is involved in the VLO opioid-evoked antinociception in formalin test rat.
A single session of uncontrollable (inescapable tailshock, IS), but not controllable (escapable tailshock, ES), stress is known to selectively potentiate subsequent morphine-conditioned place preference in a dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) serotonin (5-HT) dependent manner. Here, in vivo microdialysis is used to test the hypothesis that prior IS, but not ES, will potentiate morphine-induced dopamine (DA) efflux in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and that this will occur by a pathway involving DRN 5-HT neurons. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to yoked IS, ES, or no stress. Twenty-four hours later, morphine (3 mg/kg s.c.) or saline was administered during microdialysis. As predicted, prior IS selectively potentiated morphine-induced DA, but not 5-HT, efflux in the NAc. This potentiation was due to morphine's action in the DRN because it was blocked by intra-DRN microinjection of the opioid antagonist naltrexone (10 microg). IS potentiation of morphine-induced DA efflux in the NAc was also dependent upon activation of 5-HT neurons in the DRN because it was blocked by intra-DRN microinjection of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-(propylamino)-tetralin (1 microg). No effect of IS was found on morphine-induced 5-HT or DA efflux in the ventral tegmental area. These results suggest a neural substrate for stress potentiation of morphine reward involving 5-HT neurotransmission in the DRN.
Chronic opiate administration induces a number of biochemical alterations within the mesolimbic dopamine system that may mediate various aspects of the addictive process. In the present study, rats were administered morphine (1.0 mg/infusion) for 20 days (17.6+/-3.0 infusions/day) based on infusion histories of self-administering rats. Calbindin-D28K immunoreactive neurons were microdissected from the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and core subregions and gene expression was assessed using cDNA macroarrays. Comparison of gene expression between the shell and core subregions of vehicle-treated rats revealed significantly higher relative abundance of GABA-A alpha1, Galphai2 and post-synaptic density protein 95 transcript (PSD-95) mRNA levels in the shell, whereas Ggamma2 and synuclein 1 were more abundant in the core of the NAc. In the NAc shell, morphine administration resulted in upregulation of caspace 9, NF-kappaB, NF-H, tau, GABA-A delta subunit, FGFR1, Ggamma2, synuclein 1, syntaxin 5 and 13, GRK5, and c-fos mRNAs. Caspace 1, D2 dopamine receptor, GABA-A alpha1 subunit, GRIA 1/3/4, Galphai2, PSD-95 and CREB were down-regulated in the NAc shell with morphine administration. In the core, neuronal apoptotic inhibitory protein (NAIP), GABA-A alpha1 subunit, GRIN2C, GRIA1, mGluR1, D4 dopamine receptor and PSD-95 were upregulated by morphine administration whereas bax, bcl-x, cox-1 and MAP2 were decreased. These data demonstrate that morphine administration alters gene expression differentially in NAc subregions. Specifically, GABA-A alpha1 subunit, GRIA1 subunit and PSD-95 mRNAs were decreased in the shell but increased in the core following morphine administration. In addition, these results provide potential targets for further evaluation in models of morphine reinforcement as well as novel mechanisms of action in morphine-induced pathophysiology.
Repeated seizures induce permanent alterations in the hippocampal circuitry in experimental models and patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Most studies have concentrated their attention on seizure-induced reorganization of the mossy fiber pathway. The present study examined the projection pathway of the CA1 pyramidal neurons to the subiculum, which is the output of the hippocampal formation in five models of TLE. We examined the laminar pattern of Timm's histochemistry in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of CA1 in three acute and two chronic models of TLE: intraventricular kainic acid (KA), systemic KA, systemic pilocarpine, chronic electric kindling and chronic i.p. pentylenetetrazol. The laminar pattern of Timm histochemistry in the stratum moleculare of CA1 was permanently remodeled in epileptic models suggesting sprouting of Timm containing terminals from the adjacent stratum lacunosum. Ultrastructural examination confirmed that Timm granules were localized in synaptic terminals. As the source of Timm-labeled terminals in this region was not known, sodium selenite, a selective retrograde tracer for zinc-containing terminals, was iontophoretically injected in vivo in rats exposed to systemic pilocarpine, systemic KA or chronic pentylenetetrazol. The normal projection of CA1 pyramidal neurons to the subiculum is topographically organized in a lamellar fashion. In normal rats, the extent of the injection site (terminals) and the retrogradely labeled pyramidal neurons (cell soma) corresponded to the same number of lamellas. In epileptic rats, the retrograde labeling extended 42-67% farther than the normal dorso-ventral extent including lamellas above and below the expected. This is direct evidence for sprouting of CA1 pyramidal axons into the subiculum and stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the CA1 region confirming the alterations of the laminar pattern of Timm's histochemistry. Sprouting of the CA1 projection to subiculum across hippocampal lamellas might lead to translamellar hyperexcitability, and to amplification and synchronization of epileptic discharges in the output gate of the hippocampal formation.
Activity-dependent brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression is Ca2+-dependent, yet little is known about the Ca2+ channel contributions that might direct selective expression of the multiple BDNF transcripts. Here, effects of pilocarpine-induced seizure activity on total BDNF expression and on the individual sensitivity of BDNF transcripts to glutamate receptor and Ca2+ channel blockers were evaluated using hippocampal slice cultures and in situ hybridization of transcript-specific cRNA probes directed against mRNAs for the four 5' exons (I-IV) of the BDNF gene. mRNAs for nerve growth factor (NGF) and tyrosine kinase B (trkB) also were studied. Pilocarpine (5 mM) induced a dose- and time-dependent increase in total BDNF (exon V) mRNA expression in the dentate granule cells and CA3-CA1 pyramidal cells with maximal effects at 6 and 24 h, respectively. Increases were blocked by co-treatment with the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid/kainate 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX: 25 microM) and the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 25 microM), whereas the L-type voltage sensitive Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine (20 microM) was without detectable effect. Maximal NGF and trkB mRNA expression was induced by pilocarpine at 4 and 12 h, respectively. For the individual BDNF transcripts, APV blocked pilocarpine-induced increases in transcript II, whereas nifedipine blocked increases in transcripts I and III. Transcript IV levels were not altered by treatment. These results indicate that transcript II makes the greatest contribution to pilocarpine effects on total BDNF mRNA content in this model and provides evidence for regional and Ca2+ channel-specific differences in activity-dependent regulation of the different BDNF transcripts in hippocampus.
Heat shock transcription factors mediate the regulation of the organism physiological maintenance and adaptation. We investigated the morphology and cellular expression of selected genes in brains of transgenic mice lacking the heat shock transcription factor 1, HSF1, the main transactivator under stress conditions. All HSF1 null mice displayed major brain morphological alterations: the lateral ventricles were markedly enlarged and the white matter reduced, as in ventriculomegaly. Heterozygous mice for the HSF1 gene also had these abnormalities albeit to a lower extent in comparison to the wild type, indicating a gene dosage effect. Cell loss, vacuolisation, amorphous eosinophilic cytoplasm and pyknotic nucleus were evident in the white matter, especially in periventricular regions. These areas also exhibited astrogliosis and neurodegeneration. The expression of heat shock protein hsp 27 was up-regulated whereas alpha B-crystallin was down-regulated in different areas of HSF1 null mouse brain in comparison to control mice. These data implicate HSF1 in maintaining the postnatal mammalian brain under non-stress conditions.
One-trial step-down inhibitory avoidance in rats involves the activation of two separate memory types, a short-term system (STM) that lasts 3-6 h, and a long-term system (LTM) that takes 3-6 h to be formed and lasts for many days or even months. Here we investigate the effect of nicotinic receptor (nAChR) ligands infused bilaterally in the hippocampus on STM and LTM formation and on LTM retrieval of this task. Rats were implanted with chronic cannulae in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus, trained using a 0.5 mA foot shock, and tested twice, first 1.5 h after training to measure STM, and again at 24 h to measure LTM. The drugs used were the nAChR antagonists, mecamylamine (1, 3 and 10 microg/side) and dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE; 2, 6 and 18 microg/side) and the agonist, nicotine (0.6, 1 and 3 microg/side). They were given either 15 min before training, immediately after training or 15 min prior to LTM retrieval. Mecamylamine and DHbetaE impaired and nicotine enhanced STM, LTM and retrieval similarly. The results indicate that nAChRs in CA1 participate in the regulation of both STM and LTM formation, and on the retrieval of LTM.
It has been implicated that glia activation plays a critical role in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the precise mechanism of glia activation is not clearly understood yet. In our present studies, we confirmed our previous results where change the levels of neuropeptides and peptidases in ibotenic acid (IBO) infusion into the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis, an animal model of AD. Furthermore, we extended our study to investigate a possible protection effect of co-administration on the changes of neuropeptides, and neuronal and glial cells in IBO-infused rat brain by memantine treatment. The levels of substance P and somatostatin were decreased in the striatum and frontal cortex 1 week after IBO infusion, and recovered to the control level by memantine treatment, indicating the involvement of neuropeptides in AD pathology. Furthermore, the immunohistochemical and enzymatic studies of GFAP and CD 11b, and peptidylarginine deiminase, markers of glia, in the striatum and frontal cortex showed the increase in IBO-treated rat brain as compared with controls, while co-administration of memantine and IBO no increase of astrocytes and microglia activation was observed. The present biochemical and immunohistochemical results suggest that glia activation might play an important role to the pathology of AD, and correlate with the changes of neuropeptide levels in AD brain that is recovered by memantine treatment.
Allogeneic embryonic CNS tissue grafts placed in the mature brain are classically considered to lack significant long-range efferents. This problem was reexamined using 'green' cells from mice expressing ubiquitously an 'enhanced' green fluorescent protein as an alternative to classical tract tracing methods. The present study shows that fetal cortical neurons (E15; occipital origin) grafted in the occipitoparietal region of the adult cortex project massively throughout ipsilateral telencephalic structures. Two out of the nine grafted subjects had additional but sparse efferents in the visual thalamus, superior colliculus and pons.
Gap junctions between glial cells in mammalian CNS are known to contain several connexins (Cx), including Cx26, Cx30 and Cx43 at astrocyte-to-astrocyte junctions, and Cx29 and Cx32 on the oligodendrocyte side of astrocyte-to-oligodendrocyte junctions. Recent reports indicating that oligodendrocytes also express Cx47 prompted the present studies of Cx47 localization and relationships to other glial connexins in mouse CNS. In view of the increasing number of connexins reported to interact directly with the scaffolding protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), we investigated ZO-1 expression and Cx47/ZO-1 interaction capabilities in brain, spinal cord and Cx47-transfected HeLa cells. From counts of over 9000 oligodendrocytes labeled by immunofluorescence in various brain regions, virtually all of these cells were found to express Cx29, Cx32 and Cx47. Oligodendrocyte somata displayed robust Cx47-immunopositive puncta that were co-localized with punctate labeling for Cx32 and Cx43. By freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling, Cx47 was abundant on the oligodendrocyte-side of oligodendrocyte/astrocyte gap junctions. By immunofluorescence, labeling for Cx47 along myelinated fibers was sparse in most brain regions, whereas Cx29 and Cx32 were previously found to be concentrated along these fibers. By immunogold labeling, Cx47 was found in numerous small gap junctions linking myelin to astrocytes, but not within deeper layers of myelin. Brain subcellular fractionation revealed a lack of Cx47 enrichment in myelin fractions, which nevertheless contained an enrichment of Cx32 and Cx29. Oligodendrocytes were immunopositive for ZO-1, and displayed almost total Cx47/ZO-1 co-localization. ZO-1 was found to co-immunoprecipitate with Cx47, and pull-down assays indicated binding of Cx47 to the second PDZ domain of ZO-1. Our results indicate widespread expression of Cx47 by oligodendrocytes, but with a distribution pattern in relative levels inverse to the abundance of Cx29 in myelin and paucity of Cx29 in oligodendrocyte somata. Further, our findings suggest a scaffolding and/or regulatory role of ZO-1 at the oligodendrocyte side of astrocyte-to-oligodendrocyte gap junctions.
Theta frequency oscillation of the septo-hippocampal system has been considered as a prominent activity associated with cognitive function and affective processes. It is well documented that anxiolytic drugs diminish septo-hippocampal oscillatory Theta activity contributing to their either therapeutic or unwanted side effects. In the present experiments we applied a combination of computational and physiological techniques to explore the functional role of GABAA receptors in Theta oscillation. In electrophysiological experiments extracellular single unit recordings were performed from medial septum/diagonal band of Broca with simultaneous hippocampal (CA1) electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings from anesthetized rats. Neurotransmission at GABAA receptors were modulated by means of pharmacological tools: the actions of the GABAA receptor positive allosteric modulator diazepam and inverse agonist/negative allosteric modulator FG-7142 were evaluated on septo-hippocampal activity. Systemic administration of diazepam inhibited, whereas FG-7142 enhanced Theta oscillation of septal neurons and hippocampal EEG Theta activity. In parallel to these experimental observations, a computational model has been constructed by implementing a septal GABA neuron model with a CA1 hippocampal model containing three types of neurons (including oriens and basket interneurons and pyramidal cells; latter modeled by multicompartmental techniques; for detailed model description with network parameters see online addendum: http://geza.kzoo.edu/theta). This connectivity made the network capable of simulating the responses of the septo-hippocampal circuitry to the modulation of GABAA transmission, and the presently described computational model proved suitable to reveal several aspects of pharmacological modulation of GABAA receptors. In addition, computational findings indicated different roles of distinctively located GABAA receptors in theta generation.
Treatment with the phencyclidine derivative ketamine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist and a well known anesthetic, has recently been introduced to mimic schizophrenia in animals. Using rats repeatedly treated with sub-anesthetic doses we demonstrate in the hippocampal formation the cellular distribution patterns of proteins being relevant to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Compared with controls an increase in the density of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-, neuronal nitric oxide synthase- and cFOS-positive hippocampal interneurons was found, whereas the density of parvalbumin expressing cells was decreased. Our experiments show that repeated injections of sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine induce significant changes in the nitrergic and GABAergic system which, in part, resemble those described in postmortem brains of human schizophrenics indicating that sub-chronic treatment with sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine might be a useful animal model to study schizophrenia.
Rat sciatic nerve axons express capsaicin, proton and heat sensitivity and respond to stimulation with a Ca2+-dependent and graded calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release. In this study we demonstrate that similar functions, including capsaicin-induced CGRP release, are to be found in the desheathed sciatic nerve of the mouse. We have morphologically investigated the mechanisms of this axonal release in regions away from the active zones of synapses. Capsaicin receptor 1 (TRPV1) and CGRP immunostaining was performed using electron microscopic visualization. TRPV1 was identified in the axoplasm and inside vesicles--presumably on axonal transport--as well as in considerable quantity in the axonal plasma membrane of unmyelinated nerve fibers. Most of the unmyelinated axons were immunopositive for CGRP and in unstimulated nerves CGRP-containing vesicles almost entirely filled the axoplasm. After capsaicin stimulation (10(-6) M for 5 min), the fibers appeared depleted of CGRP with only few vesicles remaining as well as some residual staining of the axoplasm. In addition a large number of vesicles were fused with the axonal membrane, forming classical exocytotic figures--the omega structures--lined with CGRP immunoreactive product. These results present morphological evidence for the distribution of TRPV1 along unmyelinated axons in peripheral nerve and also provide the first demonstration of vesicular neuropeptide exocytosis along unmyelinated axons in peripheral nerve.
The neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflects a precarious balance between neurodegenerative phenomena and reactive events of neuroplasticity. This latter aspect of AD neuropathology has received less attention than it deserves and its contribution to memory loss is therefore not well understood. To monitor neuroplastic-related events we studied the distribution of the plasticity-associated, brain growth protein GAP-43 in AD subjects and age-matched controls. In tissue from AD patients, we observed a consistent elevation of GAP-43 in a subfield of the hippocampus, stratum lacunosum moleculare. This subfield contains inputs from multiple brain regions and is known to regulate declarative memory function. Levels of potentially aberrant sprouting, as marked by elevated growth protein, were positively correlated with the severity of AD suggesting that increased expression of GAP-43 leads to a miswiring of circuits critical for memory function. Our findings suggest a mechanism, aberrant neuroplasticity, that in concert with neurodegeneration may importantly contribute to the memory loss in AD.
In rodents, aggressive behavior can be altered by experimental manipulations of emotional responsiveness. The goal of this study was to identify characteristics of emotional reactivity associated with individual differences in aggressive behavior and their integration within a common neural network. Male golden hamsters were first screened for offensive aggression. Then, the animals were trained through immediate reinforcement and tested for their adaptation to a delayed reward. Similar protocols have been used to test behaviors associated with frustration. At first, all hamsters showed increased frequency of bar pressing per reward during delayed reinforcement. However, Low-Aggression animals were able to adapt to the delay and showed a decreased rate of bar pressing per reward within 5 days. In contrast, High-Aggression animals maintained a high rate of bar pressing per reward. In addition, brains were collected after immediate reward training or delayed reward testing, and labeled for pCREB-immunoreactivity as a marker of trans-synaptic activity. In High-Aggression individuals, elevated density of cyclic AMP response element binding protein, phosphorylated (pCREB) immunostaining was found within the anterior hypothalamus, an area critical to the control of aggression. Delayed reinforcement was associated with enhanced pCREB immunostaining within the central amygdala, medial amygdala and preoptic area/hypothalamus continuum. Further analysis of the data also showed a positive correlation in labeling density between the lateral septum and the anterior hypothalamus, specifically in Low-Aggression animals exposed to delayed reward. Therefore, as High-Aggression individuals lack control of their emotional reactivity, they are also characterized by a de-synchronization between the inhibitory output of the septum and the aggression areas of the hypothalamus. Finally, our data also show that frustration is associated with an extensive activation of the preoptic area/hypothalamus continuum and amygdala.
Circadian rhythms are reset by exposure to photic stimuli and nonphotic stimuli. Glutamate appears to be the primary neurotransmitter that communicates photic stimuli to the circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. There is also substantial evidence that neuropeptide Y (NPY) mediates the effects of at least some nonphotic stimuli on the circadian clock. The purpose of this study was to investigate how NPY and glutamate receptor activation interact to reset the phase of the circadian clock. Microinjection of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) during the subjective day significantly decreased NPY-induced phase advances. During the late subjective night, NMDA induced light-like phase advances, which were significantly reduced by microinjection of NPY. Microinjection of NPY inhibited NMDA-induced phase advances during the late subjective night, even when sodium-dependent action potentials were inhibited by tetrodotoxin. These data support the hypothesis that, during the subjective night, NPY and NMDA act on the same clock cells or on cells that communicate with clock cells by mechanisms not requiring action potentials. Although NPY and NMDA appear to be mutually inhibitory during both the day and the night, the mechanisms of this inhibition appear to be different during the day versus the night.
The cholinergic neurons in the septohippocampal projection are implicated in hippocampal functions such as spatial learning and memory. The aim of this study was to examine how septohippocampal cholinergic transmission is modulated by muscarinic inputs and by the neuropeptide galanin, co-localized with acetylcholine (ACh) in septohippocampal cholinergic neurons, and how spatial learning assessed by the Morris water maze test is affected. Muscarinic inputs to the septal area are assumed to be excitatory, whereas galanin is hypothesized to inhibit septohippocampal cholinergic function. To test these hypotheses, compounds were microinjected into the medial septum and hippocampal ACh release was assessed by microdialysis probes in the ventral hippocampus of the rat. Blockade of septal muscarinic transmission by intraseptal scopolamine increased hippocampal ACh release suggesting that septal cholinergic neurons are under tonic inhibition. Stimulation of septal muscarinic receptors by carbachol also increased hippocampal ACh release. Despite this increase, both scopolamine and carbachol tended to impair hippocampus-dependent spatial learning. This finding also suggests a revision of the simplistic notion that an increase in hippocampal ACh may be facilitatory for learning and memory. Galanin infused into the medial septum enhanced hippocampal ACh release and facilitated spatial learning, suggesting that septal galanin, contrary to earlier claims, does not inhibit but excites septohippocampal cholinergic neurons. Galanin receptor stimulation combined with muscarinic blockade in the septal area resulted in an excessive increase of hippocampal ACh release combined with an impairment of spatial learning. This finding suggests that the level of muscarinic activity within the septal area may determine the effects of galanin on hippocampal cognitive functions. In summary, a limited range of cholinergic muscarinic transmission may contribute to optimal hippocampal function, a finding that has important implications for therapeutic approaches in the treatment of disorders of memory function.
Neuropeptides modulate neuronal function in hippocampus, but the organization of hippocampal sites of peptide release and actions is not fully understood. The stress-associated neuropeptide corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) is expressed in inhibitory interneurons of rodent hippocampus, yet physiological and pharmacological data indicate that it excites pyramidal cells. Here we aimed to delineate the structural elements underlying the actions of CRH, and determine whether stress influenced hippocampal principal cells also via actions of this endogenous peptide. In hippocampal pyramidal cell layers, CRH was located exclusively in a subset of GABAergic somata, axons and boutons, whereas the principal receptor mediating the peptide's actions, CRH receptor 1 (CRF1), resided mainly on dendritic spines of pyramidal cells. Acute 'psychological' stress led to activation of principal neurons that expressed CRH receptors, as measured by rapid phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein. This neuronal activation was abolished by selectively blocking the CRF1 receptor, suggesting that stress-evoked endogenous CRH release was involved in the activation of hippocampal principal cells.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin family that mediates synaptic plasticity and excitability in the CNS. Recent evidence has shown that increased BDNF levels can lead to hyperexcitability and epileptiform activities, while suppression of BDNF function in transgenic mice or by antagonist administration retards the development of seizures. However, several groups, including our own, have reported that increasing BDNF levels by continuous intrahippocampal infusion inhibits epileptogenesis. It is possible that the continuous administration of BDNF produces a down-regulation of its high-affinity TrkB receptor, leading to a decrease of neuronal responsiveness to BDNF. If so, then animals should respond differently to bolus injections of BDNF, which presumably do not alter Trk expression, compared with continuous infusion. To test this hypothesis, we compared the effects of intrahippocampal BDNF continuous infusion and bolus injections on kindling induction. We showed that continuous infusion of BDNF inhibited the development of behavioral seizures and decreased the level of phosphorylated Trks or TrkB receptors. In contrast, multiple bolus microinjections of BDNF accelerated kindling development and did not affect the level of phosphorylated Trks or TrkB receptors. Our results indicate that different administration protocols yield opposite effects of BDNF on neuronal excitability, epileptogenesis and Trk expression. Unlike nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3, which affect mossy fiber sprouting, we found that BDNF administration had no effect on the mossy fiber system in naive or kindled rats. Such results suggest that the effects of BDNF on epileptogenesis are not modulated by its effect on sprouting, but rather by its effects on excitability.
The effects of chronic elevations in circulating glucocorticoids on the expression of peptides and peptide receptors of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis have been studied extensively in rodents, but they have not been examined in primates. To determine the responses of the HPA axis in primates to elevated cortisol, hypothalamic and pituitary tissue from normal older pigtailed macaques (Macaca nemestrina) that had received daily oral administration of cortisol or placebo for 1 year were studied. Pro-opiomelanocortin in the anterior pituitary and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) were significantly reduced in cortisol-treated monkeys in comparison with controls. CRF receptor 1 (CRF-R1) expression in the anterior pituitary and arginine vasopressin mRNA expression in the PVN were unchanged by chronic cortisol administration. Sustained elevation of circulating glucocorticoids results in suppression of HPA peptide and peptide receptor expression in the PVN and anterior pituitary similar to those found in rodents. Chronic therapeutic administration of glucocorticoids in humans may have unintended consequences for hypothalamic and pituitary function.
We sought to determine which medullary sympathetic premotor neurons mediate the cardiovascular and thermogenic effects resulting from activation of neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) in urethane/chloralose-anesthetized, artificially ventilated rats. Unilateral disinhibition of neurons in the DMH with microinjection of bicuculline (2 mM, 30 nl) caused significant increases in brown adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity (BAT SNA, +828+/-169% of control, n=16), cardiac SNA (+516+/-82% of control, n=16), renal SNA (RSNA, +203+/-25% of control, n=28) and, accompanied by increases in BAT temperature (+1.6+/-0.3 degrees C, n=11), end-tidal CO(2) (+0.7+/-0.1%, n=15), heart rate (+113+/-7 beats/min, n=32), arterial pressure (+19+/-2 mm Hg, n=32) and plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine concentrations. Inhibition of neurons in the rostral raphe pallidus (RPa) with microinjection of muscimol (6 mM, 60 nl) abolished the increases in BAT SNA and BAT temperature and reduced the tachycardia induced by disinhibition of DMH neurons. Inhibition of neurons in the RVLM with microinjection of muscimol (6 mM, 60 nl) markedly reduced the increase in RSNA, but did not affect the evoked tachycardia or the increase in arterial pressure. Combined glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD-67) immunocytochemistry and pseudorabies viral retrograde tracing from BAT indicated close appositions between GABAergic terminals and DMH neurons in sympathetic pathways to BAT. In conclusion, these results demonstrate the existence of a tonically active, GABAergic inhibitory input to neurons in the DMH and that blockade of this inhibition increases sympathetic outflow to thermogenic and cardiovascular targets by activating functionally specific populations of sympathetic premotor neurons: the excitation of BAT SNA and BAT thermogenesis is mediated through putative sympathetic premotor neurons in the RPa, while the activation in RSNA is dependent on those in RVLM. These data increase our understanding of the central pathways mediating changes in sympathetically mediated thermogenesis that is activated in thermoregulation, stress responses and energy balance.
A major question in the study of cerebellar cortical function is how parallel fiber and climbing fiber inputs interact to shape information processing. Emphasis has been placed on the long-term effects due to conjunctive stimulation of climbing fibers and parallel fibers. Much less emphasis has been placed on short-term interactions and their spatial nature. To address this question the responses to parallel fiber and climbing fiber inputs and their short-term interaction were characterized using optical imaging with Neutral Red in the anesthetized mouse in vivo. Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar surface evoked an increase in fluorescence consisting of a transverse optical beam. The linear relationship between the optical responses and stimulus parameters, high spatial resolution and close coupling to the electrophysiological recordings show the utility of this imaging methodology. The majority of the optical response was due to activation of postsynaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and metabotropic glutamate receptors with a minor contribution from the presynaptic parallel fibers. Stimulation of the inferior olive evoked parasagittal bands that were abolished by blocking AMPA glutamate receptors. Conjunctive stimulation of the cerebellar surface and inferior olive resulted in inhibition of the climbing fiber evoked optical responses. This lateral inhibition of the parasagittal bands extended out from both sides of an activated parallel fiber beam and was mediated by GABA(A) but not GABA(B) receptors. One hypothesized role for lateral inhibition of this type is to spatially focus the interactions between parallel fiber and climbing fiber input on Purkinje cells. In summary optical imaging with Neutral Red permitted visualization of cerebellar cortical responses to parallel fiber and climbing fiber activation. The GABA(A) dependent lateral inhibition of the climbing fiber evoked parasagittal bands by parallel fiber stimulation shows that cerebellar interneurons play a short-term role in shaping the responses of Purkinje cells to climbing fiber input.
Primary auditory cortex (AI) has a tonotopic map consisting of orderly isofrequency (IF) bands, and cortical connections are commonly supposed to link domains preferring similar characteristic frequencies (CFs) within AI and in auditory association cortex. The interaction of different frequency channels, however, has not fully been understood in terms of anatomical substrates. Here, by injecting two anterograde tracers in different frequency domains of cat AI, without overlap of the injection cores, we attempted to relate the anatomical mapping of cortical outputs to physiologically defined fields in the auditory cortex. Consistent with previous studies, patches of labeled axon terminals were oriented largely along the IF axis. In regions distant from the injection sites, however, terminal patches were divergent in distribution. This divergence resulted in a complex geometry of partial overlap of projections originating from the two injection sites. The relative extent of the overlap tended to vary depending on the distance between the two injection sites. Physiological mapping for tonotopy across auditory fields revealed that projectional overlap was characteristic of dorsal AI and the dorsoposterior field and, to a lesser extent, in the secondary auditory field. Considering the differences in frequency representation in different AI IF bands, the anatomical convergence of projections tuned to different CFs could contribute to the spectral integration of sound components. Furthermore, the different extent of convergence in the functionally distinct fields might reflect field-specific processing of acoustic signals.
Though there is some evidence to the contrary, dogma claims that primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion do not interact, that the ganglion serves as a through-station in which no signal processing occurs. Here we use patch clamp and immunocytochemistry to show that sensory neurons in primary culture can form chemical synapses on each other. The resulting neurotransmitter release is calcium dependent and uses synaptotagmin-containing vesicles. On many cells studied, the postsynaptic receptor for the neurotransmitter is a P2X receptor, an ion channel activated by extracellular ATP. This shows that sensory neurons have the machinery to form purinergic synapses on each other and that they do so when placed in short-term tissue culture.
We have used a morphological approach to evaluate the role of NMDA receptors (NMDAR) in postnatal development of brainstem neurons in awake rats. Chronic NMDAR blockade was performed by placing drug-impregnated Elvax implants over the brainstem at the fifth postnatal day (P5). Compared with control, NMDAR blockade led to a transient increase in dendritic arbor area and filopodium density until P12 followed by a rapid decline in both parameters. Electron microscopy observations showed that these changes correlated with an increase in synapse density at P14 followed by a decrease in synapse density at P28 if chronic NMDAR blockade was maintained until P21. These results support the hypothesis that synapse formation does not require NMDAR activation. In addition, our data suggest a dual role for NMDAR in controlling the synapse number. Early in development NMDARs may be involved in controlling the rate of synapse elimination. Later on, they may subserve synapse stabilization. The physiological significance of these results is discussed.
We recently showed axonal ingrowth into fibronectin (FN) mats implanted into the spinal cord. However, little axonal growth was found from FN mats into intact spinal cord. Previous research has shown that this is due in part to astrocytosis around an area of CNS damage. Antibodies to transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) can diminish this astrocytosis. TGFbeta also has effects on macrophages and Schwann cells, both of which infiltrate the spinal cord following damage. We examined the axonal, Schwann cell, and macrophage infiltration into FN mats as well as the level of astrocytosis and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan NG2 around FN implants incubated in TGFbeta antibodies and implanted into a lesion cavity in the spinal cord. We also examined the effects of applying TGFbeta antibodies to a spinal cord hemisection site. Anti-TGFbeta1 within FN mats resulted in extensive cavitation, with the area of damage being larger than the original lesion. Cavitation was also seen following application of anti-TGFbeta1 to a spinal cord hemisection site. No cavitation was seen following saline, non-immune IgG or anti-TGFbeta2 treatment. However, anti-TGFbeta2 treatment did result in diminished axonal growth and Schwann cell and macrophage infiltration. Around the implant site, anti-TGFbeta2 treatment resulted in a reduction in the level of astrocytosis but had not effect on levels of NG2. Similar effects were seen following anti-TGFbeta2 application to spinal cord hemisection sites. The results suggest that anti-TGFbeta1 exacerbates secondary damage by preventing the anti-inflammatory effect of endogenous TGFbeta1. Anti-TGFbeta2 did not enhance axonal regeneration in this model but did slightly reduce astrocytosis.
In some mammals, epileptic seizures have been induced in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and other limbic structures after the sudden suppression of chronically infused GABA. This hyperexcitability state induced by the endogenous neurotransmitter resembles the withdrawal seizure-responses to other GABA(A) receptor agonists such as benzodiazepines, barbiturates and alcohol. Hyperexcitability induced by GABA withdrawal also persists in in vitro preparation. Hippocampal slices, obtained from rats with seizures induced by GABA-withdrawal showed field potential oscillations and paroxysmal activity in the Ammon's horn region 1. During GABA-withdrawal hyperexcitability the threshold of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) decreased to a point in which a brief frequency stimulation that normally failed to produce long lasting changes in synaptic strength, was now able to induce LTP. Facilitation of the LTP induction was associated with a decreased GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory activity, because the effect of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, was occluded during hyperexcitability and the dose-response curve for bicuculline showed a 50% efficacy reduction with a shift in the effective concentration required for half-maximal activation from 4.5-1.1 microM relative to controls. Nevertheless, the dissociation constant of the antagonist did not change significantly. Our results support the idea that changes in hippocampal plasticity under altered inhibitory neurotransmission states, like those induced by withdrawal syndromes to anxiolytic, sedative or anticonvulsant drugs may be engaged during seizures.
Developmental exposure to ethanol causes profound damage to the cerebellum, ranging from aberration in neuronal differentiation to cell loss. As a major neurotrophic factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB are expressed in the developing, as well as adult, cerebellum. Many neurotrophic effects of BDNF are mediated by gene transcription. We hypothesized that ethanol interfered with BDNF signaling and disrupted BDNF-regulated transcriptional activity. Using a transgenic mouse model expressing an activator protein-1 (AP-1) luciferase reporter construct, we demonstrated that BDNF stimulated AP-1 transactivation in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. This observation was validated by the study using a human neuronal cell line expressing inducible TrkB (TB8 neuroblastoma cells). BDNF induced AP-1 transactivation, as well as increased the binding activity of AP-1 protein complex to a DNA sequence containing AP-1 sites in TB8 cells. BDNF-mediated AP-1 activation was mediated by PI3K/Akt and JNK pathways; BDNF activated Akt and JNKs, and blocking these pathways significantly inhibited BDNF-stimulated AP-1 transactivation. More importantly, ethanol inhibited BDNF-mediated activation of PI3K/Akt and JNKs, and blocked BDNF-stimulated AP-1 activation. Since ethanol did not affect either the expression or autophosphorylation of TrkB, it could be concluded that the site of ethanol action was downstream of TrkB. The present study establishes that this AP-1 reporter transgenic mouse model is valuable for assessing AP-1 activity in the CNS neurons. Our results provide an insight into molecular mechanism(s) of ethanol action.
Recent studies have shown that tachykinins mediate slow synaptic transmission to myenteric AH (afterhyperpolarising) neurons via neurokinin-3 receptors (NK(3)R). This study investigated a similar role for neurokinin-1 receptors (NK(1)R) and compared the effect of selective receptor antagonists on non-cholinergic slow excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) recorded in myenteric AH neurons of the guinea-pig ileum. Slow EPSPs evoked by electrical stimulation of circumferentially oriented presynaptic nerves were mimicked by application of senktide, an NK(3)R agonist. [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]-substance P, an NK(1)R agonist, depolarised a smaller number of neurons. SR142801, a selective NK(3)R antagonist (100 nM), inhibited slow EPSPs and responses to senktide, but had no effect on depolarisations evoked by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase. SR140333, a selective NK(1)R antagonist, inhibited slow EPSPs in a subset of neurons and blocked responses to [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]-substance P, but not to senktide or forskolin. Slow EPSPs that were predominantly mediated by NK(1)R had significantly shorter latencies than those due to activation of NK(3)R. After blockade of slow EPSPs, slow hyperpolarizing responses to presynaptic nerve stimulation were revealed in one-third of neurons. These events, which were associated with a decrease in input resistance and blocked by tetrodotoxin, were equated with slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. They were abolished by the 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) receptor antagonist 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]-piperazine (NAN-190), but unaffected by phentolamine, an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist. In conclusion, these results provide the first direct evidence that NK(1)R mediate some slow excitatory synaptic input to myenteric AH neurons, and suggest that NK(1)R and NK(3)R activate distinct signal transduction pathways. These results also demonstrate that slow inhibitory synaptic transmission, which may be mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine, is more prevalent in the myenteric plexus than previously indicated.
The startle reflex is elicited by acoustic, trigeminal or vestibular stimulation, or by combinations of these stimuli. Acoustic startle is mediated largely by ibotenate-sensitive neurons in the ventrocaudal pontine reticular formation (PnC). In these studies we tested whether startle elicited by stimulation of different modalities is affected by infusion of the non-selective glutamate antagonist, kynurenate, into the PnC. In awake rats, startle responses evoked by either acoustic or spinal trigeminal nucleus stimulation were inhibited by kynurenate, but not saline, infusions, with the most effective placements nearest PnC. In chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats, kynurenate in the PnC reduced trigeminal nucleus-evoked hindlimb EMG responses, but not vestibular nucleus-evoked startle. Kynurenate in the vestibular nucleus had no effect on trigeminal nucleus-evoked startle. These results indicate that trigeminal nucleus stimulation evokes startle largely through glutamate receptors in the PnC, similarly to acoustic startle, but vestibular nucleus-evoked startle is mediated through other pathways, such as the vestibulospinal tract.
Outgrowing axons in the developing nervous system secrete neurotransmitters and neuromodulatory substances, which is considered to stimulate synaptogenesis. However, some synapses develop independent of presynaptic secretion. To investigate the role of secretion in synapse formation and maintenance in vivo, we quantified synapses and their morphology in the neocortical marginal zone of munc18-1 deficient mice which lack both evoked and spontaneous secretion [Science 287 (2000) 864]. Histochemical analyses at embryonic day 18 (E18) showed that the overall organization of the neocortex and the number of cells were similar in mutants and controls. Western blot analysis revealed equal concentrations of pre- and post-synaptic marker proteins in mutants and controls and immunocytochemical analyses indicated that these markers were targeted to the neuropil of the synaptic layer in the mutant neocortex. Electron microscopy revealed that at E16 immature synapses had formed both in mutants and controls. These synapses had a similar synapse diameter, active zone length and contained similar amounts of synaptic vesicles, which were immuno-positive for two synaptic vesicle markers. However, these synapses were three times less abundant in the mutant. Two days later, E18, synapses in the controls had more total and docked vesicles, but not in the mutant. Furthermore, synapses were now five times less abundant in the mutant. In both mutant and controls, synapse-like structures were observed with irregular shaped vesicles on both sides of the synaptic cleft. These 'multivesicular structures' were immuno-positive for synaptic vesicle markers and were four times more abundant in the mutant. We conclude that in the absence of presynaptic secretion immature synapses with a normal morphology form, but fewer in number. These secretion-deficient synapses might fail to mature and instead give rise to multivesicular structures. These two observations suggest that secretion of neurotransmitters and neuromodulatory substances is required for synapse maintenance, not for synaptogenesis. Multivesicular structures may develop out of unstable synapses.
Following neurological injury early in life numerous events, including excitotoxicity, neural degeneration, gliosis, neosynaptogenesis, and circuitry reorganization, may alone or in concert contribute to hyperexcitability and recurrent seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy. Our studies provide new evidence regarding the temporal sequence of key elements of hippocampal reorganization, mossy fiber sprouting and glutamate receptor subunit up-regulation, in a subset of young temporal lobe epileptic patients. Without evidence of mossy fiber sprouting, the youngest age group (3-10 years old) of mesial temporal lobe epileptic patients demonstrated enhanced glutamate receptor subunit profiles, suggesting that the dendritic change precedes axonal sprouting. However, sclerotic hippocampal specimens from epileptic patients ages 12-15 years old had the characteristic features of glutamate receptor up-regulation and mossy fiber sprouting first identified in the adult, indicating that reconstructed circuits appear early in the course of the disease. Non-sclerotic hippocampal specimens from lesion associated temporal lobe epileptic patients of all age groups showed minimal cell loss, sparse staining of glutamate receptor subunits in the dentate gyrus, and little or no mossy fiber sprouting. These compelling findings suggest a progressive sequence of events in the reorganization of the dentate gyrus of sclerotic hippocampal specimens. We suggest that cell loss and up-regulation of glutamate receptor subunits appear early in temporal lobe epilepsy and contribute to the synaptic plasticity that may facilitate the subsequent sprouting of mossy fiber collaterals which compound an already precipitous state of decline. The combination of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic changes serves as a potential substrate for hyperexcitability.
Nucleotides are signaling molecules involved in variety of interactions between neurons, between glial cells as well as between neurons and glial cells. In addition, ATP and other nucleotides are massively released following brain insults, including inflammation, and may thereby be involved in mechanisms of cerebral injury. Recent concepts have shown that in astrocytes intercellular communication through gap junctions may play an important role in neuroprotection. Therefore, we have studied the effects of nucleotides on gap junction communication in astrocytes. Based on measurement of intercellular dye coupling and recording of junctional currents, the present study shows that ATP (10-100 microM) induces a rapid and a concentration-dependent inhibition of gap junction communication in cultured cortical astrocytes from newborn mice. Effects of agonists and antagonists of purinergic receptors indicate that the inhibition of gap junctional communication by ATP mainly involves the stimulation of metabotropic purinergic 1 (P2Y(1)) receptors. Pretreatment with the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (10 ng/ml, 24 h), which has no effect by itself on gap junctional communication, increases the inhibitory effect of ATP and astrocytes become sensitive to uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP). As indicated by the enhanced expression of P2Y(2) receptor mRNA, P2Y(2) receptors are responsible for the increased responses evoked by ATP and UTP in interleukin-1beta-treated cells. In addition, the effect of endothelin-1, a well-known inhibitor of gap junctional communication in astrocytes was also exacerbated following interleukin-1beta treatment. We conclude that ATP decreases intercellular communication through gap junctions in astrocytes and that the increased sensitivity of gap junction channels to nucleotides and endothelin-1 is a characteristic feature of astrocytes exposed to pro-inflammatory treatments.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a use-dependent and persistent enhancement of synaptic strength. In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, LTP has Hebbian characteristics and requires precisely timed interaction between presynaptic firing and postsynaptic depolarization. Although depolarization is an absolute requirement for plasticity, it is still not clear whether the postsynaptic response during LTP induction should be subthreshold or suprathreshold for the generation of somatic action potential. Here, we use the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and different pairing protocols to examine systematically the postsynaptic induction requirements for LTP. We induce LTP by changes only in membrane potential while keeping the afferent stimulation constant and at minimal levels. This approach permits differentiation of two types of LTP: LTP induced with suprathreshold synaptic responses (LTP(AP)) and LTP induced with subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSCs; LTP(EPSC)). We found that LTP(AP) (&gt;40%) required pairing of depolarization (V(m)&gt;or=-40 mV, for 40-60 s) with four to six (0.1 Hz) single synaptically initiated action potentials. LTP(EPSC) was of smaller magnitude (&lt;30%) and required pairing of depolarization to -50 mV (60 s) with six subthreshold EPSCs. The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists aminophosphonovaleric acid and 7-chlorokynurenic acid consistently blocked LTP(EPSC) but were ineffective in preventing LTP(AP). Robust, NMDAR-independent LTP is obtained by stronger postsynaptic depolarization that converts the EPSCs to suprathreshold somatic action potentials. Purely NMDAR-dependent LTP is obtained by pairing mild somatic depolarization with subthreshold afferent pulses to the postsynaptic cell. Our results indicate that the degree of postsynaptic depolarization in the presence of single afferent pulses determines the type and magnitude of LTP.
Protease-activated receptors (PARs) are a group of four members of the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors that transduce cell signaling by proteolytic activity of extracellular serine proteases, such as thrombin. Possible expression and functions of PARs in oligodendrocytes, the myelin forming cells of the CNS, are still unclear. Here, the oligodendrocyte cell line OLN-93 was used to investigate the signaling of PARs. By reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunostaining and Ca(2+) imaging studies, we demonstrate that OLN-93 cells functionally express PAR-1. PAR-3 seems to be expressed without apparent activity, and PAR-2 and PAR-4 cannot be detected. Short-term stimulation of the OLN-93 cells with PAR-1 agonists, such as thrombin, trypsin and PAR-1 activating peptide, dose-dependently induced a transient rise of [Ca(2+)](i). Concentration-effect curves display a sigmoidal concentration dependence. Elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) induced by PAR-1 mainly resulted from Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Studies on the effects of pertussis toxin (PTX), phospholipase C antagonist and 2-APB, showed that in OLN-93 cells (i). the calcium signaling cascade from PAR-1 was mediated through PTX-insensitive G proteins, (ii). activation of phospholipase C and liberation of InsP(3) were events upstream of the Ca(2+) release from the stores. In addition, the present study analyzed PAR-1 desensitization caused by exposure to thrombin, trypsin, and PAR-1 activating peptide, elucidated the influence of the protease cathepsin G on PAR-1 activation, and also characterized PAR-1 desensitization. This is the first study, which shows that OLN-93 oligodendrocytes functionally express PAR-1, and identifies the receptor coupling to mobilization of intracellular calcium. Moreover, the expression of PAR-1 was demonstrated by RT-PCR in primary oligodendrocytes from rat brain.
Micromolar concentrations of beta-amyloid (Abeta), a 40/42-amino-acid-long proteolytic fragment (Abeta(1-40/42)) of the amyloid precursor protein, was shown previously to play a crucial role in pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We used the Xenopus oocyte expression system to investigate specific effects of micromolar concentrations of Abeta(1-42) on the neurotransmitter transporters for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), GAT1, and for the excitatory amino acid glutamate, EAAC1, which are driven by the transmembrane Na(+) gradient that is regulated by the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. Brief treatment with Abeta(1-42), up to 80 min, leads to a significant inhibition of ion translocation by the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (30-40%); also glutamate uptake is inhibited (20%) while GABA uptake is not affected. Since reduced glutamate uptake will result in elevated, neurotoxic concentrations of extracellular glutamate, we investigated the effects of Abeta(1-42) and the smaller fragments, Abeta(12-28) and Abeta(25-35), on EAAC1 in more detail. Prolonged incubation in 1 microM Abeta(1-42) leads to further, strong inhibition of glutamate uptake and EAAC1-mediated current (after 4 h inhibition amounts to more than 80%). Abeta(12-28) is less effective with 50% inhibition after 4 h of incubation at 20 microM. Abeta(1-42) and Abeta(12-28) affect EAAC1-mediated current to a similar extent as the rate of glutamate uptake. The effects on EAAC1-mediated current are irreversible if Abeta were applied for longer time periods. Peptides directly microinjected into the oocyte are ineffective suggesting that the observed effect were mediated by extracellular proteins. Abeta(25-35) hardly affects EAAC1-mediated current or glutamate uptake. The results demonstrate that Abeta specifically inhibits the Na(+),K(+) pump and EAAC1. The domain between amino acids 12 and 28 of Abeta seems to play a crucial role for inhibition of EAAC1. The inhibition of EAAC1 by neurotoxic, elevated extracellular glutamate levels may contribute to Alzheimer's pathogenesis.
Recent data indicate that most &quot;silent&quot; synapses in the hippocampus are &quot;presynaptically silent&quot; due to low transmitter release rather than &quot;postsynaptically silent&quot; due to &quot;latent&quot; receptors of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid type (AMPARs). That synapses bearing only N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDAR) receptors do exist is suggested by the decreased number of transmission failures during postsynaptic depolarisation and by the presence of NMDA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in synapses silent at rest. We tested whether these effects could be due to potentiated transmitter release at depolarised postsynaptic potentials rather than removal of Mg(2+) block from NMDARs. Using whole-cell recordings of minimal EPSCs from CA1 and CA3 neurones of hippocampal slices we confirmed decreased incidence of failures at +40 mV as compared with -60 mV. This effect was associated with a gradual increase of EPSC amplitude after switching to +40 mV and with a decrease of paired-pulse facilitation. In initially silent synapses, potentiation of pharmacologically isolated AMPAR-mediated EPSCs was still observed at +40 mV and this persisted after stepping back to -60 mV. All above effects were blocked when the cell was dialysed with the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA (20 mM). These observations are difficult to reconcile with the &quot;latent AMPAR&quot; hypothesis and suggest an alternative explanation, namely that the reduction in failure rates at positive potentials is due to potentiation of transmitter release following Ca(2+) influx through NMDARs. Our results suggest that silent synapses can be mainly &quot;presynaptically&quot; rather than &quot;postsynaptically silent&quot; and thus increased transmitter release rather than insertion of AMPARs is a major mechanism of early long-term potentiation maintenance.
Sodium (Na(+)) entry into neurons during hypoxia is known to be associated with cell death. However, it is not clear whether Na(+) entry causes cell death and by what mechanisms this increased Na(+) entry induces death. In this study we used cultures of rat neocortical neurons to show that an increase in intracellular sodium (Na(i)(+)) through voltage-sensitive sodium channels (VSSCs), during hypoxia contributes to apoptosis. Hypoxia increased Na(i)(+) and induced neuronal apoptosis, as assessed by electron microscopy, annexin V staining, and terminal UDP nick end labeling staining. Reducing Na(+) entry with the VSSC blocker, tetrodotoxin (TTX), attenuated apoptotic neuronal death via a reduction in caspase-3 activation. Since the attenuation of apoptosis by TTX during hypoxia suggested that the activation of VSSCs and Na(+) entry are crucial events in hypoxia-induced cell death, we also determined whether the activation of VSSCs per se could lead to apoptosis under resting conditions. Increasing Na(+) entry with the VSSC activator veratridine also induced neuronal apoptosis and caspase-3 activation. These data indicate that a) Na(+) entry via VSSCs during hypoxia leads to apoptotic cell death which is mediated, in part, by caspase-3 and b) activation of VSSCs during oxygen deprivation is a major event by which hypoxia induces cell death.
Using microdialysis from medial prefrontal cortex of gerbils during aversive auditory conditioning in the shuttle-box we have previously shown a transient increase of dopamine efflux correlated with the establishment of avoidance behavior. We hypothesized that the acquisition of a new behavioral strategy is generally accompanied by this extra prefrontal dopamine release. The present experiment aimed at further testing this hypothesis. In a pre-training period in the shuttle-box the gerbils acquired an active avoidance response by generalizing two different tone signals to a GO-meaning (change of shuttle-box compartment). Thereafter, they were subjected in relearning sessions to differentially associate the known tone stimuli with GO- and NOGO- (no change of shuttle-box compartment) conditions, respectively. The following formation of discrimination behavior led to a similar extra dopamine increase as found during establishment of the avoidance strategy. This significant enhancement was limited to rapidly relearning individuals. Furthermore, the dopamine increase attenuated in these animals with increasing performance during the course of the discrimination training, similar to the retrieval stage of the avoidance strategy. Therefore, the dopamine system seems to be critically involved in the initial formation of associations for new behavioral strategies, i.e. learning. We assume that the prefrontal dopamine increase during initial learning of the complex discrimination behavior indicates an involvement of working memory principles and a goal-directed formation of a behavioral strategy.
Exposure of the rat to restraint results in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, a characteristic pattern of c-fos expression in the brain and increased cardiovascular function. These responses adapt with repeated exposure of an individual to the same stress. Corticosterone secretion habituates, and c-fos mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) decreases. The increased expression of corticotropin releasing hormone mRNA in the PVN also becomes less prominent, whereas vasopressin mRNA progressively increases. The neural mechanisms responsible for this adaptation remain obscure. Because of its role in conditioned learning, we have hypothesised that the amygdala might be involved in this adaptive process. Here we show that large neurotoxic lesions of the amygdala in male rats do not prevent acute stress activation of the HPA axis following 30 min restraint, whilst more discrete lesions of the central nucleus actually exacerbate the acute response. Rats with large amygdala lesions demonstrate delayed habituation of corticosterone and c-fos to repeated restraint, an affect not apparent with central nucleus lesions. Furthermore we show that neither type of lesion significantly reduced tachycardiac responses to single or repeated restraint as measured by telemetry. We conclude that the amygdala and the central nucleus are not necessary for HPA and cardiovascular activation in response to stress (though the central nucleus may modulate it), and that adaptation to repeated stress is only modestly dependent upon the amygdala.
Galen of Pergamon studied nerve function by shearing nerves in various species including monkeys, dogs, bulls and even elephants (humans being off limits to researchers; Sartan, 1954). An analogous strategy to determine gene function by ablating gene expression has recently been developed. RNA interference (RNAi) is a cellular response to double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) apparently as a defense against viral or transposon activity (Denli and Hannon, 2003; Dykxhoorn et al., 2003; Plasterk, 2002; Zamore, 2002). By activating this ancient defense mechanism through the introduction of artificial dsRNA, it is now possible to inhibit expression of almost any gene in almost any cell type, among them neuronal cells. In mammalian cells the active RNAi species must be short, approximately 21 nucleotide RNAs; these 21-bp species are called short interfering RNA (siRNA; Fig 1).
Somatosensory responsiveness and baseline firing rates of 102 striatal neurons were studied in freely moving rats. For individual neurons, mean levels of responsiveness and baseline firing fluctuated unpredictably in direction and magnitude and independently of each other throughout an experiment. Following microinjections of apomorphine into the substantia nigra, which were used as a means of reducing nigral output activity, the magnitude of fluctuations in striatal somatosensory responsiveness significantly increased, while the magnitude of fluctuations in baseline firing was unaltered. The receptive zones of 54 neurons studied in control experiments remained stable, whereas receptive zones changed in 12 of 25 neurons studied after apomorphine microinjection. Normal nigrostriatal dopamine transmission appears to selectively restrict the magnitude of fluctuations in responsiveness of striatal neurons to corticostriatal synaptic input and may exert additional control over afferent projections from cutaneous receptive zones to these neurons.
Epileptogenic human hippocampus generates spontaneous energy fluctuations with a wide range of amplitude and temporal variation, which are often assumed to be entirely random. However, the temporal dynamics of these fluctuations are poorly understood, and the question of whether they exhibit persistent long-range temporal correlations (LRTC) remains unanswered. In this paper we use detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) to show that the energy fluctuations in human hippocampus show LRTC with power-law scaling, and that these correlations differ between epileptogenic and non-epileptogenic hippocampus. The analysis shows that the energy fluctuations exhibit slower decay of the correlations in the epileptogenic hippocampus compared with the non-epileptogenic hippocampus. The DFA-derived scaling exponents demonstrate that there are LRTC of energy fluctuations in human hippocampus, and that the temporal persistence of energy fluctuations is characterized by a bias for large (small) energy fluctuations to be followed by large (small) energy fluctuations. Furthermore, we find that in the period of time leading up to seizures there is no change in the scaling exponents that characterize the LRTC of energy fluctuations. The fact that the LRTC of energy fluctuations do not change as seizures approach provides evidence that the local neuronal network dynamics do not change in the period before seizures, and that seizures in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy may be triggered by an influence that is external to the hippocampus. The presence of LRTC with power-law scaling does not imply a specific mechanism, but the finding that temporal correlations decay more slowly in epileptogenic hippocampus provides electrophysiologic evidence that the underlying neuronal dynamics are different within the epileptogenic hippocampus compared with contralateral hippocampus. We briefly discuss possible neurobiological mechanisms for LRTC of the energy fluctuations in hippocampus.
The present study was conducted to determine whether the ovarian steroid oestradiol alters the activity of nociceptive modulatory neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). Adult female rats were ovariectomized and implanted s.c. with an oestradiol-filled or placebo capsule. Sixteen to 37 days later, rats were anaesthetised for single unit recording from RVM neurons. On-cells were characterised by a burst of activity, and off-cells by a pause in activity immediately preceding reflexive withdrawal of the tail from 51 and 54 degrees C water. Although on- and off-cells were evident in both oestradiol- and placebo-treated rats, the reflex-related on-cell burst and off-cell pause were dampened in oestradiol-treated rats. On-cells from oestradiol-treated rats had a mean activity burst of 9.1+/-2.2 Hz in the 2 s preceding the tail withdrawal reflex to 51 degrees C water, compared with 17.9+/-4.3 Hz for on-cells in placebo controls. Off-cell activity during the 2 s preceding tail withdrawal was 4.8+/-2.2 vs. 0.1+/-0.1 Hz in oestradiol vs. placebo-treated females, respectively. Similar changes in on- and off-cell activity occurred when the tail was placed in 54 degrees C water. The present data demonstrate that oestradiol constrains the magnitude of the shift in RVM on- and off-cell activity associated with nociceptive reflexes.
Primary sensory neurons can generate irregular burst firings in which the existence of significant deterministic behaviors of chaotic dynamics has been proved with nonlinear time series analysis. But how well the deterministic characteristics and neural information of presynaptic chaotic spike trains were transmitted into postsynaptic spike trains is still an open question. Here we investigated the synaptic transmission of chaotic spike trains between primary Adelta afferent fiber and spinal dorsal horn neuron. Two kinds of basic stimulus unit, brief burst and single pulse, were employed by us to comprise chaotic stimulus trains. For time series analysis, we defined &quot;events&quot; as the longest sequences of spikes with all interspike intervals less than or equal to a certain threshold and extracted the interevent intervals (IEIs) from spike trains. Return map analysis of the IEI series showed that the main temporal structure of chaotic input trains could be detected in postsynaptic output trains, especially under brief-burst stimulation. Using correlation dimension and nonlinear prediction methods, we found that synaptic transmission could influence the nonlinear characteristics of chaotic trains, such as fractal dimension and short-term predictability, with greater influence made under single-pulse stimulation. By calculating the mutual information between input and output trains, we found the information carried by presynaptic spike trains could not be completely transmitted at primary afferent synapses, and that brief bursts could more reliably transmit the information carried by chaotic input trains across synapses. These results indicate that although unreliability exists during synaptic transmission, the main deterministic characteristics of chaotic burst trains can be transmitted across primary afferent synapses. Moreover, brief bursts that come from the periphery can more reliably transmit neural information between primary afferent fibers and spinal dorsal horn neurons.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a potent inhibitory neuropeptide expressed by amacrine cells in the rat retina. NPY modulates the release of multiple neurotransmitters in mammalian retina, yet the mechanisms mediating this regulation are not well defined. To further understand the action of NPY in the retina, Y receptor coupling to voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels was investigated using Ca(2+) imaging with fura-2 AM to measure [Ca(2+)](i) increases in rod bipolar cell terminals. Y receptor expression was studied in rat retinal tissue with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). NPY inhibited the depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) influx into rod bipolar cell axon terminals and caused a dose-dependent reduction and an average maximal inhibition of 72% at 1 microM, which was reversed upon washout. K(+)-evoked Ca(2+) increases were also inhibited by the selective Y2 receptor agonists, C2-NPY and NPY(13-36), at concentrations of 1 microM, but not by the selective Y1 receptor agonist, [Leu(31)Pro(34)]NPY, selective Y4 receptor agonist, rPP, or the selective Y5 receptor agonist, [d-Trp32]-NPY. Y receptor expression was determined using RT-PCR for all known Y receptor subtypes. Y2 receptor mRNA, as well as Y1, Y4, and Y5 receptor mRNAs, are present in the rat retina. Like the rod bipolar cell, other studies in central neurons have shown that the Y2 receptor is expressed predominantly as a presynaptic receptor and that it modulates transmitter release. Together, these findings suggest that NPY activates presynaptic Y2 receptors to inhibit voltage-dependent Ca(2+) influx into rod bipolar cell terminals, and establishes one mechanism by which NPY may reduce l-glutamate release from the rod bipolar cell synapse.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes the survival of embryonic sensory neurons and maintains the phenotypic characteristics of primary nociceptive neurons postnatally. NGF also contributes to nociceptor activation and hyperalgesia during inflammatory pain states. The purpose of this study was to determine whether NGF might have an additional pronociceptive action by interfering with opioid-mediated analgesia in primary nociceptive neurons. Sensory neurons were isolated from the dorsal root ganglia of weanling rats and kept in standard culture conditions either with or without exogenous NGF (50 ng/ml). Currents through voltage-gated calcium channels were recorded from individual neurons using the whole cell patch clamp technique with Ba(2+) as the charge carrier (I(Ba)). The micro-opioid agonist fentanyl (1 microM) and the GABA(B) agonist baclofen (50 microM) were used to test G protein-dependent inhibition of I(Ba). Fentanyl inhibited I(Ba) by an average of 38+/-4% in untreated cells vs. 25+/-2% in NGF-treated cells (P&lt;0.01). NGF had no effect on I(Ba) current magnitude or kinetics. The NGF-induced attenuation of opioid action was observed as early as 4 h after exposure, but was not seen when NGF was applied by bath perfusion for up to 40 min, suggesting that the effect was not mediated by a rapid phosphorylation event. The effect of NGF was prevented by K-252a (100 nM), an inhibitor of TrkA autophosphorylation. Baclofen-induced inhibition of I(Ba), on the other hand, was not affected by NGF treatment, suggesting that NGF modulation of opioid-mediated inhibition occurred upstream from the G protein. This was supported by the finding that GTP-gamma-S, an agonist independent G protein activator, inhibited I(Ba) similarly in both untreated and NGF treated cells. The results show that NGF selectively attenuated opioid-mediated inhibition of I(Ba) via TrkA receptor activation, possibly by altering opioid receptor function.
We have previously found that the dopamine uptake inhibitor 1-(2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride (GBR 12909) inhibits neuronal sodium channels. The inhibition was profoundly dependent on the voltage protocol, suggesting that the effect is determined by the activity pattern of individual neurons. Our present study was aimed to understand more thoroughly the mechanism of this inhibition. The effect of GBR 12909 on sodium currents was investigated using whole-cell patch clamp recordings on cultured hippocampal neurons. Repetitive trains of depolarizations revealed two distinct components of inhibition: a frequency-dependent, transient and a frequency-independent, sustained component. Frequency-dependent inhibition can reflect dynamic equilibrium of binding or gating. In order to decide which is the dominant mechanism in the case of GBR 12909, we studied the rates of association and dissociation. We found an unexpectedly fast rate of association (tau=819.2 ms) to resting ion channels kept at hyperpolarized membrane potential (-150 mV), while the rate of dissociation was too slow to explain recovery between trains of stimulation (tau=248 s). These data suggest that frequency-dependent inhibition cannot be explained by binding and unbinding, but rather it is due to conformational transitions of the liganded channel, which can only be explained if ligand binding is assumed to enhance slow inactivation. We studied, therefore, the rate of slow inactivation in the presence of different concentrations of GBR 12909. We have found that GBR 12909 accelerates slow inactivation substantially (time constants more than hundredfold lower at concentrations above 10 microM), causing the time range of slow inactivation to overlap with the time range of fast inactivation. Slow inactivation can even be the dominant process, especially during subthreshold depolarizations in the presence of &gt;10 microM of GBR 12909. This mechanism of inhibition could provide a selective inhibition of neurons not only with high frequency bursting activity but also with moderately depolarized membrane potential.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by amyloid peptide formation and deposition, neurofibrillary tangles, central cholinergic dysfunction, and dementia; however, the relationship between these parameters is not well understood. We studied the effect of amyloid peptide formation and deposition on central cholinergic function in knock-in mice carrying the human amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene with the Swedish/London double mutation (APP-SL mice) which were crossbred with transgenic mice overexpressing normal (PS1wt) or mutated (M146L; PS1mut) human presenilin-1. APP-SLxPS1mut mice had increased levels of Abeta peptides at 10 months of age and amyloid plaques at 14 months of age while APP-SLxPS1wt mice did not have increased peptide levels and did not develop amyloid plaques. We used microdialysis in 15-27 months old mice to compare hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) levels in the two mouse lines and found that extracellular ACh levels were slightly but significantly reduced in the APP-SLxPS1mut mice (-26%; P=0.044). Exploratory activity in the open field increased hippocampal ACh release by two-fold in both mouse lines; total and relative increases were not significantly different for the two strains under study. Similarly, infusion of scopolamine (1 microM) increased hippocampal ACh release to a similar extent (3-5-fold) in both groups. High-affinity choline uptake, a measure of the ACh turnover rate, was identical in both mouse lines. Neurons expressing choline acetyltransferase were increased in the septum of APP-SLxPS1mut mice (+26%; P=0.046). We conclude that amyloid peptide production causes a small decrease of extracellular ACh levels. The deposition of amyloid plaques, however, does not impair stimulated ACh release and proceeds without major changes of central cholinergic function.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of a micro-opioid receptor agonist DAMGO (Tyr-d-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol) on the excitability of trigeminal root ganglion (TRG) neurons, projecting onto the superficial layer of the cervical dorsal horn, by using the perforated-patch technique and to determine whether TRG neurons show the expression of mRNA or functional protein for micro-opioid receptors by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. TRG neurons projecting onto the superficial layer of the cervical dorsal horn were retrogradely labeled with Fluorogold (FG). The cell diameter of FG-labeled TRG neurons was small (&lt;30 microm). Under voltage-clamp (V(h)=-60 mV), voltage-dependent K(+) currents were recorded in the TRG neurons and isolated by blocking Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents with appropriate ion replacement. Separation of the K(+) current components was achieved by the response to variation in the conditioning voltage. Two distinct K(+) current components, a transient (I(A)) and sustained (I(K)), were identified. DAMGO significantly increased I(A) by 57% (20 microM) and in a dose-dependent manner (1-50 microM). Similarly, I(K) was also enhanced by DAMGO administration (42%, 20 microM). The augmentation of both I(A) and I(K) was antagonized by a micro-opioid receptor antagonist, CTOP (d-Phe-Cys-Thr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)). Hyperpolarization of the membrane potential was elicited by DAMGO (20 microM) and the response was associated with a decrease in the input resistance. DAMGO induced hyperpolarization was blocked by CTOP. DAMGO-sensitive I(A) and I(K) currents were antagonized by K(+) channel blockers, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and tetraethylammonium (TEA). In the presence of both 4-AP and TEA, no significant changes in membrane potential induced by DAMGO application were observed. In the presence of BaCl(2), DAMGO evoked hyperpolarization with decreased resistance was observed. The firing rate of action potentials and the first spike duration induced by depolarizing step pulses were decreased in the presence of DAMGO. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated the expression of mRNA for micro-opioid receptors in the trigeminal ganglia. The micro-opioid receptor immunoreactivity was expressed in the small diameter FG-labeled TRG neurons. These results suggest that the activation of micro-opioid receptors inhibits the excitability of rat small diameter TRG neurons projecting on the superficial layer of the cervical dorsal horn and this inhibition is mediated by potentiation of voltage-dependent K(+) currents. We therefore concluded that modulation of nociceptive transmission in the trigeminal system, resulting in the functional activation of micro-opioid receptors, occurs at the level of small TRG cell bodies and/or their primary afferent terminals, which contribute to opioid analgesia in the trigeminal pain.

Adrenomedullin (AM) and proadrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide (PAMP) are multi-functional peptides derived from the same precursor, proadrenomedullin. We have studied the regulatory mechanism of expression of these peptides during neuronal differentiation of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells by nerve growth factor (NGF). The cellular levels of the peptides increased slightly, and then progressively decreased below the control by NGF. Immunoreactive (ir)-AM in the medium was transiently increased by NGF. Cytochemical staining showed that ir-AM and ir-PAMP were abundantly present in cytoplasm in the undifferentiated cells, and were decreased during culture with NGF. There was no preferential localization of ir-AM or ir-PAMP in neurites in comparison with in cytoplasm in the differentiated cells. Northern blot analysis showed that mRNA encoding these peptides, as detected as a band of 1.6 kb, increased more than three-fold at 1 h after the addition of NGF and then progressively decreased to one fifth of the control during 72 h. Degradation rate of the mRNA was slowed by NGF even when mRNA level is decreased after 72 h of NGF treatment. The transcription rate of their gene increased transiently and then decreased by the long-term treatment with NGF. These results demonstrate that expression of AM and PAMP is regulated by NGF along with time-dependent differentiation: AM gene transcription is transiently activated by NGF, whereas it was suppressed during neuronal differentiation of the cells.
Succinate is a dicarboxylic acid that accumulates due to succinate dehydrogenase inhibition by malonate and methylmalonate exposure. These neurotoxins cause increased excitability and excitotoxic damage, which can be prevented by administering high amounts of succinate. In the present study we investigated whether succinate alters hippocampal field excitatory post-synaptic potentials. Bath application of succinate at intermediate concentrations (0.3-1 mM) increased the slope of field excitatory post-synaptic potentials in hippocampal slices, and at high concentrations (above 1 mM) did not alter or decrease field excitatory post-synaptic potentials slope. Succinate-induced enhancement of field excitatory post-synaptic potentials slope was abolished by the addition of d-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM) to the perfusate, supporting the involvement of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors in the excitatory effect of this organic acid. Accordingly, succinate (0.8-7.5 micromol) i.c.v. administration caused dose-dependent convulsive behavior in mice. The i.c.v. co-administration of MK-801 (7 nmol) fully prevented succinate-induced convulsions, further suggesting the involvement of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors in the convulsant action of succinate. Our data indicate that accumulation of moderate amounts of succinate may contribute to the excitotoxicity induced by succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors, through the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors.
In the present study, using single cell recordings in vivo and intracellular recordings in vitro from midbrain slices, the role of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor signaling on firing activity in ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons elicited by nicotine was investigated in the rat. In accordance with previous studies, systemic nicotine (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) increased both firing rate and burst firing of dopamine neurons in vivo, and bath-applied nicotine (10 microM) increased firing rate in vitro. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGP39551 (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited nicotine's effects on burst firing and also attenuated the nicotine-induced increase in firing rate. Moreover, although the nitric oxide (NO)-synthase inhibitor N-nitro-l-arginine-methyl-ester (l-NAME; 5.0 mg/kg i.p.) had no effect on cell firing by itself, it prevented the response to nicotine in vivo. In contrast, l-NAME (100 microM) did not influence nicotine's effect on dopamine cell firing in vitro, suggesting that the effect of l-NAME seen in vivo is dependent on presynaptic afferent input. The present study confirms previous results suggesting that the effect of systemically administered nicotine is in part presynaptic and mediated via NMDA receptors. The data also indicate that NO plays an important role in the previously demonstrated, indirect, glutamate-mediated excitation of these neurons by nicotine. By inference, our results provide additional support for the involvement of NO in nicotine dependence.
Early postnatal manipulations of oxytocin have long-term behavioral and physiological consequences; the present study examined the hypothesis that oxytocin or its absence influences the subsequent expression of either oxytocin or arginine vasopressin in the CNS. On postnatal day 1 female and male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) received a single i.p. injection of oxytocin (3 microg), oxytocin antagonist (0.3 microg), or 50 microl of isotonic saline or were only handled. On postnatal days 1, 8 and 21, brains were fixed, sectioned and stained for oxytocin or vasopressin immunoreactivity and analyzed as a function of age, treatment and sex. Both oxytocin and vasopressin immunoreactivity were observed on day 1 in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus. Numbers of oxytocin and vasopressin neurons increased with age in both nuclei. Females treated on postnatal day 1 with oxytocin or oxytocin antagonist displayed a significant increase in oxytocin immunoreactivity on day 21 in the PVN. In contrast, males treated with antagonist tended to have decreased vasopressin immunoreactivity in the same region. These results revealed that the effects of neonatal manipulation of oxytocin are age-dependent, site-specific and sexually dimorphic. The long-lasting effects of neonatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin and oxytocin antagonist indicate a role for oxytocin in the development of the CNS during the neonatal period, affecting the development of the oxytocinergic system in females and the vasopressinergic system in males. The developmental effects observed suggest one possible mechanism by which neonatal exposure to oxytocin or neonatal inhibition of endogenous oxytocin produces long-lasting behavioral and physiological alterations and could play a role in the development of male- and female-typical behavior.
The present study tests the hypothesis that cerebral tissue hypoxia results in increased Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM) kinase kinase activity and that the administration of nitric oxide synthase inhibitors (N-nitro-l-arginine [NNLA], or 7-nitroindazole sodium [7-NINA]) prior to the onset of hypoxia will prevent the hypoxia-induced increase in the enzyme activity. To test this hypothesis, CaM kinase kinase and CaM kinase IV activities were determined in normoxic, hypoxic, NNLA-treated hypoxic, and 7-NINA-treated hypoxic piglets. Hypoxia was induced (FiO(2)=0.05-0.08x1 h) and confirmed biochemically by tissue levels of ATP and phosphocreatine. CaM kinase kinase activity was determined in a medium containing protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitors, calmodulin, and a specifically designed CaM kinase kinase target peptide. CaM kinase IV activity was determined by (33)P-incorporation into syntide-2 in a buffer containing protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitors. Compared with normoxic animals, ATP and phosphocreatine levels were significantly lower in all hypoxic piglets whether or not pretreated with nitric oxide synthase inhibitors. There was a significant difference among CaM kinase kinase activity (pmol/mg protein/min) in normoxic (76.84+/-14.1), hypoxic (138.86+/-18.2, P&lt;0.05 vs normoxia), NNLA-pretreated hypoxic (91.34+/-19.3; P=NS vs normoxia, P&lt;0.05 vs hypoxia) and 7-NINA-pretreated hypoxic animals (100.12+/-23.3; P=NS vs normoxia, P&lt;0.05 vs hypoxia). There was a significant difference among CaM kinase IV activity (pmol/mg protein/min) in normoxia (1270.80+/-126.1), hypoxia (2680.80+/-136.7; P&lt;0.05 vs normoxia), NNLA-pretreated hypoxia (1666.00+/-154.8; P&lt;0.05 vs normoxia, P&lt;0.05 vs hypoxia), and 7-NINA-pretreated hypoxic (1712.9+/-231.5; P=NS vs normoxia, P&lt;0.05 vs hypoxia). We conclude that the hypoxia-induced increase in CaM kinase kinase and CaM kinase IV activity is mediated by neuronal NOS-derived NO.
In order to ascertain whether the alterations of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) seen in adult dystrophic mdx-mice [Glia 42 (2003) 235], a human model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), are developmentally established and correlated with other dystrophin isoforms which are localized at the glial-vascular interface, we used immunocytochemistry to investigate the expression of dystrophin isoforms (Dp71) during BBB development in mdx fetuses and in adult mice. Parallelly, we used Western blot, immunocytochemistry and immunogold electron microscopy to analyze the expression of the zonula occludens (ZO-1), aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and glial fibrillary acidic (GFAP) proteins as endothelial and glial markers, and we evaluated the integrity of the mdx BBB by means of intravascular injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP). The results show reduced dystrophin isoforms (Dp71) in the mdx mouse compared with the control, starting from early embryonic life. Endothelial ZO-1 expression was reduced, and the tight junctions were altered and unlabeled. AQP4 and GFAP glial proteins in mdx mice also showed modifications in developmental expression, the glial vascular processes being only lightly AQP4- and GFAP-labeled compared with the controls. Confocal microscopy and HRP assays confirmed the alteration in vessel glial investment, GFAP perivascular endfoot reactivity being strongly reduced and BBB permeability increasing. These results demonstrate that a reduction in dystrophin isoforms (Dp71) at glial endfeet leads to an altered development of the BBB, whose no-closure might contribute to the neurological dysfunctions associated with DMD.
Nitric oxide, synthesized by reactive microglia and astrocytes has been implicated in promoting neuronal degeneration observed in many diseases and insults of the central nervous system. We have recently shown that inducible nitric oxide synthase is expressed by retinal glial cells following optic nerve transection and that inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis enhances the survival of injured retinal ganglion cells. Anti-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-10 (IL-10), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) have been shown to prevent inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, and inhibit nitric oxide synthesis by microglia and astrocytes in culture. In the present study, we examined the effects of adenoviral mediated gene transfer of anti-inflammatory cytokines on the survival of axotomized retinal ganglion cells. Intraocular administration of adenoviral vectors encoding interleukin-10 (Ad.IL-10) and interleukin-4 (Ad.IL-4) enhanced the survival of axotomized retinal ganglion cells at 14 days after axotomy. Adenoviral vectors encoding TGF-beta (Ad.TGF-beta) had no effect on retinal ganglion cell survival. Separate animals were pretreated by injection of Ad.IL-10 or Ad.IL-4 into the superior colliculus (s.c.), the major target of ganglion cells, 7 days prior to axotomy. S.c. administration of Ad.IL-10 or Ad.IL-4 significantly increased ganglion cell survival compared with intraocular injection. IL-10 and IL-4 gene transfer also reduced the density of infiltrating ED1 positive monocytes in the nerve fiber layer at 14 days postaxotomy. Ad.TGF-beta increased the density of ED1 positive monocytes infiltrating the nerve fiber layer after axotomy. Vectors encoding IL-10 or IL-4 also decreased nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity in the inner retina at 7 days postaxotomy, suggesting that these cytokines protect retinal ganglion cells from peroxynitrite formation that results from nitric oxide synthesis by activated glial cells. The present study has implications for the treatment of CNS injury and diseases that involve reactive microglia and astrocytes. Our results suggest that interleukin-10 and interleukin-4 may help prevent neurodegeneration caused by the activation of glial cells after CNS injury.
We tested the hypothesis that efferents from the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) play a direct role in the regulation of neuropeptide synthesis and expression by neurons of the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Adult male rats in which the NBM was destroyed with quinolinic acid, either unilaterally or bilaterally, were compared with rats injected with physiological saline and with control rats. The estimators used to assess the effects of cholinergic deafferentation on the neuroanatomy and neurochemistry of the SCN were the total number of SCN neurons, the total number and somatic size of SCN neurons producing vasopressin (VP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and the respective mRNA levels. Bilateral destruction of the NBM did not produce cell death in the SCN, but caused a marked reduction in the number and somatic size of SCN neurons expressing VP and VIP, and in the mRNA levels of these peptides. The decrease in the number of VP- and VIP-producing neurons provoked by unilateral lesions was less striking than that resulting from bilateral lesions. It was, however, statistically significant in the ipsilateral hemisphere, but not in the contralateral hemisphere. The results show that the reduction of cholinergic inputs to the SCN impairs the synthesis, and thereby decreases the expression of neuropeptides by SCN neurons, and that the extent of the decline correlates with the amount of cholinergic afferents destroyed. This supports the notion that acetylcholine plays an important, and direct role in the regulation of the metabolic activity of SCN neurons.
Spermine and related polyamines have been shown to be endogenous regulators of several ion channel types including ionotropic glutamate receptors. The effect of spermine on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in cultured rat hippocampal neurons was studied using single-channel and whole-cell patch clamp recordings. Intracellular spermine resulted in the dose-dependent inhibition of NMDA-induced responses. Spermine reversibly inhibited the single NMDA receptor channel activity in inside-out patches suggesting a membrane-delimited mechanism of action. Open probability of NMDA receptor channels was decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanism of spermine-induced inhibition of NMDA receptor was different from that of intracellular Ca(2+)-induced NMDA receptor inactivation. Both pharmacological studies and single channel analysis indicate that in contrast to the effect of extracellular spermine the intracellular spermine effect is not dependent on the NMDA receptor subunit composition. We propose that intracellular spermine has a direct inhibitory effect on NMDA receptors that is different from calcium-induced NMDA receptor inactivation and spermine-induced voltage-dependent inhibition of AMPA/kainate receptors. Spermine-induced tonic change in the open probability of NMDA receptor channels may play a role in mechanisms underlying short-term changes in the synaptic efficacy.
The mammalian CNS contains an abundance of chelatable zinc that is sequestered in the vesicles of glutamatergic presynaptic terminals and co-released with glutamate. Considerable Zn(2+) is also released during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) although the mechanism of this release has not been elucidated. We report here the real time observation of increase of the concentration of extracellular Zn(2+) ([Zn(2+)](o)), accompanied by a rapid increase of intracellular free Zn(2+)concentration, in the areas of dentate gyrus (DG), CA1 and CA3 in acute rat hippocampus slices during ischemia simulated by deprivation of oxygen and glucose (OGD) followed by reperfusion with normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid. A brief period of OGD caused a sustained increase of [Zn(2+)](o). Subsequent reperfusion with oxygenated medium containing glucose resulted in a further increase of [Zn(2+)](o). Longer periods of OGD caused greater increases of [Zn(2+)](o,) and subsequent reperfusion caused still further increases of [Zn(2+)](o,) regardless of OGD duration. The Zn(2+) chelator CaEDTA (10 mM) significantly reduced the increase of [Zn(2+)] induced by OGD and reperfusion. Significant regional differences of [Zn(2+)](o) over the areas of the DG, CA1 and CA3 were not observed during I/R. Neither sodium channel blockade by tetrodotoxin (2 microM), perfusion with nominally calcium-free medium nor anatomical disassociation of the DG, CA1 and CA3 regions from one another by lesioning affected the increase of [Zn(2+)](o). The non-specific nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, Nomega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (1 mM), however, blocked the increase of [Zn(2+)](o) during ischemia and reperfusion. The data indicate the important role of NO in causing the release of Zn(2+) during I/R and suggest that NOS inhibitors may be used to reduce Zn(2+)-induced neuronal injury.
Transient receptor potential-vanilloid type-1 (TRPV1) is a ligand-gated cation channel with preference for divalent cations, especially Ca(2+) (sequence of conductances: Ca(2+)&gt;Mg(2+)&gt;Na(+) approximately/= K(+) approximately/= Cs(+)). In the present study, the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique was used on oocytes of Xenopus laevis expressing TRPV1 to evaluate whether human TRPV1 also conducts protons. In medium devoid of K(+), Na(+), Mg(2+), and Ca(2+), capsaicin 1 microM induced a significant inward current (62% of the current in physiological medium). The effects of capsaicin were abolished in the presence of capsazepine 3 microM. The capsaicin-induced currents in medium devoid of Na(+), K(+), Mg(2+), and Ca(2+) were dependent on pH, causing larger inward currents and less negative reversal potentials at low pH and vice versa. The same current was also demonstrated in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human TRPV1. We conclude that TRPV1 conducts protons, in addition to Na(+), K(+), Mg(2+), and Ca(2+). The proton conductance may help to initiate action potentials and to translocate H(+) dependent on TRPV1 activation and membrane potential.
The globus pallidus is a major component in the indirect pathway of the basal ganglia. There is evidence that neurotensin receptors exist in this nucleus. To determine the electrophysiological effects of neurotensin on pallidal neurons, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed in the acutely prepared brain slices. Under current-clamp recordings, neurotensin at 1 microM depolarized pallidal neurons. Voltage-clamp recordings also showed an inward current induced by neurotensin. The depolarizing effect of neurotensin could be mimicked by the C-terminal fragment, neurotensin (8-13), but not by the N-terminal fragment, neurotensin (1-8). Both SR 142948A, a non-selective neurotensin receptor type-1 and type-2 antagonist, and SR 48692, a selective type-1 receptor antagonist, blocked the depolarizing effect of neurotensin, and which themselves had no effect on membrane potential. Thus, neurotensin type-1 receptors appear to mediate the effect of neurotensin. The depolarization evoked by neurotensin persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate and GABA receptor antagonists, indicating that neurotensin excited the pallidal neurons by activating the receptor expressed on the neurons recorded. Current-voltage relationship revealed that both the suppression of a potassium conductance and the activation of a cationic conductance are involved in the neurotensin-induced depolarization. Based on the action of neurotensin in the globus pallidus we hypothesize that alterations of the striatopallidal neurotensin system contribute to symptoms of basal ganglia motor disorders.
The discharge properties of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra are influenced by slow adaptive responses, which have not been fully identified. The present study describes, in a slice preparation from the rat, a complex afterhyperpolarization (AHP), elicited by action potential trains. The AHP could be subdivided into a fast component (AHP(f)), which was generated near action potential threshold, relaxed within approximately 1 s, and had highest amplitude when evoked by short-lasting (0.1 s) depolarizations, and a slow component (AHP(s)), which lasted several seconds, was evoked from subthreshold potentials, and required prolonged depolarizing stimuli (&gt;0.1 s). A large proportion of the AHP(f) was sensitive to (i) 0.1 microM apamin, (ii) the Ca(2+) antagonists, Cd(2+) (0.2 mM) and Ni(2+) (0.3 mM), (iii) low (0.2 mM) extracellular Ca(2+) concentration, and (iv), Ca(2+) chelation with intracellular EGTA. The AHP(s) was resistant to the above treatments, and it was insensitive to 25 microM dantrolene or prolonged exposure to 1 microM thapsigargin. The reversal potential of the AHP(s) (-97 mV) was close to the K(+) equilibrium potential. It was significantly inhibited by 5 mM 4-aminopyridine, 5 microM haloperidol, 10 microM terfenadine, or high extracellular Mg(2+) (10 mM), but not by 30 mM tetraethylammonium chloride, 50 microM carbachol, 0.5 microM glipizide, 2 microM (-)sulpiride, 100 microM N-allyl-normetazocine, or 100 microM pentazocine. Haloperidol reduced the post-stimulus inhibitory period seen during spontaneous discharge, but had no detectable effect on spike frequency adaptation. It is concluded that the SK-type Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels underlies a major component of the AHP(f), whereas the AHP(s) is Ca(2+)-independent and relies, in part, on a voltage-dependent K(+) current with properties resembling the ether-a-go-go-related gene K(+) channel. The latter component exerts a slow, spike-independent, inhibitory influence on repetitive discharge and contributes to the prolonged decrease in excitability following sustained depolarizing stimuli.
Thiamine triphosphate (ThTP) is found in small amounts in most organisms from bacteria to mammals, but little is known about its physiological role. In vertebrate tissues, ThTP may act as a phosphate donor for the phosphorylation of certain proteins; this may be part of a new signal transduction pathway. We have recently characterized a highly specific 25-kDa thiamine triphosphatase (ThTPase) that is expressed in most mammalian tissues. The role of this enzyme may be the control of intracellular concentrations of ThTP. As the latter has been considered to be a neuroactive form of thiamine, we have studied the distribution of ThTPase mRNA and protein in rodent brain using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. With both methods, we found the strongest staining in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, as well as cerebellar granule cells and Purkinje cells. Some interneurons were also labeled and many ThTPase mRNA-positive and immunoreactive cells were distributed throughout cerebral cortical gray matter and the thalamus. White matter was not significantly labeled. ThTPase immunoreactivity seems to be located mainly in the cytoplasm of neuronal perikarya. Immunocytochemical data using dissociated cultured cells from hippocampal and cerebellum showed that the staining was more intense in neurons than in astrocytes. The protein was rather uniformly located in the perikarya and dendrites, suggesting that ThTP and ThTPase may play a general role in neuronal metabolism rather than a specific role in excitability. There was no apparent correlation between ThTPase expression and selective vulnerability of certain brain regions to thiamine deficiency.
The expression pattern of proinflammatory cytokines, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) in the spinal cord and the bladder in response to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was investigated. In this connection, the gene expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin-6 in the lumbosacral spinal cord and the bladder as determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction was upregulated. In the spinal cord, the immunoreactivity of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta was mainly localized in the ventral horn motoneurons contralateral to MCAO. In the bladder, TNF-alpha was mainly expressed in the inflammatory cells. The expression of nNOS immunoreactivity as well as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) staining in the spinal cord and bladder was also markedly increased in response to MCAO. Furthermore, the temporal and spatial expression of nNOS paralleled that of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the spinal cord. On the other hand, there was no noticeable change in gene expression and immunoreactivity of SP and CGRP. The present results have shown that cytokines and nNOS expression are elevated in areas far removed from the primary site of ischemic infarct, namely, the lumbosacral spinal cord and bladder. This together with some neuronal deaths maybe linked to the dysfunction of the latter in a clinical stroke. On the other hand, the apparent lack of SP and CGRP changes following MCAO suggests that the two neurotransmitters are not directly involved.
A pool of zinc is present in synaptic vesicles in a population of glutamatergic neurones. Zinc appears to modulate synaptic transmission and cause neuronal death. The status of vesicular zinc, neuronal death and glial reaction in the rat forebrain was analysed after a systemic injection of kainic acid in order to establish a model for future studies on zinc function. Rats received a systemic injection of kainic acid (10 mg/kg) and were killed 3, 6, 12, 24 and 48 h post-treatment. Timm's method and zinquin staining were used to detect zinc. Immunostaining for Fos-like proteins and staining with Fluoro-Jade B were used to detect cell reaction and degeneration, respectively. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and tomato lectin were used as glial markers. Zinquin staining for zinc rose transitorily in neuronal somata 6 h after injection (not observed at 24-48 h) in the piriform and entorhinal cortices, amygdala and hippocampus. In contrast sulphide/silver staining for zinc showed virtually no rise in cytoplasmic zinc (except in cornus ammonis field 1 of the hippocampus) 6 h after injection, and a decrease (bleaching) in some terminal fields starting 12 h after injection and increasing at 24-48 h. The areas most affected by the zinc bleaching were the olfactory bulb, piriform and entorhinal cortices, endopiriform and amygdaloid nuclei. Transitory Fos immunostaining (within neuronal nuclei) was observed between 3 and 12 h after kainate treatment in many telencephalic areas: olfactory bulb, cortex (piriform, hippocampal and neocortex) and amygdaloid nuclei. This was accompanied by changes in glial markers starting 3 h after injection. Fluoro-Jade B staining in neurones (degeneration) appeared 6 h after treatment and increased later. Degenerating areas generally coincided with those showing Fos immunoreactivity. Zinquin and sulphide/silver methods revealed various pools of zinc after kainate injection: a cytoplasmic pool and a terminal field (or vesicular) pool. Cytoplasmic zinc (zinquin) was coincident, in time and location, with cell degeneration, thus implicating zinc in cell death. This zinc may not have come from presynaptic stores, since no bleaching (sulphide/silver method) was observed 6 h after injection. Future experiments altering zinc pools (e.g. by chelating agents) may elucidate the function of zinc.
Audiogenic seizures are a model of generalized tonic-clonic brainstem-generated seizures. Repeated induction of audiogenic seizures, in audiogenic kindling (AuK) protocols, generates limbic epileptogenic activity. The present work evaluated associations between permanence of AuK-induced limbic epileptogenicity and changes in cell number/gluzinergic terminal reorganization in limbic structures in Wistar audiogenic rats (WARs). Additionally, we evaluated histological changes after only amygdala kindling (AmK) and only AuK, and longevity of permanence of AuK-induced limbic epileptogenicity, up to 160 days. WARs and Wistar non-susceptible rats were submitted to AuK (80 stimuli) followed by both 50 days without acoustic stimulation and AmK (16 stimuli), only AmK and only AuK. Cell counting and gluzinergic terminal reorganization were assessed, respectively, by using Nissl and neo-Timm histochemistries, 24 h after the last AmK stimulus. Evaluation of behavioral response to a single acoustic stimulus after AuK and up to 160 days without acoustic stimulation was done in another group. AuK-induced limbic epileptogenicity developed in parallel with a decrease in brainstem-type seizure severity during AuK. AmK was facilitated after AuK. Permanence of AuK-induced limbic epileptogenicity was associated with cell loss only in the rostral lateral nucleus of amygdala. Roughly 20 generalized limbic seizures induced by AuK were neither associated with hippocampal cell loss nor mossy fiber sprouting (MFS). AmK developed with cell loss in hippocampal and amygdala nuclei but not MFS. Main changes of gluzinergic terminals after kindling protocols were observed in amygdala, perirhinal and piriform cortices. AuK and AuK-AmK induced a similar number and type of seizures, higher than in AmK. AmK and AuK-AmK were associated with broader cell loss than AuK. Data indicate that permanent AuK-induced limbic epileptogenicity is mainly associated to gluzinergic terminal reorganization in amygdala but not in the hippocampus and with no hippocampal cell loss. Few AmK-induced seizures are associated to broader and higher cell loss than a higher number of AuK-induced seizures.
We examined whether the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) encodes nociceptive stimulus intensity by applying mechanical pressure stimulation, for 2 s at 50, 100, or 300 g constant force (gf) to the tails of urethane-anesthetized rats. In a total of 1208 neurons sampled, 242 (20.0%) were responsive to mechanical stimuli. One hundred thirteen of the 242 (46.7%) were mechanical high threshold neurons (nociceptive specific neurons, NS; threshold &gt;or=100 gf), and 35 (14.5%) exhibited a graded increase in excitator responses to a stepwise increase in stimulus intensity (wide dynamic range-like neurons, WDR-L). These 148 response discharges persisted during stimulation followed by post-stimulus discharges. The nociceptive response duration of NS neurons, but not discharge frequency, was reduced dose-dependently by intraventricular injection of morphine (0.3, and 30 microg/3 microl). Different doses of morphine may set the stimulus intensity at relatively different brain activity levels. Thus, the NS neurons used the response duration as a sensory transduction code. In WDR-L neurons, the response duration, but not always the firing frequency, was linearly related to stimulus intensity. The WDR-L neurons in the mPFC encoded stimulus intensity with response duration, although the coding method is not likely to be the same as that of sensory discriminating WDR cells in the primary somatosensory cortex. Both types of mPFC neurons encode nociceptive (absolute or relative) stimulus intensity and transform the information into the temporal duration of the next stage of pain-related modulation in animal behavior.
Neuroinflammation, and elevated levels of inflammatory proteins, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and the deposition of beta-amyloid may interact to contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We reproduced a component of the neuroinflammatory state within the basal forebrain cholinergic system, a region that is vulnerable to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease, of transgenic Tg2576 mice that express the Swedish double mutation of the human amyloid precursor protein (APPswe). We have previously shown that basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are selectively vulnerable to the consequences of neuroinflammation. In the current study, tumor necrosis factor-alpha was infused into the basal forebrain region of APPswe and nontransgenic control mice for 20 days with the expectation that the presence of the transgene would enhance the loss of cholinergic neurons. Chronic infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha significantly decreased cortical choline acetyltransferase activity, reduced the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells and increased the number of activated astrocytes and microglia within the basal forebrain. The presence of the APPswe gene did not enhance the vulnerability of forebrain cholinergic neurons to the chronic neuroinflammation. Furthermore, combined treatment of these mice with memantine demonstrated that the neurotoxic effects of tumor necrosis factor-alpha upon cholinergic cells did not require the activation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. In contrast, we have previously shown that memantine was able to provide neuroprotection to cholinergic forebrain neurons from the consequences of exposure to the inflammogen lipopolysaccharide. These results provide insight into the mechanism by which neuroinflammation may selectively target specific neural systems during the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
The purpose of this investigation was to assess the ability of the hippocampus to withstand a metabolic challenge following chronic stress. An N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor excitotoxin (ibotenic acid, IBO) was infused into the CA3 region of the hippocampus following a period of restraint for 6 h/day/21 days. Following the end of restraint when CA3 dendritic retraction persists (3 to 4 days), rats were infused with IBO (or vehicle) into the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Stressed male rats showed significantly more CA3 damage after IBO infusion relative to controls and the saline-infused side. Moreover, IBO-exacerbation of damage in males was not observed in the CA3 region 3 to 4 days after acute stress (6 h restraint), nor in the CA1 region after chronic stress. Females were also examined and chronic stress did not exacerbate IBO damage in the CA3 region. Overall, these results demonstrate that chronic stress compromises the ability of the hippocampus to withstand a metabolic challenge days after the chronic stress regimen has subsided in male rats. Whether the conditions surrounding CA3 dendritic retraction in females represents vulnerability is less clear and warrants further investigation.
Serotonin (5-HT) is involved in the synchronisation of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus (SCN). This clock is synchronised by light (photic cues) and by non-photic cues. Non-photic cues are notably conveyed to the SCN by a direct 5-HT pathway arising from the mesencephalic median raphe nucleus (MRN). Furthermore, an indirect projection conveys non-photic inputs by 5-HT fibres from the mesencephalic dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) to the intergeniculate leaflets of the thalamus (IGL) which project to the SCN. In the rat, the quantitative distribution of tryptophan hydroxylase (TpH), used as an index of 5-HT synthesis, was studied by in situ immunoautoradiography in both the serotoninergic cell bodies area of the raphe nuclei and the serotoninergic terminal field of the IGL. Under a 12 h light: 12 h dark (LD 12:12), TpH protein amount exhibited a rhythmic variation within the IGL. The maximum levels were reached at the day/night transition. In both MRN and the lateral groups of the DRN, TpH variations were opposite to those observed in the IGL. Such phase opposition was reported previously in the MRN/SCN pathway and was correlated with a rhythmic release of 5-HT within the SCN [Eur J Neurosci 15 (2002) 833]. Thus, the daily rhythmicity of TpH levels observed in DRN-IGL pathway may be correlated with a rhythmic release of 5-HT in the IGL at the beginning of the night. Under constant darkness, TpH rhythmic variations in the two serotoninergic pathways were maintained and similar to those observed under light/dark cycle. These results demonstrate the existence of a circadian endogenous functioning in the 5-HT neurones projecting to the rat circadian system.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and CART-derived peptides are widely expressed in the hypothalamus. CART is involved in food intake control and is regulated by circulating leptin, a hormone implicated in a variety of endocrine functions. Lack of leptin (ob/ob mice) is associated with obesity, hypogonadism and infertility. In the arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, and ventral premammillary nucleus, CART neurons also express leptin receptor long-form splice-variant. Recent studies have suggested that the facilitatory effect of leptin on gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion is mediated by CART. In the present study, using dual- and triple-label immunohistochemistry, we identified CART fibers in close apposition with GnRH neurons expressing Fos in the afternoon of the proestrous day, as well as with GnRH neurons in male rats. In order to investigate the origin of these fibers, we injected the retrograde tracer Fluorogold into areas containing GnRH cell bodies. In male and female rats, the tracer was injected around the vascular organ of lamina terminalis, median preoptic nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus, as well as in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus. We observed retrogradely labeled neurons in various hypothalamic nuclei, including the arcuate, dorsomedial and ventral premammillary. In these areas, dual-label immunohistochemistry/in situ hybridization revealed that part of the retrogradely labeled neurons also express CART mRNA. As a control, we injected the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the ventral premammillary nucleus of both males and females. Most projections targeted brain areas related to reproductive behavior and few fibers were closely associated with GnRH neurons. Our findings indicate that ventral premammillary nucleus CART neurons intermingle with brain circuitry involved in reproduction. Therefore, these neurons are well positioned to mediate leptin effect on reproductive control.
It was previously shown that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the terminals of the lateral efferents of the cochlea is decreased by acoustic trauma and that sound preconditioning counteracted this decrease [Hear Res 174 (2002) 124]. Here we identify those neurons in the lateral olivocochlear system (LOC) in the brainstem that regulates the peripheral expression of TH in the cochlea. By employing retrograde tracing techniques, dextran-labeled neurons were found predominantly in the ipsilateral LOC system including lateral superior olive (LSO), and the surrounding periolivary regions (dorsal periolivary nucleus [DPO], dorsolateral periolivary nucleus [DLPO], lateral nucleus of trapezoid body [LNTB]). Employing immunocytochemistry, it was found that a control group had 35% of the ipsilateral LOC neurons positively stained with TH. Of the total population of TH neurons, 77% were double-stained (TH and dextran) in the LOC system. Acoustic trauma decreased the number of TH positive neurons in the LSO and the surrounding DLPO, and caused a reduction of TH fiber immunolabeling in these regions. Changes were not found in the DPO or the LNTB after acoustic trauma. Sound conditioning protected against the decrease of TH immunolabeling by acoustic trauma and increased the fiber staining for TH in the LSO and DLPO, but not in the DPO or the LNTB. These results provide evidence that TH positive neurons are present in the LOC system in the guinea-pig. It is now demonstrated that protection against acoustic trauma by sound conditioning has a central component that is governed by TH in the LSO and the surrounding periolivary DLPO region.
The ionotropic glutamate receptors N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors are present peripherally in the primary sensory afferent neurons innervating the viscera. Multiple studies have reported roles of glutamate receptors in gastric functions. However, no study has previously shown the direct influence of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist on vagal sensory neurons. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists on mechanotransduction properties of vagal afferent fibers innervating the rat stomach. Action potentials were recorded from the hyponodal vagus nerve innervating the antrum of the Long-Evans rats. For antral distension (AD), a small latex balloon was inserted into the stomach and positioned in the antrum. The antral contractions were recorded with solid-state probe inserted into the water-filled balloon. Antral units were identified to isovolumic (0.2-1 ml) or isobaric AD (5-60 mm Hg). NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists were injected in a cumulative fashion (1-100 micromol/kg, i.v.). After the conclusion of experiment, the abdomen was opened and receptive field was mapped by probing the serosa of the stomach. Thirty-two fibers were identified to AD. The receptive fields of 26 fibers were located in the posterior part of the antrum. All fibers exhibited spontaneous firing (mean: 7.00+/-0.97 impulses/s). Twenty fibers exhibited a rhythmic firing that was in phase with antral contractions, whereas 12 fibers exhibited non-rhythmic spontaneous firing unrelated to spontaneous antral contraction. Both groups of fibers exhibited a linear increase in responses to graded isovolumic or isobaric distensions. NMDA (memantine HCl and dizocilpine (MK-801)) and AMPA/kainate (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline 2,3-dione; CNQX) receptor antagonists dose-dependently attenuated the mechanotransduction properties of these fibers to AD. However, competitive NMDA antagonist dl-2-amino-5 phosphopentanoic acid (AP-5) had no effect. The study documents that glutamate receptor antagonists can attenuate responses of gastric vagal sensory afferent fibers innervating the distal stomach, offering insight to potential pharmacological agents in the treatment of gastric disorders.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is expressed in certain primary afferent fibers, is up-regulated in response to tissue injury and is capable of inhibiting nociceptive behavior at the spinal level. However, the spinal mechanism(s) for NPY-evoked antinociception is unknown. In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that agonists at the NPY Y1 receptor subtype (Y1-R) inhibit exocytosis from the capsaicin-sensitive class of nociceptors. Using in vitro superfusion of rat dorsal spinal cord slices, pre-treatment with the Y1-R agonist [Leu(31)Pro(34)]NPY significantly inhibited capsaicin-evoked release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide with an EC(50) value of 10.6 nM. This inhibitory effect was concentration dependent, significantly attenuated by pre-treatment with the Y1 receptor antagonist BIBP3226 and reproduced by synthetic NPY. Examination of adult rat dorsal root ganglia using double immunofluorescent labeling revealed frequent co-localization of Y1 receptor immunoreactivity in vanilloid receptor type 1-immunoreactive neurons, indicating that Y1 agonists may directly modulate the capsaicin-sensitive class of nociceptors. Collectively, these results indicate that NPY is capable of inhibiting capsaicin-sensitive neurons via a Y1 receptor mechanism, suggesting the mechanisms for spinal NPY-induced antinociception is due, at least in part, to inhibition of central terminals of capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors.
Lidocaine is a local anesthetic and antiarrhythmic agent. Although clinical and experimental studies have shown that an antiarrhythmic dose of lidocaine can protect the brain from ischemic damage, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In the present study, we examined whether lidocaine inhibits neuronal apoptosis in the penumbra in a rat model of transient focal cerebral ischemia. Male Wistar rats underwent a 90-min temporary occlusion of middle cerebral artery. Lidocaine was given as an i.v. bolus (1.5 mg/kg) followed by an i.v. infusion (2 mg/kg/h) for 180 min, starting 30 min before ischemia. Rats were killed and brain samples were collected at 4 and 24 h after ischemia. Apoptotic changes were evaluated by immunohistochemistry for cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) for DNA fragmentation. Cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation were detected at 4 and 24 h after ischemia and DNA fragmentation was detected at 24 h. Double-labeling with NeuN, a neuronal marker, demonstrated that cytochrome c, caspase-3, and TUNEL were confined to neurons. Lidocaine reduced cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation in the penumbra at 4 h and diminished DNA fragmentation in the penumbra at 24 h. Lidocaine treatment improved early electrophysiological recovery and reduced the size of the cortical infarct at 24 h, but had no significant effect on cerebral blood flow in either the penumbra or core during ischemia. These findings suggest that lidocaine attenuates apoptosis in the penumbra after transient focal cerebral ischemia. The infarct-reducing effects of lidocaine may be due, in part, to the inhibition of apoptotic cell death in the penumbra.
It is well established that cocaine stimulates monoamine transmission by blocking reuptake of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine and serotonin into nerve cells, yet few investigations have addressed the effects of chronic cocaine on NE function. In the present study, we examined the effects of repeated cocaine injections on neuroendocrine responses evoked by the alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, clonidine. Previous findings show that clonidine increases pituitary growth hormone (GH) secretion by a central mechanism involving postsynaptic alpha2-adrenergic receptors. Male rats previously fitted with indwelling jugular catheters received two daily injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline for 7 days. At 42 h and 8 days after treatment, rats were challenged with clonidine (25 microg/kg, i.v.) or saline, and serial blood samples were withdrawn. Plasma GH and corticosterone levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Prior cocaine exposure did not affect basal levels of either hormone. However, cocaine-pretreated rats displayed a significant reduction in clonidine-evoked GH secretion at 42 h, and this blunted response was still apparent 8 days later. Corticosterone responses produced by clonidine were similar regardless of pretreatment. The present data suggest that withdrawal from repeated cocaine injections may be accompanied by desensitization of postsynaptic alpha2-adrenoreceptors coupled to GH secretion. Since human patients with depression often exhibit blunted GH responses to clonidine, our findings provide evidence that cocaine withdrawal might produce depressive-like symptoms via dysregulation of NE mechanisms.
Hypercortisolemia, long-term exposure of the brain to high concentrations of stress hormones (i.e. cortisol), may occur in patients suffering from depression, alcoholism, and other disorders. This has been suggested to produce neuropathological effects, in part, via increased function or sensitivity of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors. Given that cigarette smoking is highly prevalent in some of these patient groups and nicotine has been shown to reduce toxic consequences of NMDA receptor function, it may be suggested that nicotine intake may attenuate the neurotoxic effects of hypercortisolemia. To investigate this possibility, organotypic hippocampal slice cultures derived from rat were pre-treated with corticosterone (0.001-1 microM) alone or in combination with selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonists for 72-h prior to a brief (1-h) NMDA exposure (5 microM). Pre-treatment with corticosterone (0.001-1 microM) alone did not cause hippocampal damage, while NMDA exposure produced significant cellular damage in the cornu ammonis (CA)1 subregion. No significant damage was observed in the dentate gyrus or CA3 regions following NMDA exposure. Pre-treatment of cultures with corticosterone (0.1-1 microM) markedly exacerbated NMDA-induced CA1 and dentate gyrus region damage. This effect in the CA1 region was prevented by co-administration of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486 (&gt;or=1 microM), but not spironolactone (1-10 microM), a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist. In a second series of studies, both acute and pre-exposure of cultures to (-)-nicotine (1-10 microM) significantly reduced NMDA toxicity in the CA1 region. Co-administration of cultures to (-)-nicotine (1-10 microM) with 100 nM corticosterone prevented corticosterone's exacerbation of subsequent CA1 insult. This protective effect of (-)-nicotine was not altered by co-exposure of cultures to 10 microM dihydro-beta-erythroidine but was blocked by co-exposure to 100 nM methyllycaconitine, suggesting the involvement of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors possessing the alpha7* subunit. The present studies suggest a role for hypercortisolemia in sensitizing the hippocampal NMDA receptor system to pathological activation and indicate that prolonged nicotine exposure attenuates this sensitization. Thus, it is possible that one consequence of heavy smoking in those suffering from hypercortisolemia may be a reduction of neuronal injury and sparing of cellular function.
The aim of this study was to examine the participation of nitrergic neurotransmission in the initiation of micturition hyperreflexia associated to cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis in rats. Micturition threshold volume was significantly reduced 4 h after CP administration (100 mg/kg, i.p.); this reduction was attenuated by intra-arterially injected N(G)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME), a non selective nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, but not by intravesical infusion of S-methyl-l-thiocitrulline (l-SMTC), another structurally different NOS inhibitor. Interestingly, l-NAME failed to affect micturition threshold volume in normal rats. The magnitude of isolated detrusor strips contractions elicited by either carbachol or nerve activation was significantly reduced in CP-treated rats but was unaffected by the addition of N(G)-nitro-l-arginine (l-NOARG), a nonselective NOS inhibitor. In contrast, intrathecal l-NAME and l-SMTC but not N(G)-nitro-d-arginine-methyl ester (d-NAME) administration augmented the micturition threshold volume in CP-treated rats in an l-arginine preventable manner. As with the systemic injection, intrathecal l-NAME also did not affect the micturition threshold volume in normal rats. Four hours after CP injection, the number of neuronal NOS immunoreactive or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) positive neurons in spinal lumbosacral segments (L6-S2) was not altered whereas the number of c-Fos immunoreactive neurons increased significantly in the dorsal gray commissural nucleus (DGC), the parasympathetic sacral nucleus (PSN) and lamina X of these segments. Ca(2+)-dependent, but not Ca(2+)-independent NOS activity increased significantly in spinal L6-S2 segments but not in thoracic segments of CP-treated rats. These data indicate that the micturition hyperreflexia observed in the initial hours of CP-induced cystitis is associated with an increase in Ca(2+)-dependent NOS activity in spinal L6-S2 segments suggesting an increased production of nitric oxide (NO). The increased production of NO in these spinal segments appears to be necessary for the initiation of the micturition hyperreflexia.
TorsinA is a novel protein identified in the search for mutations underlying the human neurologic movement disorder, early onset torsion dystonia. Relatively little is understood about the normal function of torsinA or the physiological effects of the codon deletion associated with most cases of disease. Overexpression of wild-type torsinA in cultured cells by DNA transfection results in a reticular distribution of immunoreactive protein that co-localizes with endoplasmic reticulum resident chaperones, while the dystonia-related mutant form accumulates within concentric membrane whorls and nuclear-associated membrane stacks. In this study we examined the biogenesis of mutant torsinA-positive membrane inclusions using tetracycline-regulated herpes simplex virus amplicon vectors. At low expression levels, mutant torsinA was localized predominantly around the nucleus, while at high levels it was also concentrated within cytosolic spheroid inclusions. In contrast, the distribution of wild-type torsinA did not vary, appearing diffuse and reticular at all expression levels. These observations are consistent with descriptions of inducible membrane synthesis in other systems in which cytosolic membrane whorls are derived from multilayered membrane stacks that first form around the nuclear envelope. These results also suggest that formation of mutant torsinA-positive inclusions occurs at high expression levels in culture, whereas the perinuclear accumulation of the mutant protein is present even at low expression levels that are more likely to resemble those of the endogenous protein. These nuclear-associated membrane structures enriched in mutant torsinA may therefore be of greater relevance to understanding how the dystonia-related mutation compromises cellular physiology.
The adult peripheral nervous system is able to regenerate after injury. Regeneration is associated with the expression of new genes and proteins. Proteins abundant in developing axons increase in expression after injury, whereas proteins involved in neurotransmission are downregulated. It has been hypothesized that molecular mechanisms underlying regeneration-associated alterations in gene expression may be a recapitulation of developmental processes. These gene expression changes are likely to be regulated by changes in the gene expression of transcription factors. As homeobox genes play important roles in embryonic development of the nervous system, it makes them candidates for a regulatory role in the process of regeneration. Here we show that the relative mRNA expression levels of Isl1 decreased shortly after crush, but those of DRG11, Lmx1b, and Pax3 did not change after crush. These data indicate that the developmental expression patterns of the homeobox genes studied here are not recapitulated during regeneration of the dorsal root ganglia neurons. We conclude that developmental gene expression programs controlled by these homeobox genes are not directly involved in sciatic nerve regeneration.
Argyrophilic dark neurons (DNs) reflect the early histopathological state of neurons following various brain insults. We examined the fate of DNs, about to either die or recover, following two types (heavy and light damage) of brain insult. Wistar rats were injected ibotenic acid unilaterally into the hippocampal CA1 region (ibotenic acid [IA] injection) or were forced to swim (SWIM). Argyrophil III (DNs)-, activated caspase-3 immuno-, TUNEL- and hematoxylin-eosin (H-E)-staining and ultrastructural examinations were then performed. One to three hours after IA injection, typical DNs (argyrophilic both in somata and dendrites) with corkscrew-like dendrites were densely packed in the pyramidal cell layer of hippocampal CA1 around the injection site. After 12-24 h, DNs were argyrophilic only in the somata and proximal dendrites but absent in distal dendrites in the CA1 region. However, at this time typical DNs were found in remote areas. At 3 h, caspase-3 activation was detected at the injection site, which increased to a peak level after 12 h. Three to 7 days after injection, TUNEL positive cells were detected in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. Immediately following SWIM, &quot;brown&quot; rather than &quot;dark&quot; neurons were detected in the various areas and most frequently in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. No typical DNs were detected over the first 3 days. Some activation of caspase-3 was detected in a few CA3 pyramidal cells but no TUNEL-positive cells were detected. Ultrastructural examination revealed a diffuse distribution of aggregated silver particles in the dendrites and cytoplasm of pyramidal cells at the sites of IA injection. After SWIM, silver particles were detected mainly on mitochondria of affected cells. These data suggest that DNs provide a measure of neuronal damage: typically dark neurons with broad damage to the cytoskeleton of dendrites would die, while non-typical brown neurons, that may have a disturbance in mitochondria, predominantly survive.
Clonidine, a alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been demonstrated to be neuroprotective when administered during ischemia. It is not known whether clonidine can precondition brain against ischemia. We examined this possibility using a transient forebrain ischemia model. Rats received 40 microg/kg of clonidine intraperitoneally at 6, 18, 24 and 72 h as well as 1 week before the forebrain ischemia that was produced by bilateral common carotid arterial occlusion combined with hemorrhagic hypotension to mean arterial pressure 50 mm Hg for 30 min. They were intubated and ventilated with a gas mixture of 1.0% halothane in 30% O(2)/balance air during the procedure. Rats that received clonidine at 6, 18 and 24 h before the ischemia had significantly improved neurological deficit scores and reduced infarct sizes evaluated 3 days after the ischemia. A selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, abolished the neuroprotective effects of clonidine preconditioning. We conclude that there is time window for clonidine preconditioning to be neuroprotective and that alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are important in mediating clonidine preconditioning-induced neuroprotection.
Axospinous perforated synapses of one morphological subtype exhibit multiple transmission zones, each one being formed by an axon terminal protrusion apposing a postsynaptic density (PSD) segment and separated from others by complete spine partitions. Such segmented, completely partitioned (SCP) synapses have been implicated in synaptic plasticity and postulated to be exceptionally efficacious. The present study explored the validity of this supposition. Postembedding immunogold electron microscopy was used for quantifying the postsynaptic AMPA receptor (AMPAR) expression, which is widely regarded as a major determinant of synaptic efficacy. Various subtypes of axospinous synapses were examined in the rat CA1 stratum radiatum. The results showed that the number of immunogold particles for AMPARs in SCP synapses markedly and significantly exceeded that in other perforated subtypes (by 101% on the average) and in nonperforated immunopositive synapses (by 1086%). Moreover, the particle number per single PSD segment, each of which also contained NMDA receptors, was significantly higher than that per nonperforated PSD (by 485%). SCP synapses also exhibited a higher particle density per unit PSD area, as well as a larger overall PSD area as compared with other synaptic subtypes. Analysis of covariance revealed that the high AMPAR expression in SCP synapses was related to the segmented PSD configuration, not only to the PSD size. Moreover, the subpopulations of SCP and other perforated synapses with either overlapping or equal PSD sizes differed in AMPAR content and concentration, with both measures being significantly higher in SCP synapses. Thus, the elevated AMPAR expression in SCP synapses is associated with the presence of separate PSD segments, not only with their large PSD area. These findings are consistent with the idea that SCP synapses have a relatively greater efficacy and may support maximal levels of synaptic enhancement characteristic of certain forms of synaptic plasticity such as the early LTP phase.
Progesterone (PROG) provides neuroprotection to the injured central and peripheral nervous system. These effects may be due to regulation of myelin synthesis in glial cells and also to direct actions on neuronal function. Recent studies point to neurotrophins as possible mediators of hormone action. Here, we show that the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) at both the mRNA and protein levels was increased by PROG treatment in ventral horn motoneurons from rats with spinal cord injury (SCI). Semiquantitative in situ hybridization revealed that SCI reduced BDNF mRNA levels by 50% in spinal motoneurons (control: 53.5+/-7.5 grains/mm(2) vs. SCI: 27.5+/-1.2, P&lt;0.05), while PROG administration to injured rats (4 mg/kg/day during 3 days, s.c.) elicited a three-fold increase in grain density (SCI+PROG: 77.8+/-8.3 grains/mm(2), P&lt;0.001 vs. SCI). In addition, PROG enhanced BDNF immunoreactivity in motoneurons of the lesioned spinal cord. Analysis of the frequency distribution of immunoreactive densities (chi(2): 812.73, P&lt;0.0001) showed that 70% of SCI+PROG motoneurons scored as dark stained whereas only 6% of neurons in the SCI group belonged to this density score category (P&lt;0.001). PROG also prevented the lesion-induced chromatolytic degeneration of spinal cord motoneurons as determined by Nissl staining. In the normal intact spinal cord, PROG significantly increased BDNF inmunoreactivity in ventral horn neurons, without changes in mRNA levels. Our findings suggest that PROG enhancement of endogenous neuronal BDNF could provide a trophic environment within the lesioned spinal cord and might be part of the PROG activated-pathways to provide neuroprotection.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) together with olfactory nerve fibroblasts (ONFs) and neonatal astrocytes are potent stimulators of neurite growth in adulthood and during development, respectively. Since it is known that alignment of glial cells is important for the correct outgrowth of axon tracts, it was hypothesized that the alignment of glial cells stimulates directional and enhanced neurite outgrowth. Adult OEC/ONF and neonatal astrocytes were cultured either on biodegradable poly(d,l)-lactide matrices or in Petri dishes for 4 days. Thereafter neonatal cerebral cortical neurons were added. After a 2-days coculture period the cultures were fixed and processed for a combined MAP-2 and phosphorylated neurofilament (RT97) staining. The neurite growth (neurite elongation and neurite formation) and the neurite direction were assessed. We show that (1). OEC/ONF cultures are more potent in stimulating the length of the longest neurite of cocultured neurons, (2). alignment of glial is achieved in vitro on our biomatrices, (3). aligned glial/biomatrix complexes do not enhance neurite growth, and (4). aligned glial/biomatrix complexes direct neurite outgrowth. These data have significant implications for in vivo experiments focusing on glial transplantation. Transplanting glial/biomatrix complexes may stimulate the directional regrowth of severed axons across a lesion site.
The regulation of voltage-activated K(+), and Ca(2+) currents by actin filaments was studied in salamander retinal ganglion cells, using the whole-cell patch clamp technique and Ca(2+) imaging. Disruption of F-actin by cytochalasin B or latrunculin B resulted in a reduction of L-type Ca(2+) current by 55+/-4%, and a sustained outward K(+) current (I(k)) by 41+/-3%. The effect was diminished when the F-actin stabilizing agent phalloidin was present in the patch pipette. In a group of cells where I(K) exhibited a small degree of inactivation, the effect of F-actin disruption on current was dual; it increased it by 89+/-16%, at -10 mV, and reduced it by 37+/-5% at +50 mV voltage step from the same holding potential of -70 mV. This was accompanied by a shift in a voltage of half-maximal activation toward negative potentials by approximately 20 mV. In Ca(2+) imaging experiments, 30 min incubation of isolated neurons with latrunculin A reduced a depolarization-induced Ca(2+) accumulation by 45+/-5%. These results suggest a role for the actin cytoskeleton in regulating voltage-gated ion channels in retinal ganglion cells.
Bombesin (BN)-like peptide receptors are known to be essential to the regulation of not only homeostasis, including feeding behavior, but also of emotional systems in mammal. Recently, two novel BN receptors, chicken BN-like peptide receptor subtype-3.5 (chBRS-3.5) and gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (chGRP-R), have been identified. Here, we report the localizations of these receptors' mRNAs in the chick brain through development using in situ hybridization. First, chBRS-3.5 mRNA signals were found in the dorsal ventricular ridge at embryonic day (ED) 9. Strong signals were observed in the hyperpallium accessorium, nidopallium and nucleus basorostralis pallii, and moderate signals were found in the hippocampus, cortex piriformis, hyperpallium intercalatum, area temporo-parieto-occipitalis, nucleus striae terminalis lateralis, nucleus olfactorius anterior and organum septi lateralis at ED16. This wide expression in the pallium persisted during posthatch periods. Abundant expressions in the hyperpallium, nidopallium, considered to be similar to the mammalian cortex, as well as in the hippocampus, indicate participation of these molecules in the processing of sensory information, motor function, learning and memory. Telencephalic areas devoid of chBRS-3.5 signals were the entopallium, arcopallium anterius, globus pallidus, nucleus intrapeduncularis, tuberculum olfactorius, nucleus septalis lateralis, hypothalamic and thalamic areas. In contrast to chBRS-3.5, chGRP-R mRNA signals were found in the pallidum at ED5 and 9. At ED16, chGRP-R mRNA signals were localized in the medial striatum and hypothalamus. GRP-R expression in the hypothalamic region was phylogenically conserved. Thus, chBRS-3.5 mRNA signals were distributed in a broader region and were more intense than chGRP-R mRNA. Taken together, chGRP-R and chBRS-3.5 mRNA occurred in similar regions of mammals that express GRP-R. BN/GRP-immunoreactive neurons and varicosities were found mainly in the pallium, especially in the hyperpallium accessorium and nidopallium, and this distribution coincided with that of chBRS-3.5 mRNA. This result suggests that the endogenous ligands for chBRS-3.5 were likely BN-like peptides produced in the pallium.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) is the gene responsible for the development of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. To probe the functions of PS1 on neuronal resistance to oxidative stress, we pharmacologically examined the death signals in PS1-deficient neurons induced by oxidative stress. Because the death of primarily cultured neurons lacking PS1 is caused by hydrogen peroxide in calcium-dependent manners in vitro [J Neurochem 78 (2001) 807], we tested the neuronal survival-promoting ability of inhibitors against calcium-dependent/cell death-related signaling molecules, such as ERKs, JNK, p38 MAP kinase, calcineurin, calpain, and nitric oxide synthase (NOS). All inhibitors tested failed to rescue the PS1-deficient neurons from the death with the exception of an inhibitor of NOS, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester. Hemoglobin, a nitric oxide (NO) scavenger, also prevented the death of the mutant neurons. NADPH-diaphorase staining, which accounts for NOS activity, was enhanced in the mutant neurons. These results suggest that PS1 has a role for NOS activation in neurons and confers oxidative stress-resistance on neurons in calcium/NO-dependent manners.
The role of GABA(A) receptors in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in turning behaviour of rats was studied. Unilateral injection of the GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (25-100 ng), into the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus dose-dependently produced contraversive pivoting, namely tight head-to-tail turning marked by abnormal hindlimb backward stepping. This effect was GABA(A) receptor specific, since it was prevented by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (50 ng), which alone did not elicit turning behaviour. Unilateral injection of a mixture of dopamine D(1) ((+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol [SKF 38393], 5 microg) and D(2) (quinpirole, 10 microg) receptor agonists into the nucleus accumbens shell has been found to elicit contraversive pivoting, whilst unilateral injection of the acetylcholine receptor agonist (carbachol, 5 microg) into the same site is known to elicit contraversive circling, namely turning marked by normal stepping. The pivoting induced by a mixture of SKF 38393 (5 microg) and quinpirole (10 microg) injected into the nucleus accumbens shell was significantly inhibited by bicuculline (50 ng) injected into the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, whereas muscimol (25 ng) had no effect. Neither muscimol (25 ng) nor bicuculline (50 ng) modulated the contraversive circling induced by carbachol (5 microg) injected into the nucleus accumbens shell. It is therefore concluded that unilateral stimulation of GABA(A) receptors in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus can elicit contraversive pivoting and that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus is one of the output stations of the accumbens region that mediates shell-specific, dopaminergic pivoting, but not of the accumbens region that mediates shell-specific, cholinergic circling.
We previously demonstrated that spinal protein kinase C (PKC) is involved in the development of a neuropathic pain-like state induced by sciatic nerve ligation, and the morphine-induced rewarding effect is attenuated by sciatic nerve ligation in rodents. Here we first investigated whether sciatic nerve injury could change the activity of a conventional PKC (cPKC) and an atypical PKC isoform PKCzeta in the mouse spinal cord. The second experiment was to investigate whether direct inhibition of spinal PKC by intrathecal (i.t.) administration of a specific PKC inhibitor, 2-[8-[(dimethylamino)methyl]-6,7,8,9-tetrahydropyrido[1,2-a]indol-3-yl]-3-(1-methyl-1H-indole-3-yl)maleimide (RO-32-0432), could affect the rewarding effect induced by morphine following sciatic nerve ligation in mice. We found here that the activities of both cPKC and PKCzeta in the spinal cord were clearly increased following sciatic nerve ligation. Furthermore, i.t. administration of RO-32-0432 reversed a long-lasting pain-like syndrome as indicated by thermal hyperalgesia following sciatic nerve ligation in mice. These data provide direct evidence that activated cPKC and PKCzeta in the spinal cord may contribute to the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. In the present study, we confirmed that the morphine-induced place preference was significantly suppressed by sciatic nerve ligation. It should be mentioned that i.t. pretreatment with RO-32-0432 significantly reversed the attenuation of morphine-induced rewarding effect following sciatic nerve ligation. These results suggest that activation of PKCs, including cPKC and PKCzeta, within the spinal cord is directly responsible for the attenuation of the morphine-induced rewarding effect under a neuropathic pain-like state following sciatic nerve ligation in mice.
Several theories of opioid tolerance predict that the magnitude of micro opioid receptor (MOR) internalization in response to ligand changes in the setting of morphine tolerance. Here we show that in rats rendered tolerant to the analgesic action of morphine, cross-tolerance to the analgesic action of intrathecally administered [d-Ala2,N-MePhe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin (DAMGO) can be produced without changes in the magnitude of DAMGO-induced internalization of the MOR in lamina II neurons of the rat spinal cord. These results suggest that opioid tolerance-related changes in signaling are located downstream from or in parallel with receptor activation and internalization and support the idea that key features of opioid signaling are maintained, rather than reduced, in the setting of morphine tolerance.
To clarify how hypothalamic neuronal histamine regulates peripheral energy expenditure, we investigated the effect of infusion of histamine into the third cerebral ventricle or discrete hypothalamic regions on sympathetic nerve activity and expression of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) mRNA in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Infusion of histamine (200 nmol) into the third cerebral ventricle of anesthetized rats significantly increased the electrophysiological activity of sympathetic nerves (P&lt;0.01) and UCP1 mRNA expression in the BAT (P&lt;0.05). Microinjection of histamine (10 nmol) into the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and preoptic area (POA) produced similar significant increases in BAT sympathetic nerve activity (P&lt;0.01 for each). By contrast, injection of histamine into the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus or lateral hypothalamic area had no effect. We conclude that hypothalamic neuronal histamine may regulate energy expenditure in BAT through the activation of sympathetic nerves. The PVN and/or POA appear to be the principal hypothalamic sites that mediate the stimulatory effect of histamine on this efferent pathway.
The effects of the behavioural context on the properties of slow and fast phases of the horizontal optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and on the electromyographic neck response (EMG) were investigated in head-fixed pigeons. Responses in two situations were compared: (i) animals were hung in a harness ('resting' condition); (ii) animals in harness were subjected to a frontal airflow that provoked a flight posture ('flying' condition). During optokinetic stimuli the neck muscles responded in synchrony and in synergy with the eye nystagmus in both the 'resting' and the 'flying' conditions. In the 'resting' condition the neck activity was essentially correlated to the slow phase velocity of the eyes (eye SPV) whereas in the 'flying' condition, the neck response was also correlated to the eye position. The neck response was independent of the retinal slip velocity during the OKN. The velocity of the slow and fast phases of the OKN was not modified by flight. However, the 'flying' condition provoked an increase of the neck response by augmenting both its velocity gain (neck EMG/eye SPV) and its position gain (neck EMG/eye position). These results show that although an optokinetic stimulation results in synchronised eye and head motor commands in head-fixed pigeons, only the head motor command is modified by the behavioural context ('flying' vs. 'resting'). This strategy could help pigeons in reorienting their gaze during the flight.
Much literature has studied the relationship between the organization of neurons in the flocculus/ventral paraflocculus and vestibulo-ocular reflex pathways. Although activation of a flocculus central zone produces ipsilateral horizontal eye movement, anatomical tracing evidence in rats suggests that there may not be a simple one-to-one correspondence between flocculus/ventral paraflocculus zones and control of single extraocular muscles or coplanar pairs of antagonistic extraocular muscles. This study used the retrograde transynaptic transport of pseudorabies virus to identify the topographical organization of Purkinje cells in the flocculus/ventral paraflocculus that control the lateral rectus (LR) and medial rectus (MR) muscles in rats. A survival time of 80 h and 84 h was necessary to observe consistent transynaptically labeled cells in the flocculus/ventral paraflocculus following injections of pseudorabies virus into the MR and LR, respectively. The organization of Purkinje cells in the dorsal flocculus and ventral paraflocculus abided by the traditional boundaries, whereas the labeling pattern in the ventral flocculus showed a more complex, interdigitated arrangement. In agreement with prior studies, transynaptically labeled neurons were also observed in specific vestibular nuclear regions within the medial and superior vestibular nuclei and dorsal Y group. The distribution of labeled neurons in ipsilateral and contralateral vestibular nuclei was associated with features of ipsilateral and contralateral retrograde labeling of Purkinje cells in flocculus/ventral paraflocculus. Importantly, this study provides the first evidence of vestibulo-cerebellar zones controlling individual extraocular muscles and also overlapping distribution of neurons in flocculo-vestibular zones that influence the LR and MR motoneuron pools. This suggests that some of these neurons may be responsible for controlling both muscles.
The spatial properties of the extraclassical receptive fields (ECRF) of neurons responding to a stimulus restricted to it and its interaction with the classical receptive field (CRF) in visual information processing were investigated in 74 relay cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd) of anesthetized cats. The results demonstrate that the ECRF of most relay cells in the LGNd responded preferentially to a grating stimulus of low spatial frequency through a mechanism of spatial summation. These biased cells showed a significant orientation bias which was relatively smaller than that of the CRF. The preferred orientations of the ECRF were not correlated with those of the CRF in most relay cells. The orientation biased ECRFs and CRFs interacted with each other in a non-linear way, resulting in a great diversity of response properties. Overall, the CRF played a more significant role than the ECRF in determining a cell's orientation bias and preferred orientation. The ECRF mostly showed a modulatory role mainly in suppressing and/or in partially facilitating the neural response to stimulation in the CRF although in some cases, the ECRF did determine a cell's responsiveness and orientation sensitivity. These results suggest that the ECRF might contribute to the ability of the LGNd neurons to detect some complex features such as texture segmentation and provide a subcortical contribution to the integrative field of visual cortical cells through receiving inputs from retinal ganglion cells with similar orientation biased extended surrounds [Neuroscience 98 (2000) 207].
Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic with complex actions on the CNS. We investigated here the effects of ketamine anesthesia on somatosensory processing in the rat spinal cord, thalamus, and cerebral cortex, using the quantitative 2-deoxyglucose mapping technique. Unanesthetized or ketamine-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats received a s.c. injection of a dilute formaldehyde solution (5%, 0.08 ml) into a forepaw, inducing prolonged noxious afferent input, or an equal volume of isotonic saline as a control stimulus. The 2-deoxyglucose experiments started 30 min after the injection. In the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord, ketamine had no significant effect on glucose metabolic rates in saline-injected animals, whereas it prevented the metabolic increases elicited by prolonged noxious stimulation in unanesthetized animals. At the thalamic level, ketamine increased glucose uptake in both saline- and formalin-injected rats in the lateral posterior, lateral dorsal, medial dorsal, gelatinosus, antero-ventral and antero-medial thalamic nuclei, whereas it decreased metabolic activity in the ventro-basal complex. At the cortical level, the drug increased metabolic activity in both control and formalin groups in the lacunosus-molecularis layer of the dorsal hippocampus, posterior parietal, retrosplenial, cingulate and frontal cortex; significant metabolic decreases were found in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus and in the parietal 1 and 2 cortical areas. In the investigated brain regions, ketamine did not abolish noxious-evoked increases in glucose uptake, which were in fact enhanced in the forelimb cortex and in the lacunosus-molecularis layer of the hippocampus. The dissociation between the spinal and supraspinal effects of ketamine suggests a specific antinociceptive action on spinal circuits, in parallel with complex changes of the activity of brain circuits involved in somatosensory processing. More generally, this study shows that functional imaging techniques are able to quantitatively assess the effects of anesthetic drugs on nociceptive processing at different levels of the neuraxis.
Perinatal administration of the N-methyl-Dd-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) has been reported to produce regionally selective apoptotic cell death in the frontal cortex. The development of certain behavioral abnormalities following PCP treatment suggested that extracortical regions such as the striatum also could be affected. In this study, perinatal PCP treatment caused a marked reduction in striatal, but not hippocampal, staining for polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), an NMDA-regulated molecule important in synaptogenesis. In order to isolate striatal influences to the cortex, this investigation was continued in vitro using corticostriatal slices. For these experiments we cultured coronal corticostriatal slices from postnatal day 7 rats. After 4 days in vitro, PCP was added for 48 h and then washed out for 24 h before harvesting the tissue. Similar to what was observed in vivo, we found that PCP treatment results in a marked reduction in striatal staining for PSA-NCAM. No change was observed in the mature form of NCAM. In striatal synaptoneurosomes, immunoblot analysis confirmed that the levels of PSA-NCAM and synaptophysin, a molecule often used as a marker of synaptogenesis, were substantially down-regulated by PCP. These effects were prevented by M40403, a superoxide dismutase mimetic that also prevented the PCP-induced terminal dUTP nick-end labeling of DNA fragments that was observed selectively in the cortex. These data suggest that PCP causes cell death by apoptosis selectively in the cortex, but not in the striatum, following either in vivo treatment of perinatal rat pups or in vitro treatment of corticostriatal slices. Further, cortical apoptosis induced by PCP negatively impacts striatal synaptogenesis, a process important in normal neural development. This deficit is probably caused by a reduction in corticostriatal neurotransmission. It is possible that the dysregulation of striatal synaptogenesis contributes to the behavioral abnormalities observed following perinatal PCP administration in vivo.
To evaluate roles of nitric oxide (NO) in neural functions, it is critical to know how neural inputs activate neuronal NO synthase in individual sites. Although NMDA receptor-dependent mechanism well explains postsynaptic, robust NO production, this sole mechanism does not explain some aspects of NO production in the brain, such as the low-level production of NO and the mechanism for presynaptic NO production. We hypothesized that the glutamate receptor involved in NO production is site-specific and controls the initial NO concentration in each site. We visualized NO production mediated by NMDA, AMPA and type-1 metabotropic glutamate (mGlu-1) receptors in rat cerebellar slices and granule cells in culture, with an NO-specific fluorescent indicator, diaminofluorescein-2. AMPA receptor, but not NMDA or mGlu-1 receptor, was responsible for NO production at parallel fiber terminals, which was blocked by CNQX, tetrodotoxin or voltage-dependent calcium channel blockers. More numbers of electrical stimulation were required for NO production in the molecular layer than in other layers, suggesting that AMPA receptor activation generates NO at lower concentrations through a remote interaction with NO synthase. Although Purkinje cell does not express NO synthase, we detected NO production in Purkinje cell layer following electrical stimulation in the white matter at 50 Hz, but not at 10 Hz. This NO production was tetrodotoxin-sensitive, suggesting occurrence in the basket cell terminals, and required synergistic activation of mGlu-1 and NMDA receptors. In the granule cell layer, activation of AMPA or mGlu-1 receptor produced NO uniformly, while NMDA receptor activation produced NO in discontinuous areas of this layer. Thus, distinct glutamate receptors, including non-NMDA receptors, govern occurrence and level of NO production in a layer-specific manner.
A neurogenic component has been suggested to play a pivotal role in a range of inflammatory/immune diseases. Mustard oil (allyl-isothiocyanate) has been used in studies of inflammation to mediate neurogenic vasodilatation and oedema in rodent skin. The aim of the present study was to analyse mustard oil-induced oedema and neutrophil accumulation in the mouse ear focussing on the roles of neurokinin 1 (NK(1)) and vanilloid (TRPV1) receptors using normal (BALB/c, C57BL/6) as well as NK(1) and TRPV1 receptor knockout mice. A single or double treatment of 1% mustard oil on the BALB/c mouse ear induced ear oedema with responses diminished by 6 h. However a 25-30% increase in ear thickness was maintained by the hourly reapplication of mustard oil. Desensitisation of sensory nerves with capsaicin, or the NK(1) receptor antagonist SR140333, inhibited oedema but only in the first 3 h. Neutrophil accumulation in response to mustard oil was inhibited neither by SR140333 nor capsaicin pre-treatment. An activating dose of capsaicin (2.5%) induced a large oedema in C57BL/6 wild-type mice that was minimal in TRPV1 receptor knockout mice. By comparison, mustard oil generated ear swelling was inhibited by SR140333 in wild-type and TRPV1 knockout mice. Repeated administration of mustard oil maintained 35% oedema in TRPV1 knockout animals and the lack of TRPV1 receptors did not alter the leukocyte accumulation. In contrast repeated treatment caused about 20% ear oedema in Sv129+C57BL/6 wild-type mice but the absence of NK(1) receptors significantly decreased the response. Neutrophil accumulation showed similar values in both groups. This study has revealed that mustard oil can act via both neurogenic and non-neurogenic mechanisms to mediate inflammation in the mouse ear. Importantly, the activation of the sensory nerves was still observed in TRPV1 knockout mice indicating that the neurogenic inflammatory component occurs via a TRPV1 receptor independent process.
The actions of somatostatin (SST) in the nervous system are mediated by specific high affinity SST receptors (SSTR1-5). However, the role of this hormone and the distribution of its receptor subtypes have not yet been defined in neural structures of the human fetus. We have analyzed four neural tissues (CNS, hypothalamus, pituitary and spinal cord) from early to midgestation for the expression of five human SSTR mRNAs, using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot approach. These fetal neural tissues all express mRNA for multiple SSTR subtypes from as early as 16 weeks of fetal life but the developmental patterns of expression vary considerably. Transcripts for SSTR1 and SSTR2A are the most widely distributed, being expressed in all four neural tissues. SSTR2A is often the earliest transcript to be detected (7.5 weeks in CNS). SSTR3 mRNA is confined to the pituitary, hypothalamus, and spinal cord. SSTR4 is expressed in fetal brain, hypothalamus and spinal cord but not pituitary. SSTR5 mRNA is detectable in the pituitary and spinal cord by 14-16 weeks of fetal life. This mapping of SSTR mRNA expression patterns in human fetal neural tissues is an important first step toward our goal of determining the role of SST in the nervous system during early stages in human development.
The effect of treatment with leupeptin, a calpain inhibitor, on motoneuron survival and muscle function was examined in in vitro and in vivo models of motoneuron degeneration. Exposure of primary rat motoneurons to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) is an established in vitro model of excitotoxic motoneuron death. Here we show that leupeptin treatment improved motoneuron survival following exposure to AMPA (50 microM). Application of leupeptin (100 microM) to AMPA treated cultures rescued many motoneurons so that 74% (+/-3.4 S.E.M., n=5) survived compared with only 49% (+/-2.4 S.E.M., n=5) in untreated cultures. The effect of treatment with leupeptin on motoneuron survival and muscle function was also examined in vivo. In 3 day-old rats, the sciatic nerve was crushed and at the time of injury, a silicon implant containing leupeptin was inserted onto the lumbar spinal cord. The effect on long-term motoneuron survival and muscle function was assessed 12 weeks after injury. The results showed that there was long-term improvement in motoneuron survival in the leupeptin treated group. Thus, in untreated animals 12 weeks after nerve crush only 30% (+/-2.8. S.E.M., n=3) of sciatic motoneurons survived compared with 43% (+/-1.5 S.E.M., n=3) in the leupeptin-treated group. This improvement in motoneuron survival was reflected in a significant improvement in muscle function in the leupeptin-treated group. For example in the soleus muscle of treated rats 20.8 (+/-1.40 S.E.M., n=5) motor units survived compared with only 14.6 (+/-1.21 S.E.M., n=5) in untreated animals. Thus, treatment with leupeptin, a calpain inhibitor, rescues motoneurons from cell death and improves muscle function following nerve injury.
The muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK) is co-localized with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in the postsynaptic membrane of the skeletal neuromuscular junction, and is required for all known aspects of postsynaptic differentiation. Studies in vitro have shown that Z(+)-agrin, a nerve-derived proteoglycan, activates MuSK's kinase activity to promote clustering of AChRs and MuSK itself with a cytoplasmic, receptor-associated protein, rapsyn. These studies, however, have used soluble forms of agrin, whereas agrin is cell- or matrix-attached in vivo. We show here that immobilized (particle- or cell-attached) agrin but not soluble agrin is able to aggregate MuSK in the absence of rapsyn and that this aggregation does not require MuSK's kinase activity but does require MuSK's cytoplasmic domain. Moreover, immobilized agrin can promote clustering of AChRs by a mechanism that requires MuSK and rapsyn but does not require MuSK's kinase activity. These results imply that rapsyn and signaling components activated by MuSK kinase may be dispensable for some early aspects of postsynaptic differentiation.
It has been reported that several of the effects induced by octadecaneuropeptide (ODN) could be mediated by an activation of a metabotropic receptor. In order to investigate the role and mechanism of action of ODN in gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuron regulation, we studied the effects of the acute i.c.v. administration of ODN and of a new ODN antagonist to metabotropic receptor, cyclo(1-8)[Dleu(5)]OP, on GnRH mRNA expression as evaluated by in situ hybridization in castrated male rats. The administration of ODN produced a decrease in the hybridization signal while the administration of cyclo(1-8)[Dleu(5)]OP alone produced an 18% increase. When administrated concomitantly with ODN, the antagonist both inhibited the depressing effect of ODN and induced a 22% increase over the values detected in ODN-treated rats. The data suggest that the effect of ODN on GnRH mRNA expression might be mediated by interaction with metabotropic receptors.
Hypothalamic oxytocin neurones have dual physiological functions with associated characteristic activity patterns: a homeostatic osmoregulatory role involving continuous low frequency firing at a relatively constant rate, and roles associated with reproduction involving periodic, brief, synchronised, high frequency bursts of spikes. Apparently the same neurones maintain both roles during reproduction, when both activity patterns occur simultaneously, although sometimes factors linked to the homeostatic response predominate and prevent bursting. With the object of understanding how oxytocin neuronal networks manage both roles during lactation, we analysed basal activity between bursts in simultaneously recorded neurones to reveal potentially adaptive changes in network behaviour. Negative autocorrelation on a time scale of 0.5-2 s occurs in basal activity between bursts but also in non-bursting oxytocin neurones, and can therefore be associated with the system's homeostatic role. Although the system responds to the pups suckling by the induction of bursting, there are also increasing fluctuations in firing that are positively correlated in some simultaneously recorded neurones during basal activity between bursts. A few seconds before bursts, cross-correlation strengthens, irregularity of firing increases, and serial correlation (autocorrelation) weakens, all substantially. After pharmacological treatments known to facilitate bursting, cross-correlation and irregularity of firing increase and autocorrelation weakens, and the reverse occurs in conditions that delay bursting (hyperosmotic stress and pharmacological interventions). Our analyses suggest heterogeneity in the population of oxytocin neurones during lactation; the range including 'leader neurones' that readily display co-ordinated fluctuations in firing in response to suckling and escape from negative autocorrelation just before bursts, and 'follower neurones' that fire at a relatively constant rate in no apparent relationship to others, except when recruited late to bursting, probably in response to massive stimulation from already bursting neurones. The steep increases in correlation a few seconds before bursts reflect an accelerating process of recruitment of follower neurones to co-ordinated fluctuations, leading to the phase transition that constitutes the critical stage of burst generation.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 and -2 (IGFs) are important for CNS development and have implications in pathological situations of the brain. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-4 (IGFBP-4) regulates the biological effects of IGFs. We examined the expression of IGFBP-4 in primary rat and human astrocytes. IGFBP-4 mRNA was detectable by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and protein expression was verified by Western blotting of cell lysates as well as conditioned culture medium. When astrocytes were immunostained for IGFBP-4 we detected an intracellular structure that did not derive from organelles involved in cellular trafficking. Ingestion of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled transferrin excluded detection of IGFBP-4 within vesicles of endosomal nature, in which the protein might have been incorporated. Double staining with gamma-tubulin demonstrated co-localization of IGFBP-4 with centrosomes of these cells. Treatment with nocodazole resulted in absence of IGFBP-4 signal on centrosomes, indicating a dependency on intact microtubules. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed IGFBP-4 localization not only at the centrioles but also a direct interaction with microtubules. There was no binding of IGFBP-4 to centrioles in primary rat oligodendrocytes, microglia or meningeal cells. The association of IGFBP-4 with centrioles and microtubules in astrocytes suggests an involvement of this molecule in microtubule functions of these cells.
A lack of thyroid hormone in the postnatal period causes an irreversible mental retardation, characterized by a slowing of thoughts and movements accompanied by prolonged latencies of several evoked potentials and slowed electroencephalographic rhythms. Here we show that in cultured hippocampal and cortical neurons from postnatal rats treatment with thyroid hormone not only up-regulates Na(+)-current densities but also increases rates of rise, amplitudes and firing frequencies of action potentials. Furthermore, we show that the regulation of the Na(+)-current density by thyroid hormones also occurs in vivo: recordings from acutely isolated cortical neurons obtained from hypothyroid, euthyroid and hyperthyroid postnatal rats showed that hypothyroidism decreases the ratio of Na(+) inward- to K(+) outward-currents while hyperthyroidism upregulates Na(+)-currents with respect to K(+)-currents. Our observation of a regulation of neuronal excitability by thyroid hormone offers a direct explanation for the origin of various neurological symptoms related to thyroid dysfunction.
Voltage-dependent delayed rectifier K(+) (Kv) channels are fundamental components in the regulation of neuronal excitability. We found that nerve growth factor (NGF) treatment of PC12 cells induced a hyperpolarizing shift of the Kv current activation curve by about 15 mV. This effect was similar to the effect of the modulatory subunit, Kv beta, on the cloned Kv channel, and required the activity of protein kinase C (PKC)zeta. Since NGF treatment of PC12 cells is known to increase the expression of p62 protein, which binds both to Kv beta and to PKC zeta, our results are consistent with the model in which p62 functions as a physical link in the assembly of signaling complex, PKC zeta-p62-Kv channel. In agreement with this model, the transient expression of p62 induced the same change in the Kv current activation curve as NGF, and the suppression of p62 expression inhibited the effect of NGF. The amount of bound Kv beta to p62 was increased by NGF treatment. These results suggest that the increased p62 protein induces the formation of the signaling complexes, enabling PKC zeta to modulate Kv channels. Thus, this may constitute a new way of modulating Kv channel activities.
The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) has long been suggested to have a role in reward-related behaviour, and there is particular interest in its possible role in drug reward systems. Previous work found increased i.v. self-administration (IVSA) of d-amphetamine following PPTg lesions when training had included both operant pre-training and priming injections. The present study examined the effect of excitotoxin lesions of the PPTg on d-amphetamine IVSA under three training conditions. Naive: no previous experience of d-amphetamine or operant responding. Pre-trained: given operant training with food before lesion surgery took place. Primed: given single non-contingent d-amphetamine infusion (0.1 mg/0.l ml) at the start of each session. Rats in all conditions were given either ibotenate or phosphate buffer control lesions of the PPTg before d-amphetamine (0.1 mg/0.1 ml infusion) IVSA training took place. Rats received eight sessions of training under a fixed ratio (FR2) schedule of d-amphetamine IVSA, followed by four sessions under a progressive ratio (PR5) schedule. In the naive condition, PPTg-lesioned rats were attenuated in their responding under FR2, and took significantly fewer infusions under PR5 than the control group. Under FR2 in the pre-trained condition, there was no difference between PPTg excitotoxin and control lesioned rats; however, PPTg-lesioned rats took significantly fewer infusions under the PR5 schedule. In the primed condition, there were no differences between PPTg-lesioned and control rats under either FR2 or PR5 schedules. These data demonstrate that operant training prior to PPTg lesion surgery corrects some, but not all, of the deficits seen in the naive condition. PPTg-lesioned rats in both naive and pre-trained conditions showed reduced responding for d-amphetamine under a PR5 schedule. These deficits are overcome by priming with d-amphetamine. We suggest that alterations in striatal dopamine activity following PPTg lesions underlie these effects.
The negative impact of chronic stress at the structure of apical dendrite branches of cornu ammonis 3 (CA3) pyramidal neurons is well established. However, there is no information available on the CA3 dendritic organization related to short-lasting stress, which suffices to produce long-term habituation or sensitization of anxiety behaviors and neuroendocrine responses. Here, we tested the effects evoked by brief stress on the arrangements of CA3 pyramidal neuron dendrites, and the activity-dependent properties of the commissural-associational (C/A) excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Adult male rats were socially defeated followed by 3 weeks without further treatment or as comparison exposed to a regimen of a social defeat every second day for the same time period. We assessed CA3 pyramidal neurons with somatic whole-cell recording and neurobiotin application in acute hippocampal slices. The results from morphometric analysis of post hoc reconstructions demonstrated that CA3 dendrites from repeatedly stressed rats were reduced in surface area and length selectively at the apical cone (70% of control, approximately 280 microm from the soma). Brief stress, however, produced a similar decrease in apical dendritic length (77% of control, approximately 400 microm from the soma), accompanied by an increased length (167% of control) and branch complexity at the basal cone. The structural changes of the dendrites significantly influenced signal propagation by shortening the onset latency of EPSPs and increasing input resistance (r=0.45, P&lt;0.01), of which the first was significantly changed in repeatedly stressed animals. Both brief and repeated stress long-lastingly impaired long-term potentiation of C/A synapses to a similar degree (P&lt;0.05). These data indicate that the geometric plasticity of CA3 dendrites is dissociated from repetition of aversive experiences. A double social conflict suffices to drive a dynamic reorganization, by site-selective elimination and de novo growth of dendrite branches over the course of weeks after the actual experience.
The relation between the acquisition of a skilled motor task and synaptic plasticity in the sensorimotor cortex of the awake, freely behaving rat was examined. Skilled-motor training was previously found to induce a functional reorganization of the caudal forelimb area, and to induce an increase in synaptic efficacy, measured in vitro, on the side contralateral to the reaching forelimb. Here, we repeatedly measured neocortical evoked potential recordings in awake, freely behaving rats to examine whether skilled training would induce changes in polysynaptic efficacy on the side contralateral to the reaching forelimb. We found that the increase in task proficiency, but not the acquisition of task requirements or the maintenance of task proficiency, induced an increase in synaptic efficacy on the side contralateral to the reaching forelimb. We also tested the hypothesis that skilled learning induced potentiation shares similar mechanisms to long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression by artificially manipulating polysynaptic efficacy in skilled rats with high- and low-frequency stimulation. We observed that, compared with the ipsilateral side, less potentiation but more depression could be induced on the side contralateral to the reaching forelimb. We conclude that a transient, network-based LTP-like mechanism operates during the learning of a skilled motor task.
We have investigated the role of inflammation in the excitotoxicity induced by overstimulation of glutamate receptors using kainic acid, an important tool for studying functions related to excitatory amino acid transmission and for producing neuronal death, especially in areas CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus. We hypothesised that by inhibiting one of the major components of the neuroinflammation response, after kainic acid injection, that there would be less inflammation and therefore a reduction in cell loss, an enhancement of cognitive function (using spatial learning and object exploration tasks) or both. We examined brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, expecting that there would be a correlation between its level and subsequent recovery. Our results confirmed our hypothesis: the kainic acid injected-rats treated with celecoxib (after kainic injection) performed better in the spatial and non-spatial tasks than the kainic acid-treated group. However, there was not any improvement if celecoxib was given before kainic acid treatment, underlining also the importance of the production of prostaglandin at the beginning of inflammation.
Plasticity in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala is thought to be critical for the acquisition of Pavlovian fear conditioning. The pathways that transmit auditory conditioned stimulus information originate in auditory processing regions of the thalamus and cortex, but the pathways mediating transmission of unconditioned stimuli to the amygdala are poorly understood. Recent studies suggest that somatosensory (footshock) unconditioned stimulus information is also relayed in parallel to the lateral nucleus of the amygdala from the thalamus (the posterior intralaminar thalamic complex, PIT) and the cortex (parietal insular cortex). In the present study we reexamined this issue. Our results showed that bilateral electrolytic lesions of the PIT alone blocked fear conditioning, whereas bilateral excitotoxic PIT lesions had no effect. These electrolytic PIT lesions did not affect fear conditioning using a loud noise as unconditioned stimulus, defining the effects of PIT lesions as a disruption of somatosensory as opposed to auditory processing. Finally, we performed combined bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the PIT nuclei and electrolytic lesions of the parietal insular cortex. These, like excitotoxic lesions of PIT alone, had no effect on the acquisition of fear conditioning. Thus, somatosensory regions of the thalamus and cortex may well be important routes of unconditioned stimulus transmission to the amygdala in fear conditioning, but information about the unconditioned somatosensory stimulus is also transmitted from other sources that send fibers through, but do not form essential synapses in, the thalamus en route to the amygdala.
Long-term GABA(A) receptor alterations occur in hippocampal dentate granule neurons of rats that develop epilepsy after status epilepticus in adulthood. Hippocampal GABA(A) receptor expression undergoes marked reorganization during the postnatal period, however, and the effects of neonatal status epilepticus on subsequent GABA(A) receptor development are unknown. In the current study, we utilize single cell electrophysiology and antisense mRNA amplification to determine the effect of status-epilepticus induced by lithium-pilocarpine in postnatal day 10 rat pups on GABA(A) receptor subunit expression and function in hippocampal dentate granule neurons. We find that rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus at postnatal day 10 show long-term GABA(A) receptor changes including a two-fold increase in alpha1 subunit expression (compared with lithium-injected controls) and enhanced type I benzodiazepine augmentation that are opposite of those seen after status epilepticus in adulthood and may serve to enhance dentate gyrus inhibition. Further, unlike adult rats, postnatal day 10 rats subjected to status epilepticus do not become epileptic. These findings suggest age-dependent differences in the effects of status epilepticus on hippocampal GABA(A) receptors that could contribute to the selective resistance of the immature brain to epileptogenesis.
Results of behavioral and c-fos immunohistochemical studies have suggested that chronic food restriction and maintenance of animals at 75-80% of free-feeding body weight may increase d-1 dopamine (DA) receptor function. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether D-1 DA receptor binding and/or mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) are increased in food-restricted subjects. In the first experiment, saturation binding of the D-1 DA receptor antagonist [3H]SCH-23390 indicated no difference between food-restricted and ad libitum fed rats with regard to density or affinity of d-1 binding sites in CPu or NAc. In the second experiment, activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) by i.c.v. injection of the D-1 DA receptor agonist SKF-82958 (20 microg) were markedly greater in food-restricted than ad libitum fed rats. Given a prior finding that SKF-82958 does not differentially stimulate adenylyl cyclase in CPu or NAc of food-restricted versus ad libitum fed subjects, the present results suggest that increased D-1 DA receptor-mediated ERK1/2 MAP kinase signaling may mediate the enhanced downstream activation of CREB, c-fos, and behavioral responses in food-restricted subjects. It is of interest that food restriction also increased the activation of c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase/stress-activated protein kinase, but this effect was no greater in rats injected with SKF-82958 than in those injected with saline vehicle. This represents additional evidence of increased striatal cell signaling in food-restricted subjects, presumably in response to the i.c.v. injection procedure, although the underlying receptor mechanisms remain to be determined. There were no differences between feeding groups in protein levels of the major phosphatases, MKP-2 and PP1. The upregulation of striatal MAP kinase signaling in food-restricted animals may adaptively serve to facilitate associative learning but, at the same time, increase vulnerability to the rewarding and addictive properties of abused drugs.
Executive system function, mediated largely by the prefrontal cortex (PFC), often declines significantly with normal aging in humans and non-human primates. The neural substrates of this decline are unknown, but age-related changes in the structural properties of PFC neurons could lead to altered synaptic signaling and ultimately to PFC dysfunction. The present study addressed this issue using whole-cell patch clamp assessment of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in layer 2/3 pyramidal cells in in vitro slices of the PFC from behaviorally characterized young (&lt; or =12 years old) and aged (&gt; or =19 years old) rhesus monkeys. Behaviorally, aged monkeys were significantly impaired in performance on memory and executive system function tasks. Physiologically, the frequency of spontaneous glutamate receptor-mediated excitatory PSCs was significantly reduced in cells from aged monkeys, while the frequency of spontaneous GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory PSCs was significantly increased. In contrast, there was no effect of age on the frequency, amplitude, rise time or decay time of action potential-independent miniature excitatory and inhibitory PSCs. The observed change in excitatory-inhibitory synaptic balance likely leads to significantly altered signaling properties of layer 2/3 pyramidal cells in the PFC with age.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) has been strongly implicated in mechanisms of persistent pain states. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the NMDAR NR-1, a key subunit in regulation of NMDAR channel complex is directly contributing to the onset and propagation of peripheral nerve injury-induced allodynia and whether N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) signaling interacts with spinal chemokine (chemotactic cytokines) expression and glial activation. We used genetically engineered male mice that had their normal NR1 gene knocked out and expressed a modified NR1 gene at either normal level (NR1 +/+, wild type) or at a low level (NR1+/-, knock down). Each mouse underwent a peripheral nerve injury in which the lumbar 5 spinal segment (L5) nerve was transected. Mechanical allodynia was assessed using 0.008 and 0.015 g von Frey filaments on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 17 and 21 post-surgery. Mice were killed on day 21 and the harvested L5 spinal cord was analyzed for chemokine expression using RNAse protection assay. In a separate study, glial expression using immunohistochemistry was assessed in both groups 7 days following peripheral nerve injury. The NR1+/- mice displayed decreased mechanical allodynia in comparison to their wild type counterparts. However, even with dramatically impaired NMDA receptor signaling, there was still evidence of tactile hypersensitivity. Using the RPA analysis, we found decreases in mRNA chemokine expression in the NR1+/- mice as compared with NR1+/+ mice. There were no apparent differences in microglial or astrocytic expression between the wild type and knock down mice. These data provide important insights into the cascade of events involving the dynamic interaction between NMDAR function and spinal chemokine and glial production in neuropathic pain states. The results support the findings that chemokine signaling releases glutamate in the spinal cord.
The Purkinje Cell Degeneration (Nna1pcd, pcd) mutant mouse is mainly characterized by the complete, primary loss of the Purkinje cells and the secondary, partial, retrograde loss of the granule and inferior olive neurons and is considered a model of human degenerative ataxia. We determined, by in vitro quantitative autoradiography and in situ hybridization, the effects of the Purkinje cell deprivation on the dopaminergic system of the Nna1pcd mutant mouse. The dopamine transporters, as determined by [3H]WIN35428 binding, were increased compared with wild-type mice in the ventral mesencephalic dopaminergic nuclei and in the lateral striatum, motor cortex and septum. In the cerebellum of Nna1pcd mice, the dopamine transporters showed a significant increase in the deep cerebellar nuclei, but were significantly decreased in the molecular layer. The D1-like receptors, as determined by [3H]SCH23390 binding, increased significantly in the Nna1pcd substantia nigra. The D2/D3 receptors, as determined by [3H]raclopride binding, exhibited a significant decrease in lateral divisions of the striatum. Significant increases in D2-like receptors, as determined by [3H]nemonapride binding, were observed in most divisions of the striatum as well as in septum, hippocampus, and piriform cortex. This D2-like fraction most probably corresponds to the D4 receptor subtype. In the cerebellum of Nna1pcd mice, D2-like receptors were significantly decreased in the molecular layer. The results suggest an increased excitatory input on the dopaminergic mesencephalic neurons and an alteration of the dopaminergic neurotransmission in basal ganglia, cortical and limbic regions of the Nna1pcd mutant mouse. In the cerebellum, the significant downregulation of the dopamine transporters and D2-like receptors in the mutant cerebellar molecular layer is possibly due to the absence of the Purkinje cells.
The periaqueductal gray (PAG) contains numerous estrogen receptor-alpha immunoreactive (ER-alpha IR) neurons that are distributed in a species-specific way. These neurons might modulate different types of behavior that are mediated by the PAG such as active and passive coping responses, analgesia, and reproductive behavior. In primates, it is not known whether ER-alpha IR PAG neurons represent local interneurons and/or neurons that project to brainstem areas that control these behaviors. In this double labeling study, we asked whether ER-alpha IR neurons in the PAG of the rhesus monkey project to the nucleus retroambiguus (NRA), an area in the ventrolateral caudal medulla oblongata that is involved in expiration, vocalization, and reproductive behavior. Tracer was injected into the caudal lateral medulla oblongata to retrogradely label PAG neurons, and ER-alpha was visualized immunohistochemically. Although ER-alpha IR neurons and NRA-projection neurons were present at similar levels of the PAG, their distributions hardly overlapped. ER-alpha IR PAG neurons that project to the lateral caudal medulla represented less than 2% of ER-alpha IR PAG neurons. These double-labeled neurons were mainly located in the ipsilateral caudal PAG. The cluster of neurons in the medial part of the lateral PAG that projects specifically to the NRA-region did not contain double-labeled cells. The results indicate that only a few ER-alpha IR PAG neurons project to the NRA-region. This might be related to the modest effects of estrogen on mating-related behavior in primates compared most other mammalian species. Remaining ER-alpha IR PAG neurons might act locally on other PAG neurons, or they might represent neurons that project to other areas. Furthermore, the finding that the distributions of ER-alpha IR neurons and neurons that project to premotor neurons in the NRA-region scarcely overlap illustrates that the PAG in primates is very highly organized into anatomically distinct regions compared with other species.
We have recently reported that thiamine deficient (TD) mice show an impairment of learning and memory on the 20th day after start of TD feeding. Interestingly, it has been reported that the kampo medicine, &quot;kami-untan-to&quot; (KUT) may be useful as a potential therapeutic agent in diseases associated with cholinergic deficit such as Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we investigated the effects of KUT on the impairment of memory-related behavior concomitant with psychoneuronal symptoms after TD feeding in mice. Oral administration of KUT had no effect on the food intake, body weight or locomotor activity in TD mice, but the mortality rate in the KUT-treated TD group was significantly lower compared with that in the non-treated TD group. Daily administration of KUT from the 1st day of TD feeding protected against the impairment of memory-related behavior induced by TD. The intensity of the choline acetyltransferase fluorescence decreased in the field of CA1 and dentate gyrus in the hippocampus in TD mice compared with pair-fed mice as the control group, and KUT treatment inhibited this decrease. These results suggest that the effect of KUT on the impairment of memory-related behavior induced by TD feeding may be closely related to the activation of cholinergic neurons in the hippocampus.
The present study examined the actions of adenosine on monosynaptic Adelta and C primary-afferent excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) recorded from substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons of an adult rat spinal cord slice. In 67% of the neurons examined, adenosine reversibly decreased the amplitude of the Adelta-fiber EPSC, while in 13% of the neurons the amplitude was reduced or unaffected, which was followed by its increase persisting for several minutes after adenosine washout. The remaining neurons did not exhibit a change in the amplitude. The reduction in Adelta-fiber EPSC amplitude by adenosine was dose-dependent with an effective concentration for half-inhibition (EC50) value of 217 microM. When examined by using a paired-pulse stimulus, a ratio of the second to first Adelta-fiber EPSC amplitude under the reduction was larger than that of EPSC amplitude in the control, suggesting a presynaptic action of adenosine. In 69% of the neurons tested, the C-fiber EPSC was reversibly decreased in amplitude by adenosine (100 microM) by an extent comparable to that of Adelta-fiber EPSC; the remaining neurons were without adenosine actions. Similar inhibitory actions of adenosine were also seen in neurons where both Adelta-fiber and C-fiber EPSCs were elicited. Similar reduction in the Adelta-fiber or C-fiber EPSC amplitude was induced by an A1 adenosine-receptor agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (1 microM), and the adenosine-induced reduction was not observed in the presence of an A1 antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (1 microM). An A2a agonist, CGS 21680 (1 microM), did not significantly affect the Adelta-fiber EPSC amplitude. It is concluded that adenosine presynaptically inhibits monosynaptic Adelta-fiber and C-fiber transmission by a similar extent through the activation of the A1 receptor in many but not all SG neurons; this could contribute to at least a part of antinociception by intrathecally administered adenosine analogues and probably by endogenous adenosine.
Cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization is a complex phenomenon involving a number of neuromodulator and neurotransmitter systems. To specifically investigate the role of the micro opioid receptor (MOR) in cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization in mice, both genetic and pharmacological approaches were undertaken. MOR-1 deficient mice of varying backgrounds (C57BL/6J, 129S6, F1 hybrid 129S6xC57BL/6J and 129S6xC57BL/6J) and wild-type C57BL/6J mice exposed continuously to naltrexone, an opioid receptor antagonist, received single daily injections of saline or cocaine for 10 days. All mice received a single cocaine challenge 7 days following the last saline or cocaine injection to test for the expression of sensitization. The locomotor-stimulating and sensitizing effects of cocaine observed in MOR-1 wild-type mice were absent in MOR-1 knockout mice maintained on the mixed 129S6xC57BL/6J background. In contrast, MOR-1 deficient mice developed on a C57BL/6J background showed an accentuated sensitivity to cocaine-induced locomotion. Cocaine's psychomotor activating effects were more pronounced in the MOR-1 C57BL/6J knockouts injected daily with cocaine than in the MOR-1 wild-type mice. Similar locomotor-stimulating and sensitizing effects were found in both F1 hybrid 129S6xC57BL/6J MOR-1 wild-type and MOR-1 knockout mice, while the 129S6 strain showed an overall indifference to cocaine. That is, both the locomotor-stimulating and sensitizing effects of cocaine were absent in both MOR-1 wild-type and MOR-1 knockout mice maintained on the 129S6 background. Lastly, the locomotor-stimulating and sensitizing effects of cocaine were attenuated in C57BL/6J wild-type mice exposed continuously to naltrexone. Collectively, these data support a role for opioidergic involvement in cocaine-influenced behavior in mice. Moreover, MORs appear to differentially modulate a sensitized response to cocaine in different strains of mice as delineated by MOR-1 gene deletion and pharmacological antagonism.
Dopamine (DA) release in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) of the hypothalamus is an important facilitator of male sexual behavior. The presence of a receptive female increases extracellular DA in the MPOA, which increases further during copulation. However, the neurochemical events that mediate the increase of DA in the MPOA are not fully understood. Here we report that glutamate, reverse-dialyzed into the MPOA, increased extracellular DA, which returned to baseline after the glutamate was removed. This increase was prevented by co-administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), but not by the inactive isomer, Nw-nitro-d-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME). In contrast, extracellular concentrations of the major metabolites of DA were decreased by glutamate, suggesting that the DA transporter was inhibited. These decreases were also inhibited by L-NAME, but not D-NAME. These results indicate that glutamate enhances extracellular DA in the MPOA, at least in part, via nitric oxide activity. Therefore, glutamatergic stimulation of nitric oxide synthase may generate the female-induced increase in extracellular DA in the MPOA, which is important for the expression of male sexual behavior.
We have examined the effect of riluzole, a neuroprotective agent with anticonvulsant properties, on the release of endogenous glutamate from rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes using an on-line enzyme-coupled fluorometric assay. Riluzole inhibited the calcium-dependent release of glutamate that was evoked by exposing cerebrocortical synaptosomes to the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine, and this presynaptic inhibition was concentration-dependent. Riluzole did not alter either 4-aminopyridine-evoked depolarization of the synaptosomal membrane potential or ionomycin-mediated glutamate release, indicating that riluzole-mediated inhibition of glutamate release is not due to a decrease in synaptosomal excitability or a direct effect on the exocytotic machinery. Examination of the effect of riluzole on Ca2+ influx revealed that the diminution of glutamate release could be attributed to a reduction in cytosolic calcium. A possible effect of riluzole on synaptosomal calcium channels was confirmed in experiments where synaptosomes pretreated with P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA, which abolished the riluzole-mediated inhibition of glutamate release. In addition, pretreatment of synaptosomes with either the Gi/Go protein inhibitor pertussis toxin or the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen, completely prevented the inhibitory effect of riluzole on 4-aminopyridine-evoked glutamate release. It is concluded that riluzole exerts their presynaptic inhibition, likely through a reduction in the calcium influx mediated by P/Q-type calcium channels, and thereby inhibits the release of glutamate from rat cerebrocortical nerve terminals. This release inhibition may involve a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein signalling pathway. This finding provides further support that presynaptic calcium channel blockade concomitant with inhibition of glutamate release could be an important mechanism underlying the therapeutic actions of this drug.
Rat dermis is a source of cells capable of growing in vitro and, in appropriate conditions, forming floating spheres constituted by nestin-positive cells. We have clonally grown these spheres up to the 15th generation. These spheres can be dissociated into cells that differentiate in vitro under appropriate conditions, these cells are labeled by antibodies to immature neuron markers such as nestin and beta-tubulin III and, later, to mature neuron markers such as microtubule-associated protein 2 and neurofilaments. However, most cells are positive to the astroglial marker glia fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). When sphere-derived cells are transplanted into the spinal cord after traumatic injury, their migration into the lesion cavity is optimal but their differentiation is dependent upon the time interval between lesioning and cell transplantation. Injection of skin-derived stem cell within 30 min from injury yields mainly membrane activated complex-1 (MAC-1), cluster of differentiation-4 (CD-4) and CD-8 positive cells, that 60-90 days later undergo apoptosis. However, when transplantation is performed 7 days after injury, most cells (65% of total) are positive to staining with antibodies to GFAP, others (16%) to neurofilaments, and a smaller amount (2%) to the endothelial marker, platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule. Thus our study shows that delayed transplantations of dermis-derived stem cells yield healthy cells that do not die, migrate to the lesion site, and there differentiate mainly in cells expressing glia and neuronal markers. On the other hand there is the possibility of dye transfer from labeled cells to endogenous cells, and this might influence the data.
Galectin-1 is a member of the animal lectin family that displays conserved consensus sequences and similar carbohydrate binding specificities. Recent analyses revealed that galectin-1 plays an important role in the process of nerve regeneration. We analyzed the topological expression of galectin-1 mRNA in adult rat nervous system. Galectin-1 mRNA was predominantly observed in the cell bodies of neurons such as oculomotor nucleus (III), trochlear nucleus (IV), trigeminal motor nucleus (V), abducens nucleus (VI), facial nucleus (VII), hypoglossal nucleus (XII), red nucleus, and locus ceruleus. Neurons in pineal gland and dorsal root ganglia expressed galectin-1 mRNA. We next tested whether the axotomy of facial nerve altered the expression of galectin-1 mRNA in motor neurons. In the adult rats, the axotomy of facial nerve induced transient upregulation of galectin-1 mRNA around 6 h after axotomy. These results indicate that galectin-1 may play roles in the early event of the nerve injury and regeneration through the transient change of its expression level.
Methylphenidate (MPH), a dopamine reuptake inhibitor, is used increasingly to treat attention deficit and hyperactivity disorders in children. Given that dopaminergic mechanisms, contribute to the structural and functional maturation of brain circuitry, consideration of the potential influence of MPH in disrupting such processes seems warranted. Following a similar logic regarding the relevance of glutamate neurotransmission in mediating aspects of brain maturation, we and others have previously utilized in vivo and in vitro studies of the developing rodent brain to establish that MK-801, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist has both neuroprotective and pro-apoptotic actions. In this study we used a neonatal murine model of excitotoxin-induced cortical injury to compare such actions between MPH and MK-801, and found that MPH shared some biological properties with MK-801. Specifically, both drugs were neuroprotective against excitotoxic challenge resulting in neonatal brain lesions and in vitro neuronal death, but both drugs also exacerbated programmed neural cell death. However, this profile of action was not shared by the dopamine reuptake blocker GBR-12783, a molecule which like MPH binds to and blocks the dopamine transporter, but which is structurally dissimilar to MPH, suggesting that inhibition of dopamine reuptake alone cannot explain the results from our MPH studies. The implications of our findings are that when studied in our developmental mouse model both drugs demonstrate similar capacities to be either neuroprotective or pro-apoptotic, depending on the specific biologic setting in which they act. Additional studies to identify some potential positive as well as negative consequences of exposure to these drugs during brain development in clinical settings are warranted.
Although neurite attracting factors are present in the developing dental pulp and trigeminal ganglion (TG) axons can respond to such factors, nerve fibres do not enter the tooth pulp until a late developmental stage compared with surrounding tissues supplied by the TG. This suggests that the dental pulp secretes neurite growth inhibitory molecules. Semaphorins represent one group of substances, which can inhibit/repel growing neurites. The aims of the present study were to investigate if dental tissue explants inhibit/repel neurite growth from TGs at some developmental stages in vitro, and if so, to seek evidence for or against a participation of semaphorins in that interaction. By co-culturing mandibular or dental epithelial and mesenchymal tissue explants and TGs in collagen gels, we found that embryonic day 11 (E11) mandibular and E13 dental mesenchymal explants repel neurites from corresponding TGs. Repulsion was replaced by attraction if tissues from late embryonic or early postnatal mice (E17-postnatal day 5) were used. Using semi-quantitative reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction we showed that a number of semaphorins were expressed by tooth-related mesenchyme collected from embryonic and postnatal mice. The expression of some semaphorins (3A, 3C, 3F, 4F, 5B, 6A, 6B and 6C) was high early in development and then decreased in a temporal pattern that correlated with neurite inhibitory/repulsive effects of dental mesenchyme observed in co-cultures. The expression of other semaphorins increased with development (3B, 4A and 7A), whilst others varied irregularly or remained at a fairly constant level (3E, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4G and 5A). Immunohistochemistry was used to determine if tooth-related nerve fibres possess neuropilins. This revealed that axons surrounding embryonic tooth buds express neuropilin-1, but not neuropilin-2. In postnatal teeth, nerve fibres located within the tooth pulp were immunonegative for neuropilin-1 and neuropilin-2. We conclude that developing mandibular/dental mesenchyme can inhibit/repel neurite growth in vitro. Our results support the hypothesis that semaphorins may be involved in this interaction.
Spinally administered muscarinic receptor agonists or acetylcholinesterase inhibitors produce efficacious analgesia. However, the mechanisms of the antinociceptive actions of muscarinic agonists in the spinal cord are not fully known. Previous in vitro studies have shown that muscarinic agonists increase GABA release and reduce the glutamatergic synaptic input to lamina II interneurons through GABAB receptors in the spinal cord. In the present study, we studied the effect of muscarinic agents on dorsal horn projection neurons and the role of spinal GABAB receptors in their action. Single-unit activity of ascending dorsal horn neurons was recorded in the lumbar spinal cord of anesthetized rats. The responses of dorsal horn neurons to graded mechanical stimuli were determined before and after topical spinal application of muscarine and neostigmine. We found that topical application of 0.1-5 microM muscarine or 0.5-5 microM neostigmine significantly suppressed the evoked response of dorsal horn neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect of muscarine or neostigmine on dorsal horn neurons was completely abolished in the presence of 1 microM atropine and by intrathecal pretreatment with 1 microg pertussis toxin to inactivate inhibitory G proteins. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of both muscarine and neostigmine on the evoked response of dorsal horn neurons was significantly attenuated in the presence of 1 microM CGP55845, a GABAB receptor antagonist. Collectively, these data suggest that muscarinic agents inhibit dorsal horn projection neurons through muscarinic receptors coupled to pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi/o proteins. The inhibitory action of muscarinic agonists on these dorsal horn neurons is mediated in part by spinal GABAB receptors.
Voluntary exercise leads to an upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and associated proteins involved in synaptic function. Activity-induced enhancement of neuroplasticity may be considered for the treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Given that during the first postinjury week the brain is undergoing dynamic restorative processes and energetic changes that may influence the outcome of exercise, we evaluated the effects of acute and delayed exercise following experimental TBI. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent either sham or lateral fluid-percussion injury (FPI) and were housed with or without access to a running wheel (RW) from postinjury days 0-6 (acute) or 14-20 (delayed). FPI alone resulted in significantly elevated levels of hippocampal phosphorylated synapsin I and phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element-binding-protein (CREB) at postinjury day 7, of which phosphorylated CREB remained elevated at postinjury day 21. Sham and delayed FPI-RW rats showed increased levels of BDNF, following exercise. Exercise also increased phosphorylated synapsin I and CREB in sham rats. In contrast to shams, the acutely exercised FPI rats failed to show activity-dependent BDNF upregulation and had significant decreases of phosphorylated synapsin I and total CREB. Additional rats were cognitively assessed (learning acquisition and memory) by utilizing the Morris water maze after acute or delayed RW exposure. Shams and delayed FPI-RW animals benefited from exercise, as indicated by a significant decrease in the number of trials to criterion (ability to locate the platform in 7 s or less for four consecutive trials), compared with the delayed FPI-sedentary rats. In contrast, cognitive performance in the acute FPI-RW rats was significantly impaired compared with all the other groups. These results suggest that voluntary exercise can endogenously upregulate BDNF and enhance recovery when it is delayed after TBI. However, when exercise is administered to soon after TBI, the molecular response to exercise is disrupted and recovery may be delayed.
Histamine has been proposed to be an important modulator of developing neurons, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. In embryonic chick dorsal root ganglion neurons we found that histamine activates, through the pyrilamine-sensitive H1 receptor, a K-selective, background channel. The K channel activated by histamine was also activated by arachidonic acid in a dose-dependent way, with a KD of 4 microM and a slope of 2.5, had a unitary conductance of about 150 pS (symmetrical 140 KCl) and a moderate voltage dependence. The channel was insensitive to the classical K channel blockers tetraethylammonium, charybdotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, but inhibited by millimolar Ba2+. Channel activity could also be increased by lowering the intracellular pH from 7.2 to 5.5, or by applying negative pressure pulses through the patch pipette. Experiments aimed at delineating the metabotropic pathway leading to K channel activation by histamine indicated the involvement of a pertussis toxin-insensitive G protein, and a quinacrine-sensitive cytosolic phospholipase A2. The histamine-induced K channel activation was observed only with elevated internal Ca2+ (achieved using 0.5 microM ionomycin or elevated external KCl). An increase in the histamine-induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis was also observed upon internal Ca2+ elevation, showing the presence of a Ca2+ dependent step upstream to inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate production. In view of the functional importance of K conductances during cell differentiation, we propose that histamine activation of this K channel may have a significant role during normal development of embryonic chick neurons.
Although ethanol has been reported to inhibit the induction of long-term potentiation in hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus synapses of rats, very little is known about the effect of ethanol on synaptic plasticity in other brain regions. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the effect of ethanol on long-term potentiation in synaptic pathway from the basolateral amygdala to the dentate gyrus by using anesthetized rats in vivo. I.v. (20-40% x 2 ml/kg) or i.c.v. (30-40% x 5 microl) administration of ethanol did not affect the basal amplitude of dentate gyrus field potential evoked by basolateral amygdala stimulation, but significantly inhibited the induction of long-term potentiation following application of tetanic stimulation. Since long-term potentiation in this pathway was independent of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, the inhibitory effect of ethanol is unlikely to be caused by suppression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function. Alternatively, long-term potentiation in this pathway was significantly suppressed by the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam (2 mg/kg, i.p.), and the inhibitory effect of ethanol was abolished by the GABAA receptor channel blocker picrotoxin (1 mg/kg, i.p.). The present study demonstrates that ethanol inhibits the induction of long-term potentiation in the basolateral amygdala-dentate gyrus pathway by enhancing GABAA receptor-mediated neurotransmission.
Galanin effects are mediated by distinct receptors, galanin receptor 1 (GAL-R1), GAL-R2 and GAL-R3. Here, we analyzed 1) the role of GAL-R1 in cholinergic transmission and peristalsis in the guinea-pig ileum using longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations and intact segments of the ileum in organ bath, and 2) the distribution of GAL-R1 immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus with immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy. Galanin inhibited electrically stimulated contractions of longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations with a biphasic curve. Desensitization with 1 microM galanin suppressed the high potency phase of the curve, whereas the GAL-R1 antagonist, RWJ-57408 (1 microM), inhibited the low potency phase. Galanin (3 microM) reduced the longitudinal muscle contraction and the peak pressure, and decreased the compliance of the circular muscle. All these effects were antagonized by RWJ-57408 (1 or 10 microM). RWJ-57408 (10 microM) per se did not affect peristalsis parameters in normal conditions, nor when peristalsis efficiency was reduced by partial nicotinic transmission blockade with hexamethonium. In the myenteric plexus, GAL-R1 immunoreactivity was localized to neurons and to fibers projecting within the plexus and to the muscle. GAL-R1 was expressed mostly by cholinergic neurons and by some neurons containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or nitric oxide synthase. This study indicates that galanin inhibits cholinergic transmission to the longitudinal muscle via two separate receptors; GAL-R1 mediates the low potency phase. The reduced peristalsis efficiency could be explained by inhibition of the cholinergic drive, whereas the decreased compliance is probably due to inhibition of descending neurons and/or to the activation of an excitatory muscular receptor. Endogenous galanin does not appear to affect neuronal pathways subserving peristalsis in physiologic conditions via GAL-R1.
Neuronal death is a major factor in many neuropathologies, particularly traumatic, and yet no neuroprotective therapies are currently available clinically, although antioxidants and mitochondrial protection appear to be fruitful avenues of research. The simplest system involving neuronal death is that of the dorsal root ganglion after peripheral nerve trauma, where the loss of approximately 40% of primary sensory neurons is a major factor in the overwhelmingly poor clinical outcome of the several million nerve injuries that occur each year worldwide. N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) is a glutathione substrate which is neuroprotective in a variety of in vitro models of neuronal death, and which may enhance mitochondrial protection. Using TdT uptake nick-end labelling (TUNEL), optical disection, and morphological studies, the effect of systemic NAC treatment upon L4 and 5 primary sensory neuronal death after sciatic nerve transection was investigated. NAC (150 mg/kg/day) almost totally eliminated the extensive neuronal loss found in controls both 2 weeks (no treatment 21% loss, NAC 3%, P=0.03) and 2 months after axotomy (no treatment 35% loss, NAC 3%, P=0.002). Glial cell death was reduced (mean number TUNEL positive cells 2 months after axotomy: no treatment 51/ganglion pair, NAC 16/ganglion pair), and mitochondrial architecture was preserved. The effects were less profound when a lower dose was examined (30 mg/kg/day), although significant neuroprotection still occurred. This provides evidence of the importance of mitochondrial dysregulation in axotomy-induced neuronal death in the peripheral nervous system, and suggests that NAC merits investigation in CNS trauma. NAC is already in widespread clinical use for applications outside the nervous system; it therefore has immediate clinical potential in the prevention of primary sensory neuronal death, and has therapeutic potential in other neuropathological systems.
The periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) is functionally organized in longitudinal columns arranged along the aqueduct. Stimulation of lateral and dorsal columns produces a complex set of unconditioned behaviors named the 'defense reaction.' Overt responses in rats comprise a tense immobile display, fully opened eyes (herein named exophthalmus), trotting, galloping, jumping, micturition and defecation. Besides, the PAG is rich in glutamate and respective receptors, including the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) type. Therefore, the present study employed regression analysis to map out electrically and NMDA-induced single components of defensive behaviors produced by stepwise increasing stimulation of PAG. Data confirmed the defensive nature of PAG-evoked responses. Neither the appetitive, nor offensive, mouse-killing or male reproductive behaviors were produced by stimulation of PAG in presence of appropriate targets. Threshold and dose-response logistic analyses largely corroborated the columnar organization of PAG-evoked responses. Thus, whereas the defecation was restricted to PAG lateral column, exophthalmus, micturition and somatic defensive responses were similarly organized in dorsolateral and lateral, but not in the ventrolateral column. Moreover, thresholds of dorsolateral and lateral repertoires were strictly hierarchical, with exophthalmus, immobility, trotting, galloping and jumping appearing in this very order. However, the defensive responses of PAG dorsolateral column required NMDA doses significantly lower than those of lateral PAG. Accordingly, NMDA receptors within the dorsolateral PAG are likely to play a major role in the initiation of PAG-evoked defensive responses. In contrast, the present data do not support the organization of unconditioned defensive behaviors in ventrolateral PAG. The neuroanatomical substrate of each response and the role of PAG and NMDA receptors are discussed in relation to the present data. Further, this is the first report on PAG columnar organization of single components of defensive behaviors.
Repeated microinjections of morphine into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vPAG) produce tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine [Behav Neurosci 113 (1999) 833]. These results may be a direct effect of morphine on cells within the vPAG or be caused by cues linked to the microinjection procedure (i.e. associative tolerance). The objective of this paper was to determine whether continuous administration of morphine into the vPAG (i.e. no cues) would produce tolerance. Tolerance was assessed by measuring changes in behavior and changes in the activity of neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), the primary output target of the PAG. Rats were implanted with an osmotic minipump that released morphine (2.5 or 5 microg/h) or saline into the vPAG continuously. Continuous administration of morphine produced an increase in hotplate latency when measured 6 h after initiation of treatment. Tolerance to this antinociception was evident within 24 h. After 3 days, rats were anesthetized and the activity of RVM neurons was assessed. Although acute morphine administration into the RVM inhibits the activity of RVM on-cells and enhances the activity of off-cells, these neurons appeared normal following 3 days of continuous morphine administration. Systemic naloxone administration produced hyperalgesia that was associated with a marked increase in on-cell activity and a complete cessation of off-cell activity. The loss of morphine inhibition of nociception, measured behaviorally and electrophysiologically, demonstrates that tolerance is caused by a direct action of morphine on vPAG neurons.
The anatomy of the claustrum (CLA) has been well characterized, but its functional role remains uncertain. The results of recent research suggest that the CLA may be part of a network of structures involved in seizure generalization, and we set out to test this idea. To test persistence, seizures were kindled in the anterior CLA. Following a 14-day suspension of kindling, all rats required only one stimulation to evoke a stage 5 seizure. In another experiment, groups of rats received bilateral lesions of the anterior CLA before and after amygdaloid kindling. We found that small lesions of the anterior CLA retard amygdaloid kindling, but do not block the expression of generalized seizures. Lesions produced after amygdaloid kindling resulted in a shorter seizure duration, but had no marked effect on seizure expression. Another group of rats was tested for transfer of kindling between the anterior CLA and contralateral amygdala. We found an asymmetrical transfer of kindling to the CLA from the amygdala wherein amygdaloid kindling facilitated subsequent kindling of the CLA but kindling of the anterior CLA failed to facilitate kindling of the amygdala. The results add support to the notion that the CLA contributes to the development of generalized limbic seizures.
The effects of 21-day exposure to restraint stress on hippocampal corticosteroid receptors and on spatial performance of male and female rats were evaluated. Stressed male animals exhibited a decrease in glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the CA1 area and the dentate gyrus. At the same time, stressed males tested on Morris water maze showed delayed learning and worse memory scores, compared with the control males. By contrast, stressed females exhibited an increase in glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in CA1, similar learning ability and improved memory scores, compared with control females. In addition, stressed females showed a significant increase in mineralocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the CA3 area compared with controls. These data show that 21 days of restraint stress affect hippocampal corticosteroid receptors and spatial performance in a gender-specific manner. The observed changes in corticosteroid receptor levels following stress, may be causatively linked to the stress-induced alterations on spatial learning and memory.
Arginine vasopressin and its V1a receptor subtype (V1aR) are critical for pair bond formation between adult prairie voles. However, it is unclear which brain circuits are involved in this vasopressin-mediated facilitation of pair bond formation. Here, we examined mating-induced Fos expression in several brain regions involved in sociosexual and reward circuitry in male prairie voles. Consistent with studies in other species, Fos expression was induced in several regions known to be involved in sociosexual behavior, namely, the medial amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and medial preoptic area. Fos induction also occurred in limbic and reward regions, including the ventral pallidum, nucleus accumbens, and mediodorsal thalamus (MDthal). Next, we infused a selective V1aR antagonist into three candidate brain regions that seemed most likely involved in vasopressin-mediated pair bond formation: the ventral pallidum, medial amygdala, and MDthal. Blockade of V1aR in the ventral pallidum, but not in the medial amygdala or MDthal, prevented partner preference formation. Lastly, we demonstrated that the mating-induced Fos activation in the ventral pallidum was vasopressin-dependent, since over-expression of V1aR using viral vector gene transfer resulted in a proportionate increase in mating-induced Fos in the same region. This is the first study to show that vasopressin neurotransmission occurs in the ventral pallidum during mating, and that V1aR activation in this region is necessary for pair bond formation in male prairie voles. The results from this study have profound implications for the neural circuitry underlying social attachment and generate novel hypotheses regarding the neural control of social behavior.
In the lamprey, spinal locomotor activity can be initiated by pharmacological microstimulation in several brain areas: rostrolateral rhombencephalon (RLR); dorsolateral mesencephalon (DLM); ventromedial diencephalon (VMD); and reticular nuclei. During DLM- or VMD-initiated locomotor activity in in vitro brain/spinal cord preparations, application of a solution that focally depressed neuronal activity in reticular nuclei often attenuated or abolished the locomotor rhythm. Electrical microstimulation in the DLM or VMD elicited synaptic responses in reticulospinal (RS) neurons, and close temporal stimulation in both areas evoked responses that summated and could elicit action potentials when neither input alone was sufficient. During RLR-initiated locomotor activity, focal application of a solution that depressed neuronal activity in the DLM or VMD abolished or attenuated the rhythm. These new results suggest that neurons in the RLR project rostrally to locomotor areas in the DLM and VMD. These latter areas then appear to project caudally to RS neurons, which probably integrate the synaptic inputs from both areas and activate the spinal locomotor networks. These pathways are likely to be important components of the brain neural networks for the initiation of locomotion and have parallels to locomotor command systems in higher vertebrates.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide immunocytochemistry was used to reveal cellular localization in the dentate gyrus and in Ammon's horn of the rat and human hippocampal formations. In the rat dentate gyrus, only granule cells were labeled, whereas in humans, only mossy cells of the hilar region expressed CART peptide immunoreactivity. In the rat, CART-positive granule cells were located at the molecular layer border of the granule cell layer and had no features that would distinguish them from other granule cells. The mossy fiber bundle was labeled in the hilus as well as along the entire CA3 area of Ammon's horn. In the human, CART-immunoreactive mossy cells displayed the characteristic thorny excrescences both on their somata and their main dendrites. Axon collaterals of mossy cells could be seen in the hilus and the main axons formed a dense band in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, suggesting that mossy cells are the principal source of the associational pathway. Granule cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons of the human hippocampal formation were devoid of CART peptide immunoreactivity. A few labeled non-pyramidal cells and a large group of strongly immunostained axons of unknown origin were present in all layers of CA1-3. Granule cells are the main excitatory cell population of the dentate gyrus while mossy cells are in a key position in controlling activity of granule cells. The specific location of CART peptide in the dentate granule cells of rodents and in the mossy cells of the human hippocampus may indicate involvement of neuronal circuitry of the dentate gyrus in the memory-related effects of cocaine and amphetamine. Independently of its functional role, CART peptide can be used as a specific marker of human mossy cells and of the dentate associational pathway. The sensitivity of CART peptide to postmortem autolysis may restrict the use of this marker in surgically removed hippocampi or in human brains removed and fixed shortly after death.
Activity-regulated, cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc) is an immediate early gene induced in excitatory circuits following behavioral episodes. Arc mRNA is targeted to activated regions of the dendrite after long-term potentiation (LTP) of the dentate gyrus, a process dependent on NMDA receptor activation. We used post-embedding immunogold electron microscopy (EM) to test whether synaptic Arc expression patterns are selectively modified by plasticity. Consistent with previous light microscopic observations, Arc protein was rapidly induced in the dentate gyrus following LTP-producing stimulation of the perforant path and was detectable in granule cell nuclei, somata and dendrites after two hours of high frequency stimulation. Post-embedding EM revealed Arc immunogold labeling in three times as many spines in the middle molecular layer of the stimulated dentate gyrus than in either the ipsilateral outer molecular layer or the contralateral middle and outer molecular layers. This upregulation did not occur with low frequency stimulation of the perforant path. Therefore Arc protein localization may be a powerful tool to isolate recently activated dendritic spines.
Both the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) play an important role in the negative feedback regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity during physiologic and behavioral stress. Moreover, chronic behavioral stress is known to affect the morphology of CA3c pyramidal neurons in the rat, by reducing total branch number and length of apical dendrites. In the present study, we investigated the effects of behavioral stress on the mPFC, using the repeated restraint stress paradigm. Animals were perfused after 21 days of daily restraint, and intracellular iontophoretic injections of Lucifer Yellow were carried out in pyramidal neurons of layer II/III of the anterior cingulate cortex and prelimbic area. Cellular reconstructions were performed on apical and basal dendrites of pyramidal neurons in layer II/III of the anterior cingulate and prelimbic cortices. We observed a significant reduction on the total length (20%) and branch numbers (17%) of apical dendrites, and no significant reduction in basal dendrites. These cellular changes may impair the capacity of the mPFC to suppress the response of the HPA axis to stress, and offer an experimental model of stress-induced neocortical reorganization that may provide a structural basis for the cognitive impairments observed in post-traumatic stress disorder.
Exercise is increasingly recognized as an intervention that can reduce CNS dysfunctions such as cognitive decline, depression and stress. Previously we have demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is increased in the hippocampus following exercise. In this study we tested the hypothesis that exercise can counteract a reduction in hippocampal BDNF protein caused by acute immobilization stress. Since BDNF expression is suppressed by corticosterone (CORT), circulating CORT levels were also monitored. In animals subjected to 2 h immobilization stress, CORT was elevated immediately following, and at 1 h after the cessation of stress, but remained unchanged from baseline up to 24 h post-stress. The stress protocol resulted in a reduction in BDNF protein at 5 and 10 h post-stress that returned to baseline at 24 h. To determine if exercise could prevent this stress-induced reduction in BDNF protein, animals were given voluntary access to running wheels for 3 weeks prior to the stress. Stressed animals, in the absence of exercise, again demonstrated an initial elevation in CORT (at 0 h) and a subsequent decrease in hippocampal BDNF at the 10 h time point. Exercising animals, both non-stressed and stressed, demonstrated circulating CORT and hippocampal BDNF protein levels that were significantly elevated above control values at both time points examined (0 and 10 h post-stress). Thus, the persistently high CORT levels in exercised animals did not affect the induction of BDNF with exercise, and the effect of immobilization stress on BDNF protein was overcome. To examine the role of CORT in the stress-related regulation of BDNF protein, experiments were carried out in adrenalectomized (ADX) animals. BDNF protein was not downregulated as a result of immobilization stress in ADX animals, while there continued to be an exercise-induced upregulation of BDNF. This study demonstrates that CORT modulates stress-related alterations in BDNF protein. Further, exercise can override the negative effects of stress and high levels of CORT on BDNF protein. Voluntary physical activity may, therefore, represent a simple non-pharmacological tool for the maintenance of neurotrophin levels in the brain.
Preoptic magnocellular neurosecretory cells (NSCs) in the brain of rainbow trout show synchronization of periodic Ca(2+) pulses, patterns of which differ between vasotocin (VT) and isotocin (IT) neurons. To provide neuroanatomical bases of the synchronized periodic Ca(2+) pulses and their biological implications, we examined the organization of preoptic VT and IT neurons in the brain of rainbow trout. The cytoarchitecture of the preoptic neurosecretory system was characterized by a confocal double-color immunofluorescence. Two to five VT neurons, and also IT neurons, aggregate to form cell-type specific clusters. VT clusters tend to localize medially, while IT clusters laterally. VT neurons are closely apposed at the proximal neuronal processes. A Golgi-like immunohistochemistry demonstrated that VT and IT fibers distribute widely in the brain, such as ventral telencephalon, diencephalon, and various mesencephalic structures, in addition to the neurohypophysial projections. Projections from single VT and IT neurons were examined by an intracellular staining with biocytin injection in a sagittally hemisected brain preparation, which contains the entire forebrain region. Single VT and IT neurons project toward the pituitary and the extrahypothalamic regions. Some IT neurons, but not VT neurons, were dye-coupled. These results support the idea that the same types of NSCs are connected to form cell-type-specific networks responsible for the synchronization of periodic Ca(2+) pulses. The organization of the preoptic neurosecretory system shown in the present study is suitable for the simultaneous control of neurohypophysial and extrahypothalamic outputs through the synchronization of electrical activity.
Activation of the brain noradrenergic system during acute stress is thought to play an important integrative function in coping and stress adaptation by facilitating transmission in many brain regions involved in regulating behavioral and physiologic components of the stress response. Compared with outbred control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, inbred Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats exhibit an exaggerated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response as well as increased susceptibility to certain forms of stress-related pathology. However, we have also shown previously that WKY rats exhibit reduced anxiety-like behavioral reactivity to acute stress, associated with reduced activation of the brain noradrenergic system. Thus, to understand better the possible neurobiological mechanisms underlying dysregulation of the stress response in WKY rats, we investigated potential strain differences in stress-induced neuronal activation in brain regions that are both involved in regulating behavioral and neuroendocrine stress responses, and are related to the noradrenergic system, either as targets of noradrenergic modulation or as sources of afferent innervation of noradrenergic neurons. This was accomplished by visualizing stress-induced expression of Fos immunoreactivity in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, and medial nucleus of the amygdala (MeA), as well as the noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus (LC). Stress-induced Fos expression was found to be decreased in the LC and MeA of WKY rats compared with similarly stressed SD rats, whereas no strain differences were observed in any of the other brain regions. This suggests that strain-related differences in activation of the MeA may be involved in the abnormal neuroendocrine and behavioral stress responses exhibited by WKY rats. Moreover, as the MeA is both an afferent as well as an efferent target of the brainstem noradrenergic system, reduced MeA activation may either be a source of reduced noradrenergic reactivity seen in WKY rats, or possibly a consequence. Nonetheless, understanding the mechanisms underlying altered stress reactivity in models such as the WKY rat may contribute to a better understanding of stress-related psychopathologies such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or other anxiety disorders.
Interictal spikes are generated in the cerebral cortex during certain pathological conditions. In normal tissue, interictal spikes are triggered by blocking GABA(A) receptors. We studied the propensity of different areas of the cerebral cortex (including neocortex and piriform cortex) to generate spontaneous interictal spikes during block of GABA(A) receptors in slices of adult mice. Ten sequential brain slices were studied spanning most of the cerebral hemisphere. During block of GABA(A) receptors spontaneous interictal spikes were observed in all slices. Interestingly, interictal spikes recurred at different frequencies in different slices; posterior slices had a higher rate than the frontal slices (approximately 0.2 vs. 0.1 Hz, posterior vs. frontal). Multi-site recordings allowed to monitor discharges traveling across each slice and to derive cross-correlations. It became apparent that for the slices with higher frequency (i.e. posterior slices) the discharges originated in the piriform cortex and spread to the neocortex. A correlation between the frequency of the spontaneous discharges and the probability of events originating from piriform cortex was positive and significant. A further demonstration of this site of origin was provided by severing the connections between the neocortex and the piriform cortex. After interrupting these connections all the neocortical sites in the posterior slices displayed a lower frequency of discharges; similar to slower frontal slices. Meanwhile, the isolated piriform cortex of the posterior slices continued to produce higher frequency discharges. Thus, the higher frequency activity displayed by the posterior slices is intrinsically generated in the posterior piriform cortex from where it spreads to the neocortex. The results indicate that the neocortex and the piriform cortex have a distinct propensity to generate spontaneous interictal spikes, and that the more prone areas impose their activity on the less prone areas during disinhibition.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) has been utilized as a neuroprotective agent in experimental models of spinal cord injury because of its potent anti-inflammatory properties. Previous studies have delivered a single dose (5 microg) of IL-10 following experimental spinal cord injury in the rat, and demonstrated various degrees of neuroprotection. However, the role of endogenous production of IL-10 has not been considered. Therefore, the purpose of the current study was to establish the role of endogenous IL-10 and demonstrate the true potential of exogenous IL-10 administration through the use of IL-10((-/-)) mice. Using the quisqualic acid model of spinal cord injury, we examined the extent of gray matter damage and onset of injury-induced pain behaviors at various time points following injury in wild-type vs. IL-10((-/-)) mice. Additionally, IL-10 was reconstituted in IL-10 deficient mice by the intraperitoneal administration of 50 ng recombinant murine (rm) IL-10 30 min following quisqualic acid injection. Animals were observed daily following injury for the onset of pain-behaviors. At days 1, 7, and 14 following injection, lesion analysis revealed a greater extent of damage at early time points (1 day, 7 days) following injury in the IL-10((-/-)) animals as compared with wild-type animals. However, by 14 days post-experimental spinal cord injury, the extent of damage between the two groups was not significant. IL-10((-/-)) animals that received the single (50 ng) rmIL-10 injection following injury displayed gray matter damage patterns similar to wild-type animals. The pronounced early damage noted in the IL-10((-/-)) animals was associated with an approximately two-fold increase in peripheral neutrophils, an index of an innate immune response to injury, compared with wild-type mice. In addition, wild type and IL-10((-/-)) animals receiving rmIL-10 demonstrated a delay in the onset of injury-induced pain behaviors. However, by 14 days post-experimental spinal cord injury the overall incidence of pain behaviors was similar between all treatment groups. Therefore, the absence of IL-10 expression accelerates the kinetics of lesion expansion, the onset of pain behaviors, and the peripheral immune response to spinal cord injury. Endogenous IL-10 and low doses of exogenous IL-10 are neuroprotective at 1 and 7 days following injury. Therefore, the results of the current study suggest that low dose IL-10 administration acutely following spinal cord injury has potential as a therapeutic agent for limiting tissue loss following injury.
Taurine is abundant in the main olfactory bulb, exceeding glutamate and GABA in concentration. In whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat olfactory bulb slices, taurine inhibited principal neurons, mitral and tufted cells. In these cells, taurine decreased the input resistance and caused a shift of the membrane potential toward the chloride equilibrium potential. The taurine actions were sustained under the blockade of transmitter release and were reversible and dose-dependent. At a concentration of 5 mM, typically used in this study, taurine showed 90% of its maximal effect. GABA(A) antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, blocked the taurine actions, whereas the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine and GABA(B) antagonists, CGP 55845A and CGP 35348, were ineffective. These findings are consistent with taurine directly activating GABA(A) receptors and inducing chloride conductance. Taurine had no effect on periglomerular and granule interneurons. The subunit composition of GABA(A) receptors in these cells, differing from those in mitral and tufted cells, may account for taurine insensitivity of the interneurons. Taurine suppressed olfactory nerve-evoked monosynaptic responses of mitral and tufted cells while chloride conductance was blocked. This action was mimicked by the GABA(B) agonist baclofen and abolished by CGP 55845A; CGP 35348, which primarily blocks postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors, was ineffective. The taurine effect most likely was due to GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of presynaptic glutamate release. Neither taurine nor baclofen affected responses of periglomerular cells. The lack of a baclofen effect implies that functional GABA(B) receptors are absent from olfactory nerve terminals that contact periglomerular cells. These results indicate that taurine decreases the excitability of mitral and tufted cells and their responses to olfactory nerve stimulation without influencing periglomerular and granule cells. Selective effects of taurine in the olfactory bulb may represent a physiologic mechanism that is involved in the inhibitory shaping of the activation pattern of principal neurons.
Evidence suggests that capsaicin-sensitive substance P (SP)-containing trigeminal ganglion neurons innervate the spiral modiolar artery (SMA), radiating arterioles, and the stria vascularis of the cochlea. Antidromic electrical or chemical stimulation of trigeminal sensory nerves results in neurogenic plasma extravasation in inner ear tissues. The primary aim of this study was to reveal the possible morphological basis of cochlear vascular changes mediated by capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves. Therefore, the distribution of SP and capsaicin receptor (transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1-TRPV1) was investigated by double immunolabeling to demonstrate the anatomical relationships between the cochlear and vertebro-basilar blood vessels and the trigeminal sensory fiber system. Extensive TRPV1 and SP expression and co-localization were observed in axons within the adventitial layer of the basilar artery, the anterior inferior cerebellar artery, the SMA, and the radiating arterioles of the cochlea. There appears to be a functional relationship between the trigeminal ganglion and the cochlear blood vessels since electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion induced significant plasma extravasation from the SMA and the radiating arterioles. The findings suggest that stimulation of paravascular afferent nerves may result in permeability changes in the basilar and cochlear vascular bed and may contribute to the mechanisms of vertebro-basilar type of headache through the release of SP and stimulation of TPVR1, respectively. We propose that vertigo, tinnitus, and hearing deficits associated with migraine may arise from perturbations of capsaicin-sensitive trigeminal sensory ganglion neurons projecting to the cochlea.
The infrared (IR) receptors in the pit organ of crotaline snakes are very sensitive to temperature. The vasculature of the pit organs, which is located in close proximity to IR-sensitive terminal nerve masses (IR receptors), is finer, flatter, and more convoluted than that of other sensory organs. Using extracellular recording in vivo from IR-sensitive primary afferent trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons of the crotaline snake Trimeresurus flavoviridis, I studied the response to IR warming (24-25 degrees C) and to various chemicals: an exogenous vasoactive substance nitric oxide donor (sodium nitroprusside, SNP), endothelin-1 (ET-1), a transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV)1 agonist (capsaicin, CAP) and antagonist (capsazepine, CZP), and Ruthenium Red (RR), an antagonist of the TRPV family. IR-sensitive primary afferent TG neurons display regular background firing at 10-25 impulses per second at 24-25 degrees C. At this temperature, Ruthenium Red and endothelin-1 clearly suppressed the frequency of background firing, while sodium nitroprusside injected into the bloodstream significantly increased the frequency of discharges (P&lt;0.01) and caused regular bursts of firing in IR-sensitive TG neurons. By contrast, capsaicin and capsazepine had no effect on the infrared responses. The possibility that these opposite responses result from their vasoactive effects on the unusual pit vasculature or from their chemical effects on the thermoreceptors of IR-sensitive nerve terminals in the pit organ, like those of the TRPV family, is discussed.
In the present autoradiographic study, we took advantage of 5-hydroxytryptamine(7) (5-HT(7)) receptor knockout mice to analyze the brain distribution of 5-HT(7) receptor binding sites using [(3)H]5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT; a 5-HT(1A/1B/1D/5/7) receptor ligand) and [(3)H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; a 5-HT(1A/7) receptor ligand). Low to moderate densities of [(3)H]5-CT (2 nM) binding sites insensitive to pindolol (10 microM, for 5-HT(1A/1B) receptor blockade) and GR-127935 (1 microM; for 5-HT(1D) receptor blockade) were observed in wild-type mice (mainly in thalamus and hypothalamus) but not in 5-HT(7) receptor knockout mice. Surprisingly, moderate to high densities of [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT (10 nM) binding sites insensitive to pindolol (10 microM) remained in 5-HT(7) receptor knockout mouse brain. These non-5-HT(1A), non-5-HT(7) binding sites were found to be adrenergic alpha(2A) receptor binding sites. In alpha(2A) receptor knockout mice low to moderate densities of [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT binding sites insensitive to pindolol but sensitive to the selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist SB-269970 (300 nM) were observed mainly in thalamus and hypothalamus. Therefore, in addition to 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) binding sites, [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT also binds to alpha(2A) receptor binding sites in wild-type mouse brain. [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT (in the presence of pindolol and 1 microM RX-821002 for alpha(2) receptor blockade) and [(3)H]5-CT (in the presence of pindolol and GR-127935) bind to a similar receptor binding population corresponding to 5-HT(7) binding sites. Detailed anatomical mapping of 5-HT(7) receptor binding sites in wild-type mouse brain was then performed using both radioligands in the presence of suitable pharmacological agents for non-5-HT(7) receptor binding sites blockade. The mapping revealed binding sites consistent with the mRNA distribution with the highest densities found in anterior thalamic nuclei.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) after induction peripherally, and within the CNS, plays an important role in producing inflammatory pain. However, its role in neuropathic pain models is controversial. Recently a robust and persistent model of partial nerve injury pain, the spared nerve injury (SNI) model, has been developed. The aim of the present study was to examine the regulation of COX-2 in the rat SNI model and to evaluate the effectiveness of the selective COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib in preventing neuropathic allodynia and hyperalgesia. RNase protection assays revealed only a very small and transient increase in COX-2 mRNA in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in the SNI model with a maximum change at 24 h. Immunohistochemical analysis showed a small increase in COX-2 protein in the deep layers of the dorsal horn 10 h following SNI surgery. Rofecoxib (100 microM) did not affect spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propanoic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) responses in lamina II neurons from spinal cords of animals with SNI indicating no detectable action on transmitter release or postsynaptic activity. Furthermore, rofecoxib treatment (1 and 3.2 mg/kg for 5 and 3 days respectively starting on the day of surgery) failed to modify the development of allodynia and hyperalgesia in the SNI model. However, rofecoxib significantly reduced inflammatory hypersensitivity evoked by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into one hindpaw, indicating that the doses used were pharmacologically active. The pain hypersensitivity produced by the SNI model is not COX-2-dependent.
Activation of kappa opioid receptors (KORs) in the spinal cord can diminish nociception. Humans and rodents show sex differences in the analgesia produced by KOR agonists, and female rats show fluctuations in KOR density and sensitivity across the estrous cycle. However, it is unclear whether there are sex differences in the amount and/or distribution of spinal KORs. In the present study, immunocytochemically labeled KORs were examined in laminae I and II of the lumbosacral spinal dorsal horn of male and normally cycling female Sprague-Dawley rats. The basic pattern of KOR labeling was determined in both sexes using qualitative electron microscopy (EM), and sex-linked differences in the density and subcellular distribution of KOR immunoreactivity were determined with quantitative EM and light microscopy. KOR labeling was visualized with immunoperoxidase for optimally sensitive detection, or with immunogold for precise subcellular localization. By EM, the general pattern of KOR immunoreactivity was similar in males and females. KOR immunoreactivity was common in dendrites, axons, and axon terminals, and was in a few glia and neuronal somata. Most KOR-immunoreactive (-ir) axons were fine-diameter and unmyelinated. Most KOR-ir terminals were small or medium-sized, and a minority formed asymmetric or symmetric synapses with unlabeled dendrites. KOR immunoreactivity was associated both with the plasma membrane and with cytoplasmic organelles, notably including dense core vesicles in terminals. Light microscopic densitometry revealed that KOR immunoreactivity was significantly denser in estrus and proestrus females than in males. By EM, the distribution of KOR-immunogold labeling within axon terminals differed, with a greater proportion of cytoplasmic KOR labeling in estrus females compared with males. In contrast, the abundance and types of KOR-immunoperoxidase-labeled profiles did not show sex-linked differences. We conclude that in both sexes, KORs are positioned to influence both pre- and postsynaptic neurotransmission and are present in morphologically heterogeneous neuron populations. These findings are consistent with complex consequences of KOR activation in the spinal cord. In addition, the presence of increased KOR density and proportionally elevated intracellular KORs in proestrus/estrus females suggests a basis for sex-linked differences in KOR-mediated antinociception.
Long-term intake of ethanol produces adaptive alterations in multiple transmitter systems in the hippocampal formation that likely contribute to ethanol withdrawal-induced seizure and excitotoxicity. The present studies were designed to examine the role of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation and cytosolic Ca(2+) accumulation in the neurotoxic effects of ethanol withdrawal. Further, these studies investigated the role of hippocampal network excitation in promoting both Ca(2+) accumulation and neurotoxicity during ethanol withdrawal. Chronic, continuous (11 day) exposure to ethanol (91 mM starting concentration) did not produce neurotoxicity in any region of organotypic hippocampal explants, as measured by uptake of the non-vital fluorescent marker propidium iodide. Withdrawal from chronic (10 day) ethanol exposure was associated with rapid (30 min) and significant increases in intracellular Ca(2+), assessed by visualization of Calcium-Orange fluorescence, in each region of hippocampal explants. However, neurotoxicity was observed 24 h after initiation of withdrawal and was only seen in the cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) region. Exposure to MK-801 (20 microM) at the start of ethanol withdrawal markedly attenuated Ca(2+) entry in all regions, as well as, CA1 region neurodegeneration. Further, treatment of explants with tetrodotoxin (500 nM) as well as surgical transection of mossy fiber or Schaffer collateral projections immediately prior to ethanol withdrawal blocked both regional increases in Ca(2+) accumulation and CA1 neurotoxicity. These data suggest that neurodegeneration observed during ethanol withdrawal is dependent upon polysynaptic propagation of action potentials (&quot;network excitation&quot;) and whole-hippocampal excitation of glutamatergic systems.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is the most prominent cellular model underlying learning and memory formation. However, which cellular processes are involved in maintaining LTP remains largely unknown. We have previously detailed temporal modulations of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase, PDE4B3, after LTP-induction and its maintenance in hippocampal area CA1 in vitro. To test whether other hippocampal sub-structures are characterised by similar mechanisms, tissue from the area dentata of freely moving rats was analysed at different LTP-time points. The tissue was fractionated into three components, where PDE4B-levels and cAMP-concentrations were measured. In contrast with data obtained in area CA1, we now detail an LTP-specific translational, but not transcriptional regulation of PDE4B3 within the first 8 h after tetanization and present spatio-temporal changes of PDE4B proteins and cAMP that is LTP-specific.
Recognition molecules provide important cues for neuronal survival, axonal fasciculation, axonal pathfinding, synaptogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and regeneration. Our previous studies revealed a link between perisomatic inhibition and the extracellular matrix glycoprotein tenascin-R (TN-R). Therefore, we here studied neuronal excitability and epileptic susceptibility in mice constitutively deficient in TN-R. In vitro analysis of populational spikes in hippocampal slices of TN-R-deficient mice revealed a significant increase in multiple spikes in the CA1 region, as compared with wild-type mice. This difference between genotypes was only partially reduced after blockade of GABA(A) receptors with picrotoxin, indicating a deficit in GABAergic inhibition and an increase in intrinsic excitability of CA1 pyramidal cells in TN-R-deficient mice. Using a battery of immunohistochemical markers and histological stainings, we were able to identify two abnormalities in the hippocampus of TN-R-deficient mice possibly related to increased excitability: the high number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes and low number of calretinin-positive interneurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions. In order to test whether the revealed abnormalities give rise to increased susceptibility to seizures in TN-R-deficient mice, we used the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. No genotype-specific differences were found with regard to the time-course of pilocarpine-induced and spontaneous seizures, neuronal cell loss, aberrant sprouting and distribution of synaptic and inhibitory interneuron markers. However, pilocarpine-induced astrogliosis and reduction in calretinin-positive interneurons were less pronounced in TN-R mutants, thereby resulting in an occlusion of effects induced by TN-R deficiency and pilocarpine. Thus, TN-R-deficient mutants show several electrophysiological and morphological hallmarks of increased neuronal excitability, which, however, do not give rise to more accelerated or severe epileptogenesis in the pilocarpine model of epilepsy.
WW domain-containing oxidoreductase WOX1, also known as WWOX or FOR, is a proapoptotic protein and a putative tumor suppressor. Hyaluronidases such as PH-20, Hyal-1 and Hyal-2 induce the expression of WOX1, and hyaluronidases and hyaluronan are involved in the embryonic development. In the present study, we document the expression of WOX1 in the developing murine nervous system. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that WOX1 was differentially expressed in early dividing cells from all three germ layers from embryonic to perinatal stages. In murine fetuses, WOX1 was present prevalently in the brainstem, spinal cord and peripheral nerve bundles, but its expression decreased after birth. In parallel, the expression of WOX1, as determined by Western blotting, was significantly reduced in the brain stem and spinal cord of adult mice. Notably, high levels of WOX1 immunoreactivity was observed in the neural crest-derived structures such as cranial and spinal ganglia and cranial mesenchyme during the late fetal stage. In the adult brain, WOX1 is abundant in the epithelial cells of the choroids plexus and ependymal cells, while a low to moderate level of WOX1 is observed within white matter tracts, such as axonal profiles of the corpus callosum, striatum, optic tract, and cerebral peduncle. WOX1 is shown to mediate apoptosis synergistically with p53 in vitro. Nonetheless, the expression profiles of WOX1 were found to be similar in both p53 wild type and knockout mice, suggesting that WOX1 expression is not controlled by p53-mediated gene transcription. Taken together, in this study we have shown the expression and distribution of WOX1 in developing and adult murine nervous system. The potential role of WOX1 in the neuronal differentiation is discussed.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs) are commonly grown as floating neurospheres in medium containing basic fibroblast growth factor and epidermal growth factor. Under these conditions, about 1% of the cells retain multipotentiality. We developed a protocol based on culture of NSCs in adherence on recombinant fibronectin (rFN) to transduce up to 90% NSCs at a multiplicity of infection of 2 with no need for viral concentration or production of serum-free retroviral supernatants. NSCs grew faster on rFN than as neurospheres on tissue culture plastic and did not lose their stem cell nature or multipotentiality. Furthermore, retroviral-mediated transgene expression was sustained with time in culture and upon differentiation into neurons and astrocytes. These experimental conditions may be utilized to study the function of various genes in NSCs, and to manipulate NSCs for gene and cell therapy of several neurological diseases.
Rat hippocampal interneurons express diverse subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), including alpha7- and non-alpha7-containing receptors. Although the major subtype of non-alpha7 nAChRs in the hippocampus is thought to be composed of alpha4beta2 subunits, the molecular makeup of these non-alpha7 receptors is likely to be more complicated. Previously, we reported a high level of expression of the alpha2 nAChR subunit in individual rat hippocampal CA1 stratum oriens interneurons. In addition, the non-alpha7 nAChRs from these neurons are less sensitive to block by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE; the broad spectrum non-alpha7 nAChR antagonist) than that expected for alpha4beta2 receptors. We studied the functional properties of rat alpha2beta2 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes using two-electrode voltage-clamp, and compared these to those properties of the more widely expressed and studied alpha4beta2 channels. Dose-response curves for both receptor subtypes indicated that there are at least two different affinity sites for ACh, the fractional contribution of which depended on the ratio of injected RNA. DHbetaE blocked both receptor subtypes, although the sensitivity to block of alpha4beta2 channels was significantly higher than that for alpha2beta2. Finally, the current-voltage (I-V) relationship for the alpha2beta2 channels more strongly rectified than for the alpha4beta2 channels. These data suggest that functional properties, in particular the sensitivity to block by DHbetaE, might be useful indicators to differentiate between native alpha4beta2 and alpha2beta2 channels. In addition, these data suggest that the relative balance between the high- and low-affinity components being determined by the relative levels of the alpha and beta subunits might be a general property of the heteromeric non-alpha7 nAChRs. By comparing the properties of expressed nAChRs with those of the native channels, we might be able to learn what role alpha2-containing nAChRs may be playing in forming functional channels in the hippocampus.
Beyond the role estrogen plays in neuroendocrine feedback regulation involving hypothalamic neurons, other roles for estrogen in maintaining the function of CNS neurons remains poorly understood. Primary cultures of embryonic rat neurons together with radiometric assays were used to demonstrate how estrogen alters the cholinergic phenotype in basal forebrain by differentially regulating sodium-coupled high-affinity choline uptake and choline acetyltransferase activity. High-affinity choline uptake was significantly increased 37% in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons grown in the presence of a physiological dose of estrogen (5 nM) from 4 to 10 days in vitro whereas choline acetyltransferase activity was not significantly changed in the presence of 5 or 50 nM estrogen from 4 to 10 or 10 to 16 days in vitro. Newly-synthesized acetylcholine was significantly increased 35% following 6 days of estrogen treatment (10 days in vitro). These effects are in direct contrast to those found for nerve growth factor; that is, nerve growth factor can enhance the cholinergic phenotype through changes in choline acetyltransferase activity alone. This is most surprising given that mitogen-activated protein kinase and extracellular-signal-regulated kinase1/2, kinases also activated in the signaling pathway of nerve growth factor, were found to participate in the estrogen-mediated changes in the cholinergic phenotype. Likewise, general improvement in the viability of the cultures treated with estrogen does not account for the effects of estrogen as determined by lactate dehydrogenase release and nerve growth factor-responsiveness. These findings provide evidence that estrogen enhances the differentiated phenotype in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons through second messenger signaling in a manner distinct from nerve growth factor and independent of improved survival.
In some brain regions, previous studies reported the frequent coexistence between neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and somatostatin (SOM). In the hippocampus, nNOS and SOM were mainly expressed in GABAergic nonprincipal neurons. Here we estimated the immunocytochemical colocalization of nNOS and SOM in the mouse hippocampus using the optical disector. Both in the Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus, we encountered only a few nNOS-immunoreactive (IR)/SOM-like immunoreactive (LIR) neurons. They were mainly located in the stratum oriens of the Ammon's horn and in the dentate hilus. The nNOS-IR/SOM-LIR neurons usually showed characteristic large somata with thick dendrites, whereas the majority of nNOS-IR/SOM-negative neurons showed small somata with thin dendrites. Quantitative data revealed that the double-labeled cells represented only 4% and 7% of nNOS-IR neurons and SOM-LIR neurons, respectively, in the whole area of the hippocampus. We also found the laminar and dorsoventral differences in the degree of colocalization between nNOS and SOM. The percentages of nNOS-IR neurons containing SOM-like immunoreactivity were relatively high in the stratum oriens of the ventral CA1 region (24%), stratum lucidum of the dorsal CA3 region (29%) and dorsal dentate hilus (32%), but they were quite low in the other layers. On the other hand, the percentages of SOM-LIR neurons containing nNOS immunoreactivity were somewhat high in the stratum lucidum of the dorsal CA3 region (19%) and dorsal dentate hilus (28%), whereas they were very low in the other layers. Immunofluorescent triple labeling of axon terminals for nNOS, SOM and glutamic acid decarboxylase indicated that some nNOS-IR/SOM-LIR neurons might be dendritic inhibitory cells. The present results show the infrequent colocalization of nNOS and SOM in the mouse hippocampus, and also suggest that the double-labeled cells may be a particular subpopulation of hippocampal GABAergic nonprincipal neurons.
The pineal gland, through nocturnal melatonin, acts as a neuroendocrine transducer of daily and seasonal time. Melatonin synthesis is driven by rhythmic activation of the rate-limiting enzyme, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT). In ungulates, AA-NAT mRNA is constitutively high throughout the 24-h cycle, and melatonin production is primarily controlled through effects on AA-NAT enzyme activity; this is in contrast to dominant transcriptional control in rodents. To determine whether there has been a selective loss of circadian control of AA-NAT mRNA expression in the sheep pineal, we measured the expression of other genes known to be rhythmic in rodents (inducible cAMP early repressor ICER, the circadian clock genes Period1 and Cryptochrome1, as well as AA-NAT). We first assayed gene expression in pineal glands collected from Soay sheep adapted to short days (Light: dark, 8-h: 16-h), and killed at 4-h intervals through 24-h. We found no evidence for rhythmic expression of ICER, AA-NAT or Cryptochrome1 under these conditions, whilst Period1 showed a low amplitude rhythm of expression, with higher values during the dark period. In a second group of animals, lights out was delayed by 8-h during the final 24-h sampling period, a manipulation that causes an immediate shortening of the period of melatonin secretion. This did not significantly affect the expression of ICER, AA-NAT or Cryptochrome1 in the pineal, whilst a slight suppressive effect on overall Per1 levels was observed. The attenuated response to photoperiod change appears to be specific to the ovine pineal, as the first long day induced rapid changes of Period1 and ICER expression in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei and pituitary pars tuberalis, respectively. Overall, our data suggest a general reduction of circadian control of transcript abundance in the ovine pineal gland, consistent with a marked evolutionary divergence in the mechanism regulating melatonin production between terrestrial ruminants and fossorial rodents.
Oligophrenin-1 is a recently discovered Rho-GTPase activating protein, mutation of which is associated with X-linked mental retardation. Since little is known about the cellular localization of oligophrenin-1 in central and peripheral neurons, we investigated its expression by RT-PCR and immunochemical analysis. Oligophrenin-1 immunoreactivity was found in glial cells forming myelin sheaths in the vagus nerve, sciatic nerve and dorsal roots of guinea-pig, rat and human, in chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla, and in chromaffin cells associated with sympathetic ganglia. No immunoreactivity was detected in sympathetic neurons, in glial cells surrounding these neurons, in optic nerve or in spinal cord myelin. The full length cDNA sequence was determined from guinea-pig sciatic nerve. The translated amino acid sequence was 99% identical to the published human oligophrenin-1 sequence. Western blotting revealed two protein forms which were expressed to different relative extents in different tissues. A 91 kDa form was predominant in extracts of sciatic nerve whereas a 36 kDa form was relatively more abundant in adrenal medulla and brain. Greater amounts of the full length oligophrenin-1 protein occurred in the sciatic nerve of adult rats, compared with P2 rats, which reflects the development of myelination. The presence of multiple forms does not appear to be due to alternative mRNA splicing since RT-PCR products amplified from a variety of tissues were identical and only a single mRNA transcript of 7.4 kb was identified by Northern analysis. These findings demonstrate that a major site of oligophrenin-1 expression is peripheral myelin.
The effect of treatment with a broad-spectrum inhibitor (BB1101) of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) on nerve regeneration and functional recovery after nerve crush was examined. Drug treatment had no effect on latency but from 63 days the compound muscle action potential was significantly increased and was no different to that in the sham-operated controls at 72 days. Levels of MMP mRNA expression, and the localisation and activity of MMP proteins, were examined in rats for a 2 month period following a nerve crush injury, and compared with sham-operated controls. The mRNA of all the MMPs studied was up-regulated by 5-10 days after nerve crush, and they remained up-regulated for 40-63 days, except for MMP-9 which was down-regulated by 10 days. MMP immunoreactivity was localised to Schwann cells, macrophages and endothelial cells, and with the exception of membrane type 1-MMP (MT1-MMP), it was more intense after nerve crush compared with sham-operated controls. Regenerating axons showed immunoreactivity for MMP-2 and MMP-3. In situ zymography confirmed that the activity of MMPs in the nerve was increased following crush but that the activity was greatly reduced in rats treated with BB-1101. Thus despite the inhibition of MMPs by BB-1101, the drug did not appear to essentially affect nerve degeneration or regeneration following nerve crush but that it could be beneficial in promoting the more effective reinnervation of muscles possibly by actions at the level of the muscles.
Chromaffin cells can restore function to the damaged nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in animal models of Parkinson's disease. It has been reported that a protein which is released from chromaffin granules can promote the survival of dopaminergic neurones in vitro and protect them against N-methylpyridinium ion toxicity. This neurotrophic effect has been found to be mediated by astroglial cells and blocked by inhibitors of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor signal transduction pathway. Here we report the identification of bovine heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF) in chromaffin granules and the cloning of the respective cDNA from bovine-derived adrenal gland. Protein extracts from bovine chromaffin granules were found to promote the survival of embryonic dopaminergic neurones in culture, to the same extent as recombinant human HB-EGF. Furthermore, the neurotrophic action of the chromaffin granule extract could be abolished by antiserum to recombinant human HB-EGF. We also show that intracerebral injection of recombinant human HB-EGF protected the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in an in vivo adult rat model of Parkinson's disease. Intracerebral administration of this protein at the same time as a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the medial forebrain bundle was found to spare dopamine levels in the striatum and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurones in the midbrain. This study has found that the main component in chromaffin granules responsible for their neurotrophic effect on dopaminergic neurones is HB-EGF. Furthermore, HB-EGF has significant protective effects on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurones in vivo, making it a potential candidate for use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) delivered via intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion restores behavioral and biochemical deficits in animal models of cholinergic hypofunction. However, ICV infusion of NGF induces an array of adverse events including weight loss, thermal hyperalgesia, and Schwann cell hyperplasia. We compared ICV administration with three different doses of intraparenchymally delivered NGF with cytochrome C infusion serving as a control. The goal of the study was to determine whether direct infusion of NGF would result in a more restricted topographical distribution of NGF leading to a reduction or elimination of the adverse events while still augmenting cholinergic functioning sufficiently to restore spatial mnemonic processing. Subsequent to bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM), NGF was delivered into the lateral ventricle or adjacent to the NBM for 11 weeks. Ibotenic acid lesions resulted in reductions in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in the cortex. The highest and medium dose of NGF led to significant restoration in ChAT activity on par with ICV infusion. The lowest dose was ineffective in altering ChAT activity in any region assayed. Similarly, the two highest doses did not alter weight gain, but ICV-NGF led to a significant weight loss. Intraparenchymal infusion resulted in a dose-dependent attenuation of the development of thermal hyperalgesia. However, the highest dose of intraparenchymal NGF induced Schwann cell hyperplasia at the level of the medulla and upper cervical spinal cord. ICV-NGF was able to completely restore spatial learning and memory as predicted while only the highest intraparenchymal dose was able to able to restore the mnemonic deficits. These data suggest that intraparenchymal infusion of growth factors may provide a viable delivery method in clinical trials using this mode of drug delivery once an optimal dose has been established.
The immediate post-training i.c.v. administration of hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) (1 microg), a specific inhibitor of the high-affinity choline uptake (HACU) in brain cholinergic neurons, impaired retention test performance of a one-trial step-through inhibitory avoidance response in adult male CF-1 mice. The effect was observed in mice that received a footshock (0.8 mA, 50 Hz, 1 s) on the learning trial, and not only 48 h after training, but also 7 days after it. After the completion of the retention test at each of the training-test interval that were studied, the HACU in the hippocampus of HC-3-treated mice was not significantly different from that of saline-injected (1 microl) control groups. Mice that were over-reinforced (1.2 mA, 50 Hz, 1 s) on the learning trial, exhibited a high retention performance 48 h after training. The immediate i.c.v. injection of HC-3 (1 microg) after the retention test, that is, after memory reactivation, significantly impaired retention performance over 4 consecutive days, whereas the saline-injected control group shown a slight, but significant performance decrease only at the last retention test. Retention performance was unchanged in HC-3-treated mice not undergoing memory reactivation session. These results, taken together, indicate that HC-3, not only impaired consolidation, but also reconsolidation of an inhibitory avoidance task in mice, suggesting a critical participation of central cholinergic mechanisms in both memory processes.
We used three human apolipoprotein (apo) E targeted replacement mouse lines, each expressing one of the three common human apoE isoforms to study the pattern of apoE expression in the central nervous system (CNS). Immunocytochemistry on brain sections from all three lines of targeted replacement mice, wild type mice, African green monkeys, and humans show a predominantly glial pattern of apoE expression. The levels of human apoE protein in hippocampus and frontal cortex were similar between targeted replacement mice and non-demented human tissue. Within a given brain region, the levels of apoE were very similar amongst all three isoforms, which contrasts sharply with plasma, where apoE2 levels are 16-fold higher than apoE3 and E4 levels. Across brain regions, cerebellar apoE levels were significantly higher than cerebral apoE levels. In conclusion, we provide detailed analysis of a human apoE animal model system that recapitulates both the pattern and level of apoE expression in non-demented humans. The neurobiology of human apoE isoforms can now be studied in both the normal and post-injury state, since all apoE regulatory sequences are intact. Finally, the differences in apoE levels we observed may explain the regional vulnerability of neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
Homozygous endothelin B receptor deficiency leads to congenital aganglionosis of the gut in rats and mice, equivalent to human Hirschsprung disease. Homozygous endothelin B receptor deficient rats (spotting lethal rats, sl/sl) are characterized not only by this developmental disorder of the enteric nervous system, which limits their life span to 3-4 weeks, but exhibit an increased rate of apoptosis in the dentate gyrus compared to wildtype (+/+) rats. Recently, endothelin B receptor deficient transgenic rescue rats (sl/sl, tg/tg) were created to further investigate the role of the endothelin B receptor in mature animals. Linkage of the human dopamine-beta-hydroxylase promoter to the rat endothelin B receptor gene and expression of this transgenic construct results in normal development of the enteric nervous system. We investigated the expression pattern of this transgenic construct in the brain by using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Unexpectedly, transgene mRNA expression was not restricted to the brain stem where adrenergic and noradrenergic nuclei are known to be present but, in addition, was also detectable in hippocampus and cortex. Using in situ tailing technique, cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry and analysis of hematoxylin-eosin-stained serial sections, we found that all studied transgenic animals were rescued from the increased rate of apoptosis in the dentate gyrus characteristic for non-transgenic sl/sl rats. This finding supports our previous observation that the endothelin B receptor might be an important regulatory element supporting cellular survival in the hippocampus during postnatal development. The endothelin B receptor deficient transgenic rescue rats used here are rescued from developmental disorders both in the gut and in the brain.
Neurones within the rostral ventromedial medulla project to the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord where they may influence sympathetic preganglionic neuronal activity controlling cutaneous vascular beds. Here we assess whether such neurones contribute to cutaneous sympathetic vasoconstrictor activity in a fever-like state induced by i.c.v. injection of E-series prostaglandin. In urethane-anaesthetised rats, we recorded population sympathetic activity to the tail (an index of vasoconstrictor discharge regulating cutaneous thermoregulatory circulations). A survey of the effects of GABA microinjections (200 mM; 60-80 nl; 111 sites in 57 rats) demonstrated that those into the rostral ventromedial medulla (in the region of raphe pallidus and magnus; approximately bregma -10 to -12 mm) markedly decreased (51%-100%) population sympathetic cutaneous vasoconstrictor activity during &quot;normothermic control.&quot; In contrast, injections at sites dorsal and lateral to this region tended to produce either a smaller decrease or have no effect. In heat-clamp (nine animals: body temperature 40-41 degrees C) cutaneous vasoconstrictor activity was decreased by 83+/-5%. I.c.v. prostaglandin E(1) (100 ng and above) restored activity to, or above, control levels in these animals and where body temperature was maintained at control levels (12 animals: body temperature 35.5-36.5 degrees C). The depressant action of GABA was sustained in both conditions. GABA did not significantly influence concurrently recorded splanchnic nerve activity and heart rate in any condition although both were increased following i.c.v. prostaglandin E(1) (500 ng). This study is the first to demonstrate that inhibition of neuronal activity within the rostral ventromedial medulla decreases sympathetic cutaneous vasoconstrictor activity during normothermic control and following i.c.v. prostaglandin E(1) (both with and without heat-clamp). Therefore, sympathetic premotor neurones in this area contribute to vasoconstrictor drive in these conditions. In contrast, we were unable to demonstrate that the same area had a substantial involvement in the control of splanchnic nerve activity or heart rate, even when these were enhanced following i.c.v. prostaglandin E(1).
Diurnal variations and sleep deprivation-induced changes in the number of Fos-immunoreactive (Fos-IR) neurons in various hypothalamic/preoptic nuclei were studied in the rat. The nuclei implicated in sleep regulation, the ventrolateral preoptic (VLPO), median preoptic (MnPO), and suprachiasmatic (SCN, dorsomedial subdivision) nuclei, displayed maximum c-fos expression in the rest (light) period. Sleep deprivation (S.D.) suppressed Fos-IR in the dorsomedial subdivision of SCN but failed to alter Fos in the VLPO. Fos-IR increased in the VLPO during recovery after S.D. A nocturnal rise in Fos expression was detected in the arcuate (ARC), anterodorsal preoptic (ADP) and anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) nuclei whereas the lateroanterior hypothalamic nucleus (LA) and the ventrolateral subdivision of SCN did not display diurnal variations. S.D. stimulated Fos expression in the ARC, ADP, and LA. Statistically significant, albeit modest, differences were noted in the number of Fos-IR cells between males and cycling female (estrus/diestrus) in the VLPO, MnPO, ARC, LA, and AVPV, and the female ADP did not display diurnal variations. Ovariectomy (OVX) was followed by marked reduction in Fos expression in the VLPO, SCN, and AVPV, and the diurnal rhythm decreased in the VLPO, and vanished in the dorsomedial SCN, and AVP. Estrogen administration to OVX female rats stimulated Fos expression in most nuclei, and the lost diurnal variations reoccurred. In contrast, castration of male rats had little effect on Fos expression (slight rises in diurnal Fos in the ARC and ventrolateral SCN). The results suggest that Fos expression is highly estrogen-dependent in many hypothalamic nuclei including those that have been implicated in sleep regulation.
Systemic administration of a cannabinoid agonist produces antinociception through the activation of pain modulating neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). The aim of the present study was to determine how a cannabinoid receptor agonist acting directly within the RVM affects neuronal activity to produce behaviorally measurable antinociception. In lightly anesthetized rats, two types of RVM neurons have been defined based on changes in tail flick-related activity. On-cells increase firing (on-cell burst), whereas off-cells cease firing (off-cell pause), just prior to a tail flick. The cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 was microinfused directly into the RVM while monitoring tail flick latencies and on- and off-cell activity. Microinfusion of WIN55,212-2 (2.0 microg/microl and 0.4 microg/microl) reduced the tail flick-related on-cell burst, decreased the duration of the off-cell pause, and increased off-cell ongoing activity. These changes were prevented by co-infusing the CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A (0.35 microg/microl), with WIN55,212-2 (0.4 microg/microl). Furthermore, 2.0 microg/microl WIN55,212-2 delayed the onset of the off-cell pause and increased tail flick latencies. Microinfusion of WIN55,212-2 to brain regions caudal or lateral to the RVM had no effect on RVM neuronal activity or tail flick latencies. These results indicate that cannabinoids act directly within the RVM to affect off-cell activity, providing one mechanism by which cannabinoids produce antinociception.
In the isolated brain of the fire-bellied toad, Bombina orientalis, the spatial distribution of vestibular and somatosensory responses in thalamic nuclei was studied following electrical activation of the Vth nerve, the ramus anterior of the VIIIth nerve and of the dorsal roots of spinal nerves 3 and 8. Responses were systematically mapped in frontal planes through the diencephalon at four rostro-caudal levels. The calculated activity maps were superimposed on the outlines of diencephalic nuclei, and those nuclei that received particularly large inputs from the stimulated sensory nerve roots were indicated. Maximal response amplitudes coincided with ventral, central, and posterior thalamic areas and exhibited a topography that differed for each sensory nerve root. Maximal responses evoked from the Vth nerve were largely separated from those from spinal dorsal roots 3 and 8, whereas maximal vestibular responses partly overlapped with those from the other somatosensory nerve roots. Our findings indicate that within the amphibian thalamus sensory signals originating from different nerve roots are largely represented in separate areas as is the case in the thalamus of amniotes. However, the anterior dorsal thalamus which is the only origin of ascending pathways to the medial and dorsal pallium (assumed homologues of the mammalian hippocampus and neocortex, respectively) receives only minor vestibular and somatosensory input. This corroborates the view that amphibians lack a direct sensory thalamo-cortical, or &quot;lemnothalamic,&quot; pathway typical of mammals and birds.
Corticothalamic projections from cortical auditory field to the medial geniculate body (MG) in the rat were systematically examined by making small injections of biocytin in cortical area Te1. All injections, confined to 400 microm in diameter, resulted in two projections terminating in the ventral (MGV) and dorsal divisions (MGD) of the MG. The projections to the MGV were evidently topographic. The rostral and caudal portions of area Te1 projected to the ventromedial and dorsolateral parts of the MGV, respectively, forming narrow bands of terminal axons that extended in the mediolateral direction in the coronal plane of the MGV. The minimum dorsoventral width of the bands ranged approximately from 100 to 300 microm. Besides, the more rostral portion of area Te1 tended to project to the more rostral side of the MGV. The projections to the MGD consistently arborized in its ventral margin made up of the deep dorsal nucleus of the MGD. A similar weak topography along the rostrocaudal direction was observed in the projections to the MGD. Large terminals were occasionally found in the MGD after the injections involving cortical layer V. The distribution of large terminals also appeared topographic along with small terminals that were the major component of labeling. Collaterals of labeled axons produced slabs of terminal field in the thalamic reticular nucleus, which also exhibited a weak topography of distribution. These results provide insights into the structural basis of corticofugal modulations related to the tonotopic organizations in the cortex and MG.
This is a neurochemical study which shows that nicotine acting through alpha7-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors promotes the release of [(3)H]-glutamate from rat cerebellar slices. Release evoked by half maximal concentration of nicotine (100 microM) was blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin and in a calcium-free medium, suggesting an effect mediated by an alpha7 receptor. Dihydro-beta-erythroidine and mecamylamine were effective only at very high concentrations, excluding the participation of heteromeric receptors. The effect of nicotine was partially blocked by inhibitors of glutamatergic receptors DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, indicating a glutamate-induced glutamate release. Nicotine-evoked response was dependent on activation of tetrodotoxin sensitive sodium channels. Therefore, here we show that glutamate released by stimulation of alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors, located preterminal and/or postsynaptically, evokes a further glutamate release in adult rat cerebellar slices.
There is growing evidence that exposure to stress alters the acute effects of abused drugs on the CNS. However, it is not known whether stress augments the longer-term neurotoxic effects of psychostimulant drugs, such as methamphetamine. Methamphetamine at high doses decreases forebrain dopamine concentrations. The current study tested the hypothesis that 10 days of unpredictable stress augmented striatal dopamine depletions 7 days following four injections of either 7.5 or 10 mg/kg methamphetamine (1 injection every 2 h). Furthermore, to assess the effects of chronic stress on immediate responses to methamphetamine, extracellular striatal dopamine and methamphetamine concentrations, and rectal temperature were monitored during the methamphetamine injection regimen. Seven days following either a 7.5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg methamphetamine injection regimen, male rats exposed to unpredictable stress showed greater depletions in striatal dopamine tissue content compared with non-stressed controls injected with methamphetamine. Stressed rats had increased hyperthermic responses and dopamine efflux in the striatum during the methamphetamine injections when compared with non-stressed control rats. Moreover, stressed rats had an increased mortality rate (33%) compared with non-stressed controls (16.7%) following four injections of 10 mg/kg methamphetamine. The enhanced acute and longer-term effects of methamphetamine in stressed rats was not due to a greater concentrations of methamphetamine in the striatum, as extracellular levels of methamphetamine during the injection regimen did not differ between the two groups. In summary, exposure to 10 days of chronic unpredictable stress augments longer-term depletions of dopamine in the striatum, as well as acute methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia and extracellular dopamine levels. These findings suggest that chronic stress increases the responsiveness of the brain to the acute pharmacological effects of methamphetamine and enhances the vulnerability of the brain to the neurotoxic effects of psychostimulants.
This study was aimed to test our hypothesis about dopamine (DA) synthesis by non-DAergic neurons expressing individual complementary enzymes of the DA synthetic pathway in cooperation, i.e. L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) synthesized in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing neurons is transported to aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC)-expressing neurons for conversion to DA. The mediobasal hypothalamus of rats at the 21st embryonic day was used as an experimental model because it contains mainly monoenzymatic TH neurons and AADC neurons (&gt;99%) whereas the fraction of bienzymatic (DAergic) neurons does not exceed 1%. The fetal substantia nigra containing DAergic neurons served as a control. DA and L-DOPA were measured by high performance liquid chromatography in: (1) cell extracts of the cell suspension prepared ex tempora; (2) cell extracts and incubation medium after the static incubation of the cell suspension with, or without exogenous L-tyrosine; (3) effluents of the incubation medium during perifusion of the cell suspension in the presence, or the absence of L-tyrosine. Total amounts of DA and L-DOPA in the incubation medium and cell extracts after the static incubation were considered as the indexes of the rates of their syntheses. L-Tyrosine administration caused the increased L-DOPA synthesis in the mediobasal hypothalamus and substantia nigra. Moreover, L-tyrosine provoked an increase of DA synthesis in the substantia nigra and its decrease in the mediobasal hypothalamus. This contradiction is most probably explained by the L-tyrosine-induced competitive inhibition of the L-DOPA transport to the monoenzymatic AADC-neurons after its release from the monoenzymatic TH neurons. Thus, this study provides convincing evidence of cooperative DA synthesis by non-DAergic neurons expressing TH or AADC in fetal rats at the end of the intrauterine development.
We previously reported that injection of the Gram (-) bacteriotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), into gravid females at embryonic day 10.5 led to the birth of animals with fewer than normal dopamine (DA) neurons when assessed at postnatal days (P) 10 and 21. To determine if these changes continued into adulthood, we have now assessed animals at P120. As part of the previous studies, we also observed that the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) was elevated in the striatum, suggesting that these animals would be more susceptible to subsequent DA neurotoxin exposure. In order to test this hypothesis, we injected (at P99) 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) or saline into animals exposed to LPS or saline prenatally. The results showed that animals exposed to prenatal LPS or postnatal 6OHDA alone had 33% and 46%, respectively, fewer DA neurons than controls, while the two toxins combined produced a less than additive 62% loss. Alterations in striatal DA were similar to, and significantly correlated with (r(2)=0.833) the DA cell losses. Prenatal LPS produced a 31% increase in striatal TNFalpha, and combined exposure with 6OHDA led to an 82% increase. We conclude that prenatal exposure to LPS produces a long-lived THir cell loss that is accompanied by an inflammatory state that leads to further DA neuron loss following subsequent neurotoxin exposure. The results suggest that individuals exposed to LPS prenatally, as might occur had their mother had bacterial vaginosis, would be at increased risk for Parkinson's disease.
During development, interneurons migrate to precise positions in the cortex by tangential and radial migration. The objectives of this study were to characterize the net radial migrations of interneurons during the first postnatal week, and to investigate the role of reelin signaling in regulating those migrations. To observe radial migrations, we compared the laminar positions of interneurons (immunoreactive for GABA or Dlx) in mouse neocortex on postnatal days (P) 0.5 and P7.5. In addition, we used bromodeoxyuridine birthdating to reveal the migrations of different interneuron cohorts. To study the effects of reelin deficiency, experiments were performed in reeler mutant mice. In normal P0.5 cortex, interneurons were most abundant in the marginal zone and layer 5. By P7.5, interneurons were least abundant in the marginal zone, and were distributed more evenly in the cortical plate. This change was attributed mainly to inward migration of middle- to late-born interneurons (produced on embryonic days (E) 13.5 to E16.5) from the marginal zone to layers 2-5. During the same interval, late-born projection neurons (non-immunoreactive for GABA or Dlx) migrated mainly outward, from the intermediate zone to upper cortical layers. In reeler cortex, middle- and late-born interneurons migrated from the superplate on P0.5, to the deep cortical plate on P7.5. Late-born projection neurons in reeler migrated in the opposite direction, from the intermediate zone to the deep cortical plate. We conclude that many middle- and late-born interneurons migrate radially inward, from the marginal zone (or superplate) to the cortical plate, during the first postnatal week in normal and reeler mice. We propose that within the cortical plate, interneuron laminar positions may be determined in part by interactions with projection neurons born on the same day in neurogenesis.
1-Bromopropane is a newly introduced substitute for specific chlorofluorocarbons whose production was prohibited because of depletion of ozone layers. In this study, we analyzed disinhibitory effects induced by repetitive inhalation of 1-bromopropane for 12 weeks in the hippocampal CA1 and the dentate gyrus. In addition, reversal of the disinhibitory effects was examined 4 weeks after 1-bromopropane inhalation ceased. Exposure rats were placed in a stainless steel inhalation chamber at a concentration of 700 ppm, while the control group was provided only room air in the same type of chamber. Paired-pulse inhibition of population spike was considerably decreased (P&lt;0.05) at 5 ms interpulse intervals in the CA1, and at 10 and 20 ms (P&lt;0.05) interpulse intervals in the dentate gyrus in slices obtained from exposed rats following 4-, 8- and 12-week inhalation periods. The paired-pulse inhibition was decreased at 5 ms interpulse intervals in the dentate gyrus after 12 weeks of inhalation. These changes were not associated with the paired-pulse ratio of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, suggesting a reduction of recurrent inhibition. The disinhibition was counteracted with the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentameric acid in the dentate gyrus, whereas it was unchanged in the CA1. Tiagabine, a selective inhibitor of GABA transporter GAT1, increased the paired-pulse inhibition in the dentate gyrus, and the increase was less in the exposed rats compared with control rats (P&lt;0.0003). The changes in both areas recovered to control levels 4 weeks after cessation of inhalation. Our electrophysiological studies suggest differential and reversible disinhibitory effects in the dentate gyrus and the CA1. 1-Bromopropane-induced disinhibition was further analyzed by immunohistochemical methods. There were no apparent morphological defects in either excitatory or inhibitory neuronal components, supporting the reversibility of physiological changes. In conclusion, chronic inhalation of 1-bromopropane induces a disinhibition in the CA1 and dentate gyrus that is reversible following cessation of exposure.
There is increasing evidence that physical activity is associated with a decreased stroke risk. The purpose of this study was to determine if exercise could also reduce brain damage in rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, and if the reduced brain injury is associated with angiogenesis as well as cellular expression of the nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in regions supplied by the MCA. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats (n=36) exercised 30 min each day for 3 weeks on a treadmill on which repetitive locomotor movement was required. Then, stroke was induced by a 2-h MCA occlusion using an intraluminal filament, followed by 48 h of reperfusion. In addition to the two exercised groups of animals with or without MCA occlusion, there were two other groups of animals, with or without MCA occlusion, housed for the same duration and used as non-exercised controls. Brain damage in ischemic rats was evaluated by neurologic deficits and infarct volume. Exercise preconditioned and non-exercised brains were processed for immunocytochemistry to quantify the number of microvessels or NGF- and BDNF-labeled cells. Pre-ischemic motor activity significantly (P&lt;0.01) reduced neurologic deficits and infarct volume in the frontoparietal cortex and dorsolateral striatum. Cellular expressions of NGF and BDNF were significantly (P&lt;0.01) increased in cortex (neuron) and striatum (glia) of rats under the exercise condition. Significant (P&lt;0.01) increases in microvessel density were found in striatum. Physical activity reduced stroke damage. The reduced brain damage may be attributable to angiogenesis and neurotrophin overexpression in brain regions supplied by the MCA following exercise.
The median raphe nucleus is involved in controlling and maintaining hippocampal activity through its projection to inhibitory neurons in medial septum and hippocampus. It has been shown that anterogradely axonal-traced fibers originating in the median raphe nucleus project onto calbindin-containing neurons in hippocampus and parvalbumin-containing neurons in medial septum. Parallel immunohistochemistry studies showing serotonin fibers contacting calbindin- and parvalbumin-positive neurons have led to the assumption that raphe fibers projecting on these types of neurons are mainly serotonergic. However, in both dorsal and median raphe nucleus there is a large amount of non-serotonergic neurons which also are projecting neurons, indicating that a part of the raphe fibers projecting to hippocampus and septum may be non-serotonergic. Our aim was to determine whether there is a non-serotonergic projection from the raphe nucleus onto calbindin- and parvalbumin-containing neurons in hippocampus and septum. Biotin dextran amine was used as the anterograde neuronal tracer and injected into either dorsal or median raphe nucleus. By use of triple immunofluorescence-labeling we analyzed the serotonergic content of the biotin dextran amine-labeled fibers contacting parvalbumin- and calbindin-positive neurons. Surprisingly, we found a significant non-serotonergic projection from both dorsal and median raphe nuclei onto calbindin- and parvalbumin-containing interneurons in septum and hippocampus, with a preference in hippocampus for projecting onto calbindin-positive neurons. These results indicate that the raphe nuclei may exert their control on hippocampal and septal activity not only through a serotonergic projection, but also through a significant non-serotonergic pathway.
Low and high molecular weight isoforms of the mitogen and multifunctional cytokine basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) are up-regulated in neurons and glial cells in response to peripheral nerve lesion. While synthesis, regulation and functions of FGF-2 in non-neuronal cells are well established, the significance of neuronal FGF-2 remains to be investigated in the peripheral nervous system. Therefore, the expression, intracellular localization and possible effects of FGF-2 isoforms were analyzed in primary sympathetic neurons derived from the rat superior cervical ganglion. FGF-2 is detected in the nucleus and in perinuclear Golgi fields of early postnatal neurons which also express mRNA and protein for the FGF receptor type 1. Biolistic transfection of plasmids encoding FGF-2 isoforms fused to fluorescent proteins demonstrates nuclear targeting of 18 kDa FGF-2 and 23 kDa FGF-2 with prominent accumulation in the nucleolus of neurons. Neither overexpression nor treatment with FGF-2 isoforms promotes survival of sympathetic neurons deprived of nerve growth factor; however, neuronal transfection of the high molecular weight FGF-2 isoform in dissociated and slice cultures results in a bi- or multinuclear phenotype. The present study provides evidence for neuronal synthesis and targeting of FGF-2 to the nucleus and Golgi apparatus supporting a dual role of FGF-2 in the nucleus and secretory pathway of sympathetic neurons.
Using hippocampal primary cell cultures at 14 days in vitro (div), we have investigated actions of 17-beta estradiol (E; 10 nM) on the phosphorylation of CREB and on signaling pathways that regulate CREB phosphorylation. After demonstrating that 14 div is optimal for these studies, we examined the time course of E induction of CREB phosphorylation (pCREB) at serine residue 133. The induction of pCREB occurs as early as 1 h following E treatment, presumably via a mechanism involving an E-stimulated signal transduction system, which is sustained for at least 24 h but inhibited by 48 h. The early activity may represent an initial signal required for events leading to phosphorylation of CREB while the sustained signal may lead to CREB-mediated gene expression for cell survival and synapse formation. Furthermore, we examined the pathways for E action preceding pCREB induction by blocking three major kinases (protein kinase; mitogen activated protein kinase, MAPK; and calcium-calmodulin kinase II, CaMKII) upstream of pCREB. We found that E stimulates each pathway at 24 h and that phosphorylation of CREB is dependent on both MAPK and CaMK activities, but less dependent on the Akt pathway. Because CREB has been linked to E induction of excitatory spine synapses, we used a spine marker, spinophilin, to establish E effects on spine formation. Spinophilin expression was up-regulated in response to E and this effect was blocked by an inhibitor of (CaMKII). These studies demonstrate the central role played by CaMKII pathway in the actions of E on both transcriptional regulation and structural reorganization in neurons.
The general involvement of the superior colliculus (SC) in orientation behavior and the striking parallels between the multisensory responses of SC neurons and overt orientation behaviors have led to assumptions that these neural and behavioral changes are directly linked. However, deactivation of two areas of cortex which also contain multisensory neurons, the anterior ectosylvian sulcus and rostral lateral suprasylvian sulcus have been shown to eliminate multisensory orientation behaviors, suggesting that this behavior may not involve the SC. To determine whether the SC contributes to this behavior, cats were tested in a multisensory (i.e. visual-auditory) orientation task before and after excitotoxic lesions of the SC. For unilateral SC lesions, modality-specific (i.e. visual or auditory) orientation behaviors had returned to pre-lesion levels after several weeks of recovery. In contrast, the enhancements and depressions in behavior normally seen with multisensory stimuli were severely compromised in the contralesional hemifield. No recovery of these behaviors was observed within the 6 month testing period. Immunohistochemical labeling of the SC revealed a preferential loss of parvalbumin-immunoreactive pyramidal neurons in the intermediate layers, a presumptive multisensory population that targets premotor areas of the brainstem and spinal cord. These results highlight the importance of the SC for multisensory behaviors, and suggest that the multisensory orientation deficits produced by cortical lesions are a result of the loss of cortical influences on multisensory SC neurons.
Humans suffering from subdural haematomas often show long-term cognitive dysfunctions. For identifying putative, recovery-enhancing therapeutics, animal models need to be developed in which recovery of function can be measured. For investigating whether and which type of recovery, i.e. spontaneous or training-induced recovery, or continuous partial retardation, is present in the rat model for bilateral subdural haematomas, spatial navigation abilities were assessed in the Morris water escape task in independent groups of rats at 1, 2, 4, 8, or 18 weeks after surgery. Complete spontaneous recovery seemed to occur at 8 weeks after injury. However, at 18 weeks after injury, the subdural haematoma caused a renewed deterioration of water maze performance, which was of a lesser degree than the impairments observed immediately after injury. This second phase performance deterioration was accompanied by an increase in generalised astrocyte reactivity. The rat subdural haematoma model provides an interesting tool for investigating spontaneous recovery processes of spatial navigation (8 weeks after injury), but also for progressive brain dysfunctions, considering the second phase of behavioural impairments seen at 18 weeks after injury.
It has been proposed that phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), one of the phosphatidylinositol kinases, can be regulated by G-protein-coupled receptor as well as nerve growth factor-associated receptors. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether in vivo treatment with morphine, a mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist, could directly regulate PI3Kgamma isoform in the mouse periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). Using the polyclonal antibody recognizing a p110gamma catalytic subunit of PI3Kgamma, PI3Kgamma-like immunoreactivity (IR) was mostly seen in the membrane of the cell labeled by anti-neuron-specific nuclear protein. A single s.c. injection of morphine caused a marked increase in the number of PI3Kgamma-IR expressing cells in the PAG. Double immunolabeling assay showed that MOR-IR was mostly overlapped with PI3Kgamma-IR on the cell surface in the PAG section. Additionally, phosphorylated-phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1-IR) was highly detected in the membrane compartment of the increased PI3Kgamma-IR-positive cells of this region. Further pharmacological evidence for the critical role of PI3Kgamma in MOR-mediated antinociceptive response was provided by the warm-plate test. The dose-response lines for antinociceptive effects of morphine were significantly shifted to the right following i.c.v. treatment with PI3K inhibitors. These findings suggested that acute treatment with morphine may directly activate the PI3Kgamma/PLCgamma1 pathway in the PAG. This effect may, at least in part, result in the expression of morphine-induced pharmacological actions including antinociception in mice.
This experiment tested the idea that the amygdala-based learning and memory system covertly acquires a stimulus-reward (stimulus-outcome) association during acquisition of a stimulus-response (S-R) habit task developed for the eight-arm radial maze. Groups of rats were given dorso-lateral striatal or amygdala lesions and then trained on the S-R habit task on the eight-arm radial maze. Rats with neurotoxic damage to the dorso-lateral striatum were severely impaired on the acquisition of the S-R habit task but showed a conditioned-cue preference for the stimulus reinforced during S-R habit training. Rats with neurotoxic damage to the amygdala were able to acquire the S-R habit task but did not show a conditioned-cue preference for the stimulus reinforced during S-R habit training. This pattern of results represents a dissociation of learning and memory functions of the dorsal striatum and amygdala on the same task.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) plays a critical role in cleaving amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce amyloid-beta (Abeta), the primary proteinaceous component of the senile plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. In addition to mediating the cleavage of APP and a number of other proteins, a growing body of evidence suggests that PS1 also regulates intracellular endoplasmic reticulum calcium levels. Such findings suggest that PS1 activity may modulate neuronal excitability, as well. To address this issue we examined cytosolic intracellular calcium responses in PS1-deficient neurons stimulated by the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter, glutamate. We found that glutamate-induced intracellular calcium levels were markedly reduced in neurons lacking PS1 (-/-) compared with heterozygous (+/-) and wild-type (+/+) neurons. To prove that PS1 was sufficient to mediate normal glutamate-induced calcium responses, we used a Semliki-forest virus (SFV) vector to express wild-type PS1 in PS1 knock-out neurons. We found that heterologous PS1 expression restored glutamate-evoked calcium responses in PS1-deficient neurons to levels matching non-infected wild-type cells. PS1-deficient neurons infected with SFV directing expression of beta-galactosidase failed to rescue the wild-type phenotype. These results support the idea that normal PS1 activity regulates neuronal responses to neurotransmitter stimulation.
Regional differences in the effect of sleep deprivation on the sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) may be related to interhemispheric synchronization. To investigate the role of the corpus callosum in interhemispheric EEG synchronization, coherence spectra were computed in mice with congenital callosal dysgenesis (B1) under baseline conditions and after 6-h sleep deprivation, and compared with the spectra of a control strain (C57BL/6). In B1 mice coherence was lower than in controls in all vigilance states. The level of coherence in each of the three totally acallosal mice was lower than in the mice with only partial callosal dysgenesis. The difference between B1 and control mice was present over the entire 0.5-25 Hz frequency range in non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM sleep), and in all frequencies except for the high delta and low theta band (3-7 Hz) in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and waking. In control mice, sleep deprivation induced a rise of coherence in the Delta band of NREM sleep in the first 2 h of recovery. This effect was absent in B1 mice with total callosal dysgenesis and attenuated in mice with partial callosal dysgenesis. In both strains the effect of sleep deprivation dissipated within 4 h. The results show that EEG synchronization between the hemispheres in sleep and waking is mediated to a large part by the corpus callosum. This applies also to the functional changes induced by sleep deprivation in NREM sleep. In contrast, interhemispheric synchronisation of theta oscillations in waking and REM sleep may be mediated by direct interhippocampal connections.
We have previously reported that electrical stimulation delivered to the ventral part of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) produced postural atonia in acutely decerebrated cats [Neuroscience 119 (2003) 293]. The present study was designed to elucidate synaptic mechanisms acting on motoneurons during postural atonia induced by PPN stimulation. Intracellular recording was performed from 72 hindlimb motoneurons innervating extensor and flexor muscles, and the changes in excitability of the motoneurons following the PPN stimulation were examined. Repetitive electrical stimulation (20-50 microA, 50 Hz, 5-10 s) of the PPN hyperpolarized the membrane potentials of both the extensor and flexor motoneurons by 2.0-12 mV (6.0 +/- 2.3 mV, n = 72). The membrane hyperpolarization persisted for 10-20 s even after termination of the stimulation. During the PPN stimulation, the membrane hyperpolarization was associated with decreases in the firing capability (n = 28) and input resistance (28.5 +/- 6.7%, n = 14) of the motoneurons. Moreover the amplitude of Ia excitatory postsynaptic potentials was also reduced (44.1 +/- 13.4%, n = 14). After the PPN stimulation, these parameters immediately returned despite that the membrane hyperpolarization persisted. Iontophoretic injections of chloride ions into the motoneurons reversed the polarity of the membrane hyperpolarization during the PPN stimulation. The polarity of the outlasting hyperpolarization however was not reversed. These findings suggest that a postsynaptic inhibitory mechanism, which was mediated by chloride ions, was acting on hindlimb motoneurons during PPN-induced postural atonia. However the outlasting motoneuron hyperpolarization was not due to the postsynaptic inhibition but it could be due to a decrease in the activity of descending excitatory systems. The functional role of the PPN in the regulation of postural muscle tone is discussed with respect to the control of behavioral states of animals.
Although gender differences in the response to stress have been reported, differences in stress-induced changes in feeding behavior have not been well studied. In this report, inhibition of food intake was compared in male and female rats following 1 h of restraint, electric footshock, or emotional stress induced by a communication box. Although the three stressors inhibited food intake in both genders, only emotional stress caused a gender difference, a greater inhibition of food intake in female rats (48%) than in male rats (22%). The inhibition of food intake by emotional stress in female rats was more prominent during proestrus than the other phases of estrous cycle. In female rats in proestrus emotional stress showed a greater inhibition of food intake than footshock and restraint. Ovariectomy reduced the inhibition of food intake by emotional stress to the same level as that in male, and replacement with estradiol restored the inhibition to the level of the normal female rats. A corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) type 1 receptor antagonist prevented emotional stress-induced inhibition of food intake, indicating the involvement of CRF type 1 receptor in emotional stress-induced inhibition of food intake. These results suggest that female rats show a greater inhibition of food intake in response to emotional stress than male rats and that estrogen plays a role in the gender difference.
The visible burrow system (VBS) is a chronic social stress paradigm in which a dominance hierarchy forms among male rats housed with females. Males in the VBS undergo behavioral and physiological changes thought to be manifestations of chronic social stress. Since it is unclear whether chronic social stress affects motivation and reward behavior, brain areas related to these regions were examined. Long-term effects of a single or repeated VBS exposure on mesolimbic subregions were investigated by exposing rats to the VBS either once (one cycle of VBS housing and recovery) or repeatedly (three cycles). Behavior in the VBS was observed and rats were classified as dominants or subordinates. Subordinates were further sub-classified on the basis of stress hormone (corticosterone) response to an acute stressor (i.e. restraint stress). Normal responders were categorized as stress-responsive subordinates (SRS) and animals with a blunted hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response were designated as non-responsive subordinates (NRS). Controls males were pair-housed with a single female during VBS periods and alone during recovery. Lowered enkephalin-mRNA levels were observed in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) after single VBS exposure in SRS and repeated VBS exposure both subordinate groups (i.e. SRS + NRS) compared with controls. Decreased dopamine transporter density was detected after single VBS exposure in the dorsolateral caudate putamen (DLCPu) of NRS and after repeated VBS exposure in the Acb of NRS compared with controls. Dopamine D2 receptor density was elevated after single VBS exposure in the Acb of both subordinate groups (SRS + NRS) and after repeated VBS exposure in the DLCPu, dorsomedial CPu, and Acb of NRS compared with controls. No changes in dopamine D1 receptor binding were observed in any group. These results suggest that long-term changes in dopamine activity in mesolimbic structures persist after repeated exposures to chronic social stress and may provide insight into the neurochemical basis of depressive illness and subsequent comorbidity with drug abuse vulnerability.
In lactating rats, the neuroendocrine responses of the oxytocinergic system and the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis to various kinds of stressors are attenuated. In this study, using intracerebral microdialysis in combination with a highly sensitive radioimmunoassay, we characterised oxytocin (OXT) release within the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the central amygdala (CeA), and the medio-lateral septum (mS) before, during and after a psycho-social stressor (the maternal defence test) in both the virgin intruder and the lactating resident rat (day 3 of lactation). Within the PVN, local OXT release was found to increase significantly in virgin intruders during exposure to the resident (2.1-fold, P &lt; 0.05), as well as in lactating residents when exposed to the virgin intruder, though to a lesser extent when compared with basal levels (1.7-fold, P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, OXT release remained unchanged within the CeA and the mS of both virgin intruders and lactating residents. Release of OXT under basal conditions was clearly above the detection limit of the radioimmunoassay, and did not differ between lactating and virgin rats in any of the brain regions studied. Our study also demonstrates that recent surgery or ongoing intracerebral microdialysis does not affect the behavioural performance of the intruders or residents when comparing dialysed and non-dialysed rats. The results indicate that exposure to the maternal defence test is a relevant stressor for the brain OXT system which becomes activated in both intruder and resident rats, although to varying degrees depending upon their reproductive status and in a region-dependent manner. The behavioural and/or neuroendocrine functions of intra-PVN released OXT during this psycho-social challenge remain to be clarified.
Corticosterone (CORT), the predominant glucocorticoid in rodents, is known to damage hippocampal area CA3. Here we investigate how that damage is represented at the cellular and ultrastructural level of analyses. Rats were injected with CORT (26.8 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle for 56 days. Cell counts were estimated with the physical disector method. Glial and mitochondrial volume fractions were obtained from electron micrographs. The effectiveness of the CORT dose used was demonstrated in two ways. First, CORT significantly inhibited body weight gain relative to vehicles. Second, CORT significantly reduced adrenal gland, heart and gastrocnemius muscle weight. Both the adrenal and gastrocnemius muscle weight to body weight ratios were also significantly reduced. Although absolute brain weight was reduced, the brain to body weight ratio was higher in the CORT group relative to vehicles, suggesting that the brain is more resistant to the effects of CORT than many peripheral organs and muscles. Consistent with that interpretation, CORT did not alter CA3 cell density, cell layer volume, or apical dendritic neuropil volume. Likewise, CORT did not significantly alter glial volume fraction, but did reduce mitochondrial volume fraction. These findings highlight the need for ultrastructural analyses in addition to cellular level analyses before conclusions can be drawn about the damaging effects of prolonged CORT elevations. The relative reduction in mitochondria may indicate a reduction in bioenergetic capacity that, in turn, could render CA3 vulnerable to metabolic challenges.
A high density of nitric oxide synthesising enzyme is present in sympathetic preganglionic neurones in the spinal cord. It has been shown that nitric oxide is released as a consequence of synaptic activity. In the present study in anaesthetised rats we determined if nitric oxide acted as a retrograde messenger molecule to modulate the excitatory effects on the renal sympathetic spinal network elicited by paraventricular nucleus stimulation. Neurones in the latter nucleus were stimulated by microinjecting DLH and drugs were applied to the spinal cord via an intrathecal catheter with the tip positioned at T9-T10. Intrathecal application of the nitric oxide donors, sodium nitroprusside or [3-(2-hydroxy-1-methyl-2-nitrosohydrazino)-N-methyl-1-propanamine] significantly increased tonic activity in the renal sympathetic nerve. In contrast synaptic activity evoked by intrathecal glutamate or by paraventricular nucleus stimulation was enhanced by preventing nitric oxide generation with intrathecal N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine monoacetate (L-NMMA) a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Enhancement of synaptically induced renal nerve activity was also observed following intrathecal glycine receptor inhibitor strychnine. Strychnine was without effect when it was given after L-NMMA. It was concluded that paraventricular nucleus excitation of renal sympathetic neurones is subject to inhibitory modulation by released nitric oxide and it is suggested the latter acts via glycine interneurones.
The distribution in the rat brain of high affinity nicotinic heteromeric acetylcholine receptors and of low affinity nicotinic, alpha7-containing, homomeric receptors was studied using in vitro light microscopic autoradiography. As ligands, we used [3H]epibatidine, or [125I]epibatidine, and [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin, respectively. In adult animals, the two types of binding sites were widely distributed in many different brain structures, including the brainstem, cerebellum, mesencephalic structures, limbic system and cortex, but their anatomical distribution differed markedly. Only in rare instances could a co-localization be observed, for example in the superficial layer of the superior colliculus. In developing animals, both types of labeling were strongly expressed during embryonic and postnatal phases. Their distributions were qualitatively similar to those observed in adult animals, with a few noticeable exceptions in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and brain stem. In aging animals, neither the distribution nor the density of nicotinic binding sites was significantly altered. Our conclusions are the following. (a) There is little overlap in the distribution of heteromeric and alpha7-containing homomeric nicotinic receptors in the rat brain. (b) The abundance of neuronal nicotinic receptors during embryonic and postnatal development suggests that they may play a role in the establishment of neuronal connectivity. (c) The expression of neuronal nicotinic receptors is unaltered in middle aged animals, suggesting that in the rat these receptors do not play any major role in aging process.
A combination of microdialysis in freely moving rats and capillary zone electrophoresis coupled to laser induced fluorescence detection was used to measure extracellular concentrations of amino acid neurotransmitters in different hypothalamic areas during noxious stimulation. Arginine, glutamate and aspartate were monitored every 30 s before and after a s.c. injection of formalin (5%, 50 microl) or saline (0.9%) in the right hind paw. In the medial and lateral preoptic area, calcium and nerve impulse dependent increases of arginine, glutamate and aspartate were observed during the first 2 min after formalin injection. However, amino acid changes were not detected in the lateral hypothalamus or in the ventromedial nucleus when compared with pre-injection levels or with the levels from animals injected with saline in the hind paw. Flinching behavior was also scored during the first 10 min following the formalin or saline injection. Flinching frequency was maximum at minute 2 after formalin injection, whereas saline injection did not elicited any flinching behavior. These results show that nociceptive stimulation induces rapid and differential amino acids changes in discrete areas of the hypothalamus that can be associated with pain-related behavior.
The sulphur-containing amino acid homocysteic acid (HCA) is present in and released in vitro from nervous tissue and is a potent neuronal excitant, predominantly activating N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. However, HCA is localised not in neurones but in glial cells [Eur J Neurosci 3 (1991) 1370], and we have shown that it is released from astrocytes in culture upon glutamate receptor activation [Neuroscience 124 (2004) 377]. We now report the in vivo release of HCA from ventrobasal (VB) thalamus following natural stimulation of somatosensory afferents arising from the facial vibrissae of the rat. Simultaneously with multi-unit recording, [35S]-methionine, a HCA precursor, was perfused through a push-pull cannula in VB thalamus of anaesthetized rats. Perfusates were collected before, during and after 4 min stimulation of the vibrissal afferents with an air jet. A marked release of radiolabeled HCA was observed during and after the stimulation. Furthermore, the beta-adrenoreceptor agonist isoproterenol, which is known to evoke HCA release from glia in vitro, was found to increase the efflux of HCA in the perfusate in vivo. In separate experiments, the excitatory actions of iontophoretically applied HCA on VB neurones were inhibited by the NMDA receptor antagonist CPP, but not by the non-NMDA antagonist CNQX. These results suggest a possible &quot;gliotransmitter&quot; role for HCA in VB thalamus. The release of HCA from glia might exert a direct response or modulate responses to other neurotransmitters in postsynaptic neurons, thus enhancing excitatory processes.
Glial cells synthesise neuroactive substances and release them upon neurotransmitter receptor activation. Homocysteic acid (HCA), an endogenous agonist for glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, is predominantly localised in glial cells. We have previously demonstrated the release of HCA from mouse astrocytes in culture following activation of beta-adrenergic receptors. Moreover, a release of HCA has also been observed in vivo upon physiological stimulation of sensory afferents in the thalamus. Here we report the glutamate-induced release of HCA from astrocytes. The effect of glutamate was mediated by the activation of ionotropic (NMDA and non-NMDA) as well as by metabotropic receptors. In addition, the release of HCA was Ca(2+)- and Na(+)-dependent, and its mechanism involved the activation of the Na+/Ca(2+)-exchanger. Furthermore, we provide evidence for the presence of functional NMDA receptors on astrocytes, which are coupled to an intracellular Ca2+ increase via stimulation of the Na+/Ca(2+)-exchanger. Our data thus favour a participation of glial cells in excitatory neurotransmission and corroborate the role of HCA as a &quot;gliotransmitter.&quot;
The aim of the present in vivo microdialysis study was to investigate whether prenatal exposure to the CB(1) receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 mesylate (WIN; (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinyl-methyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone), at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg (s.c. from the fifth to the 20th day of gestation), that causes neither malformations nor overt signs of toxicity, influences cortical glutamate extracellular levels in adult (90-day old) rats. Dam weight gain, pregnancy length and litter size at birth were not significantly affected by prenatal treatment with WIN. Basal and K(+)-evoked dialysate glutamate levels were lower in the cerebral cortex of adult rats exposed to WIN during gestation than in those born from vehicle-treated mothers. In both group of animals WIN (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) increased dialysate glutamate levels. However, while the blockade of the CB1 receptors with the selective receptor antagonist SR141716A completely counteracted the WIN-induced increase in those rats exposed to vehicle during gestation, it failed to antagonise the increase in those born from WIN-treated dams. These findings suggest that prenatal exposure to the CB1 receptor agonist WIN, at a concentration which is not associated with gross malformations and/or overt signs of toxicity, induces permanent alterations in cortical glutamatergic function. The possibility that these effects might underlie, at least in part, some of the cognitive deficits affecting the offspring of marijuana users is discussed.

Central administration of angiotensin IV (Ang IV) or its analogues enhance performance of rats in passive avoidance and spatial memory paradigms. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of a single bolus injection of two distinct AT4 ligands, Nle1-Ang IV or LVV-haemorphin-7, on spatial learning in the Barnes circular maze. Mean number of days for rats treated with either Nle1-Ang IV or LVV-haemorphin-7 to achieve learner criterion is significantly reduced compared with controls (P &lt; 0.001 and P &lt; 0.05 respectively). This is due to enhanced ability of the peptide-treated rats to adopt a spatial strategy for finding the escape hatch. In all three measures of learning performance, (1) the number of errors made, (2) the distance travelled and (3) the latency in finding the escape hatch, rats treated with either 100 pmol or 1 nmol of Nle1-Ang IV or 100 pmol LVV-haemorphin-7 performed significantly better than the control groups. As early as the first day of testing, the rats treated with the lower dose of Nle1-Ang IV or LVV-haemorphin-7 made fewer errors (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.05 respectively) and travelled shorter distances (P &lt; 0.05 for both groups) than the control animals. The enhanced spatial learning induced by Nle1-Ang IV (100 pmol) was attenuated by the co-administration of the AT4 receptor antagonist, divalinal-Ang IV (10 nmol). Thus, administration of AT4 ligands results in an immediate potentiation of learning, which may be associated with facilitation of synaptic transmission and/or enhancement of acetylcholine release.
Previously, we demonstrated that outward currents activated by calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) opposed depolarization-induced action potential (AP) generation in dissociated mudpuppy parasympathetic neurons [J Neurophysiol 88 (2002) 1119]. In the present study, we tested whether AP generation by depolarizing current ramps could be altered by dissipating the mitochondrial membrane potential and thus interrupting mitochondrial Ca2+ buffering. Exposure to the protonophore carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP; 2 microM) alone or in combination with the mitochondrial ATP synthase inhibitor oligomycin (8 microg/ml), increased the latency to AP generation. Exposure to the electron transport chain inhibitor rotenone (10 microM) alone or in combination with oligomycin (8 microg/ml) similarly increased the latency to AP generation. CCCP and oligomycin or rotenone and oligomycin treatment caused rhodamine 123 loss from mitochondria within a few minutes, confirming that the mitochondrial membrane potential was dissipated during drug exposure. Oligomycin alone had no effect on the latency to AP generation and did not cause loss of rhodamine 123 from mitochondria. The increase in latency induced by CCCP and oligomycin was similar when recordings were made with either the perforated patch or standard whole cell patch recording configuration. Exposure to the endoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin (1 microM), decreased the latency to AP generation. In cells pretreated with thapsigargin to eliminate CICR, CCCP and oligomycin had no effect on AP latency. Pretreatment with iberiotoxin (IBX; 100 nM), an inhibitor of large conductance, calcium- and voltage-activated potassium channels, reduced the extent of the CCCP- and oligomycin-induced increase in latency to AP generation. These results indicate that treatment with CCCP or rotenone to dissipate the mitochondrial membrane potential, a condition which should minimize sequestration of Ca2+ by mitochondria, facilitated the Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release activation of IBX-sensitive and IBX-insensitive conductances that regulate AP generation.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is elevated in several neuropathological states that are associated with learning and memory deficits. Previous work has reported that TNF-alpha inhibits the induction of LTP in areas CA1 [Neurosci Lett 146 (1992) 176] and dentate gyrus [Neurosci Lett 203 (1996) 17]. The mechanism(s) underlying this process of inhibition have not to date been addressed. Here, we show that perfusion of TNF-alpha prior to long-term potentiation (LTP) inducing stimuli inhibited LTP, and that in late-LTP (3 h post-tetanus) a depression in synaptic field recordings was observed (68 +/- 5%, n = 6 versus control 175 +/- 7%, n = 6, P &lt; 0.001). We investigated the involvement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38 in the inhibition of LTP by TNF-alpha as p38 MAPK has previously been shown to be involved in interleukin-1beta inhibition of LTP in the dentate gyrus [Neuroscience 93 (1999b) 57]. Perfusion of TNF-alpha led to an increase in the levels of phosphorylated p38 MAPK detectable in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. The p38 MAPK inhibitor SB 203580 (1 microM) was found by itself to have no significant effect on either early or late phase LTP in the dentate gyrus. SB 203580 was found to significantly reverse the inhibition of early LTP by TNF-alpha (SB/TNF-alpha 174 +/- 5%, n = 6 versus TNF-alpha 120 +/- 7%, n = 6, P &lt; 0.001, 1 h post-tetanus) to values comparable to control LTP (control 175 +/- 7%, n = 6). Interestingly however, the depressive effects of TNF-alpha on late LTP (2-3 h) were clearly not attenuated by p38 MAPK inhibition (SB/TNF-alpha 132 +/- 5%, n = 6 versus control LTP 175 +/- 7%, n = 6, P &lt; 0.001, 3 h post-tetanus). This work suggests that TNF-alpha inhibition of LTP represents a biphasic response, a p38 MAPK-dependent phase that coincides with the early phase of LTP and a p38 MAPK independent phase that temporally maps to late LTP.
Granule cell activity in cerebellar cortex directly excites Purkinje cells via parallel fibers, but it also inhibits Purkinje cells via cerebellar cortical interneurons. This contribution of inhibitory interneurons to cerebellar cortical processing remains poorly understood. In the present study we examined the response properties of stellate cells in vitro to input patterns that may result from granule cell activity in vivo. We constructed input waveforms that represented the sum of inputs from all individual synapses and applied these waveforms to the soma of stellate cells during whole cell recordings in acute brain slices. The stimulus waveforms contained fluctuations in a broad range of frequencies and were applied at different amplitudes. To determine the contribution of synaptic shunting to stellate cell spike responses we applied the same input waveforms either as a simulated synaptic conductance using dynamic clamping or as a direct current injection stimulus. Only the dynamic clamp stimulus has the shunting properties of real synapses, i.e. leads to different-sized synaptic current as a function of membrane potential. We found that stellate cells spike with millisecond precision in response to fast temporal fluctuations in the total synaptic input. Transient increases in excitatory input frequency led to pronounced stellate cell spike responses, indicating that this pathway may be very responsive to even small assemblies of co-activated granule cells. This was observed regardless of whether the input waveform was applied as a conductance with dynamic clamping, or as a direct current injection. Thus the shunting properties of a conductance input did not play a major role in determining the control of precisely timed spiking. In contrast, a more tonic increase in excitatory conductance did not lead to a sustained spike response as obtained with prolonged positive current injection. However, even with tonic current injection the precision of spiking was lost, as previously observed. Overall, the synaptic response function of stellate cells suggests that this cell type may pick out transients in granule cell activity, and may generate precisely timed inhibition of Purkinje cells during behavior.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) in post-ischemic cerebral infarction has been extensively examined, but few studies have investigated its role on the neurological deficit. In the present study, we investigated the effect of spermine on the temporal evolution of infarct volume, NO production and neurological deficit using magnetic resonance imaging in a model of permanent focal cerebral ischemia in rats. Spermine given at 10 mg/kg 2 h after ischemia reduced the infarct volume by 40% and abolished brain NO production and improved the neurological score 24 h, 48 h and 72 h after ischemia. Spermine also reduced the neurological deficit as evaluated by rotamex, grip strength and neurological severity score tests.
Neonatal hyperthyroidism induces persisting alterations in the adult brain, e.g. in spatial learning and hippocampal morphology. In the present study, the relationship between anxiety-related behavior and amygdala morphology was investigated in the adult rat after transient neonatal hyperthyroidism (daily s.c. injections of 7.5 microg L-thyroxine in 0.5 ml 0.9% NaCl solution from postnatal day p1 to p12). The behavioral tests used to study anxiety-related behavior were the motility test, elevated plus-maze and fear-sensitized acoustic startle response. In the amygdala, the number of neurons containing the anxiogenic peptide corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-ir and CRF mRNA) and anxiolytic neuropeptide Y (NPY-ir), the total number of neurons and the density of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers were quantified. Thyroxine-treated pups presented an accelerated development including opening of eyes and snout elongation as typical signs of hyperthyroidism. Thyroxine-treated adult animals displayed a reduced anxiety in the motility box and elevated plus maze, a reduction in the number of CRF-ir neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala, as well as an increase in the number of NPY-ir neurons and density of TH-ir fibers in nuclei of the basolateral complex of the amygdala. Moreover, there was a reduction in the total number of neurons in all nuclei of the basolateral complex (despite the higher number of NPY-ir neurons), but not central nucleus of the amygdala. The number of CRF-ir neurons in the central nucleus correlated positively with anxiety-related behavior, and the number of NPY-ir neurons and the density of TH-ir fibers in the basolateral complex correlated inversely with anxiety-related behavior. The findings suggested a shift toward an anxiolytic rather than anxiogenic distribution of peptidergic neurons and fibers in the amygdala at adult age following transient neonatal hyperthyroidism.
The functional consequences of neuronal loss during epileptogenesis in the lateral and basal amygdaloid nuclei are poorly understood. The present study tested the hypothesis that electrical responsiveness varies in different amygdaloid nuclei in the chronically epileptic amygdala. Further, we examined the amygdaloid region most prone to seizure initiation. Epileptogenesis was triggered in 20 rats by inducing status epilepticus (SE) with electrical stimulation of the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. Electrode-implanted non-stimulated rats served as controls. The occurrence and duration of spontaneous seizures were monitored with video-electroencephalography (EEG) at 8-9 weeks after SE. Thereafter, animals were killed and extracellular recordings were made from slices of both amygdalas. In the lateral nucleus of epileptic animals, the frequency of spontaneous responses was reduced compared with controls (P &lt; 0.05). The amplitudes of evoked field responses were reduced (P &lt; 0.01), whereas paired pulse (PP) facilitation was enhanced (P &lt; or = 0.05). In the basal nucleus of the epileptic animals, PP facilitation was enhanced (P &lt; 0.05) and sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-induced epileptiform activity was increased compared with controls (P &lt; 0.05). In the epileptic animals, the basal nucleus was also more sensitive than the lateral nucleus to 4-AP-induced epileptiform activity (P &lt; 0.05). Correlation analysis indicated that longer SE duration was associated with longer half widths (P = 0.001) and smaller slopes (P &lt; 0.05) of evoked responses as well as with attenuated PP facilitation (P&lt;0.01). Moreover, a higher frequency of spontaneous seizures was associated with longer half widths (P &lt; 0.05) and smaller slopes (P &lt; 0.05) of evoked responses as well as with enhanced PP facilitation (P &lt; 0.05). These data suggest that there is a reduced release of glutamate and reduced inhibition in the lateral and basal amygdaloid nuclei in epileptic animals. Further, the basal nucleus is more prone to epileptic activity than the lateral nucleus. Finally, the severity of SE and spontaneous seizures in vivo is associated with electrophysiologic alterations in vitro.
The developmental processes of maturation in the CNS are the result of specific events including mitogenesis, differentiation, and cell death which occur in a precise spatial and temporal manner. It has been reported that many transcription factors, including forkhead transcription factors, play a key role in these processes. First, we examined the expression pattern of the forkhead transcription factor Foxp1 in the adult CNS. Foxp1 was highly expressed in the striatum and moderately in the cerebral cortex, CA1/2 subfields of the hippocampus, and several thalamic nuclei. In situ hybridization combined with immunohistochemistry in the striatum of adult mice revealed that Foxp1 mRNA was detected in a subset of projection neurons, not in interneurons. In addition, the expression of Foxp1 mRNA was observed in the developing basal ganglia with the exception of the globus pallidus. Thus, Foxp1 mRNA was expressed in a subset of striatal projection neurons, probably the matrix neurons. The expression pattern of Foxp1 mRNA suggests that Foxp1 may play a role in the development and formation of a circuit in the basal ganglia, which is involving the matrix neurons.
Using pre- and post-training lesions of the amygdalo-hippocampal transition area (AHi), the role of the AHi in the fear conditioning of rats was examined. Pretraining lesions by N-methyl-d-aspartate led to the enhancement of freezing behavior in auditory fear conditioning and contextual conditioning. However, the freezing of post-training-lesioned rats did not differ from that of the sham-lesioned rats. There were several regions of the brain observed in this study in which c-Fos and/or Egr-1 immunoreactive-positive cell expression changed in diverse manners after the test session. In the pretraining lesioned rats that were trained for auditory conditioning, the number of c-Fos and Egr-1 decreased in the infralimbic cortex (IL) and the number of Egr-1 increased in the basomedial amygdaloid nucleus (BM). In the pretraining AHi-lesioned rats that were trained for contextual conditioning, the number of c-Fos increased in the lateral periaqueductal gray (LPAG) and the number of Egr-1 increased in the BM. These results suggest that the AHi plays an important role in the acquisition of memory during conditioning alone, whereas it is improbable that the AHi had an effect on consolidation, retrieval, and expression in the case of either auditory or contextual fear conditioning. The findings also suggest that the freezing behavior was related to the changes in c-Fos and/or Egr-1 in the IL, BM, and LPAG. As in the case of the BM, the number of Egr-1 immunoreactive-positive cells was increased in both experiments, and it was possible that the activation of neurons with high basal levels of expression might be associated with memory retrieval or expression as a freezing behavior observed in the test session.
Exogenously administered opiates are recognized as rewarding and the involvement of dopamine systems in mediating their apparent pleasurable effects is contentious. The aversive response to naloxone administration observed in animal studies suggests the presence of an endogenous opioid tone regulating hedonic state. We sought evidence for the requirement for dopamine systems in mediating this action of endogenous opioids by determining whether mice deficient in dopamine D-1 or D-2 receptors were able to display conditioned place aversion to naloxone. Mice received saline in the morning in one chamber and either saline or naloxone (10 mg/kg, s.c.) in the afternoon in another chamber, each day for 3 days. On the test day they were given free access to the testing chambers in the afternoon. Similar to their wild-type littermates, D-1 and D-2 receptor knockout mice receiving naloxone in the afternoon spent significantly less time on the test day in the compartment in which they previously received naloxone, compared with animals receiving saline in the afternoon. The persistence of naloxone-conditioned place aversion in D-1 and D-2 knockout mice suggests that endogenous opioid peptides maintain a basal level of positive affect that is not dependent on downstream activation of dopamine systems involving D-1 or D-2 receptors.
Based on intracellular recordings in vivo, we investigated the responsiveness of cat neocortical neurons to callosal volleys during different phases of spontaneously occurring or electrically induced electrographic seizures, compared with control periods of slow sleep-like oscillations. Overt seizures, with spiking, triggered by pulse-trains to the callosal pathway, started with a latency of approximately 20 s after cessation of stimulation, thus contrasting with paroxysmal activity elicited by ipsilateral cortical or thalamic stimulation that is initiated immediately after electrical stimulation. During the rather long preparatory period to callosally triggered seizures, cortical neurons displayed subthreshold depolarizing runs at 4-7 Hz, associated with increased amplitudes of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The sequential analysis of neuronal responsiveness during different components of spike-wave complexes revealed progressively increased amplitudes of callosally evoked postsynaptic excitatory responses in regular-spiking and fast-rhythmic-bursting neurons, over a period of approximately 20 ms prior to the generation of paroxysmal depolarizing shifts. These data support the concept that seizures consisting of spike-wave complexes originate within the neocortex through a progressive synaptic buildup and that their synchronization is achieved, at least partially, by cortical commissural synaptic linkages.
Endogenous opiates, such as beta-endorphin, inhibit the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) release in the pituitary gland of several species including rat, pig, sheep, and human. Although it is generally believed that beta-endorphin influences gonadal functions via the regulation of hypothalamic LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) release, the morphological substrate underlying this regulation in humans remains elusive. In the present series of experiments the beta-endorphin-immunoreactive (IR) and LHRH-IR neural elements, utilizing single label immunohistochemistry, were mapped. Following the superimposition of the maps of these systems, the overlapping sites were identified and examined in order to verify the putative juxtapositions between the beta-endorphin-IR and LHRH-IR structures. LHRH-IR elements were detected mainly in the medial basal hypothalamus, in the medial preoptic area and along the diagonal band of Broca. Beta-endorphin-IR perikarya were observed in the infundibular region/median eminence, whereas beta-endorphin-IR axon varicosities were detected periventricularly in the preoptic and tuberal regions, in the medial basal hypothalamus and around the mamillary bodies. Careful examination of the immunoreactive elements in the overlapping areas revealed close contacts between beta-endorphin-IR and LHRH-IR structures, which have been verified in semithin plastic sections. These putative beta-endorphin-LHRH juxtapositions were most numerous in the medial preoptic area and in the infundibulum/median eminence of the human diencephalon. In conclusion, the present paper is the first study that revealed close juxtapositions between the beta-endorphin-IR and LHRH-IR neural elements in the human diencephalon. These beta-endorphin-LHRH contacts may be functional synapses, and they may be the morphological substrate of the beta-endorphin control on gonadal functions in man.
The present study was to determine how afferents from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) of the basal ganglia to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) in the brainstem could contribute to the control of behavioral states. We used anesthetized and acutely decerebrated cats (n=22). Repetitive electrical stimulation (10-100 Hz, 20-50 microA, for 4-20 s) to the ventrolateral part of the PPN produced rapid eye movement (REM) associated with a suppression of postural muscle tone (REM with atonia). Although repetitive electrical stimuli (10-200 Hz, 10-60 microA, for 5-20 s) delivered to the dorsolateral part of the SNr did not evoke eye movements or muscular tonus in baseline conditions, it altered the PPN-induced REM with atonia. The following three types of effects were induced: (1) attenuation of the REM with atonia; (2) attenuation of muscular atonia without changes in REM (REM without atonia); and (3) attenuation of only REM. The optimal stimulus sites for these effects were intermingled within the lateral part of the SNr. The PPN-induced REM with atonia was abolished by an injection into the PPN of muscimol (1-15 mM, 0.1-0.25 microl), a GABAA receptor agonist, but not altered by an injection of baclofen (1-10 mM, 0.1-0.25 microl), a GABAB receptor agonist. Moreover, an injection of bicuculline (1-15 mM, 0.1-0.25 microl), a GABAA receptor antagonist, into the PPN, resulted in REM with atonia. On the other hand, an injection of muscimol into the dorsolateral part of the SNr (1-15 mM, 0.1-0.25 microl) induced REM with atonia, which was in turn eliminated by a further injection of muscimol into the PPN (5-10 mM, 0.2-0.25 microl). These results suggest that a GABAergic projection from the SNr to the PPN could be involved in the control of REM with atonia, signs which indicate REM sleep. An excessive GABAergic output from the basal ganglia to the PPN in parkinsonian patients may induce sleep disturbances, including a reduction of REM sleep periods and REM sleep behavioral disorders (REM without atonia).
Modulation of type A GABA receptors (GABAA) by L-type Ca++ channel blockers was investigated. The dihydropyridines nifedipine and nitrendipine, and the phenylalkylamine verapamil inhibited recombinant rat alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors recorded from human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells; nifedipine at low concentrations also elicited modest stimulatory effects on GABA-gated current. The IC50 for GABA current inhibition was lowest for nitrendipine (17.3 +/- 1.3 microM), so subsequent studies were focused on further exploring its mechanism and possible site of action. When co-applied with GABA, nitrendipine had minimal effects on initial current amplitude, but significantly enhanced current decay rate. Nitrendipine-mediated inhibition was subunit-selective, as its IC50 was 10-fold lower in alpha1beta2 receptors. Nitrendipine's effect in recombinant human alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors was similar (IC50=23.0 +/- 1.3 microM) to that observed in rat receptors of the same configuration, indicating the site of action is conserved in the two species. The inhibitory effects were dependent on channel gating, were independent of transmembrane voltage, and were also observed in GABAA receptors recorded from hypothalamic brain slices. The pharmacologic mechanism of inhibition by nitrendipine was non-competitive, indicating it does not act at the GABA binding site. Nitrendipine block was retained in the presence of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil, indicating it does not interact at the benzodiazepine site. The actions of nitrendipine were not affected by a mutation (beta2T246F) that confers resistance to the channel blocker picrotoxin, and they were not altered in the presence of the picrotoxin site antagonist alpha-isopropyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone, demonstrating nitrendipine does not act at the picrotoxin site of the GABAA receptor. Possible interaction of nitrendipine with the Zn++ site was also eliminated, as mutation of beta2 H267 to A, which confers resistance to Zn++, had no effect on nitrendipine-mediated inhibition. Our data suggest some of the central effects of dihydropyridines may be due to actions at GABAA receptors. Moreover, the effects may be mediated through interaction with a novel modulatory site on the GABAA receptor.
Repeated non-reinforced exposures of a neutral stimulus retard the development of a conditioned response to that stimulus when it is subsequently paired with a significant event. This stimulus pre-exposure effect is known as latent inhibition (LI). Early lesion studies have initially suggested an important role for the hippocampus in the normal development and expression of LI. This view has since been modified with the emergence of data derived from selective cell body lesions of the hippocampus and of the entorhinal cortex, with an abolition of LI only seen after lesions of the latter. This suggests that the significance of the hippocampus might have been overestimated in the past, possibly due to interruption of fibres en passage. However, intact behavioural expression of LI following hippocampal damage does not preclude the suggestion that the hippocampus participates in the control and regulation of LI expression in intact animals. The present study demonstrated that whilst cell body lesions of the ventral hippocampus spared LI (as expected), chemical activation of the ventral hippocampus by local N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion disrupted LI. These results parallel our earlier observations on prepulse inhibition (PPI) with similar manipulations [Neuroreport 10 (1999) 2533]. Thus, although the ventral hippocampus is itself not responsible for the behavioural manifestation of LI and PPI, it exerts at least a modulatory control over the form and/or magnitude of their expression. Our results should prompt a re-evaluation of the relative roles of the hippocampus and retrohippocampus in the development and expression of LI.
Neurogenesis occurs during development and in the normal adult brain. Recent studies identified areas exhibiting postlesional selective neurogenesis and neuronal repair. In the olfactory bulb (OB), one of the most studied regions of the brain for neurogenesis, seizures and strong odor exposure are known to enhance neurogenesis. Here, we report enhanced neurogenesis in OB after dopaminergic neuronal loss induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a selective toxin for dopaminergic neurons. The neurogenesis has been previously confirmed mainly by the uptake of 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), a marker of proliferating cells, but methodological problems related to BrdU labeling might result in inaccurate findings with respect to specificity, toxicity and incorporation into normal/lesioned brain. For a better identification of neurogenesis, we used a retroviral vector. First, we investigated the population dynamics of newly formed neurons in different regions of OB including the glomerular layer, the most superficial layer of OB. Quantification of neurogenesis in OB revealed by our retroviral vector was substantially similar to that by BrdU-based method. One week after MPTP application and dopaminergic neuronal loss in OB, neurogenesis of dopaminergic neurons in OB increased by three-fold, but no such process was noted in non-dopaminergic neurons. Our results indicate selective dopaminergic neurogenesis in OB in response to neuronal damage/loss.
Changes in subunit composition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have been reported to be affected by visual experience and may therefore form a major aspect of neuronal plasticity in the CNS during development. In contrast, putative alterations in the expression and functioning of the inhibitory GABAA receptor around eye opening have not been well defined yet. Here we describe the timing of changes in GABAA receptor subunit expression and the related synaptic functioning in the neonatal rat visual cortex and the influence of visual experience on this process. Quantitative analysis of all GABAA receptor subunit transcripts revealed a marked alpha3 to alpha1 subunit switch, in addition to a change in alpha4 and alpha5 expression. The changes were correlated with an acceleration of the decay of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs). Both changes in receptor expression and synaptic functioning were initiated well before eye opening. Moreover, dark rearing could not prevent the robust upregulation of alpha1 or the change in sIPSC kinetics, indicating that this is not dependent of sensory (visual) input. Upon eye opening a positive correlation was observed between a faster decay of the sIPSCs and an increase in sIPSC frequency, which was absent in dark-reared animals. Thus, lack of extrinsic input to the cortex does not affect overall developmental regulation of synaptic functioning of GABAA receptors. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that visual experience is involved in proper shaping of the inhibitory network of the primary visual cortex.
We investigated the expression of the substance P (SP) receptor (the neurokinin 1 receptor, NK1 receptor) and SP functional effects in developing rabbit retinas. NK1 receptors in adult retinas were in a population of cone bipolar cells and in dopaminergic amacrine cells, as previously described. In contrast, at birth and at postnatal day (PND) 6, NK1 receptors were exclusively expressed by cholinergic amacrine and displaced amacrine cells. NK1 receptor expression in cholinergic cells was still observed at PND10 (eye opening), while at PND21 it was confined to cholinergic cells of the inner nuclear layer. Starting at PND10, NK1 receptors were also in bipolar cells and in dopaminergic amacrine cells. A fully mature NK1 receptor expression pattern was observed at PND35. Dopamine release was assessed in isolated retinas in the presence of SP, the NK1 receptor agonist GR73632 or the NK1 receptor antagonist GR82334. At PND35, extracellular dopamine was significantly increased by 10 microM SP or 0.01-100 microM GR73632, and it was decreased by 0.01-10 microM GR82334. No effects were detected in developing retinas up to PND21. Ca2+ imaging experiments were performed in single cholinergic cells identified by their &quot;starburst&quot; morphology in perinatal retinas. Intracellular Ca2+ levels were significantly increased by 1 microM SP or GR73632. This effect was reversibly inhibited by 1 microM GR82334. These data demonstrate that both NK1 receptor expression and SP physiological actions are developmentally regulated in the retina. SP neurotransmission in the immature retina may subserve developmental events, and SP is likely to represent an important developmental factor for the maturation of retinal neurons and circuitries.
It has been shown that the noradrenergic (NE) locus coeruleus (LC)-hippocampal pathway plays an important role in learning and memory processing, and that the development of this transmitter pathway is influenced by neurotrophic factors. Although some of these factors have been discovered, the regulatory mechanisms for this developmental event have not been fully elucidated. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent neurotrophic factor influencing LC-NE neurons. We have utilized a GDNF knockout animal model to explore its function on the LC-NE transmitter system during development, particularly with respect to target innervation. By transplanting various combinations of brainstem (including LC) and hippocampal tissues from wildtype or GDNF knockout fetuses into the brains of adult wildtype mice, we demonstrate that normal postnatal development of brainstem LC-NE neurons is disrupted as a result of the GDNF null mutation. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry revealed that brainstem grafts had markedly reduced number and size of LC neurons in transplants from knockout fetuses. NE fiber innervation into the hippocampal co-transplant from an adjacent brainstem graft was also influenced by the presence of GDNF, with a significantly more robust innervation observed in transplants from wildtype fetuses. The most successful LC/hippocampal co-grafts were generated from fetuses expressing the wildtype GDNF background, whereas the most severely affected transplants were derived from double transplants from null-mutated fetuses. Our data suggest that development of the NE LC-hippocampal pathway is dependent on the presence of GDNF, most likely through a target-derived neurotrophic function.
As shown by various human psychophysical studies, interocular spatial frequency disparities can yield a variety of percepts. In order to examine how binocular fusion is affected by spatial frequency differences, we have recorded cells in the border region of areas 17/18 of anesthetized cats. The optic axes of the eyes were deviated onto cathode-ray screens, and the optimal spatial frequency of each eye was assessed by monocular stimulations using drifting sinusoidal gratings. The optimal relative phase using identical spatial frequencies in both eyes was first determined. Spatial frequency differences were then introduced by keeping the optimal spatial frequency constant in one eye and varying the spatial frequency in the other. Results indicate that cells (39%) responded with an increased firing rate (facilitation) to similar spatial frequencies in each eye and with a gradual attenuation (occlusion or suppression) when spatial frequency differences were increased. However, binocular facilitation did not always occur to the presentation of identical stimuli. For 16% of the cells, maximal responses were observed when lower spatial frequencies than the optimal one were presented in one eye while higher spatial frequencies produced suppression. The opposite pattern was observed only for two cells. These findings are discussed in terms of binocular fusion and suppression.
When stimuli are presented in the left or right visual fields, hemispheric specialization for global and local processing in occipital areas is attenuated. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated how this attenuation is compensated for when information must cross the corpus callosum to reach the areas specialized for global and local processing. We presented hierarchically nested letters (e.g. a large E made of smaller E's) to the right or the left visual hemifield while subjects fixated centrally. In half the trials, subjects indicated whether the global aspect and in the other half whether the local aspect of the stimulus matched a pre-specified target letter. Visual hemifield presentations showed the expected contralateral activations of occipital cortex. The main effects of locally or globally directed attention did not show any differential occipital activations, but the right anterior cingulate cortex was activated differentially during local processing. Region-of-interest-based analyses showed increased neural activity in left posterior occipital cortex during local processing when stimuli were presented in the left hemifield. During global processing with stimulus presentation to the right hemifield, the right posterior occipital cortex was activated. Activation of right anterior cingulate cortex during local processing is likely to reflect the suppression of global processing precedence in order to select correctly the local stimulus level. The activations in left (local) and right (global) occipital areas are likely to reflect the top-down augmentation of stimulus information that has been degraded by callosal crossing in order to access the hemisphere specialized for local or global processing.
Vasopressin neurones fire action potentials in a rhythmic 'phasic' pattern, characterised by alternating periods of activity and silence. Vasopressin and dynorphin are co-packaged in neurosecretory vesicles that are exocytosed from vasopressin cell dendrites and terminals and both have been implicated in the generation of phasic activity patterning through autoregulatory mechanisms. Here, identified supraoptic nucleus vasopressin cells exhibiting spontaneous phasic activity were recorded from urethane-anaesthetised rats administered the V1 vasopressin receptor antagonist, OPC 21268, or the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine. OPC 21268 elevated firing rate throughout each burst whereas nor-binaltorphimine excitation emerged over the course of each burst, indicating a progressive activation of kappa-opioid receptor mechanisms during bursts. To determine whether changes in post-spike excitability could account for these effects, we plotted the probability of action potential firing with time after the preceding action potential (hazard function) and found that, similarly to firing rate, this too was elevated by OPC 21268 throughout each burst whilst the excitatory effects of nor-binaltorphimine progressively increased over the course of each burst. Thus, the temporal organisation of the feedback effects of these co-released peptides is different, with vasopressin effectively causing an immediate reduction in overall excitability whilst dynorphin causes a progressive decrease in post-spike excitability over the course of each burst.
Tonicity-responsive enhancer-binding protein (TonEBP) was initially identified as a transcription factor involved in adaptation of renal cells to hypertonicity by activation of osmoprotective genes encoding proteins for accumulation of compatible osmolytes. Since brain osmoadaptation is observed in relationship to neurological disorders resulting from pathological osmotic disbalances of blood plasma we have investigated through immunocytochemistry TonEBP expression in cerebral cortex and hippocampus of normal rat and rats submitted to an acute systemic hypertonicity or to a prolonged systemic hypotonicity. TonEBP-expressing cells were identified using double immunofluorescence and appropriate cell type markers. Their relative proportion was determined by quantitative image analysis. In normal rats TonEBP expressed primarily in neurons where it was strictly located in the cell nucleus but heterogeneously distributed into a nucleoplasmic pool and a granular pool. In animals made acutely hypertonic TonEBP labeling increased dramatically exclusively in the nuclei of neurons and reached a maximum within 1 h. In hypertonic animals TonEBP labeling covered the whole cell nucleus of virtually all neurons, appeared finely punctuated but was no more granular. Optical density of the labeling as determined by image analysis correlated linearly with the increased plasma osmolality. In animals made hypotonic for several days no conspicuous decrease of TonEBP labeling was observed. In normal animals a very minor proportion of non-neuronal cells showed a faint TonEBP nuclear labeling. This proportion increased slightly in hypertonic animals. Nevertheless these non-neuronal TonEBP-positive nuclei which belonged to oligodendrocytes and to a small subpopulation of astrocytes remained always very weakly labeled when compared with neuron nuclei. Brain capillary endothelial cells as well as microglial cells showed no TonEBP-labeling even in hypertonic animals. Our data demonstrate that in brain TonEBP is significantly expressed and tonicity-overexpressed in neurons and accordingly suggest that neurons only among brain cells accumulate compatible osmolytes through TonEBP-mediated activation of osmoprotective genes to adapt to acute systemic hypertonicity.
Hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei are involved in the body fluid homeostasis. Especially vasopressin peptide and mRNA levels are regulated by hypo- and hyperosmolar stimuli. Other neuropeptides such as dynorphin, galanin and neuropeptide FF are coregulated with vasopressin. In this study neuropeptide FF and another RF-amide peptide, the prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA levels were studied by quantitative in situ hybridization after chronic salt loading, a laboratory model of chronic dehydration. The neuropeptide FF mRNA expressing cells virtually disappeared from the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei after salt loading, suggesting that hyperosmolar stress downregulated the NPFF gene transcription. The neuropeptide FF mRNA signal levels were returned to control levels after the rehydration period of 7 days. No changes were observed in those medullary nuclei that express neuropeptide FF mRNA. No significant changes were observed in the hypothalamic or medullary prolactin-releasing peptide mRNA levels. Neuropeptide FF mRNA is drastically downregulated in the hypothalamic magnocellular neurons after salt loading. Other neuropeptides studied in this model are concomitantly coregulated with vasopressin: i.e. their peptide levels are downregulated and mRNA levels are upregulated which is in contrast to neuropeptide FF regulation. It can thus be concluded that neuropeptide FF is not regulated through the vasopressin regulatory system but via an independent pathway. The detailed mechanisms underlying the downregulation of neuropeptide FF mRNA in neurons remain to be clarified.
We have previously shown that voluntary exercise produces enhanced neurogenesis and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus (DG) of mice in vitro. In the present experiments we show that rats given access to a running wheel (Runners) exhibit significantly more short-term potentiation and LTP with theta-patterned conditioning stimulation in vivo than do age-matched litter mates (Controls). This increase in LTP appears to reflect an alteration in the induction threshold for synaptic plasticity that accompanies voluntary exercise. Weak theta-patterned stimulation, which did not produce LTP in control subjects, produced a robust and long-lasting LTP in Runners. LTP induction in both groups was dependent upon the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, and could be blocked by the competitive antagonist [+/-]-3-[2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl] propanephosphonic acid. Consistent with these findings, we found that mRNA levels for NR2B subtype of NMDA receptor were increased specifically in the DG of Runners. In addition to changes in NR2B mRNA levels, quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glutamate receptor 5 mRNA levels were also significantly elevated in the DG of Runners, but not in other areas of the hippocampus. Thus, alterations in the expression of BDNF, and specific glutamate receptor subtypes, may underlie the ability of exercise to enhance neurogenesis and reduce the threshold for LTP in the DG.
During space flight astronauts show vestibular-related changes in balance, eye movements, and spontaneous and reflex control of cardiovascular, respiratory and gastrointestinal function, sometimes associated with space motion sickness. These symptoms undergo compensation over time. Here we used changes in the expression of two immediate-early gene (IEG) products to identify cellular and molecular changes occurring in autonomic brainstem regions of adult male albino rats killed at different times during the Neurolab Space Mission (STS-90). Both direct effects of gravitational changes, as well as indirect effects of gravitational changes on responses to light exposure were examined. Regions under the direct control of vestibular afferents such as the area postrema and the caudal part of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTSC) were both directly and indirectly affected by gravity changes. These areas showed no changes in the expression of IEG products during exposure to microgravity with respect to ground controls, but did show a significant increase 24 h after return to 1 G (gravity). Exposure to microgravity significantly inhibited gene responses to light exposure seen after return to 1 G. A similar direct and indirect response pattern was also shown by the central nucleus of the amygdala, a basal forebrain structure anatomically and functionally related to the NTS. The rostral part of the NTS (NTSR) receives different afferent projections than the NTSC. This region did not show any direct gravity-related changes in IEG expression, but showed an indirect effect of gravity on IEG responses to light. A similar pattern was also obtained in the intermediate reticular nucleus and the parvocellular reticular nucleus. Two other medullary reticular structures, the dorsal and the ventral medullary reticular nuclei showed a less well defined pattern of responses that differed from those seen in the NTSC and NTSR. The short- and long-lasting molecular changes in medullary and basal forebrain gene expression described here are thought to play an important role in the integration of autonomic and vestibular signals that ultimately regulate neural adaptations to space flight.
The novelty of a cue may arise from the presence of an element that has not previously been experienced or from familiar elements that have been rearranged. The present study mapped the anatomical basis of responding to this second form of novelty. For this, rats were trained on a working memory spatial task in a radial-arm maze in a cue-controlled environment. On the final test day the positions of the familiar, extra-maze cues were rearranged for half of the rats (group Novel). The spatial configuration of the cues now matched that of the control rats (group Familiar). Neuronal activation, as measured by the immediate early gene, c-fos, was then compared between the two groups. Rearrangement of visual stimuli led to significant increases in Fos-positive cells in various hippocampal subfields (rostral CA1, rostral CA3 and rostral dentate gyrus) as well as the parietal cortex and the postsubiculum. In contrast, no changes were observed in other sites including the perirhinal cortex, postrhinal cortex, lateral and medial entorhinal cortices, retrosplenial cortices, or anterior thalamic nuclei. These results highlight the selective involvement of the hippocampus for processing novel rearrangements of visual stimuli and suggest that this involvement is intrinsic as it is independent of the parahippocampal cortices. This pattern of Fos changes is the mirror image of that repeatedly found for novel individual stimuli (perirhinal increase, no hippocampal change), demonstrating that these two forms of novelty have qualitatively different neural attributes.
The behavioral and biochemical effects of the full dopamine D(1/5) receptor agonists, dihydrexidine and (1R,3S)-1-aminomethyl-5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenylisochroman HCl (A 68930), were examined in rats. Both A 68930 (0-4.6 mg kg(-1), s.c.) and dihydrexidine (0-8.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.) caused a dose-dependent suppression of locomotor activity, as assessed in an open-field. This locomotor suppression was dose-dependently antagonized by the selective dopamine D(1/5) receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine HCl (SCH 23390; 0-5.0 microg kg(-1), s.c.), but not by the selective dopamine D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride (0-25.0 microg kg(-1), s.c.). Furthermore, A 68930 and dihydrexidine did not cause any locomotor activity in habituated rats that displayed a very low base-line activity. Neither did A 68930 nor dihydrexidine produce any excessive stereotypies that could possibly interfere with and mask ambulatory activity. In fact, both A 68930 and dihydrexidine potently blocked hyperactivity produced by d-amphetamine (0-4.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.). Such findings traditionally would be interpreted as a sign of potential antipsychotic properties of A 68930 and dihydrexidine. Examination of neuronal activation, as indexed by the immediate early gene c-fos, showed that A 68930 and dihydrexidine caused a highly significant expression of c-fos in the medial prefrontal cortex. This c-fos expression was sensitive to treatment with SCH 23390, but not with raclopride. The effects of A 68930 and dihydrexidine on c-fos expression in caudate putamen or nucleus accumbens were less marked, or undetectable. The results indicate that stimulation of dopamine D(1/5) receptors, possibly in the medial prefrontal cortex, is associated with inhibitory actions on locomotor activity and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Assuming an important role of prefrontal dopamine D(1/5) receptors in schizophrenia, such inhibitory actions of dopamine D(1/5) receptor stimulation on psychomotor activation may have interesting clinical implications in the treatment of schizophrenia.
While some evidence suggests that the dorsal striatum is important for stimulus-response learning, disagreement exists about the relative contribution of the dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatum to this form of learning. In the present experiment, the effects of lesions of the dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatum were investigated on two tasks that differentially require the development of stimulus-response learning. The first task utilized an operant conditional discrimination task, which is likely to rely heavily upon stimulus-response learning. The second task looked conditioned place preference learning, a task that is unlikely to require the development of stimulus-response associations. Animals with lesions of the dorsolateral striatum were impaired on the operant conditional discrimination task, but retained the ability to learn the conditioned place preference task. In contrast, animals with lesions of the dorsomedial striatum were not found to be impaired on either task used in the present experiment. These results suggest that the dorsolateral striatum is necessary for the successful acquisition of tasks that place a demand upon stimulus-response learning, while the dorsomedial striatum is not involved in this type of learning.
The current study tested the hypothesis that sexual behavior is a biological stimulus for release of endogenous opioid peptides. In particular, activation of mu opioid receptors (MOR) in the medial preoptic area (MPOA), a key area for regulation of male sexual behavior, was studied in male rats. MOR endocytosis or internalization was used as a marker for ligand-induced receptor activation, utilizing confocal, electron, and bright microscopic analysis. Indeed, mating including one ejaculation induced receptor activation in the MPOA, demonstrated by increased immunoreactivity for MOR, increased numbers of endosome-like particles immunoreactive for MOR inside the cytoplasm of neurons, and increased percentage of neurons with three or more endosome-like particles inside the cytosol. Moreover, it was demonstrated that MOR activation occurred within 30 min following mating and was still evident after 6 h. Mating-induced internalization was prevented by treatment with the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone before mating, suggesting that mating-induced receptor activation is a result of action of endogenous MOR ligands. i.c.v. injections of MOR ligand [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin resulted in internalization of the MOR in a similar manner observed following mating. Finally, mating induced Fos expression in MOR containing neurons in the MPOA. However, naloxone pretreatment did not prevent Fos activation of MOR neurons, suggesting that Fos induction was not the result of MOR activation. In summary, these results provide further evidence that endogenous opioid peptides are released in the MPOA during male sexual behavior.
DISC1 (Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1) has been associated with schizophrenia in multiple genetic studies. Studies from our laboratory have shown that Disc1, the mouse ortholog of DISC1, is highly expressed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in the adult mouse brain. Because developmental dysfunction of the hippocampus is thought to play a major role in schizophrenia pathogenesis, and the dentate gyrus is a major locus for adult neurogenesis in the mouse, we investigated Disc1 expression during mouse brain development. Strikingly, Disc1 is strongly expressed in the hippocampus during all stages of hippocampal development, from embryonic day 14 through adulthood. Disc1 mRNA was detected in the dentate gyrus at all stages in which this structure was identifiable, as well as in the cornu ammonis (CA) fields of the hippocampus, the subiculum and adjacent entorhinal cortex, and the developing cerebral neocortex, hypothalamus, and olfactory bulbs, all of which also express Disc1 in the adult mouse brain. In addition, Disc1 mRNA was seen in regions of the developing mouse brain which do not express Disc1 during adulthood, regions including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, reticular thalamic nucleus and reuniens thalamic nucleus. These results demonstrate that Disc1 marks the hippocampus from its earliest stages, and suggest that developmental Disc1 dysfunction may lead to defects in hippocampal function that are associated with schizophrenia.
The left frontal cortex plays an important role in executive function and complex language processing inclusive of spoken language. The purpose of this work was to assess metabolite levels in the left and right prefrontal cortex and left anterior cingulum by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and relate results to verbal intelligence (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale revised) in a sample of college-educated healthy volunteers (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex [DLPFC]: n=52, 23 females, and left anterior cingulum: n=62, 22 females; age range: 20-75 years). In women only, N-acetylaspartate in the DLPFC and in the left anterior cingulate cortex was positively correlated with vocabulary scores. Our data support the hypothesis of existing gender differences regarding the involvement of the left frontal cortex in verbal processing as reflected in different correlations of specific metabolites with verbal scores.
The expression and distribution of the neuronal glutamate transporter, excitatory amino acid carrier-1 (EAAC1), are demonstrated in the dorsal root ganglion neurons and their central terminals. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction shows expression of EAAC1 mRNA in the dorsal root ganglion. Immunoblotting analysis further confirms existence of EAAC1 protein in this region. Immunocytochemistry reveals that approximately 46.6% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons are EAAC1-positive. Most EAAC1-positive neurons are small and around 250-750 microm2 in surface area, and some co-label with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or isolectin IB4. In the spinal cord, EAAC-1 immunoreactive small dot- or patch-like structures are mainly localized in the superficial dorsal horn, and some are positive for CGRP or labeled by isolectin IB4. Unilateral dorsal rhizotomy experiments further show that EAAC1 immunoreactivity is less intense in superficial dorsal horn on the side ipsilateral to the dorsal rhizotomy than on the contralateral side. The results indicate the presence of EAAC1 in the dorsal root ganglion neurons and their central terminals. Our findings suggest that EAAC1 might play an important role in transmission and modulation of nociceptive information via the regulation of pre-synaptically released glutamate.
Changes in gene expression are part of the homeostatic machinery with which cells respond to external stimuli or assaults. The activity of the early response transcriptional factor activator protein-1 (AP-1) can be modulated by a variety of environmental stimuli including those that alter the cellular oxidation/reduction status. This study investigates the activation of AP-1/DNA binding in the guinea-pig cochlea in response to acoustic overstimulation which produces reactive oxygen species. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that binding of AP-1 to its radiolabeled oligonucleotide probe markedly changed in nuclear extracts of inner ear tissues following intense noise exposure (4 kHz octave band, 115 dB, 5 h). AP-1/DNA binding increased in the organ of Corti and the lateral wall tissues immediately after the exposure, returning to near-baseline levels 5 h later. At 15 h after noise, a second peak of binding activity occurred in the organ of Corti whereas stria vascularis showed a lesser but more sustained activity. Binding in nuclear extracts from the spiral ganglion did not change. Incubation of nuclear extracts with antibodies against Fos/Jun family proteins prior to a supershift assay showed Fra-2 as a major component of the AP-1 complex immediately after the noise exposure. In the organ of Corti, Fra-2 immunoreactivity was localized to the middle turn, i.e. the region which is most affected by the 4-kHz octave band exposure. The results suggest the modulation of gene expression via the activation of AP-1 as a consequence of noise trauma but also demonstrate differential responses in cochlear tissues.
Interaction between basal ganglia and cerebral cortex is critical for normal goal-directed behavior. In the present study we have used the immediate early gene zif/268, as functional marker to investigate how the stimulation of adenosine A2A receptors, i.e. of the &quot;indirect&quot; striatal output pathway, affects striatal and cortical function in &quot;weaver&quot; mouse, a genetic model of dopamine deficiency. Furthermore, we have examined the effect of A2A receptor stimulation on glutamate receptor expression in the &quot;weaver&quot; brain. A single injection of CGS21680 (A2A receptor agonist), induced strong expression of zif/268 mRNA, detected by in situ hybridization, not only in striatum but also in the motor cortex of the &quot;weaver&quot; mutant. This cortical response seems to be elicited through the basal-ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuit, rather than through a direct cortical effect, since A2A receptors are not detectable in cortex according to our autoradiographic study. Co-administration of CGS21680 and quinpirole (D2 receptor agonist) attenuated the expression of zif/268 mRNA in dorsal striatum but not in motor cortex, indicating that the cortical response is dopamine-D2-receptor-independent. However, this co-administration induced an increase in zif/268 mRNA expression in somatosensory cortex, which could rely on disinhibition of the thalamo-cortical pathway. The motor cortical response could be of clinical interest, as it would further stimulate the &quot;indirect&quot; striatal pathway in a feed forward circuit, thus worsening the parkinsonian symptoms. Furthermore, the up-regulation of epsilon2 subunit mRNA of the NMDA receptor, induced by CGS21680 administration, seen in striatum and cortex of the &quot;weaver&quot; mouse, would lead to overactivity of these receptors worsening dyskinesias. These results suggest adenosine to play a significant role in regulating striatal and cortical neurochemistry in a dopamine-depleted mouse. Blockade of these receptors by specific A2A antagonists could ameliorate parkinsonian symptoms.
Prior studies showed that positive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor modulators facilitate long-term potentiation (LTP) and improve the formation of several types of memory in animals and humans. However, these modulators are highly diverse in their effects on receptor kinetics and synaptic transmission and thus may differ also in their efficacy to promote changes in synaptic strength. The present study examined three of these modulators for their effects on synaptic plasticity in field CA1 of hippocampal slices, two of them being the benzamide drugs 1-(quinoxalin-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine (CX516) and 1-(1,4-benzodioxan-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine (CX546) which prominently enhance synaptic transmission yet differ in their relative impact on amplitude versus duration of the synaptic response. The third drug was cyclothiazide which potently blocks AMPA receptor desensitization. Effects on plasticity were assessed by measuring (i) the likelihood of obtaining stable potentiation when using theta-burst stimulation with three instead of four pulses per burst, (ii) the maximum amount of potentiation under optimal stimulation conditions, and (iii) the effect on long-term depression (LTD). Both benzamides facilitated the formation of stable potentiation induced with three-pulse burst stimulation which is normally ineffective. CX546 in addition increased maximally inducible potentiation after four-pulse burst stimulation from about 50% to 100%. Burst response analysis revealed that CX546 greatly prolonged the duration of depolarization by slowing the decay of the response which thus presumably leads to a more continuous N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. Cyclothiazide was ineffective in increasing maximal potentiation in either field or whole-cell recordings. CX546, but not CX516, also enhanced nearly two-fold the NMDA receptor-dependent long-term depression induced by heterosynaptic 2 Hz stimulation. Tests with recombinant NMDA receptors (NR1/NR2A) showed that CX516 and CX546 have no direct effects on currents mediated by these receptors. These results suggest that (1) modulation of AMPA receptors which increases either response amplitude or duration can facilitate LTP formation, (2) modulators that effectively slow response deactivation augment the maximum magnitude of LTP and LTD, and (3) receptor desensitization may have a minor impact on synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Taken together, our data indicate that AMPA receptor modulators differ substantially in their ability to enhance synaptic potentiation or depression, depending on their particular influence on receptor kinetics, and hence that they may also be differentially effective in influencing higher-order processes such as memory encoding.
The neuropeptide, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), has been shown to play a role in behavioral and neurobiological effects of drugs of abuse. An important modulator of CRH, the CRH binding protein (CRH-BP), has not, on the other hand, been assessed for its role in drug-associated effects. The primary objective of the present experiment was to assess whether prior, chronic exposure to cocaine modulates expression of CRH-BP, and to compare expression of the BP with that of the peptide itself. We assessed CRH-BP and CRH mRNA expression in two brain regions where CRH is known to affect responses to drugs of abuse; namely, the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). Male Long-Evans rats were given 14 daily injections of cocaine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline. One, 3, 10, 28, or 42 days post-treatment, animals were killed and adjacent brain sections through the CeA and BNST were processed for CRH-BP and CRH by in situ hybridization. In the CeA, cocaine pre-exposure increased both CRH and CRH-BP mRNA expression 1 day post-treatment. In the dorsal BNST, cocaine pre-exposure elevated levels of CRH-BP, but not CRH, mRNA 3 days post-treatment. Taken together, the results suggest that withdrawal-induced changes in the expression of the CRH-BP, and CRH itself, are relatively short-lived and that a dysregulation in basal expression of either gene is not likely responsible for long-lasting behavioral effects noted with cocaine and other drugs of abuse.
We have recently identified a third subtype of glutamate vesicular transporter (VGLUT) named VGLUT3. In the present study, we provide a detailed account of the regional and cellular distributions of VGLUT3 in the rat brain, using specific nucleotide probes and antisera. The distribution of VGLUT3 protein was compared with that of the other vesicular transporters (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2). All the areas expressing VGLUT3 also contain high levels of VGLUT1 and -2 proteins, but, at a finer level of analysis, the distribution of the three subtypes differs. Unlike VGLUT1 and -2, VGLUT3 expression is limited to discrete cell populations. Neurons containing VGLUT3 transcript are essentially observed in the caudate-putamen, the olfactory tubercle, the nucleus accumbens, the hippocampus, the interpeduncular nucleus and the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei. More scattered populations of VGLUT3 expressing neurons are found in the cerebral cortex. The distribution of the VGLUT3 protein, as determined with specific antisera, overlaps with that of the transcript in the caudate-putamen, olfactory tubercles, hippocampus, cortex, interpeduncular nucleus, and raphe nuclei, suggesting that VGLUT3 is essentially present in local projection neurons in these regions. Microscopic examination reveals staining of terminals and perikarya. Furthermore, co-localization studies indicate that VGLUT3 is present in GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus, as well as in the interpeduncular nucleus. However, other regions, such as the substantia nigra (pars compacta), the ventral tegmental area, and the parabigeminal nucleus, receive a dense VGLUT3 terminal labeling although they do not contain VGLUT3 expressing neurons. In these regions, VGLUT3 immunoreactivity may be present in terminals of long projecting neurons. This subclass of glutamatergic afferents differs from other &quot;classical&quot; excitatory terminals that express VGLUT1 or VGLUT2. The distribution of VGLUT3 in the rat brain suggests an unsuspected function of vesicular glutamate transport in subsets of interneurons and in neuromodulatory neurons.
Inheritance of a single copy of the gene encoding huntingtin (HD) with an expanded polyglutamine-encoding CAG repeat leads to neuronal dysfunction, neurodegeneration and the development of the symptoms of Huntington's disease (HD). We have found that the steady-state mRNA levels of two members of the phosphodiesterase (PDE) multi-gene family decrease over time in the striatum of R6 transgenic HD mice relative to age-matched wild-type littermates. Phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) mRNA and protein levels decline in the striatum of R6/1 and R6/2 HD mice prior to motor symptom development. The rate of reduction in PDE10A protein correlates with the rate of decline of the message and the decrease in PDE10A mRNA and protein is more rapid in R6/2 compared with R6/1 mice. Both PDE10A protein and mRNA, therefore, decline to minimum levels prior to the onset of overt physical symptoms in both strains of transgenic mice. Moreover, protein levels of PDE10A are decreased in the caudate-putamen of grade 3 HD patients compared with age-matched neuropathologically normal controls. Striatal PDE1B mRNA levels also decline in R6/1 and R6/2 HD mice; however, the decrease in striatal PDE10A levels (&gt;60%) was greater than that observed for PDE1B and immediately preceded the onset of motor symptoms. In contrast, PDE4A mRNA levels are relatively low in the striatum and do not differ between age-matched wild-type and transgenic HD mice. This suggests that the regulation of PDE10A and PDE1B, but not PDE4A, mRNA levels is dependent on the relative expression of or number of CAG repeats within the human HD transgene. The loss of phosphodiesterase activity may lead to dysregulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels in the striatum, a region of the brain that contributes to the control of movement and cognition.
Axon guidance molecules and related proteins such as semaphorin 3A, neuropilin-1, plexin-1, netrin-1, growth-associated protein, olfactory marker protein, cypin and collapsin response mediator proteins guide the development of neural circuits in the olfactory bulb. In this study, transcriptions of these genes were examined in the olfactory bulb of female, male and neonatal testosterone propionate-treated female rats at the ages of 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 and 45 days. The semaphorin 3A, neuropilin-1, growth-associated protein and collapsin response mediator protein 1-5 genes were expressed significantly higher during the early development stages than in adulthood while the opposite is true for the olfactory marker protein. The expression profile of cypin and netrin-1 was relatively constant through development. A late effect of the neonatal testosterone propionate treatment on netrin-1, growth-associated protein, olfactory marker protein, collapsin response mediator proteins 1, 3, 4 and cypin gene expression was observed. The expression profiles of collapsin response mediator proteins and their related genes in the developing olfactory bulb confirmed most studies on the relationship between collapsin response mediator proteins and development in the brain. Sex differences of semaphorin 3A, neuropilin-1 as well as collapsin response mediator protein 3 at the early development stage and the late effect of neonatal testosterone propionate treatment on the expressions of netrin-1, growth-associated marker protein, cypin and collapsin response mediator proteins 1, 3 and 5 genes may indicate a possible role of these molecules on sexual differentiation of the olfactory bulb.
The gene encoding methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is mutated in the large majority of girls that have Rett Syndrome (RTT), an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder. To better understand the developmental role of MeCP2, we studied the ontogeny of MeCP2 expression in rat brain using MeCP2 immunostaining and Western blots. MeCP2 positive neurons were present throughout the brain at all ages examined, although expression varied by region and age. At early postnatal ages, regions having neurons that were generated early and more mature had the strongest MeCP2 expression. Late developing structures including cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum exhibited the most significant changes in MeCP2 expression. Of these regions, the cerebellum showed the most striking cell-specific changes in MeCP2 expression. For example, the early-generated Purkinje cells became MeCP2 positive by P6, while the late-generated granule cells did not express MeCP2 until the fourth postnatal week. The timing of MeCP2 expression in the granule cell layer is coincident with the onset of granule cell synapse formation. Although more subtle, the degree of MeCP2 expression in cortex and hippocampus was most closely correlated with synaptogenesis in both regions. Our finding that MeCP2 expression is correlated with synaptogenesis is consistent with the hypothesis that Rett Syndrome is caused by defects in the formation or maintenance of synapses.
The gene for TFII-I, a widely expressed transcription factor, has been localized to an interval of human chromosome 7q11.23 that is commonly deleted in Williams syndrome (WS). The clinical phenotype of WS includes elfin facies, infantile hypercalcemia, supravalvular aortic stenosis, hyperacusis and mental retardation. The WS cognitive profile (WSCP) is notable for the differential impairment of visual-spatial abilities with relative sparing of verbal-linguistic function. Fine mapping of individuals with WS has revealed a close association between deletion of TFII-I and the WSCP. To determine the plausibility of the hypothesis that hemizygous deletion of TFII-I contributes to the WSCP, we have examined the anatomic distribution of TFII-I RNA and protein isoforms in brains from adult and embryonic mice. Our studies show that early in development, TFII-I expression is widespread and nearly uniform throughout the brain. In adult brain, TFII-I protein is present exclusively in neurons. Highest levels of expression are observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells and in hippocampal interneurons. TFII-I immunoreactivity is distinct from that of the related protein, TFII-IRD1, which is also localized to the region of human chromosome 7 deleted in WS. The expression pattern of TFII-I in mouse brain parallels regions in human brain which have been shown to be anatomically and functionally altered in humans with WS. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that deletion of the gene for TFII-I contributes to the cognitive impairments observed in WS.
The motor pattern generated by the 14 neurons composing the pyloric circuit in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) of the spiny lobster, Panulirus interruptus, is organized not only by the synaptic connections between neurons, but also by the characteristic intrinsic electrophysiological properties of the individual cells. These cellular properties result from the unique complement of ion channels that each cell expresses, and the distribution of those channels in the cell membranes. We have mapped the STG expression of shab and shaw, two genes in the Shaker superfamily of potassium channel genes that encode voltage-dependent, non-inactivating channels. Using antibodies developed against peptide sequences from the two channel proteins, we explored the localization and cell-specific expression of the channels. Anti-Shab and anti-Shaw antibodies both stain all the pyloric neurons in the somata, as well as their primary neurites and branch points of large neurites, but to varying degrees between cell types. Staining was weak and irregular (Shaw) or absent (Shab) in the fine neuropil of pyloric neurons, where most synaptic interactions occur. There is a high degree of variability in the staining intensity among neurons of a single cell class. This supports Golowasch et al.'s [J Neurosci 19 (1999) RC33; Neural Comput 11 (1999) 1079] hypothesis that individual cells can have similar firing properties with varying compositions of ionic currents. Both antibodies stain the axons of the peripheral nerves as they enter foregut muscles. We conclude that both Shab and Shaw channels are appropriately localized to contribute to the noninactivating potassium current in the stomatogastric nervous system.
A unique feature of the olfactory system is its efficiency to produce new neurons in the adult. Thus, destruction of the olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) using chemical (intranasal perfusion with ZnSO4) or surgical (axotomy or bulbectomy) methods, leads to an enhanced rate of proliferation of their progenitors and to complete ORNs regeneration. The aim of our study was to identify new factors implied in this regenerative process. Using an electrophoretic method, we observed the accumulation of a 42 kDa protein after axotomy in the olfactory mucosa, but not in the olfactory bulb. Its expression started after a few days following injury and increased massively during the phase of ORN regeneration. The purification and the sequence characterization revealed that this protein was Ym1/2, recently identified in activated macrophages present in various tissues during inflammation. Western blotting analysis of Ym1/2 confirmed the accumulation of this protein in the regenerating olfactory mucosa consecutively to olfactory axotomy or bulbectomy but also after ZnSO4 irrigation of the nasal cavity. In the olfactory mucosa of control mice, Ym1/2 was hardly detectable in young animals and became more and more abundant with increasing age. In injured and aged mice, Ym1/2 mainly accumulates in the cytoplasm of supporting cells as well as in other cells located throughout the olfactory epithelium. Our results suggest that Ym1/2 is involved in olfactory epithelium remodeling following several kinds of lesions of the adult olfactory mucosa and support the view of a critical role of inflammatory cues in neurodegeneration and aging.
Prevention of neuronal apoptosis has been introduced as a new therapeutic strategy for neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously reported anti-apoptotic effects of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), a multifunctional cytokine, in models of cerebral ischemia and in cultured neurons and recently focused on the mechanisms underlying the anti-apoptotic effect of TGF-beta1. The anti-apoptotic transcriptional factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) shows high impact in the cell survival function of multiple cytokines and growth factors. The present study explored whether NF-kappabeta is a target of TGF-beta1 and which signaling pathways involved in the activation of NF-kappabeta are triggered by TGF-beta1. We demonstrated that TGF-beta1 increased the transcriptional activity of NF-kappabeta in cultured hippocampal neurons in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, TGF-beta1 induced translocation of p65/NF-kappabeta to the nucleus and enhanced NF-kappabeta transcriptional activity in the presence of apoptotic stimuli. TGF-beta1-mediated NF-kappabeta activation was blocked by wortmannin and U0126, indicating the involvement of both phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI3k)/Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular-signal regulated kinase (Erk)1,2 pathways in the action of TGF-beta1. TGF-beta1 produced a concomitant increase in the phosphorylations of Ikappabeta kinase (IKKalpha/beta) and Ikappabetaalpha with a subsequent degradation of Ikappabetaalpha. Interestingly, the increased phosphorylation of IKKalpha/beta and Ikappabetaalpha was abrogated by wortmannin, but not by U0126, suggesting that PI3k/Akt and MAPK/Erk1,2 pathways triggered by TGF-beta1 regulated the activation of NF-kappabeta through different mechanisms. Of note, wortmannin and U0126, as well as kappabeta-decoy DNA, abolished the anti-apoptotic effect of TGF-beta1, corroborating the notion that both PI3k/Akt and MAPK/Erk1,2 pathways, and NF-kappabeta activity are necessary for the anti-apoptotic activity of TGF-beta1.
Apoptosis-linked gene-2 interacting protein X (Alix) is thought to be involved in both cell death and vesicular trafficking. We examined Alix expression 2 h, 6 h and 24 h after triggering seizure-dependent neuronal death by i.p. kainic acid injection. In the hippocampus, intense, transient immunolabelling was observed in the strata lucidum, oriens and radiatum, areas of high synaptic activity. The similarity of this distribution to those of synaptophysin and endophilin suggests a presynaptic localisation. Alix labelling was increased in neuronal cell bodies in kainate-sensitive regions before or concomitant with the first signs of oedema and/or neuronal eosinophilia. The increase persisted 24 h after kainate-injection in CA3 and the piriform cortex which are areas with massive swelling and numerous pyknotic neurons. This suggests that Alix may play an early role in the mechanisms leading to cell death. Taken together, our results suggest that Alix may be a molecular link between synaptic functioning and neuronal death.
The hippocampus is often considered to play a major role in the pathophysiology of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. However, emerging clinical and experimental evidence suggests that parahippocampal areas may contribute to a greater extent to limbic seizure initiation, and perhaps epileptogenesis. To date, little is known about the participation of entorhinal and perirhinal networks to epileptiform synchronization. Here, we addressed this issue by using simultaneous field potential recordings in horizontal rat brain slices containing interconnected limbic structures that included the hippocampus proper. Epileptiform discharges were disclosed by bath applying the convulsant drug 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) or by superfusing Mg(2+)-free medium. In the presence of 4-aminopyridine, slow interictal- (duration=2.34+/-0.29 s; interval of occurrence=25.75+/-2.11 s, n=16) and ictal-like (duration=31.25+/-3.34 s; interval of occurrence=196.96+/-21.56 s, n=17) discharges were recorded in entorhinal and perirhinal cortices after abating the propagation of CA3-driven interictal activity to these areas following extended hippocampal knife cuts. Simultaneous recordings obtained from the medial and lateral entorhinal cortex, and from the perirhinal cortex revealed that interictal and ictal discharges could initiate from any of these areas and propagate to the neighboring structure with delays of 8-66 ms. However, slow interictal- and ictal-like events more often originated in the medial entorhinal cortex and perirhinal cortex, respectively. Cutting the connections between entorhinal and perirhinal cortices (n=10), or functional inactivation of cortical areas by local application of a glutamatergic receptor antagonist (n=11) made independent epileptiform activity occur in all areas. These procedures also shortened ictal discharge duration in the entorhinal cortices, but not in the perirhinal area. Similar results could be obtained by applying Mg(2+)-free medium (n=7). These findings indicate that parahippocampal networks provide independent epileptiform synchronization sufficient to sustain limbic seizures as well as that the perirhinal cortex plays a preferential role in in vitro ictogenesis.
Previous studies have raised the possibility that a decrease in voltage-gated K+ currents may contribute to hyperexcitability of injured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and the emergence of neuropathic pain. We examined the effects of axotomy on mRNA levels for various Kv1 family subunits and voltage-gated K+ currents in L4-L5 DRG neurons from sham-operated and sciatic nerve-transected rats. RNase protection assay revealed that Kv1.1 and Kv 1.2 mRNAs are highly abundant while Kv1.3, Kv1.4, Kv1.5 and Kv1.6 mRNAs were detected at lower levels in L4-L5 DRGs from sham and intact rats. Axotomy significantly decreased Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.3 and Kv1.4 mRNA levels by approximately 35%, approximately 60%, approximately 40% and approximately 80%, respectively, but did not significantly change Kv1.5 or Kv1.6 mRNA levels. Patch clamp recordings revealed two types of K+ currents in small-sized L4-L5 DRG neurons: sustained delayed rectifier currents elicited from a -40 mV holding potential and slowly inactivating A-type currents that was additionally activated from a -120 mV holding potential. Axotomy decreased both types of K+ currents by 50-60% in injured DRG neurons. In addition, axotomy increased the alpha-dendrotoxin sensitivity of the delayed rectifier, but not slow A-type K+ currents in injured DRG neurons. These results suggest that Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 subunits are major components of voltage-gated K+ channels in L4-L5 DRG neurons and that the decreased expression of Kv1-family subunits significantly contributes to the reduction and altered kinetics of Kv current in axotomized neurons.
Repeated exposure to stress induces cross-sensitization to psychostimulants. The present study assessed functional neural activation during social defeat stress-induced sensitization to a subsequent amphetamine challenge. Social defeat stress was induced in intruder rats during short confrontations with an aggressive resident rat once every third day during the course of 10 days. Rats received d-amphetamine injections (1 mg/kg, i.p.) 17 or 70 days after the first social defeat stress exposure. Amphetamine administration induced a significantly higher frequency of locomotor activity in stressed animals than in handled control rats, which was still evident 2 months after the last social stress exposure. Immunohistochemistry for Fos-like proteins was used to detect activated neural profiles in the striatum, nucleus accumbens (NAc), prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and ventral tegmental area (VTA). Repeated social defeat stress significantly increased Fos-like immunoreactive (Fos-LI) labeling 17 days after the start of stress exposure in the prelimbic and infralimbic cortical regions, NAc shell and core, medial, central and basolateral amygdala, and VTA, which probably represented the expression of chronic Fos-related antigens. Amphetamine augmented stress-induced Fos-LI labeling 17 days after the first stress episode in the dorsal striatum, NAc core, and medial amygdala, reflecting a cross-sensitization of Fos response. Amphetamine challenge 70 days after social stress exposures revealed sensitized Fos-LI labeling in the VTA and the amygdala. These data suggest that episodes of repeated social stress induce a long-lasting neural change that leads to an augmented functional activation in the VTA and amygdala, which might represent a neurobiological substrate for long-lasting cross-sensitization of repeated social defeat stress with psychostimulant drugs.
Early stages of memory formation in filial imprinting were studied in domestic chicks. Chicks trained for 15 min showed strong imprinting, demonstrated by a strong preference for their training stimulus, and the time course of this preference over 2 days after training was similar to that of chicks trained for 60 min. The chicks therefore learned characteristics of the training stimulus very early during training. The intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) is a part of the chick forebrain that is crucial for imprinting. Previous experiments have shown a learning-specific increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity, used as a marker of neuronal activity, in the IMHV after training for 60 min. The time course of Fos expression in the IMHV was measured after training for 15 min and 60 min. The same pattern of expression was found for both training times, showing a peak 120 min after the start of training. The time course of expression was stimulus-dependent. Fos expression in the IMHV, but not the hippocampus, was significantly correlated with strength of imprinting. It is concluded that the learning-specific change in Fos expression in the IMHV is associated with very early components of memory formation.
Serotonergic activity is influenced by social status and manipulation of social signals. In the lizard Anolis carolinensis, eyespot formation, i.e. darkening of postorbital skin from green to black, appears during stressful and agonistic situations, forming first in males that become dominant. To assess the effect of eyespots on central serotonergic activity during social interaction, males were paired by weight and painted postorbitally with green or black paint. Manipulation of eyespot color influenced social interactions and status. All males that viewed an opponent with black painted eyespots became subordinate. In these subordinate animals, serotonergic activity was elevated in hippocampus, striatum, nucleus accumbens and locus ceruleus. In contrast, males that viewed opponents with hidden eyespots (painted green) and became dominant had increased serotonergic activity in hypothalamus, medial amygdala and raph. Pre-painted eyespots produced results that distinguish dominant and subordinate relationships based on serotonergic activity not previously seen in unmanipulated pairs. Results from experiments using pairs are similar to those using mirrors for medial amygdala and locus ceruleus, but not hippocampus, nucleus accumbens or raph. Decreased hypothalamic serotonin was associated with increased aggressive behavior. These results, when compared with previous studies, suggest some flexibility in central serotonergic systems, which may shape dominant and subordinate rank acquisition, and appear to be influenced by the completion of social role formation. Furthermore, social status and central serotonergic activity was influenced by a visual cue, the presence or absence of postorbital eyespots on an opponent.
Low glutathione levels have been observed in the prefrontal cortex and the cerebrospinal fluid of schizophrenic patients, possibly enhancing the cerebral susceptibility to oxidative stress. We used osteogenic disorder Shionogi mutant rats, which constitute an adequate model of the human redox regulation because both are unable to synthesize ascorbic acid. To study the long-term consequences of a glutathione deficit, we treated developing rats with L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, and later investigated their behavior until adulthood. Moreover, some rats were treated with the dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909 in order to elevate dopamine extracellular levels, thereby mimicking the dopamine hyperactivity proposed to be involved in schizophrenia. BSO and GBR 12909 alone or in combination minimally affected the development of spontaneous alternation or basic sensory and motor skills. A major effect of BSO alone or in combination with GBR 12909 was the induction of cataracts in both sexes, whereas GBR 12909 induced an elevation of body weight in females only. Sex and age-dependent effects of the treatments were observed in a test of object recognition. At postnatal day 65, whereas male rats treated with both BSO and GBR 12909 failed to discriminate between familiar and novel objects, females were not affected. At postnatal day 94, male object recognition capacity was diminished by BSO and GBR 12909 alone or in combination, whereas females were only affected by the combination of both drugs. Inhibition of brain glutathione synthesis and dopamine uptake in developing rats induce long-term cognitive deficits occurring in adulthood. Males are affected earlier and more intensively than females, at least concerning object recognition. The present study suggests that the low glutathione levels observed in schizophrenic patients may participate in the development of some of their cognitive deficits.
The pharmacological profile of allopregnanolone, a neuroactive steroid that is a potent positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptors, is similar to that of ethanol. Recent findings indicate that acute injection of ethanol increased endogenous allopregnanolone to pharmacologically relevant concentrations in male rats. However, there are no comparable data in mice, nor has the effect of ethanol drinking on endogenous allopregnanolone levels been investigated. Therefore, the present studies measured the effect of ethanol drinking and injection on allopregnanolone levels in male and female C57BL/6 mice. One group was given 17 days of 2-h limited access to a 10% v/v ethanol solution in a preference-drinking paradigm, while another group had access to water only. The ethanol dose consumed in 2 h exceeded 2 g/kg. Then, separate groups of mice were injected with either 2 g/kg ethanol or saline. Mice were killed 30 min after the 2-h drinking session or injection. Blood ethanol concentration was significantly higher in the ethanol-injected versus ethanol-drinking groups, even though the dose was similar. Consumption of ethanol significantly increased brain allopregnanolone levels in male but not female mice, compared with animals drinking water, but did not alter plasma corticosterone levels. In contrast, injection of ethanol did not significantly alter brain allopregnanolone levels in male or female mice and only significantly increased plasma corticosterone levels in the male mice, when compared with saline-injected animals. The sex differences in the effect of ethanol administration on endogenous allopregnanolone levels suggest that the hormonal milieu may impact ethanol's effect on GABAergic neurosteroids. Importantly, these data are the first to report the effect of ethanol drinking on allopregnanolone levels and indicate that ethanol consumption and ethanol injection can produce physiologically relevant allopregnanolone levels in male mice. These results have important implications for studies investigating the potential role of endogenous allopregnanolone levels in modulating susceptibility to ethanol abuse.
Ethanol is among the most widely abused drugs in the world. Chronic ethanol consumption leads to ethanol tolerance and addiction, and impairs learning and memory. Na+/Cl- dependent GABA transporters play an important role in controlling the concentration of GABA in the synaptic cleft, and thus they control the intensity and duration of synaptic transmission of GABA. It has been suggested that GABAergic system is involved in ethanol consumption, tolerance and addiction, because chronic ethanol consumption alters the expression of GABAA receptors and drugs on GABA receptors affect ethanol actions. The results of the present study reveal that that activity of GABA transporters in mouse brain after 15-min acute ethanol injection or after chronic ethanol consumption is increased. Moreover, mice pre-injected with a competitive or a noncompetitive antagonist of gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter subtype 1 (GAT1) showed high sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effects of ethanol. In contrast, transgenic mice overexpressing GAT1 displayed low sensitivity to ethanol, as shown by the righting reflex test. Mice overexpressing GAT1 survived a lethal dose of ethanol (9 g/kg, i.p.) longer, maintained locomotor activity longer after a sub-lethal dose (1.75 g/kg, i.p.) and exhibited a higher median lethal dose than wild-type littermates. These results suggest that GAT1 plays an important role in sensitivity to ethanol, and might be a therapeutic target for alcoholism prevention and treatment. Acute and chronic ethanol administration resulted in the increase of GABA transporter function. Use of GAT1 selective inhibitors and GAT1 overexpressing mice thus demonstrate that GAT1 should be an important protein mediating sensitivity to ethanol in mice.
Neurons of the principal nucleus of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTp) process pheromonal and viscerosensory stimuli associated with reproduction and relay this information to preoptic and hypothalamic cell groups that regulate reproductive function. The anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (AVPV), a nucleus involved in the regulation of gonadotropin secretory patterns, receives dense projections from BSTp neurons in males but not in females. By injecting the anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHAL), into the BSTp of rats and immunohistochemically colocalizing the GABA synthetic enzyme, GAD65, to PHAL-immunoreactive fibers in the AVPV, we tested the hypothesis that these sex-specific projections arise from BSTp neurons that synthesize the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. Although dense GAD65-immunoreactive fiber terminals were observed in both the male and female AVPV, higher numbers of GAD65-labeled terminals were found in the male, and those localized to PHAL-immunoreactive fibers were seen almost exclusively in males. Treatment of newborn females with testosterone or neonatal orchidectomy of males reversed these sex differences, while GAD65-immunoreactivity in the AVPV was not altered in response to exogenous hormone treatments administered to peripubertal animals. Our results suggest that projections from BSTp neurons constitute a stable, sex-specific GABAergic input to the AVPV that is patterned permanently by perinatal hormone exposure.
To determine the sensitivity of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons to ionotropic glutamate receptor activation, acetylcholine was collected from the cerebral cortex of urethane-anesthetized rats using microdialysis while monitoring cortical electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA; 1, 10, or 100 microM), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 100 or 1000 microM) or a combination of AMPA (10 microM) and NMDA (100 microM) was administered to the basal forebrain using reverse microdialysis. Both glutamate receptor agonists produced concentration-dependent, several-fold increases in acetylcholine release indicating that they activated basal forebrain cholinergic neurons; AMPA was more potent, increasing acetylcholine release at a lower concentration than NMDA. The combination of AMPA and NMDA did not produce any greater release than each drug alone, indicating that the effects of these two drugs on cholinergic neurons are not additive. EEG was analyzed by fast Fourier transforms to determine the extent of physiological activation of the cortex. The highest concentrations of AMPA and NMDA tested produced small (25%) but significant increases in high frequency activity. There was a positive correlation across animals between the increases in power in the beta (14-30 Hz) and gamma (30-58 Hz) ranges and increases in acetylcholine release. These results indicate that glutamate can activate cholinergic basal forebrain neurons via both AMPA and NMDA ionotropic receptors but has a more modest effect on EEG activation.
Spinal intrathecal administration of nicotine inhibits bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation, a component of the inflammatory response, in the knee joint of the rat in a dose-related fashion. Nociceptors contain nicotinic receptors and activation of a nociceptor at its peripheral terminal, by capsaicin, also produces inhibition of inflammation. Therefore the aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the spinal target for this effect of nicotine is the central terminal of the primary afferent nociceptor. Intrathecal administration of the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, (3aR,7aR)-7,7-diphenyl-2-(1-imino-2(2-methoxyphenyl)-ethyl) perhydroisoindol-4-1 hydrochloride or the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, both antagonists of the action of primary afferent neurotransmitters, markedly attenuated the inhibition of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation produced by both intrathecal nicotine and intraplantar capsaicin.Conversely, intrathecal administration of an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine or an opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone, to block descending antinociceptive controls, which provide inhibitory input to primary afferent nociceptors, enhanced the action of both nicotine and capsaicin. These findings support the hypothesis that the central terminal of the primary afferent nociceptor is a CNS target at which nicotine acts to inhibit inflammation.
The chronic administration of morphine and related opioid drugs results in tolerance and dependence which limits the clinical utility of these agents. Neuronal plasticity is probably responsible in large part for tolerance and dependence. Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) plays a crucial role in the neuroplastic events underlying memory formation and other phenomena. However, the role of this kinase in morphine tolerance remains unclear. To clarify this issue we explored mRNA and protein expression of CaMKIIalpha in spinal cord tissue from control and morphine treated mice using real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blot analysis and confocal microscopy. Our chronic exposure paradigm involved the subcutaneous implantation of morphine pellets for 6 days prior to tissue analysis. The results indicate that the levels of CaMKIIalpha mRNA and protein were robustly increased in spinal cord tissue from morphine-treated mice. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that the increase in CaMKIIalpha expression was primarily localized to superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. In addition, the abundance of phosphorylated CaMKIIalpha was increased in spinal cord tissue from morphine-treated mice. We conclude that enhanced CaMKIIalpha expression and activity in spinal cord tissue may contribute to the development of morphine tolerance in mice. The involvement of this enzyme in opioid tolerance suggests other parallels may exist between the neuroplastic events related to memory formation and those related to opioid tolerance or pain.
Presynaptic P2X(7) receptors are thought to play a role in the modulation of transmitter release and have been localised to terminals with the location and morphology typical of excitatory boutons. To test the hypothesis that this receptor is preferentially associated with excitatory terminals we combined immunohistochemistry for the P2X(7) receptor subunit (P2X(7)R) with that for two vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) in the rat CNS. This confirmed that P2X(7)R immunoreactivity (IR) is present in glutamatergic terminals; however, whether it was co-localised with VGLUT1-IR or VGLUT2-IR depended on the CNS region examined. In the spinal cord, P2X(7)R-IR co-localised with VGLUT2-IR. In the brainstem, co-localisation of P2X(7)R-IR with VGLUT2-IR was widespread, but co-localisation with VGLUT1-IR was seen only in the external cuneate nucleus and spinocerebellar tract region of the ventral medulla. In the cerebellum, P2X(7)R-IR co-localised with both VGLUT1 and VGLUT2-IR in the granular layer. In the hippocampus it was co-localised only with VGLUT1-IR, including in the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus and the substantia radiatum of the CA3 region. In other forebrain areas, P2X(7)R-IR co-localised with VGLUT1-IR throughout the amygdala, caudate putamen, striatum, reticular thalamic nucleus and cortex and with VGLUT2-IR in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, amygdala and hypothalamus. Dual labelling studies performed using markers for cholinergic, monoaminergic, GABAergic and glycinergic terminals indicated that in certain brainstem and spinal cord nuclei the P2X(7)R is also expressed by subpopulations of cholinergic and GABAergic/glycinergic terminals. These data support our previous hypothesis that the P2X(7)R may play a role in modulating glutamate release in functionally different systems throughout the CNS but further suggest a role in modulating release of inhibitory transmitters in some regions.
In the brain, the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (Pgp) is predominantly located on the luminal membrane of endothelial cells lining brain microvessels and forming the blood-brain barrier. Many lipophilic drugs, including antiepileptic drugs, are potential substrates for Pgp. Overexpression of Pgp in endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier has been determined in patients with drug resistant forms of epilepsy such as temporal lobe epilepsy and rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy and suggested to lead to reduced penetration of antiepileptic drugs into the brain. Expression of Pgp after seizures has also been described in astrocytes, whereas it is not clear whether neurons can express Pgp. In the present study, Pgp expression was studied by immunohistochemistry in rats 24 h after a status epilepticus induced by either pilocarpine or kainate, widely used models of temporal lobe epilepsy. Unexpectedly, in addition to endothelial Pgp staining, intense Pgp staining was found in neurons in the CA3c/CA4 sectors and hilus of the hippocampus formation, but not in other brain regions examined. The neuronal Pgp staining was confirmed by two different Pgp antibodies. Double immunolabeling and confocal microscopy showed that Pgp was colocalized with the neuronal marker neuronal nuclear antigen, but not with the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. No neuronal Pgp staining was seen in control rats. The expression of Pgp in neurons after limbic seizures was substantiated by determining Pgp encoding genes (mdr1a, mdr1b) in neurons by real time quantitative RT-PCR. Increased Pgp expression in hippocampal neurons is likely to affect the action of drugs with intraneuronal targets and, in view of recent evidence from other cell types, could be associated with prevention of apoptosis which is involved in neuronal damage developing after seizures such as produced by pilocarpine.
Exposure to 70% N(2)O evokes a robust antinociceptive effect in C57BL/6 (B6) but not in DBA/2 (D2) inbred mice. This study was conducted to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) in the mouse genome that might determine responsiveness to N(2)O. Offspring from the F(2) generation bred from B6 and D2 progenitors exhibited a broad range of responsiveness to N(2)O antinociception as determined by the acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction test. QTL analysis was then used to dissect this continuous trait distribution into component loci, and to map them to broad chromosomal regions. To this end, 24 spleens were collected from each of the following four groups: male and female F(2) mice responding to 70% N(2)O in oxygen with 100% response (high-responders); and male and female F(2) mice responding with 0% response (low-responders). Genomic DNA was extracted from the spleens and genotyped with simple sequence length polymorphism MapPairs markers. Findings were combined with findings from the earlier QTL analysis from BXD recombinant inbred mice [Brain Res 725 (1996) 23]. Combined results revealed two significant QTL that influence responsiveness to nitrous oxide on proximal chromosome 2 and distal chromosome 5, and one suggestive QTL on midchromosome 18. The chromosome 2 QTL was evident only in males. A significant interaction was found between a locus on chromosome 6 and another on chromosome 13 with a substantial effect on N(2)O antinociception.
Using an in vitro microsuperfusion procedure, the release of newly synthesized [(3)H]-acetylcholine (ACh), evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor stimulation, was investigated in striosome-enriched areas and matrix of the rat striatum. The role of micro-opioid receptors, activated by endogenously released enkephalin, on the NMDA-evoked release of ACh was studied using the selective micro-opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine. Experiments were performed 2 (morning) or 8 (afternoon) h after light onset, in either the presence or absence (alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, an inhibitor of dopamine synthesis) of dopaminergic transmission. As expected, based on the presence of micro-opioid receptors in striosomes, beta-funaltrexamine (0.1 nM, 10 nM and 1 microM) enhanced the NMDA (1 mM+10 microM D-serine)-evoked release of ACh in striosome-enriched areas but not in the matrix. Interestingly, these responses were significantly more pronounced in afternoon than in morning experiments. In the presence of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, the NMDA-evoked release of ACh was increased with similar amplitude in morning and afternoon experiments. However, in this condition (without dopamine transmission), the facilitatory effects of beta-funaltrexamine on the NMDA-evoked release of ACh were suppressed totally in the morning and only partially in the afternoon. The selective micro-opiate agonist, [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (1 microM, coapplied with NMDA), was without effect on the NMDA-evoked release of ACh but abolished both dopamine-dependent (morning) and dopamine-independent (afternoon) responses of beta-funaltrexamine (10 nM and 1 microM).Therefore, in the limbic territory of the striatum enriched in striosomes, the micro-opioid-inhibitory regulation of ACh release follows diurnal rhythms. While dopamine is required for this regulation in the morning and the afternoon, an additional dopamine-independent process is present only in the afternoon.
The neurochemical correlates of the behavioural consequences of isolation rearing of rats are complex and involve many neurotransmitters, including the serotonergic system. Impaired functioning of the ascending serotonergic system has been implicated in many neuropsychiatric syndromes, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and schizophrenia. In the present investigation serotonergic function was assessed using in vitro receptor autoradiography. The 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) (5-HT(2A)) receptor antagonist [(3)H]ketanserin and the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, [(3)H]WAY100, 635 were used to compare 5-HT receptor subtype densities in the forebrains of socially and isolation-reared rats. Regions of highest receptor density were observed in the frontal cortex for 5-HT(2A) receptors and in the frontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus and lateral septum for 5-HT(1A) receptors. In isolation-reared rats, 5-HT(2A) receptor binding site densities were significantly increased by between 36 and 67% in the prelimbic, motor and cingulate cortices compared with socially reared controls. By contrast, 5-HT(1A) receptor binding site densities were significantly reduced by 22% in the prelimbic cortex, and significantly increased by between 10 and 50% in the motor cortex, somatosensory cortex, dentate gyrus and CA fields of the hippocampus. These data demonstrate that isolation-rearing produces significant effects on forebrain 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor densities in the adult rat. It is hypothesised that altered serotonergic function, particularly in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, may underlie some of the behavioural abnormalities associated with isolation-rearing.
Glycinergic membrane responses have been described in cortical plate neurons (CPn) and Cajal-Retzius cells (CRc) during early neocortical development. In order to elucidate the functional properties and molecular identity of glycine receptors in these two neuronal cell types, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and subsequent single-cell multiplex reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses on visually identified neurons in tangential and coronal slices as well as in situ hybridizations of coronal slices from neonatal rat cerebral cortex (postnatal days 0-4). In both CPn and CRc the glycinergic agonists glycine, beta-alanine and taurine induced inward currents with larger current densities in CRc. The functional properties of these currents were similar between CPn and CRc. In both cell types the glycine receptor showed a higher affinity for glycine than for the glycinergic agonists beta-alanine and taurine. The glycinergic responses of both cells were blocked by the glycinergic antagonist strychnine and were unaffected by the GABAergic antagonist bicuculline (100 microM), the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentatonic acid (60 microM) and by picrotoxin (30 microM), an antagonist of alpha homomeric glycine receptors. Single-cell multiplex RT-PCR revealed the expression of glycine receptor alpha(2) and beta subunits in CPn and CRc, while no alpha(1) and alpha(3) subunits were observed. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed the expression of mRNAs for alpha(2) and beta subunits within the cortical plate and in large neurons of the marginal zone, while there were no signals for alpha(1) and alpha(3) subunits. In summary, these results suggest that CPn and CRc express glycine receptors with similar functional and pharmacological properties. The correlation of pharmacological properties and mRNA expression suggests that the glycine receptors in both cell types may consist of alpha(2)/beta heteromeric receptors.
Previous work showed that isolation rearing produces remarkable changes in the dendritic pattern and soma of the principal neurons in the dentate gyrus and hippocampal fields CA3 and CA1 of the guinea-pig. The aim of the present study was to obtain information about the effects of early postnatal isolation on neuron morphology in field CA2, the &quot;resistant sector&quot; of the hippocampal formation. Male and female guinea-pigs were assigned at 6-7 days of age to either a control (social) or an isolated environment where they remained for 80-90 days. The apical and basal dendritic trees and the soma of CA2 pyramidal neurons were analyzed and quantified in Golgi-stained brains. The results showed that in both males and females early isolation caused no effects on the length and dendritic branching density of the apical tree of field CA2 pyramidal neurons. In males but not in females isolation caused a spine density reduction in the inner apical tree. Isolation notably influenced the morphology of the basal tree, but in males only. Isolated males exhibited a significant reduction in the length of the basal tree and number of dendritic branches accompanied by a reduction in spine density. The comparison of animals reared in the same environment showed that in the control environment males had more apical and basal dendritic branches and a larger neuron soma than females. In the isolated environment the sex differences in the apical tree disappeared and those in the basal tree changed direction.The results demonstrate structural changes in field CA2 pyramidal neurons following neonatal isolation, with a specific reactivity to environment of the basal tree of males. The dendritic atrophy in field CA2 of isolated males is in line with previous evidence that males react to isolation mainly with dendritic atrophy, though field CA2 neurons appear to be less damaged than those of the other hippocampal fields. This is in line with the resistance of this field to neurodegeneration. The absence of structural changes in field CA2 of isolated females confirms, once again, that males are more liable to be endangered by early isolation than females.
While the acute physiological effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) have been well demonstrated, little is known regarding possible morphological effects that occur within a short period of time. The acute effects of BDNF on dendritic spine morphology were examined in granule cells in cultured main olfactory bulb slices. Organotypic slices prepared from 7-day-old rats were cultured for 1 day, and BDNF was applied at varying time points prior to fixation. Granule cell dendrites were labeled with a membrane dye and observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope. The addition of BDNF into the culture medium 6 h before fixation decreased the mean diameter of the dendritic processes (filopodia/spines), but the length and density of the processes were not affected. Both filopodia/spines in the external plexiform layer and those in the granule cell layer exhibited similar changes. Considering the slow penetration into the slices, BDNF was then applied to the top of each slice. When applied 1 h before fixation, 5 ng and 0.5 ng of BDNF induced the same changes in the external plexiform layer and the granule cell layer, respectively. The changes became detectable as early as 30 min when 50 ng of BDNF was applied. The pretreatment with tetanus toxin or an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist abolished the acute effects of BDNF on spine morphology. These results indicate that BDNF can alter spine morphology within a shorter period of time than previously observed and that the effects are mediated by enhanced glutamatergic signaling.
The enteric nervous system plays an integral role in the gastrointestinal tract. Within this intricate network, enteric glia are crucial in the maintenance of normal bowel function, yet their signaling mechanisms are poorly understood. Enteric glia, and not enteric neurons, selectively responded to lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a product of phosphatidylcholine metabolism, with dose-dependent calcium (Ca(2+)) signaling over a range from 100 pM to 10 microM. The elicited calcium transients involved both the mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) stores and the influx of extracellular Ca(2+) as LPA signals were obliterated following the depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) and attenuated by the removal of Ca(2+) from the perfusion buffer. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin (100 ng/ml) reduced the magnitude of LPA Ca(2+) transients (95+/-20 nM vs 168+/-17 nM for controls). Repetitive exposure yielded diminished responsiveness, with a 25% reduction in [Ca(2+)](i) between first and second exposures. Inhibition of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor with 200 microM 2-aminoethoxydiphenylborate (2APB) abolished LPA signals. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated the presence of two LPA-coupled endothelial differentiation gene (EDG) receptor mRNAs (EDG-2 and EDG-7) in myenteric plexus primary cultures. EDG-2 expression in glial cells of the ENS was confirmed immunocytochemically.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle is a measure of sensorimotor gating that is impaired in schizophrenia. We have reported that PPI is regulated by the ventral hippocampus (VH) and that the PPI disruptive effects of the dopamine agonist apomorphine are enhanced 4 weeks after excitotoxic lesions of the VH. The mechanisms responsible for the VH influence on PPI are not understood, but have been ascribed to interactions between the VH and nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we examined whether the VH influence on PPI and its dopaminergic regulation is dependent on the integrity of the VH-accumbens projection via the fornix. First, the PPI-disruptive effects of intra-VH NMDA infusion were assessed after sham or electrolytic transection of the fornix. Second, the PPI-disruptive effects of apomorphine were assessed 1 month after excitotoxic or electrolytic lesions of the VH, or after fornix transection. Intra-VH N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion significantly disrupted PPI; this effect was unaffected by fornix lesions. The PPI-disruptive effects of apomorphine were significantly enhanced by excitotoxic or electrolytic lesions of the VH, but not by fornix transection. The influence of the VH on PPI and its dopaminergic regulation does not appear to be mediated via the fornix. The enhanced sensitivity to the PPI-disruptive effects of apomorphine after VH lesions is not dependent on excitotoxin-induced changes in the VH or its downstream projections.
The goal of this study was to determine if relatively complex motor training on Rota-rod involving balance and coordination plays an essential role in improving motor function in ischemic rats, as compared with simple locomotor exercise on treadmill. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats with (n=40) or without (n=40) ischemia were trained under each of three conditions: (1) motor balance and coordination training on Rota-rod; (2) simple exercise on treadmill; and (3) non-trained controls. Motor function was evaluated by a series of tests (foot fault placing, parallel bar crossing, rope and ladder climbing) before and at 14 or 28 days after training procedures in both ischemic and normal animals. Infarct volume in ischemic animals was determined with Nissl staining. Compared with both treadmill exercised and non-trained animals, Rota-rod-trained animals with or without ischemia significantly (P&lt;0.01) improved motor performance of all tasks except for foot fault placing after 14 days of training, with normal rats having better performance. Animals trained for up to 28 days on the treadmill did not show significantly improved function. With regard to foot fault placing task, performance on foot placing was improved in ischemic rats across the three measurements at 0, 14 and 28 days regardless of training condition, while the normal group reached their best performance at the beginning of measurement. No significant differences in infarct volume were found in rats trained either with Rota-rod (47+/-4%; mean+/-S.E.), treadmill (45+/-5%) or non-exercised control (45+/-3%). In addition, no obvious difference could be detected in the location of the damage which included the dorso-lateral portion of the neostriatum and the frontoparietal cortex, the main regions supplied by the middle cerebral artery. The data suggest that complex motor training rather than simple exercise effectively improves functional outcome.
In Japanese quail, testosterone (T) increases the Nissl staining density in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) in relation to the differential activation by T of copulatory behavior. The effect of T on protein synthesis was quantified here in 97 discrete brain regions by the in vivo autoradiographic (14)C-leucine (Leu) incorporation method in adult gonadectomized male and female quail that had been treated for 4 weeks with T or left without hormone. T activated male sexual behaviors in males but not females. Overall Leu incorporation was increased by T in five brain regions, many of which contain sex steroid receptors such as the POM, archistriatum and lateral hypothalamus. T decreased Leu incorporation in the medial septum. Leu incorporation was higher in males than females in two nuclei but higher in females in three nuclei including the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus. Significant interactions between effects of T and sex were seen in 13 nuclei: in most nuclei (n=12), T increased Leu incorporation in males but decreased it in females. The POM boundaries were defined by a denser Leu incorporation than the surrounding area and incorporation was increased by T more in males (25%) than in females (6%). These results confirm that protein synthesis in brain areas relevant to the control of sexual behavior can be affected by the sex of the subjects or their endocrine condition and that T can have differential effects in the two sexes. These anabolic changes should reflect the sexually differentiated neurochemical mechanisms mediating behavioral activation.
In vivo microdialysis was used to determine the necessity of neuronal activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) for task-induced increases in cortical acetylcholine (ACh) efflux. Rats were trained in a behavioral task in which they were required to perform a defined number of licks of a citric acid solution in order to gain access to a palatable, cheese-flavored food. Upon reaching a consistent level of performance, rats were implanted with microdialysis cannula in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and either the ipsilateral shell of the NAC or in the dorsal striatum (STR; control site). Dialysis samples from the mPFC were analyzed for ACh concentrations and samples from the NAC were analyzed for dopamine (DA) concentrations. Performance in the task was associated with increases in both ACh efflux in the cortex (150-200%) and DA efflux in the NAC (50-75%). These increases were blocked by administration of tetrodotoxin (TTX; 1.0 microM) via reverse dialysis into the NAC. Administration of TTX into the dorsal STR control site was ineffective in blocking performance-associated increases in cortical ACh. The D2 antagonist sulpiride (10 or 100 microM) administered into the NAC via reverse dialysis was ineffective in blocking increases in cortical ACh efflux. The present data reveal that neuronal activity in the NAC is necessary for behaviorally induced increases in cortical ACh efflux and that this activation does not require increases in D2 receptor activity.
Here, we describe a biologically relevant model called conditioned defeat that is used to examine behavioral responses to social defeat in Syrian hamsters. In this model experimental animals that are normally aggressive experience social defeat and consequently display high levels of submissive/defensive behavior even in response to non-threatening conspecifics. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors within the amygdala play an important role in conditioned fear; therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine whether NMDA receptors within the amygdala are necessary for the acquisition and expression of conditioned defeat. Specifically, the present study examined whether bilateral infusions of the NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5; 0.625, 1.25, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0 microg) into the amygdala would block the acquisition of conditioned defeat. Subsequently, we examined whether bilateral infusions of AP5 (0.625, 1.25, 2.5, 5.0 microg) into the amygdala prior to testing would block the expression of conditioned defeat. Infusions of AP5 into the amygdala immediately before the initial social defeat significantly reduced submissive/defensive behavior when hamsters were tested the following day with a non-aggressive intruder. Similarly, infusions of AP5 into the amygdala immediately before exposure to a non-aggressive intruder significantly attenuated the display of submissive/defensive behavior. These data demonstrate that NMDA receptors are necessary for both the acquisition and expression of conditioned defeat. We believe that conditioned defeat is a unique and valuable animal model with which to investigate the neurobiology of fear-related changes in social behavior.
Differences in the locomotor response of rats to a novel environment (high responders [HR] versus low responders [LR]) have been associated with differences in vulnerability to psychostimulants. In the present study we profiled extensively the behavioral repertoire of HR and LR rats (differentiated on the basis of vertical activity) during exposure to a novel environment and in response to d-amphetamine (d-amp; 1.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Moreover, we ascertained whether HR and LR rats differ in the rewarding effects of medial forebrain bundle electrical self-stimulation and in the ability of d-amp to increase the reinforcing efficacy of self-stimulation. Apart from rearing, HR animals displayed increased moving, sniffing, but decreased standing and yawning compared with LR. Factor analysis revealed a more complex behavioral structure consisting of locomotion, exploration, vertical activity and self-directed behavior for HR compared with LR rats. Qualitative, but not quantitative differences, between the two groups of rats in their behavioral responses to d-amp were found. In particular, a more complex profile mainly characterized by self-directed behavior, locomotion and vertical activity was manifested for HR as compared with LR rats. Baseline brain stimulation reward thresholds did not differ between the two groups of rats. Additionally, brain stimulation reward thresholds for the two groups were not differentially affected by d-amp. The above results suggest that HR and LR can be further differentiated upon exposure to a novel environment and in response to d-amp. This differentiation is primarily based on qualitative cohorts of their behavioral structure, but not on deviations in the reward processes as assessed by intracranial self-stimulation.
It is accepted that there are important individual differences in the vulnerability to stress-induced pathologies, most of them associated to the hypothalamic-pituitary and sympatho-medullo-adrenal axes, the two prototypical stress-responsive systems. However, there are few studies specifically aimed at characterising individual differences in the physiological response to daily repeated stress in rats. In the present work, male rats were submitted to repeated immobilisation (IMO) stress (1 h daily for 13 days) and several samples were taken at specific days and time points. Animals only subjected to blood sampling procedure served as controls. Daily adrenocorticotropic-hormone (ACTH), corticosterone and glucose responses to immobilisation (that included the post-immobilisation period) progressively declined over the days. In addition, repeated immobilisation resulted in decreased relative thymus weight, increased relative adrenal weight, elevated corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA levels in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and down-regulation of glucocorticoid receptor gene transcription in hippocampus CA1. However, only CRF mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus correlated with the ACTH (on day 1) and corticosterone responses (from day 4-13) to immobilisation. When the animals were classified in three groups on the basis of their plasma ACTH levels immediately after the first immobilisation, individual differences in the ACTH response progressively disappeared on successive exposures to the stressor, whereas those in corticosterone and glucose were more sustained. The present results suggest that there are individual differences in the physiological response to stress that tend to be reduced rather than accentuated by repeated exposure to the stressor. Nevertheless, this buffering effect of repeated stress was dependent on the particular variable studied.
For many years, research focus on metallothioneins, small zinc binding proteins found predominantly within astrocytes in the brain, has centred on their ability to indirectly protect neurons from oxygen free radicals and heavy metal-induced neurotoxicity. However, in recent years it has been demonstrated that these proteins have previously unsuspected roles within the cellular response to brain injury. The aim of this commentary is to provide an overview of the exciting recent experimental evidence from several laboratories including our own suggesting a possible extracellular role for these proteins, and to present a hypothetical model explaining the newly identified function of extracellular metallothioneins in CNS injury and repair.
In recent years a large body of evidence has emerged linking chronic stress with increased vulnerability for depression and anxiety disorders. As corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is hypersecreted under these psychological conditions, we used our CRF-overexpressing (CRF-OE) mouse line to study underlying brain mechanisms possibly causing these disorders. Urocortin (Ucn), a recently discovered member of the CRF peptide family may play a role in the pathophysiology of stress-induced disorders. Stressors recruit Ucn-immunoreactive neurons in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (E-WN), which is the major site of Ucn expression. Furthermore, E-WN Ucn mRNA levels are upregulated in CRF-deficient mice. Based on these findings, we hypothesized the down-regulation of E-WN Ucn in CRF-OE mice and consequently, altered responsiveness to stressful stimuli. Our results support this hypothesis as we found weaker immunohistochemical labeling with anti-Ucn and a six times weaker Ucn mRNA signal in E-WN in CRF-OE mice. Moreover, E-WN Ucn-expressing neurons mounted a response to acute challenge in CRF-OE mice too. From these results it is concluded that the CRF and E-WN Ucn neuronal systems work in concert in response to acute challenges, but are inversely regulated in their activities during chronic hyperactivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is characterized by muscle degeneration and affects the CNS. Dystrophin is absent in muscle and CNS of both DMD patients and mdx mouse, a model of DMD. While the involvement of vascular compartment in DMD was poorly investigated, some studies suggested a role for mast cells (MC). Tryptase, contained in the MC granules, stimulates angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrated for the first time a correlation between the extent of angiogenesis and the number of tryptase-positive neurons and microvessels and suggest that the tryptase contained in the neurons and in the endothelial cells of the mdx mouse brain may be involved in the regulation of angiogenesis taking place in mdx mouse.
Infant mammals cycle rapidly between sleep and wakefulness and only gradually does a more consolidated sleep pattern develop. The neural substrates responsible for this consolidation are unknown. To establish a reliable measure of sleep-wake cyclicity in infant rats, nuchal muscle tone was measured in 2-, 5-, and 8-day-old rats, as were motor behaviors associated with sleep (i.e. myoclonic twitching) and wakefulness (e.g. kicking, stretching). Sleep-wake cycles of 2-day-old rats were characterized by short periods of muscle atonia followed by equally short periods of high tone. In 8-day-olds, sleep periods lengthened significantly and disproportionately in relation to awake periods. Next, locus coeruleus (LC) lesions in 8-day-olds resulted in rapid sleep-wake cycling similar to that exhibited by 2-day-olds; in addition, LC lesions had no effect on the duration of awake periods. Finally, transections caudal, but not rostral, to the anterior hypothalamus also reinstated rapid cycling in 8-day-olds, again without affecting the duration of awake periods. This last finding implicates neural structures within the anterior hypothalamus (e.g. ventrolateral preoptic area) in the modulation of sleep-wake cyclicity. The temporal coherence of atonia and myoclonic twitching was not disrupted by any of the manipulations. These results suggest the presence of a bistable mesopontine circuit governing rapid sleep-wake cycling that does not include the LC and that comes increasingly under hypothalamic control during the first postnatal week. This circuit may represent a basic building block with which other sleep components become integrated during ontogeny.
This experiment tested the effect of cortical spreading depression on the sympathetic and thermogenic effects induced by orexin A. The firing rates of the sympathetic nerves to interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT), along with IBAT and colonic temperatures and heart rate were monitored in urethane-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats before and 5 h after an injection of orexin A (1.5 nmol) into the lateral cerebral ventricle. The same variables were monitored in rats with cortical spreading depression, induced by an application of cotton pellets soaked with 2 M KCl to the frontal cortex. The results show that orexin A increases the sympathetic firing rate, IBAT and colonic temperatures and heart rate. The increases in firing rate, IBAT and colonic temperatures are blocked by cortical spreading depression, while the increase in heart rate is not affected by cortical spreading depression. These findings suggest that the cerebral cortex is involved in the control of the orexin A-induced hyperthermia. Furthermore, we suggested the name &quot;hyperthermine A,&quot; as additional denomination of &quot;orexin A.&quot;
The distribution of GABAergic callosally projecting neurons was analysed in the somatic sensory areas of cat and rat cerebral cortex by combining retrograde tracing of nerve cell bodies and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunocytochemistry. A retrograde tracer (colloidal gold- labelled wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to enzymatically inactive horseradish peroxidase) was injected in the first or second somatic sensory area. Brain sections were processed for the simultaneous visualisation of the retrograde tracer and GAD immunoreactivity. In all animals, double-labelled neurons were found in the hemisphere contralateral to the injection site (double-labelled callosal neurons). Their proportion was similar in both species (0.8% of all retrogradely-labelled neurons in cat, 0.7% in rat). These results: 1) confirm the existence of a small proportion of GABAergic callosally projecting neurons in rat somatic sensory cortices; 2) indicate the presence of a small but significant proportion of GAD-positive callosally projecting neurons in cat somatic sensory cortices; and 3) show that the proportion of GAD-positive callosal neurons is similar in the two species.
The cellular localization of the vesicular glutamate transporter 1, VGLUT1, was studied in the rat cerebral cortex with immunocytochemical techniques. VGLUT1 immunoreactivity (ir) was localized to punctate structures dispersed in the neuropil of all cortical layers as well as around the profile of somata and proximal dendritic segments of virtually all pyramidal neurons. Using a correlative light and electron microscopic method, we found that VGLUT1 ir is expressed in axon terminals forming synapses exclusively with dendritic shafts and spines. Perisomatic VGLUT1-positive terminals never formed synapses with the pyramidal cell bodies to which they were in apposition, but formed asymmetric synapses with adjacent neuropilar dendritic elements. The high probability of a close spatial relationship between glutamatergic and GABAergic terminals in perisomatic regions suggests that spilled-out glutamate may act on inhibitory axon terminals innervating the soma of cortical pyramidal neurons.
Psychostimulants and antipsychotic drugs increase mRNA expression of the neuropeptide neurotensin (NT) in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we used mice lacking the dopamine transporter (DAT) to investigate the consequences of a chronic hyperdopaminergic state on NT gene expression. NT mRNA expression was examined under basal conditions and after administration of haloperidol or amphetamine using in situ hybridization with a digoxigenin-labeled NT cRNA probe. DAT-/- mice exhibited a striking increase in the number of NT mRNA-expressing perikarya in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, as well as a less pronounced increase in the lateral septum compared with wild-type littermates. No changes were detected in other regions expressing NT mRNA. Acute administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg) induced a significant increase in the number of NT mRNA-expressing neurons in the dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum of wild-type mice but failed to stimulate NT gene expression in DAT mutants. In contrast, a higher dose of haloperidol (5 mg/kg) stimulated striatal NT mRNA expression both in DAT+/+ and DAT-/- mice. Amphetamine (10 mg/kg) increased the number of hybridized neurons in the nucleus accumbens shell and fundus striati of wild-type and DAT-/- mice, indicating that the drug acted through a target other than DAT, such as the serotonin or the norepinephrine transporters. The up-regulation of NT mRNA observed in DAT-/- mice may represent an adaptive mechanism in response to constitutive hyperdopaminergia. These results illustrate the profound alterations in the NT system induced by chronic stimulation of DA receptors and underscore the potential clinical relevance of NT/DA interactions in schizophrenia and drug abuse.
Leptin is a 16 kDa hormone that is produced by adipose tissue and has a central effect on food intake and energy homeostasis. The ability of leptin to cross the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barriers and reach or leave the CNS was studied by the bilateral in situ brain perfusion and isolated incubated choroid plexus techniques in the rat. Brain perfusion results indicated that [(125)I]leptin reached the CNS at higher concentrations than the vascular marker, confirming that [(125)I]leptin crossed the brain barriers. Leptin distribution varied between CNS regions and indicated that the blood-brain barrier, in contrast to the blood-CSF route, was the key pathway for [(125)I]leptin to reach the brain. Further perfusion studies revealed that [(125)I]leptin movement into the arcuate nucleus, thalamus, frontal cortex, choroid plexuses and CSF was unaffected by unlabelled human or murine leptin at a concentration that reflects the upper human and rat plasma leptin concentration (2.5 nM). In contrast, the cerebellum uptake of [(125)I]leptin was decreased by 73% with 2.5 nM human leptin. Thus, this site of dense leptin receptor expression would be sensitive to physiological changes in leptin plasma concentrations. The highest rate (K(in)) of [(125)I]leptin uptake was into the choroid plexuses (307.7+/-68.0 microl/min/g); however, this was not reflected in the CSF (8.9+/-4.1 microl/min/g) and indicates that this tissue tightly regulates leptin distribution. The multiple-time brain uptake of [(125)I]leptin was non-linear and suggested leptin could also be removed from the CNS. Studies using the incubated rat choroid plexus model found that [(125)I]leptin could cross the apical membrane of the choroid plexus to leave the CSF. However, this movement was not sensitive to unlabelled human leptin or specific transport inhibitors/modulators (including probenecid, digoxin, deltorphin II, progesterone and indomethacin).This study supports the concept of brain-barrier regulation of leptin distribution to the CNS, and highlights an important link between leptin and the cerebellum.
A growing body of evidence indicates that estrogens affect apoptotic processes in neuronal cells. However, their effects seem to depend on type of neuronal tissue, stage of development and apoptosis inducing factors. In the present study we compared effects of estrone (100 and 500 nM) on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) (1 mM)- and staurosporine (1 microM)-induced caspase-3-like activity and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)-release in primary cultures of rat hippocampal and neocortical neurons. Fluorometric and colorimetric determination of enzyme activity was performed 6 h, 14 h, and 24 h after exposure to apoptotic agents. In the hippocampal cell cultures on 7 days in vitro (DIV), a time-dependent NMDA-induced activation of caspase-3-like proteases was accompanied by increased LDH-release. In neocortical cell cultures on 7 DIV NMDA did not affect caspase activity and decreased LDH-release. In neocortical cell cultures on 12 DIV NMDA inhibited spontaneous caspase activity, but was toxic to neurons after 24 h exposure suggesting that these cells underwent necrotic rather than apoptotic death. Estrone has attenuated both pro- and anti-apoptotic NMDA-induced changes in rat primary neuronal cultures acting independently of estrogen receptors, as detected with ICI 182, 780. In hippocampal neurons estrone antagonized not only the NMDA-induced caspase-3-like activity, but also NMDA-mediated LDH-release. However, in neocortical neurons estrone either attenuated NMDA-induced inhibition of caspase-3-like activity (12 DIV) or partly blocked NMDA-mediated decrease in LDH-release (7 DIV). In contrast to NMDA, staurosporine elevated caspase-3-like activity and LDH-release in a time-dependent manner in all used culture systems. Estrone inhibited pro-apoptotic effects of staurosporine in neocortical neurons, but only at later stage of development in vitro, which points to the protective role of estrogens during the brain tissue maturation. Since estrone triggered its effects via non-genomic mechanisms, it suggests that the other estradiol metabolites exhibiting low affinity to hormone receptors may be potent neuroprotective agents, which could retain the favorable and minimize the adverse side effects of estrogens.
We have investigated metaplasticity of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent long-term depression (LTD) and depotentiation (DP) induced by physiological synaptic stimulation in the medial perforant path of the dentate gyrus in vitro. Group I mGluR-LTD/DP was inhibited by prior preconditioning brief high frequency stimulation (HFS) if the preconditioning HFS induced long-term potentiation (LTP) or if the induction of LTP was inhibited by an NMDA receptor antagonist. The inhibitory effect of the preconditioning HFS on LTD/DP was dependent upon activation of mGluRs, as it was blocked by the presence of the mGluR antagonist (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine during the preconditioning stimulation. The inhibitory effect of the preconditioning HFS involved stimulation of PKC, as the presence of the PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide (BIS) during the preconditioning stimulation prevented the inhibitory effect of such preconditioning stimulation. Activation of PKC was also necessary for the induction of mGluR-LTD itself, as the PKC inhibitor BIS prevented the induction of the mGluR-LTD. We suggest that the physiological stimulation of mGluRs by the preconditioning stimulation produces a PKC-dependent inactivation of subsequent group I mGluR functioning and thereby an inhibition of induction of group I mGluR-dependent LTD/DP induction.
A selective GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, is known to suppress neuropathic pain. In the present study, we investigated the effect of baclofen on the excitability of trigeminal root ganglion (TRG) neurons by using the whole cell and perforated patch-clamp recording techniques. Under voltage-clamp (V(h)=-60 mV), voltage-dependent K(+) currents were recorded in the small diameter TRG neurons (&lt;30 microm) and isolated by blocking Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents with appropriate ion replacement. Separation of the K(+) current components was achieved by the response to variation in the conditioning voltage. Two distinct K(+) current components, a transient (I(A)) and a sustained (I(k)), were identified. Baclofen significantly increased I(A) by 74.8% (50 microM) and in a dose-dependent manner (1-50 microM). Similarly, I(K) was also enhanced by baclofen administration (41.8%: 50 microM). The relative amplitude of potentiation of I(A) was significantly higher than that of I(K) (P&lt;0.05). Baclofen-sensitive I(A) and I(K) currents were antagonized by K(+) channel blockers, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and tetraethylammonium (TEA). The augmentation of K(+) currents was antagonized by 3-amino-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxypropylsulfonic acid (saclofen; GABA(B) antagonist). In the current clamp mode, the resting membrane potential was -62+/-1.6 mV (n=24). Hyperpolarization of the membrane potential was elicited by baclofen (10-50 microM), and the response was associated with a decrease in the input resistance. Baclofen induced-hyperpolarization was blocked by saclofen (100 microM). In the presence of both 4-AP and TEA, no significant changes in membrane potential induced by baclofen application were observed. In the presence of BaCl(2), baclofen-evoked hyperpolarization with decreased resistance was observed. During application of baclofen, the firing rate of the action potentials by depolarizing step pulses was decreased. Application of baclofen reduced action potential duration evoked by a depolarization current pulse.These results indicated that activation of GABA(B) receptors inhibits the excitability of rat small diameter TRG neurons and this inhibitory action is mediated by potentiation of voltage-dependent K(+) currents. We therefore concluded that modification of nociceptive transmission in the trigeminal system by activation of GABA(B) receptors occurs at the level of small TRG neuron cell bodies and/or their primary afferent terminals, which are potential targets of analgesia by baclofen.
The emerging profile for the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure presents two prominent features in the exposed offspring: cognitive/attention deficits and an age-associated trend toward motor/tone abnormalities up to 2 years of age. One candidate mechanism underlying these clinical features is long-lasting alterations to dopamine (DA) neuron function. However, the impact of prenatal cocaine exposure on DA release in dopaminergic terminal fields in vivo in mature offspring is poorly understood. Long-Evans female rats were implanted with an i.v. access port, bred, and given saline or cocaine-HCl (3 mg/kg/ml) for gestational days (GD) 8-14 (1x/day), GD 15-21 (2x/day), or GD 8-21 (1x/day-GD 8-14, 2x/day-GD 15-21). Using in vivo high-speed chronoamperometric recordings, potassium-stimulated DA release was measured in striatum of anesthetized male offspring 90-150 days after birth. There was a trend toward increased potassium-evoked DA signal amplitudes in offspring exposed to cocaine at any time period examined. In offspring exposed to cocaine during GD 8-21 and GD 15-21, but not at GD 8-14, there were significant decreases in the clearance capacity of the potassium-evoked DA signal compared with control offspring. The time required to clear 80% of the evoked DA signal (T(80)) in striatum for DA was significantly prolonged (approximately 150% of control) and this effect was further increased in the mean-evoked DA concentration range for these two groups. We also measured total dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels in these offspring by blot immunolabeling and found a small, but significant, decrease in DAT protein in striatum from offspring exposed at GD 8-21 and GD 15-21. Collectively, these data demonstrate that prenatal cocaine exposure during dopamine neuron neurogenesis has long-lasting effects on DA neuron function lasting into early adulthood which may be related in part to steady state DAT protein levels. These molecular events may be associated with established cognitive deficits and perhaps the trends seen in altered motor behavior.
The present study was designed to determine whether the changes that occur during aging in the expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and two NMDA receptor subunits, zeta1 and epsilon2, are a continuation of developmental processes and whether protein and mRNA expression patterns of the subunits are similar across the lifespan. The prefrontal/frontal cortex of C57BL/6 mice of eight different ages (7-8, 13-15, 30-32, 49-53, and 70-72 days and 4.5, 11, and 25 months of age) were used to examine NMDA-displaceable [(3)H]glutamate binding and mRNA in tissue sections and mRNA and protein from homogenates. The lateral prefrontal/frontal cortex of C57BL/6 mice showed more significant declines in density of agonist binding to NMDA receptors during both development and aging than the medial cortex. Changes in mRNA expression for the epsilon2 subunit across the lifespan appeared to be related to the changes in NMDA receptor binding in the lateral cortex, even though the protein expression of the epsilon2 subunit did not show the same pattern of expression as the mRNA during development. The changes in epsilon2 subunit mRNA expression during adult aging may be a continuation of developmental processes, but there was also evidence that expression levels plateaued during early adulthood. The developmental expression of the zeta1subunit in the prefrontal/frontal cortex was influenced by gender and there was no significant effect of adult aging on either the protein or mRNA expression of this subunit. Determining how the expression of the NMDA receptor and its subunits change throughout the lifespan can help us to better understand the processes affecting the receptor during aging. These results should be useful for designing interventions into the aging process to repair or prevent changes in the NMDA receptor and its associated functions, such as learning and memory.
Following nerve injury in neonatal rats, a large proportion of motoneurons die, possibly as a consequence of an increase in vulnerability to the excitotoxic effects of glutamate. Calcium-dependent glutamate excitotoxicity is thought to play a significant role not only in injury-induced motoneuron death, but also in motoneuron degeneration in diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Motoneurons are particularly vulnerable to calcium influx following glutamate receptor activation, as they lack a number of calcium binding proteins, such as calbindin-D(28k) and parvalbumin. Therefore, it is possible that increasing the ability of motoneurons to buffer intracellular calcium may protect them from cell death and prevent the decline in motor function that usually occurs as a consequence of motoneuron loss. In this study we have tested this possibility by examining the effect of neonatal axotomy on motoneuron survival and muscle force production in normal and transgenic mice that over-express parvalbumin in their motoneurons.The sciatic nerve was crushed in one hindlimb of new-born transgenic and wildtype mice. The effect on motoneuron survival was assessed 8 weeks later by retrograde labelling of motoneurons innervating the tibialis anterior muscle. Following nerve injury in wildtype mice, only 20.2% (+/-2.2, S.E.M.; n=4) of injured motoneurons survive long term compared with 47.2% (+/-4.4, S.E.M.; n=4) in parvalbumin over-expressing mice. Surprisingly, this dramatic increase in motoneuron survival was not reflected in a significant improvement in muscle function, since 8 weeks after injury there was no improvement in either maximal twitch and tetanic force, or muscle weights.Thus, inducing spinal motoneurons to express parvalbumin protects a large proportion of motoneurons from injury-induced cell death, but this is not sufficient to restore muscle function.
The ventrolateral preoptic area of the hypothalamus (VLPO) contains a population of sleep-active neurons and is hypothesized to be an important part of the somnogenic process. Adenosine (AD) is an endogenous sleep-promoting factor and may play an important role in promoting natural sleep. We hypothesize that AD may promote sleep, in part, by activating the VLPO sleep-active neurons. Although, in the CNS, AD is generally regarded as an inhibitory neuromodulator, it is possible for AD to be directly excitatory via A2 receptors or indirectly via disinhibition. In order to test the hypotheses that AD can excite VLPO neurons we made intracellular recordings from the VLPO in vitro and examined the effects of AD on VLPO neural activity. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from rat brain slices and drugs were bath applied. VLPO neurons were electrophysiologically heterogeneous. Depolarizing current steps elicited rhythmic firing (25 of 57), spike frequency adaptation or accommodation (24 of 57), or an unusual burst firing response (eight of 57). Spontaneous synaptic activity was pronounced in most recorded neurons and consisted of either fast excitatory post-synaptic potentials/currents (EPSP/C's) and/or fast inhibitory post-synaptic potentials/currents (IPSP/C's). The IPSC's were fully blocked by 30 microM bicuculline suggesting they are GABA(A)-mediated events, and the EPSC's were blocked by 40 microM DNQX suggesting they are mediated by the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptor (five of five). AD (20-100 microM) reduced the frequency of spontaneous IPSC's in 11 of 17 VLPO neurons (28-100%; mean reduction=63%) without significant effects on resting membrane potential. IPSC was unaffected in five neurons and one neuron displayed increases in spontaneous IPSC's. In contrast, AD decreased EPSC frequency in seven cells (36-73%; mean=59%), increased frequency in five cells (30-236%; mean 83%) and had no effect in six cells. AD application increased the firing rate in two of four cells tested. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that one mechanism which AD may promote sleep is by blocking inhibitory inputs on VLPO sleep-active neurons.
Excitotoxic oligodendroglial death is one of the mechanisms which has been proposed to underlie demyelinating diseases of the CNS. We describe here functional consequences of excitotoxic lesions to the rabbit optic nerve by studying the visual evoked potentials (VEPs) measured in the visual cortex. Nerves were slowly infused with the excitotoxin kainate a subcutaneously implanted osmotic pump which delivered the toxin through a cannula onto the optic nerve. Records of VEPs were obtained before pump implantation and at 1, 3 and 7 days post-implantation, and weekly evaluated thereafter for up to 4 months. We observed that the VEPs generated by light stimuli progressively changed in both amplitude and profile after the lesion as well as in comparison to those generated in control animals infused with vehicle. Histological examination of the damage caused by the excitotoxic insult showed that large areas of the optic nerve were demyelinated and their axons distorted. These observations were confirmed and extended by immunohistochemical analyses using markers to neurofilaments, myelin basic protein and the oligodendrocyte marker APC. The results of the present paper indicate that the consequences of excitotoxicity in the optic nerve share functional and morphological alterations which are found in demyelinating disorders. In addition, this experimental paradigm may be useful to evaluate the functional recovery of demyelinated optic nerves following various repair strategies.
A diet high in total fat (HF) reduces hippocampal levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a crucial modulator of synaptic plasticity, and a predictor of learning efficacy. We have evaluated the capacity of voluntary exercise to interact with the effects of diet at the molecular level. Animal groups were exposed to the HF diet for 2 months with and without access to voluntary wheel running. Exercise reversed the decrease in BDNF and its downstream effectors on plasticity such as synapsin I, a molecule with a key role in the modulation of neurotransmitter release by BDNF, and the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB), important for learning and memory. Furthermore, we found that exercise influenced the activational state of synapsin as well as of CREB, by increasing the phosphorylation of these molecules. In addition, exercise prevented the deficit in spatial learning induced by the diet, tested in the Morris water maze. Furthermore, levels of reactive oxygen species increased by the effects of the diet were decreased by exercise. Results indicate that exercise interacts with the same molecular systems disrupted by the HF diet, reversing their effects on neural function. Reactive oxygen species, and BDNF in conjunction with its downstream effectors on synaptic and neuronal plasticity, are common molecular targets for the action of the diet and exercise. Results unveil a possible molecular mechanism by which lifestyle factors can interact at a molecular level, and provide information for potential therapeutic applications to decrease the risk imposed by certain lifestyles.
Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) is a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein superfamily which has been implicated in the modulation of a number of neuronal functions. In this study we have examined the expression of NCS-1 in adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was present in most DRG neurons, including many calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expressing ones. NCS-1 showed some colocalization with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and underwent both anterograde and retrograde axonal transport. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was also present in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and in peripheral cutaneous terminals innervating blood vessels, where it was coexpressed with CGRP. In addition, NCS-1 in peripheral nerves was concentrated at nodes and adjoining paranodes. These results suggest novel roles for NCS-1, particularly in relation to channel function at nodes and to the peripheral release of vasoactive peptides.
Adrenoceptors have been suggested to mediate neuronal development. This study revealed the expression of alpha2A adrenoceptors in the cortical plate of fetal mouse cerebral wall. The effects of alpha2A adrenoceptor on dendrite growth were investigated in primary neuronal cultures. Application of alpha2 adrenoceptor agonists, BHT 933 or UK 14304 for 24 or 72 h resulted in a 1.5-2-fold increase in dendrite lengths. This effect was blocked by alpha2 adrenergic antagonists, RX 821002 or yohimbine, as well as a alpha2A selective antagonist, BRL 44408, but not by alpha2B/alpha2C selective antagonists ARC 239, imiloxan and rauwolscine. Guanfacine, a alpha2A selective agonists, also significantly increased the dendrite lengths in culture. These results suggest that the morphological effect is wholly attributable to alpha2A adrenoceptor activation. We further tested the hypothesis that alpha2A adrenoceptors act through altering the phosphorylation state of microtubule-associated protein 2. The results showed that the phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein 2 was significantly reduced on both serine and threonine residues by over 40% after 2 h of application of guanfacine and was maintained at this low level for a prolonged time up to 96 h. These findings suggest that alpha2A adrenoceptors regulate the phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein 2, which in turn mediates dendrite growth of cortical neurons.
Different lines of evidence indicate that ATP and nitric oxide (NO) play key roles in mediating neuronal responses after cell damage. Purinergic and nitrergic interactions have been proposed in non neural tissues physiological functions and, in different experimental models of brain injury, both purinergic and nitrergic activations have been reported. The present study was planned to ascertain possible relations of these two systems after brain damage. Variations in the expression of the nitric oxide synthase neuronal isoform (nNOS) enzyme, and of two subunits of purinergic ionotrophic receptors (P2X) namely P2X(1) and P2X(2) in precerebellar stations after cerebellar lesion in rats were analyzed and compared. After the lesion nNOS positive cells presented a clear increment followed by a decrement. Conversely, nNOS negative cells presented a rapid decrement in the first postlesional weeks that continued less pronounced afterward. Postlesional nNOS activation was related with time course of P2X(1) and P2X(2) activations. The capacity of the same cells to express both nNOS and P2X markers was investigated immunocytochemically. Confocal microscopy of double immunofluorescence showed a high percentage of co-localization among P2X(1)/nNOS, P2X(2)/nNOS and P2X(1)/P2X(2) in olivary and pontine neurons. In addition, NeuN/P2X(1) and NeuN/P2X(2) double immunofluorescence showed P2X(1) expressed only in neurons while P2X(2) expressed by both neurons and glia. Present data demonstrate that after cerebellar lesion nitrergic and purinergic systems are activated with similar time courses in precerebellar stations. Further, time differences in the relation between nNOS expression and cell survival suggest a multifarious role of NO in mediating cell reaction to axotomy. The tight cellular co-localization and temporal co-activation of purinergic and nitrergic markers indicate possible interactions between these two systems also in the CNS.
Potassium-chloride cotransporters (KCCs) collectively play a crucial role in the function and development of both the peripheral and central nervous systems. KCC4 is perhaps the least abundant KCC in the adult mammalian brain, where its localization is unknown. In the embryonic brain, KCC4 mRNA is found in the periventricular zone, cranial nerves and choroid plexus [Eur J Neurosci 16 (2002) 2358]. To investigate the distribution of KCC4 protein in the nervous system we developed a rabbit polyclonal antibody directed against a short N-terminal peptide. Western blot analysis of brain microsomal protein using purified antibody revealed the presence of a band at approximately 145 kDa, consistent with the size of a glycosylated K-Cl cotransporter. Western blot analysis of brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves revealed high expression levels in peripheral nerves and spinal cord, with low levels in whole brain. Within the brain, the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum revealed minimal KCC4 expression, whereas midbrain and brainstem demonstrated higher levels. In the adult mouse brain, KCC4 staining was observed on the apical membrane of choroid plexus epithelial cells as well as in cranial nerves. All other brain structures, e.g. cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum showed no KCC4 immunoreactivity, suggesting very low or absent expression of the cotransporter in these regions. Co-staining of KCC4 with anti-MAP2, GFAP and CNPase revealed that KCC4 is expressed in peripheral neurons. Thus, KCC4 is expressed on the apical membrane of the choroid plexus, where it likely participates to K(+) reabsorption. KCC4 is also expressed in peripheral neurons, where its function remains to be determined.
The expression of c-jun, mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (mkp-1), caspase-3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) was examined at 1, 3 and 7 days after cortical cold injury in rats by in situ hybridisation and immunocytochemistry. Alterations of gene expression were related to metabolic disturbances and delayed cell death, as revealed by cerebral protein synthesis autoradiography, ATP bioluminescence, pH fluorescence and terminal transferase biotinylated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL). Protein synthesis autoradiographies depicted sharply demarcated cortex lesions, which were almost congruent with areas exhibiting ATP depletion (lesion volume: 16.9+/-11.8 mm(3) after 7 days). Lesions were surrounded by a region of tissue alkalosis, which was most prominent 1 day after trauma. Delayed cell injury, as revealed by TUNEL, was noticed in a thin rim around the lesion border on day 1 (tissue volume: 1.7+/-0.8 mm(3)) and, to lesser extent, days 3 and 7 post-lesioning. However, only a small percentage of cells in this area were positive for activated caspase-3 protein. TUNEL(+) cells were further seen in the ventrobasal thalamus after 7 days. In the thalamus, the appearance of DNA-fragmented cells was closely accompanied by activated caspase-3 expression. In situ hybridisations revealed that cell injury both in the peri-lesion rim and ventrobasal thalamus was associated with increased c-jun and gfap, but not mkp-1 and caspase-3 mRNA levels. Gene responses were not confined to areas revealing irreversible cell death: mkp-1 mRNA was bilaterally upregulated in the lesion-remote entorhinal cortex, cingulate cortex and reticular thalamus at 7 days after trauma, and caspase-3 mRNA was slightly, but significantly downregulated in the entorhinal cortex after 3 and 7 days. Gfap mRNA was elevated in all regions exhibiting tissue alkalosis. Our data suggest that delayed cell injury after cortex trauma may be apoptotic in the ventrobasal thalamus, but not the peri-lesion rim. The dissociated responses of c-jun, mkp-1 and caspase-3 mRNAs may represent important factors influencing tissue viability.
There are significant decrements in sleep with age. These include fragmentation of sleep, increased wake time, decrease in the length of sleep bouts, decrease in the amplitude of the diurnal rhythm of sleep, decrease in rapid eye movement sleep and a profound decrease in electroencephalogram Delta power (0.3-4 Hz). Old rats also have less sleep in response to 12 h-prolonged wakefulness (W) indicating a reduction in sleep drive with age. The mechanism contributing to the decline in sleep with aging is not known but cannot be attributed to loss of neurons implicated in sleep since the numbers of neurons in the ventral lateral preoptic area, a region implicated in generating sleep, is similar between young (3.5 months) and old (21.5 months) rats. One possibility for the reduced sleep drive with age is that sleep-wake active neurons may be stimulated less as a result of a decline in endogenous sleep factors. Here, we test this hypothesis by focusing on the purine, adenosine (AD), one such sleep factor that increases after prolonged W. In experiment 1, microdialysis measurements of AD in the basal forebrain at 1 h intervals reveal that old (21.5 months) rats have more extracellular levels of AD compared with young rats across the 24 h diurnal cycle. In experiment 2, old rats kept awake for 6 h (first half of lights-on period) accumulated more AD compared with young rats. If old rats have more AD then why do they sleep less? To investigate whether changes in sensitivity of the AD receptor contribute to the decline in sleep, experiments 3 and 4 determined that for the same concentration of AD or the AD receptor 1 agonist, cyclohexyladenosine, old rats have less sleep compared with young rats. We conclude that even though old rats have more AD, a reduction in the sensitivity of the AD receptor to the ligand does not transduce the AD signal at the same strength as in young rats and may be a contributing factor to the decline in sleep drive in the elderly.
We compared the effects of three different doses of allopregnanolone (4, 8 or 16 mg/kg), a metabolite of progesterone, to progesterone (16 mg/kg) in adult rats with controlled cortical impact to the pre-frontal cortex. Injections were given 1 h, 6 h and every day for 5 consecutive days after the injury. One day after injury, both progesterone-treated (16 mg/kg) and allopregnanolone (8 or 16 mg/kg)-treated rats showed less caspase-3 activity, and rats treated with allopregnanolone (16 mg/kg) showed less DNA fragmentation in the lesion area, indicating reduced apoptosis. Nineteen days after the injury, rats treated with progesterone and allopregnanolone (8 or 16 mg/kg) showed no difference in necrotic cavity size but had less cell loss in the medio-dorsal nucleus of the thalamus and less learning and memory impairments compared with the injured vehicle-treated rats. On that same day the injured rats treated with progesterone showed more weight gain compared with the injured rats treated with the vehicle. These results can be taken to show that progesterone and allopregnanolone have similar neuroprotective effects after traumatic brain injury, but allopregnanolone appears to be more potent than progesterone in facilitating CNS repair.
In a recent study, we have demonstrated that the dorsal root reflex (DRR)-mediated acute cutaneous neurogenic inflammation following intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) is sympathetically dependent and subject to modulation by peripheral alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Postganglionic sympathetic neurons contain not only adrenergic neurotransmitters, but also non-adrenergic substances, including neuropeptide Y (NPY). In this study, we examined if peripheral NPY receptors participate in the flare following CAP injection. Different NPY receptor subtypes were studied by using relatively specific agonists and antagonists for the Y(1) and Y(2) subtypes. Changes in cutaneous blood flow on the plantar surface of the foot were measured using a laser Doppler flowmeter. Following CAP injection, cutaneous flare spread more than 20 mm away from the site of CAP injection. Removal of the postganglionic sympathetic nerves by surgical sympathectomy reduced dramatically the CAP-evoked flare. If the foot of sympathectomized rats was pretreated with either NPY or Y(2) receptor agonists by intra-arterial injection, the spread of flare induced by CAP injection could be restored and prolonged. However, if the spinal cord was pretreated with a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, to prevent DRRs, NPY or an Y(2) receptor agonist no longer restored the CAP-evoked flare. A Y(1) receptor agonist did not affect the CAP-evoked flare in sympathectomized rats. In sympathetically intact rats, blockade of either peripheral NPY or Y(2) receptors with [D-Trp(32)]-NPY or BIIE0246 markedly reduced the flare induced by CAP injection, whereas blockade of peripheral Y(1) receptors by BIBP3226 did not obviously affect the flare. It is suggested that NPY is co-released with NE from the postganglionic sympathetic terminals to activate NPY Y(2) and alpha(1) receptors following CAP injection. Both substances are involved, at least in part, in modulation of the responses of CAP sensitive afferents thereby affecting their ability to evoke the release of inflammatory agents from primary afferents.
Different forms of electrical paroxysms in experimental animals mimic the patterns of absence seizures associated with spike-wave complexes at approximately 3 Hz and of Lennox-Gastaut seizures with spike-wave or polyspike-wave complexes at approximately 1.5-2.5 Hz, intermingled with fast runs at 10-20 Hz. Both these types of electrical seizures are preferentially generated during slow-wave sleep. Here, we challenge the hypothesis of a subcortical pacemaker that would account for suddenly generalized spike-wave seizures as well as the idea of an exclusive role of synaptic excitation in the generation of paroxysmal depolarizing components, and we focus on three points, based on multiple intracellular and field potential recordings in vivo that are corroborated by some clinical studies: (a) the role of neocortical bursting neurons, especially fast-rhythmic-bursting neurons, and of very fast oscillations (ripples, 80-200 Hz) in seizure initiation; (b) the cortical origin of both these types of electrical paroxysms, the synaptic propagation of seizures from one to other, local and distant, cortical sites, finally reaching the thalamus, where the synchronous cortical firing excites thalamic reticular inhibitory neurons and thus leads to steady hyperpolarization and phasic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in a majority of thalamocortical neurons, which might explain the obliteration of signals from the external world and the unconsciousness during absence seizures; and (c) the cessation of seizures, whose cellular mechanisms have only begun to be investigated and remain an open avenue for research.
Recent in vivo electrophysiological studies suggest that chronic dopamine depletion alters profoundly the firing pattern of basal ganglia neurons. These changes may disrupt the processing of cortical information flow from the striatum to the output nuclei, and presumably underlie the clinical manifestations of Parkinson's disease. We have recently reported that chronic nigrostriatal lesions induce changes in the functional state of striatal medium-spiny neurons (MSNs) that could facilitate spreading of cortical synchronous activity (approximately 1 Hz) to striatal target nuclei. Here we show that systemic administration of D1 dopamine agonists was sufficient to restore the changes induced by chronic nigrostriatal lesions on striatal neuronal activity into the normal state. Following systemic administration of SKF38393 or SKF81279 the membrane potential of striatal MSNs was upheld into a more hyperpolarized value and action potential firing probability decreased. D1 agonists also increased the latency to the cortically driven plateau depolarization and reduced the peak potential of the short latency depolarizing postsynaptic response to a more hyperpolarized value. The present study provides in vivo evidence indicating that pharmacological stimulation of D1-class dopamine receptors can modulate the flow of cortical information through the striatum in the parkinsonian state.
To help discern sites of focal activation during seizures of different phenotype, the numbers of Fos immunoreactive (FI) neurons in specific brain regions were analyzed following &quot;brainstem-evoked,&quot; &quot;forebrain-evoked&quot; and forebrain/brainstem combination seizures induced by a variety of methods. First, pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 50 mg/kg) induced forebrain-type seizures in some rats, or forebrain seizures that progressed to tonic/clonic brainstem-type seizures in other rats. Second, minimal electroshock induced forebrain seizures whereas maximal electroshock (MES) induced tonic brainstem-type seizures in rats. Third, forebrain seizures were induced in genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPRs) by microinfusion of bicuculline into the area tempestas (AT), while brainstem seizures in GEPRs were induced by audiogenic stimulation. A final set was included in which AT bicuculline-induced forebrain seizures in GEPRs were transiently interrupted by audiogenic seizures (AGS) in the same animals. These animals exhibited a sequence combination of forebrain clonic seizure, brainstem tonic seizure and back to forebrain clonic seizures. Irrespective of the methods of induction, clonic forebrain- and tonic/clonic brainstem-type seizures were associated with considerable Fos immunoreactivity in several forebrain structures. Tonic/clonic brainstem seizures, irrespective of the methods of induction, were also associated with FI in consistent brainstem regions. Thus, based on Fos numerical densities (FND, numbers of Fos-stained profiles), forebrain structures appear to be highly activated during both forebrain and brainstem seizures; however, facial and forelimb clonus characteristic of forebrain seizures are not observable during a brainstem seizure. This observation suggests that forebrain-seizure behaviors may be behaviorally masked during the more severe tonic brainstem seizures induced either by MES, PTZ or AGS in GEPRs. This suggestion was corroborated using the sequential seizure paradigm. Similar to findings using MES and PTZ, forebrain regions activated by AT bicuculline were similar to those activated by AGS in the GEPR. However, in the combination seizure group, those areas that showed increased FND in the forebrain showed even greater FND in the combination trial. Likewise, those areas of the brainstem showing FI in the AGS model, showed an even greater effect in the combination paradigm. Finally, the medial amygdala, ventral hypothalamus and cortices of the inferior colliculi showed markedly increased FND that appeared dependent upon activation of both forebrain and brainstem seizure activity in the same animal. These findings suggest these latter areas may be transitional areas between forebrain and brainstem seizure interactions. Collectively, these data illustrate a generally consistent pattern of forebrain Fos staining associated with forebrain-type seizures and a consistent pattern of brainstem Fos staining associated with brainstem-type seizures. Additionally, these data are consistent with a notion that separate seizure circuitries in the forebrain and brainstem mutually interact to facilitate one another, possibly through involvement of specific &quot;transition mediating&quot; nuclei.
Cortical gamma oscillations have been associated with neural processes supporting cognition and the state of consciousness but the effect of general anesthesia on gamma oscillations is controversial. Here we studied the concentration-dependent effect of halothane on gamma (20-60 Hz) power of event-related potentials (ERP) in rat primary visual cortex. ERP to light flashes repeated at 5-s intervals was recorded with chronically implanted, bipolar, intracortical electrodes at selected steady-state halothane concentrations between 0 and 2%. gamma-Band power was calculated for 0-1000, 0-300 and 300-1000 ms poststimulus periods and corresponding prestimulus (PS) periods. Multitaper power spectral analysis was used to estimate gamma power from both single-trial and average ERP in order to differentiate between phase-locked (evoked) and non-phase-locked (induced) gamma activities. Significant PS gamma power was present at all halothane concentrations. Flash elicited an increase in gamma power that lasted up to 1 s poststimulus at all halothane concentrations. Halothane at intermediate concentrations (0.5-1.2%) augmented both PS and ERP gamma power two to four times relative to the waking baseline. gamma Power was not different between waking and deeply anesthetized (2%) levels. gamma Power reached maximum, as predicted by a Gaussian fit of power-concentration data, at halothane concentration (0.86%) similar to the concentration (0.73%) that abolished the righting reflex, a behavioral index of loss of consciousness. Evoked, i.e. stimulus-locked, gamma power was present during the first 300 ms poststimulus but not later, and was approximately 50% of single-trial ERP gamma power. Single-trial gamma power was present also at 300-1000 ms poststimulus, reflecting ERP not phase-locked to the stimulus. In summary, these observations suggest that (1) gamma activity is present in states ranging from waking to deep halothane anesthesia, (2) halothane does not prevent the transfer of visual input to striate cortex even at surgical plane of anesthesia, and (3) anesthetic-induced loss of consciousness, as reflected by the loss of righting reflex, is not correlated with a reduction in gamma power. Variance with other studies may be due to an underestimation of gamma power by ERP signal averaging as compared with single-trial analysis.
The primary visual (V1), auditory (AI), and somatosensory (SI) cortices are reciprocally connected with their respective sensory association cortices. In the rat, we have previously demonstrated that some of the connections arising from the secondary somatosensory (SII) and parietal insular (PA) cortices and terminating in the SI, are characterized by the expression of latexin, a candidate protein of carboxypeptidase A inhibitor. Here, by using retrograde tracing and latexin-immunohistochemistry, we show that latexin-expressing neurons in other association cortices of different sensory modalities also contribute to the feedback projections to the corresponding primary sensory cortices. These are the lateral part of the secondary visual cortex (V2L), temporal association cortex, and the dorsal and ventral (AIIv) parts of the secondary auditory belt cortex. Within sublayer VIa of the V2L, AIIv and SII, the majority of the V1-, AI- and SI-projecting neurons respectively, are latexin-immunopositive. In contrast to feedback connections, far fewer latexin-expressing neurons participate in callosal or intrahemispheric feedforward connections. The latexin-expressing neurons constitute a virtually completely different population from corticothalamic neurons within the infragranular layers. Given that latexin might participate in the modulation of neuronal activity by controlling the protease activity, latexin-expressing feedback pathways would play a unique role in the modulation of sensory perception.
Previously we reported that glutamate and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) colocalize in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). That finding provided anatomical support for the suggestion that nitric oxide and glutamate interact in cardiovascular regulation by the NTS. Here we test the hypothesis that nNOS colocalizes with vesicular glutamate transporters (VGluT1 and VGluT2) in the NTS. Immunoreactivity (IR) for VGluT better identifies glutamatergic terminals than does glutamate-IR, which may label metabolic as well as transmitter stores of the amino acid. We used fluorescent immunohistochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy to study IR for VGluT1, VGluT2 and nNOS in rat NTS. A high density of VGluT1-IR positive fibers was present in the gracilis and cuneatus nuclei while in the NTS we found a moderate density in the lateral and interstitial subnuclei and a low density in the dorsolateral, ventral and intermediate subnuclei. The medial, central, commissural and gelatinosus subnuclei contained few VGluT1-IR containing fibers. Thus, VGluT1 containing fibers are not prominent in portions of the NTS where cardiovascular afferent fibers terminate. In contrast, we found a high density of VGluT2-IR containing fibers in the gelatinosus subnucleus and subpostremal area and a moderate density in cardiovascular regions such as the dorsolateral and medial subnuclei as well as in the central and lateral subnuclei. We found a low density in the ventral, intermediate, interstitial and commissural subnuclei. VGluT1-IR and VGluT2-IR rarely colocalized in fibers within the NTS. VGluT1-IR did not colocalize with nNOS, but VGluT2-IR and nNOS-IR colocalized in fibers in all NTS subnuclei. When compared with the other NTS subnuclei, the dorsolateral, gelatinosus and subpostremal subnuclei had higher frequencies of colocalization of VGluT2-IR and nNOS-IR. VGluT2-IR positive fibers were also apposed to nNOS-IR positive fibers throughout the NTS. These data support our hypothesis and confirm that glutamatergic fibers in the NTS contain nNOS.
The cortical regions surrounding the suprasylvian sulcus have previously been associated with motion processing. Of the six areas originally described by Palmer et al. [J Comp Neurol 177 (1978) 237], the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian (PMLS) cortex has attracted the greatest attention. Very little physiological information is available concerning other suprasylvian visual areas, and in particular, the anteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex (AMLS). Based on its cortical and sub-cortical connectivity patterns, the AMLS cortex is a likely candidate for higher-order motion processing in cat visual cortex. We have investigated this possibility by studying the receptive field sensitivity of AMLS neurons to complex motion stimuli. Neurons in AMLS cortex exhibited large (mean of 354 degrees (2)) and complex-like receptive fields, and most of them (74%) were classified as direction selective on the basis of their responses to sinusoidal drifting gratings. Most importantly, direction selectivity was present for complex motion stimuli. A subset of the neurons sampled (eight of 38 cells; 21%) exhibited pattern-motion selectivity in response to moving plaid patterns. The capacity of AMLS neurons to signal higher-order stimuli was further supported by their selectivity to moving complex random-dot kinematograms. Finally, 45% of 20 neurons were direction selective to a radial optic flow stimulus. Overall, these results suggest that AMLS cortex is involved in higher-order analyses of visual motion. It is possible that the AMLS cortex represents a region between PMLS and the anterior ectosylvian visual area in a functional hierarchy of areas involved in motion integration.
Evidence has accumulated over the years supporting glutamate as the primary neurotransmitter used by hair cells in afferent cochlear neurotransmission. Besides acting on ionotropic glutamate receptors, glutamate also activates second messenger systems via G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) to modulate neuronal excitability. However, it is unclear whether mGluRs participate in cochlear neurotransmission. We present evidence directly supporting a functional role for group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRIs) in spiral ganglion (SG) neurons. The presence of mGluRI and downstream G-protein subunits was demonstrated by molecular biology and immunolabeling methods. Direct activation of mGluRIs in cultured SG neurons resulted in transient increases of intracellular Ca(++) concentration and transient inward currents that gave rise to firings of multiple action potentials. These responses showed mGluRI pharmacological specificity and quickly desensitized. We next examined changes in cochlear function after noise exposure as a result of pharmacologically manipulating cochlear glutamate neurotransmission. These in vivo tests showed that blocking non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid glutamate receptors was sufficient to eliminate compound action potentials of the auditory nerve, and pharmacologically inhibiting mGluRIs in the cochlea did not significantly affect the hearing threshold. In contrast, blocking mGluRIs lowered the amplitude of compound action potentials at louder sound levels and reduced the noise-induced temporary threshold shift. Our results suggest that although mGluRIs did not initiate fast excitatory cochlear neurotransmission, their activation contributed to the growth of excitatory responses of the cochlea. As a result, the cochlea was more resistant to noise-induced temporary hearing losses without the activation of mGluRIs in SG neurons.
In this study, we examined the contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on c-fos expression in the trigeminal brainstem nuclei following acute muscle inflammation. Mustard oil (MO; 20%, 30 microL) injected into the masseter muscle induced extensive peripheral edema and Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in several trigeminal brainstem areas including the subnucleus caudalis of the trigeminal spinal nucleus (Vc), the ventral and dorsal regions of the Vc/subnucleus interpolaris transition zone, and the paratrigeminal nucleus. In order to assess the effect of antagonizing NMDA receptors on MO-induced Fos-LI, rats were pre-treated with two different doses of i.v. MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg), a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, 30 min prior to MO injection. Additional groups of rats received MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg) directly in the masseter muscle or in the biceps muscle 5 min prior to MO injection. A higher dose of i.v. MK-801 (3 mg/kg) and MK-801 given locally into the masseter muscle (0.3 mg/kg) produced a significant reduction in total number of MO-induced Fos-LI. Further analyses revealed that pre-treatment with MK-801 (3 mg/kg i.v.) significantly reduced the Fos-LI all throughout the Vc. Only at the caudal Vc, there was a dose-dependent reduction of MO induced Fos-LI. Pre-treatment with masseteric MK-801 also significantly reduced the Fos-LI in the caudal Vc, with the effect greater than that produced by the same dose of MK-801 given intravenously. These results suggest that peripheral NMDA receptors contribute to nociceptive processing from craniofacial muscles.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a late onset progressive genetic disorder characterised by motor dysfunction, personality changes, dementia and premature death. The disease is caused by an unstable expanded trinucleotide (CAG) repeat encoding a polyglutamine stretch in the IT15 gene for huntingtin, a protein of unknown function. Transgenic mice expressing exon one of the human HD gene with an expanded polyglutamine region develop many features of human HD. Exposure of these mice to an &quot;enriched&quot; environment delays the onset of motor disorders and slows disease progression [Nature 404 (2000) 721]. We have compared the levels of receptor binding of a range of basal ganglia neurotransmitter receptors believed to be important in HD, in normal mice and R6/1 transgenic HD mice housed in either enriched or standard laboratory environments. HD mice housed in a normal environment show a loss of cannabinoid CB1 and dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the striatum and the corresponding output nuclei of the basal ganglia. HD mice exposed to an enriched environment show equivalent loss of D1 and D2 receptors as their &quot;non-enriched&quot; counterparts; in contrast, the &quot;enriched&quot; mice show significantly less depletion of CB1 receptors. In the brains of humans diagnosed with HD cannabinoid CB1 receptors are selectively lost from the basal ganglia output nuclei prior to the development of other identifiable neuropathology [Neuroscience 97 (2000) 505]. Our results therefore show that an enhanced environment slows the rate of loss of one of the first identifiable neurochemical deficits of HD. This suggests that delaying the loss of CB1 receptors, either by environmental stimulation or pharmacologically, may be beneficial in delaying disease progression in HD patients.
The role of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors in entrainment function was studied in Otsuka Long Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rats and control Long Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats. Light-induced (100 lux, 30 min) Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was studied. Light-induced Fos expression was significantly decreased in OLETF rats compared to that in LETO rats. The decrease of light-induced Fos expression in OLETF rats was significantly reversed by pretreatment with the 5-HT1B receptor antagonist, isamoltan (3 mg/kg, i.p.). Simultaneous administration of CGS12066B (5 mg/kg, i.p.), a 5-HT1B agonist, blocked the reversal effect of isamoltan on Fos expression. Fos expression was not changed in LETO rats by pretreatment with isamoltan (3 mg/kg, i.p.). The Fos expression in LETO and OLETF rats was significantly decreased by pretreatment with the 5-HT1A antagonist, WAY-100,635. Phase shifts in locomotor activity paralleled the Fos expression. Light-induced phase shifts of locomotor activity in OLETF rats were significantly smaller than those in LETO rats. The phase shifts were significantly increased by isamoltan (3 mg/kg, i.p.) in OLETF rats. These results suggest that 5-HT1B receptors are involved in the reduced entrainment function of OLETF rats.
In Parkinson's disease the neurones of the subthalamic nucleus show increased synchrony and oscillatory burst discharge, thought to reflect a breakdown of parallel processing in basal ganglia circuitry. To understand better the mechanisms underlying this transition, we sought to mimic this change in firing pattern within sagittal slices of rat midbrain. The firing patterns of up to four simultaneously extracellularly recorded subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurones were analysed using burst and oscillation detection programs, and correlated activity between pairs of neurones assessed. In control conditions all but 11 of 488 (2%) neurones fired in a predominantly tonic pattern (with mean oscillation frequency &gt;3 Hz), with no significantly cross-correlated activity in any of 393 pairs of neurones. The glutamate antagonists DL-2-amino-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) did not change the firing rate or pattern of these cells, providing no evidence for a role of glutamatergic collaterals within the STN under these conditions. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline and GABA(B) receptor antagonist (2S)-3-[[(1S)-1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-hydroxypropyl]phenylmethyl phosphinic acid (CGP 55845) were also without effect on firing rate or pattern in these cells, suggesting that there was no active input from other GABAergic basal ganglia nuclei in this slice. The dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol caused no significant change to firing rate or pattern of firing in these cells, suggesting that there was no active dopaminergic input in this slice. Excitations of STN neurones by muscarine, (+)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) or dopamine were all unaccompanied by a change in firing pattern or any significant correlated activity between STN neurone pairs. Burst firing could be induced in STN neurones with either the potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA; 10 mM; in 100/138 [72%] of cells) or with a combination of NMDA and the calcium-activated potassium channel blocker apamin (in 101/216 [47%] of cells). Burst firing in TEA was unchanged by CNOX and APV, MPEP, CGP55845, haloperidol, dopamine, and ACPD, although muscarine produced a significant increase in oscillation frequency. Burst firing in NMDA and apamin was unchanged by CNQX and APV, dopamine, muscarine and ACPD, although bicuculline caused a significant increase in oscillation frequency. Such burst firing was not accompanied by synchrony in any condition, either alone, or during application of excitatory agents or glutamate or GABA antagonists. As the bursting seen here was unaccompanied by the synchronous activity that has often been observed (pathologically) in vivo, it probably reflects solely intrinsic STN neuronal properties, rather than network activity. No functional role was found for glutamatergic collaterals within the STN, either when cells are firing tonically or burst firing. The circuitry needed to produce synchrony in the STN is most likely not intrinsic to the STN itself, but requires connections with other basal ganglia nuclei, and/or the cortex, which are not present in this preparation.
Previous studies have shown that mitogen-activated protein kinases, such as extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), mediate signal transduction from cell surface receptors to the nucleus and phosphorylate anti-apoptotic proteins thereby regulating programmed cell death. The present study tests the hypotheses that hypoxia activates ERK and JNK in neuronal nuclei of newborn piglets and the hypoxia-induced activation of ERK and JNK is mediated by nitric oxide (NO). Activated ERK and JNK were assessed by determining phosphorylated ERK and JNK using immunoblotting in six normoxic (Nx) and 10 hypoxic (Hx) and five N-nitro-L-arginine (a NOS inhibitor, 40 mg/kg,) -pretreated hypoxic (N-nitro-L-arginine [NNLA]-Hx) 3-5 day old piglets. Hypoxia was induced by decreasing inspired oxygen from 21% to 7% for 60 min. Cerebral tissue hypoxia was documented biochemically by determining the tissue levels of ATP and phosphocreatine (PCr). Cortical neuronal nuclei were isolated and the nuclear protein was analyzed for activated ERK and JNK using anti-phosphorylated ERK and JNK antibodies. Protein bands were detected using enhanced chemiluminescence method and analyzed by imaging densitometry. Protein density was expressed as absorbance ODxmm(2). ATP levels were 4.57+/-0.45 micromoles/g brain in the Nx group, 1.29+/-0.23 micromoles/g brain in the Hx group (P&lt;0.05 vs Nx) and 1.50+/-0.14 micromoles/g brain in the NNLA-Hx group (P&lt;0.05 vs Nx). PCr levels were 3.77+/-0.36 micromoles/g brain in the Nx group, 0.77+/-0.13 micromoles/g brain in the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.05) and 1.02+/-0.24 in the NNLA-Hx group (P&lt;0.05 vs Nx). Density of phosphorylated ERK protein was 170.5+/-53.7 ODxmm(2) in the Nx group as compared with 419.6+/-63.9 ODxmm(2) in the hypoxic group (P&lt;0.001 vs Nx) and 270.0+/-28.7 in the NNLA-Hx group (P&lt;0.002 vs Hx). Density of phosphorylated JNK protein was 172.8+/-42.8 ODxmm(2) in the normoxic group as compared with 364.6+/-60.1 ODxmm(2) in the Hx group (P&lt;0.002) and 254.8+/-24.8 in the NNLA-Hx group (P&lt;0.002 vs Hx). The data demonstrate increased phosphorylation of ERK and JNK during hypoxia indicating that hypoxia results in activation of ERK and JNK in neuronal nuclei of newborn piglets. The administration of NNLA, a NOS inhibitor, prevented the hypoxia-induced phosphorylation of ERK and JNK indicating that the hypoxia-induced activation of ERK and JNK in the cerebral cortical nuclei of newborn piglets is NO-mediated
During development norepinephrine plays a role in determining the morphologic organization of the CNS and the density and future responsiveness of adrenergic receptors. alpha-2 Adrenergic receptors, one of three adrenergic receptor types, regulate important adult CNS functions and may have a distinct role during development. We examined alpha-2 receptor distribution and density in the rat brain at postnatal days 1, 5, 10, 15, 21, 28 and in adults using the antagonist [(3)H]RX821002 for autoradiography. Binding kinetics and pharmacology for alpha-2 adrenergic receptors were the same in adults and neonates. There was an overall increase in alpha-2 receptor levels during postnatal development with great variability in pattern and timing of receptor density changes among brain regions. Three major patterns were apparent. First, in many regions receptor density increased during postnatal development, generally reaching adult levels around postnatal day 15. Within this group there was variability in timing between regions and there were several regions with receptor densities higher than adult levels during the postnatal period. Second, there were regions with very high levels of receptors at birth and little or no change in density during the postnatal period. Third, some regions demonstrated decreasing or transient expression of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in the course of postnatal development, including white matter regions, cerebellum and many brainstem nuclei, suggesting specific roles for alpha-2 receptors during development. This study investigates the development of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in the rat CNS. It demonstrates there is region-specific regulation of alpha-2 receptor development and identifies brain regions where these receptors may play a specific and critical role in the regulation normal development.
We have shown that transgenic transient axonal glycoprotein (TAG)/F3 mice, in which the mouse axonal glycoprotein F3/contactin was misexpressed from a regulatory region of the gene encoding the transient axonal glycoprotein TAG-1, exhibit a transient disruption of cerebellar granule and Purkinje cell development [Development 130 (2003) 29]. In the present study we explore the neurobehavioural consequences of this mutation. We report on assays of reproductive parameters (gestation length, litter size and offspring viability) and on somatic and neurobehavioural end-points (sensorimotor development, homing performance, motor activity, motor coordination and motor learning). Compared with wild-type littermates, TAG/F3 mice display delayed sensorimotor development, reduced exploratory activity and impaired motor activity, motor coordination and motor learning. The latter parameters, in particular, were affected also in adult mice, despite the apparent recovery of cerebellar morphology, suggesting that subtle changes of neuronal circuitry persist in these animals after development is complete. These behavioural deficits indicate that the finely coordinated expression of immunoglobulin-like cell adhesion molecules such as TAG-1 and F3/contactin is of key relevance to the functional, as well as morphological maturation of the cerebellum.
In response to cerebral ischemia, neurons activate survival/repair pathways in addition to death cascades. Activation of cyclic AMP-response-element-binding protein (CREB) is linked to neuroprotection in experimental animal models of stroke. However, a role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MAPK/ERK or MEK), an upstream kinase for CREB, and its relation to CREB phosphorylation in neuroprotection in cerebral ischemia has not been delineated. Previously, we reported that N-acetyl-O-methyldopamine (NAMDA) significantly protected CA1 neurons after transient forebrain ischemia [J Neurosci 19 (1999b) 87.8]. The current study is to investigate whether NAMDA-induced neuroprotection occurs via the activation of ERK and its downstream effector, CREB. NAMDA induced ERK1/2 and CREB phosphorylation with increased survival of HC2S2 hippocampal neurons subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation. These effects were reversed by U0126, a MEK kinase inhibitor. Similarly, animals treated with NAMDA following ischemia showed increased ERK and CREB phosphorylation in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus during early reperfusion period with increased number of surviving neurons examined 7 days following ischemia. The NAMDA-induced neuroprotection was abolished by U0126 administered shortly after reperfusion. The results showed that the ERK-CREB signaling pathway might be involved in NAMDA-induced neuroprotection following transient global ischemia and imply that the activation of the pathway in neurons may be an effective therapeutic strategy to treat stroke or other neurological syndromes.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated and retinoid X receptors (PPARs and RXRs) are transcription factors belonging to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. Upon activation by their ligands, PPARs and RXRs bind to their target genes as heterodimers. Ligands of these receptors include lipophylic molecules, such as retinoids, fatty acids and eicosanoids, the importance of which in the metabolism and functioning of the nervous tissue is well documented. The immunohistochemical distribution of PPARs and RXRs in the CNS of the adult rat was studied by means of a sensitive biotinyl-tyramide method. All PPAR (alpha, beta/delta and gamma) and RXR (alpha, beta and gamma) isotypes were detected and found to exhibit specific patterns of localization in the different areas of the brain and spinal cord. The presence of the nuclear receptors was observed in both neuronal and glial cells. While PPAR beta/delta and RXR beta showed a widespread distribution, alpha and gamma isotypes exhibited a more restricted pattern of expression. The frontal cortex, basal ganglia, reticular formation, some cranial nerve nuclei, deep cerebellar nuclei, and cerebellar Golgi cells appeared rather rich in all studied receptors. Based on our data, we suggest that in the adult CNS, PPARs and RXRs, besides playing roles common to many other tissues, may have specific functions in regulating the expression of genes involved in neurotransmission, and therefore play roles in complex processes, such as aging, neurodegeneration, learning and memory.
Generation of plateau potentials in spinal motoneurons depends on activation of voltage sensitive L-type Ca(2+) channels. These channels are facilitated by metabotropic receptors known to promote release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. The aim of this study is to determine if Ca(2+)-release receptors in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that are sensitive to ryanodine (RyRs) and to inositol triphosphate receptors (IP(3)Rs) contribute to the generation of plateau potentials. The effects of antagonists to RyRs, IP(3)Rs and phospholipase C (PLC) were tested on discharge patterns associated with plateau potentials in motoneurons in slices from the spinal cord of the turtle. Plateau-related discharge patterns, un-facilitated or facilitated by agonists for group I glutamate metabotropic receptors, muscarine-sensitive cholinergic receptors or L-type Ca(2+) channels were inhibited by blockade of RyRs. In contrast, antagonists of IP(3)Rs or PLC preferentially inhibited plateau-related discharge patterns when facilitated by activation of metabotropic receptors but in only half of the cells when promoted in the absence of metabotropic facilitators. Our findings show that RyRs and IP(3)Rs regulate the generation of plateau potentials in motoneurons and suggest that RyRs may be directly involved with activation of the plateau potential.
Although mu opioid receptors desensitize in various cell lines in vitro, the relationship of this change in signaling efficacy to the development of tolerance in vivo remains uncertain. It is clear that a system is needed in which functional mu opioid receptor expression is obtained in appropriate neurons so that desensitization can be measured, manipulated, and mutated receptors expressed in this environment. We have developed a recombinant system in which expression of a flag-tagged mu opioid receptor is returned to dorsal root ganglia neurons from mu opioid receptor knockout mice in vitro. Flow cytometry analysis showed that adenoviral-mediated expression of the amino-terminal flag-tagged mu opioid receptor in neurons resulted in approximately 1.3x10(6) receptors/cell. Many mu opioid receptor cell lines express a similar density of receptors but this is approximately 7x greater than the number of endogenous receptors expressed by matched wild-type neurons. Inhibition of the high voltage-activated calcium currents in dorsal root ganglia neurons by the mu agonist, D-Ala(2), N-MePhe(4), Gly(5)-ol-enkephalin (DAMGO), was not different between the endogenous and flag-tagged receptor at several concentrations of DAMGO used. Both receptors desensitized equally over the first 6 h of DAMGO pre-incubation, but after 24 h the response of the endogenous receptor to DAMGO had desensitized further than the flag- tagged receptor (71+/-3 vs 29+/-7% respectively; P&lt;0.002), indicating less desensitization in neurons expressing a higher density of receptor. Using flow cytometry to quantify the percentage of receptors remaining on the neuronal cell surface, the flag-tagged receptor internalized by 17+/-1% after 20 min and 55+/-2% after 24 h of DAMGO. These data indicate that this return of function model in neurons recapitulates many of the characteristics of endogenous mu opioid receptor function previously identified in non-neuronal cell lines.
Immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to investigate mu opioid receptor (muOR) internalization in enteric neurons of the guinea-pig ileum following abdominal surgery. The following surgical procedures were performed under halothane or isofluorane anesthesia: a) midline abdominal skin incision, b) laparotomy or c) laparotomy with intestinal manipulation. Gastrointestinal transit was evaluated by using a non-absorbable marker and measuring fecal pellet output. In neurons from normal and control (anesthesia alone) animals, muOR was predominantly at the cell surface. muOR endocytosis following skin incision was not significantly different from controls (21.2+/-3.5% vs. 13.7+/-2.1%, mean+/-S.E.M.), whereas it was significantly increased by laparotomy (46.5+/-6.1%; P&lt;0.01 vs. controls) or laparotomy plus intestinal manipulation (40.5+/-6.1%; P&lt;0.01 vs. controls) 30 min following surgery compared with controls. muOR endocytosis remained elevated at 4 h (38.6+/-1.2%; P&lt;0.01 vs. controls), whereas it was similar to controls at 6 and 12 h (17.5+/-5.8% and 11.2+/-3.0%). muOR endocytosis occurred in cholinergic and nitrergic neurons. Gastrointestinal transit was significantly delayed by laparotomy or laparotomy plus intestinal manipulation (12.8+/-1.2 and 13.8+/-0.6 h vs. 7.0+/-0.5 in controls; P&lt;0.01), but was not significantly changed by skin incision (8.2+/-0.6 h). The findings of the present study support the concept that the noxious stimulation caused by abdominal surgery induces release of endogenous opioids thus resulting in muOR endocytosis in neurochemically distinct enteric neurons. muOR internalization can serve as indirect evidence of opioid release and as a means to visualize neuronal pathways activated by opioids.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the master circadian pacemaker. Within the caudal hamster SCN, a cluster of neurons containing the calcium binding protein, calbindin-D28K (CB), has been implicated in circadian locomotion. However, calbindin-immunoreactive (CB+) neurons in the calbindin subnucleus (CBsn) do not display a circadian rhythm in spontaneous firing [Eur J Neurosci 16 (2002) 2469]. Previously, we proposed that intercellular communication might be essential in integrating outputs from rhythmic (CB-) neurons and nonrhythmic (CB+) neurons to produce a circadian output in the intact animal. The primary aim of this study is to provide a neuroanatomical framework to better understand intercellular communication within the CBsn. Using reconstructions of previously recorded neurons, we demonstrate that CB+ neurons have significantly more dendrites than CB- neurons. In addition, CBsn neurons have dorsally oriented dendritic arbors. Using double-label confocal microscopy, we show that GABA colocalizes with CB+ neurons and GABA(A) receptor subunits make intimate contacts with neurons in the CBsn. Transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha), a substance shown to inhibit locomotion [Science 294 (2001) 2511], is present within the CBsn. In addition, neurons in this region express the epidermal growth factor receptor, the only receptor for TGFalpha. Lastly, we show that CB+ neurons are coupled to CB+ and CB- neurons by gap junctions. The current study provides a structural framework for synaptic communication, electrical coupling, and signaling via a growth factor within the CBsn of the hamster SCN. Our results reveal connections that have the potential for integrating cellular communication within a subregion of the SCN that is critically involved in circadian locomotion.
Voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC) have a key role in neuronal function transforming the voltage signals into intracellular calcium signals. They are composed of the pore-forming alpha(1) and the regulatory alpha(2)delta, gamma and beta subunits. Molecular and functional studies have revealed which alpha(1) subunit gene product is the molecular constituent of each class of native calcium channel (L, N, P/Q, R and T type). Electrophysiological and immunocytochemical studies have suggested that at adult mouse motor nerve terminal (MNT) only P/Q type channels, formed by alpha(1A) subunit, mediate evoked transmitter release. The generation of alpha(1A)-null mutant mice offers an opportunity to study the expression and localization of calcium channels at a synapse with complete loss of P/Q calcium channel. We have investigated the expression and localization of VDCCs alpha(1) and beta subunits at the wild type (WT) and knockout (KO) mouse neuromuscular junction (NMJ) using fluorescence immunocytochemistry. The alpha(1A) subunit was observed only at WT NMJ and was absent at denervated muscles and at KO NMJ. The subunits alpha(1B), alpha(1D) and alpha(1E) were also present at WT NMJ and they were over- expressed at KO NMJ suggesting a compensatory expression due to the lack of the alpha(1A). On the other hand, the beta(1b), beta(2a) and beta(4) were present at the same levels in both genotypes. The presence of other types of VDCC at WT NMJ indicate that they may play other roles in the signaling process which have not been elucidated and also shows that other types of VDCC are able to substitute the alpha(1A) subunit, P/Q channel under certain pathological conditions.
Using intracellular recording, we studied how several muscarinic antagonists affected the evoked endplate potentials in singly and dually innervated endplates of the levator auris longus muscle from 3 to 6-day-old rats. In dually innervated fibers, a second endplate potential (EPP) may appear after the first one when we increase the stimulation intensity. The lowest and highest EPP amplitudes are designated &quot;small-EPP&quot; and &quot;large-EPP,&quot; respectively. In singly innervated endplates and large-EPP, we found an inhibition of acetylcholine release by M1-receptor antagonists pirenzepine and MT-7 (more than 30%) and M2-receptor antagonists methoctramine and AF-DX 116 (more than 40%). The small-EPP was also inhibited by both M2-receptor antagonists methoctramine (approximately 70%) and AF-DX 116 (approximately 40%). However, the small-EPP was enhanced by M1-receptor antagonists pirenzepine (approximately 90%) and MT-7 (approximately 50%). The M4-receptor selective antagonists tropicamide and MT-3 can also increase the small-EPP amplitude (75% and 120%, respectively). We observed a graded change from a multichannel involvement (P/Q- N- and L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels) of all muscarinic responses (M1-, M2- and M4-mediated) in the small-EPP to the single channel (P/Q-type) involvement of the M1 and M2 responses in the singly innervated endplates. This indicates the existence of a progressive calcium channels shutoff in parallel with the specialization of the adult type P/Q channel. In conclusion, muscarinic autoreceptors can directly modulate large-EPP generating ending potentiation, and small-EPP generating ending depression through their association with the calcium channels during development.
In seven freely moving squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus), the neuronal activity in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and bordering structures was registered during vocal communication, using a telemetric single-unit recording technique. In 9.3% of the PAG neurons, a vocalization-correlated activity was found. Four reaction types could be distinguished: a) neurons, showing an activity burst immediately before vocalization onset; b) neurons, firing during vocalization, and starting shortly before vocalization onset; c) neurons, firing exclusively during vocalization; d) neurons, firing in the interval between perceived vocalizations (i.e. vocalizations produced by group mates) and self-produced vocal response. All PAG neurons showed a marked vocalization-type specificity. None of the neurons reflected simple acoustic parameters, such as fundamental frequency or amplitude, in its discharge rate. None of the neurons reacted to vocalizations of other animals not responded to by the experimental animal. All four reaction types found in the PAG were also found in the reticular formation bordering the PAG, though in lower density.
Several experimental models of peripheral neuropathy show that a significant upregulation of spinal dynorphin A and its precursor peptide, prodynorphin, is a common consequence of nerve injury. A genetically modified mouse strain lacking prodynorphin does not exhibit sustained neuropathic pain after nerve injury, supporting a pronociceptive role of elevated levels of spinal dynorphin. A null mutation of the gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma KO [knockout]), as well as an inbred mouse strain, 129S6, also does not manifest behavioral signs of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. The objective of this study was to extend our observations to these genetic models to test the hypothesis that elevated levels of spinal dynorphin are essential for the maintenance of abnormal pain. In PKCgamma wild-type mice and the outbred mouse strain ICR, ligation of the L5 and L6 spinal nerves (SNL) elicited both tactile hypersensitivity and thermal hyperalgesia. Both strains showed a significant elevation in dynorphin in the lumbar spinal dorsal horn following SNL. Spinal administration of an anti-dynorphin A antiserum blocked the thermal and tactile hypersensitivity in both strains of mice. However, the PKCgamma KO mice and the 129S6 mice (which express PKCgamma) did not show abnormal pain after SNL; neither strain showed elevated levels of spinal dynorphin. The multiple phenotypic deficits in PKCgamma KO mice confound the interpretation of the proposed role of PKCgamma-expressing spinal neurons in neuropathic pain states. Additionally, the data show that the regulation of spinal dynorphin expression is a common critical feature of expression of neuropathic pain.
The expression of mRNA encoding for the 67 kilodalton isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry in the entopeduncular nucleus (EP) of adult rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally lesion of dopamine neurons. Our results provide original evidence that continuous or intermittent levodopa administration is equally effective at reversing the lesion-induced increase in GAD67 mRNA expression in the EP when compared with vehicle controls. To characterize the GABAergic interactions that may mediate levodopa-induced alterations in the EP, double-labeling in situ hybridization was conducted with a combination of GAD67 radioactive and preproenkephalin or preprotachykinin digoxigenin-labeled complementary RNA probes in the striatum. Levels of GAD67 mRNA labeling were significantly increased by intermittent, but not continuous levodopa. Analysis at the cellular level in a dorsal sector of the striatum revealed that GAD67 mRNA levels increased predominantly in preproenkephalin-unlabeled neuronal profiles, presumably striatal/EP neurons (+99.3%). Saturation analyses of (3)H-flunitrazepam binding to GABA(A) receptors in the EP showed that the increase in GAD67 mRNA in preproenkephalin-unlabeled neurons by intermittent levodopa paralleled a significant decrease in number of GABA(A) receptors (Bmax) in the EP ipsilateral to the lesion. Continuous levodopa failed to alter striatal GAD67 mRNA levels, or the number or affinity of GABA(A) receptors when compared with vehicle-treated controls. These results suggest the normalization of GAD gene expression in the EP by intermittent levodopa involves an increase in GABAergic inhibition by striatonigral/EP neurons of the direct pathway. Conversely, the effects of continuous levodopa on GAD mRNA levels in the EP do not appear to be mediated by GABA.
The prefrontal cortex and brainstem modulate autonomic and arousal state control but the neurotransmitter mechanisms underlying communication between prefrontal cortex and brainstem remain poorly understood. This study examined the hypothesis that microdialysis delivery of carbachol to the pontine reticular formation (PRF) of anesthetized C57BL/6J (B6) mouse modulates acetylcholine (ACh) release in the frontal association cortex. Microdialysis delivery of carbachol (8.8 mM) to the PRF caused a significant (P&lt;0.01) decrease (-28%) in ACh release in the frontal association cortex, a significant (P&lt;0.01) decrease (-23%) in respiratory rate, and a significant (P&lt;0.01) increase (223%) in time to righting after anesthesia. Additional in vitro studies used the [(35)S]guanylyl-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) assay to test the hypothesis that muscarinic cholinergic receptors activate guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins) in the frontal association cortex and basal forebrain. In vitro treatment with carbachol (1 mM) caused a significant (P&lt;0.01) increase in [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in the frontal association cortex (62%) and basal forebrain nuclei including medial septum (227%), vertical (210%) and horizontal (165%) limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, and substantia innominata (127%). G protein activation by carbachol was concentration-dependent and blocked by atropine, indicating that the carbachol-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was mediated by muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Together, the in vitro and in vivo data show for the first time in B6 mouse that cholinergic neurotransmission in the PRF can significantly alter ACh release in frontal association cortex, arousal from anesthesia, and respiratory rate.
The activation of spinal cord N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and subsequent intracellular cascades play a pivotal role in the development of opioid tolerance. Postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), a molecular scaffolding protein, assembles a specific set of signaling proteins around NMDA receptors at neuronal synapses. The current study investigated the possible involvement of PSD-95 in the development of opioid tolerance. Opioid tolerance was induced by intrathecal injection of morphine sulfate (20 microg/10 microl) twice a day for 4 consecutive days. Co-administration of morphine twice daily and PSD-95 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (50 microg/10 microl) once daily for 4 days not only markedly reduced the PSD-95 expression and its binding to NMDA receptors in spinal cord but also significantly prevented the development of morphine tolerance. In contrast, co-administration of morphine twice daily and PSD-95 missense oligodeoxynucleotide (50 microg/10 microl) once daily for 4 days did not produce these effects. The PSD-95 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide at the doses we used did not affect baseline response to noxious thermal stimulation or locomotor function. The present study indicates that the deficiency of spinal cord PSD-95 attenuates the development of opioid tolerance. These results suggest that PSD-95 might be involved in the central mechanisms of opioid tolerance and provide a possible new target for prevention of development of opioid tolerance.
Absence epilepsy is characterised by a paroxysmal loss of consciousness, of abrupt onset and termination, and is associated with a bilateral synchronous spike and wave discharge (SWD) on the electroencephalogram. Absence seizures involve an interplay between thalamic and cortical structures, although most research has so far focussed on sensory thalamic nuclei and the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN). Thus, microinfusion of ethosuximide (ETX), a first choice anti-absence drug, into either the ventrobasal thalamus or RTN of the genetic absence epilepsy rat from Strasbourg (GAERS), a validated rat model of absence epilepsy, does not produce immediate cessation of seizure activity, as is seen following systemic administration. As recent evidence indicates a seizure initiation site within the peri-oral region of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1po), we have now applied ETX into S1po as well as the somatosensory cortex forelimb region (S1FL) and the motor cortex (M1) of freely moving GAERS. Microinfusion of 10 or 20 nmol/side of ETX into S1po produced an immediate cessation of seizure activity. A less marked response was produced when even a higher dose (200 nmol/side) was infused into S1FL. No reduction of SWD was seen when ETX was infused into M1. Microinfusion of CGP 36742 (5 nmol/side), a GABA(B) antagonist, produced immediate cessation of seizure activity in both S1po and M1 and a delayed effect in S1FL. These data suggest that the ability of ETX to abolish genetically determined absence seizures is cortical-area specific and support the involvement of S1po in the initiation of SWDs.
5-Hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT1A) receptor activation reduces body temperature partially by dilating the thermoregulatory cutaneous vascular bed, thereby increasing heat transfer to the environment. Constriction of this vascular bed, with consequent reduction of heat transfer to the environment, contributes to fever associated with the acute inflammatory response. Thus activation of 5-HT1A receptors might inhibit thermoregulatory cutaneous vasoconstriction and reduce the fever associated with the acute inflammatory response. The present study tested this hypothesis in conscious unrestrained rabbits. The acute inflammatory reaction was induced with i.v. lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 0.5 microg/kg). Body temperature was measured with an i.p. telemetric probe, and ear pinna blood flow was measured with a chronically implanted Doppler ultrasonic probe. 5-HT1A receptors were activated with i.v. 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). LPS increased body temperature by +1.7+/-0.2 degrees C during the first hour after administration. The ear pinna Doppler blood flow signal fell from 69+/-11 to 5+/-1 cm/s within 15 min (n=7, P&lt;0.01) and remained at a low level for approximately 1 h after LPS. When administered 45 min after LPS, 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) reversed this fall, increasing the Doppler signal from 6+/-1 to 55+/-7 cm/s (P&lt;0.01, n=6), and reduced the rise in body temperature. Treatment with 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) 5 min before and 30 min after LPS entirely prevented the LPS-induced fall in ear pinna blood flow, and reduced the rise in body temperature from 1.7+/-0.2 degrees C to 0.7+/-0.2 (n=7, P&lt;0.01). Treatment with WAY-100635 (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride) (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) prevented and reversed the effects of 8-OH-DPAT. Thus activation of 5-HT1A receptors reduces thermoregulatory cutaneous vasoconstriction and fever occurring as part of the acute inflammatory response. Our findings elucidate the neurotransmitter mechanisms underlying expression of an important component of the febrile response, and suggest that drugs with 5-HT1A agonist properties might be therapeutically useful when it is clinically important to reduce this response.


We present a case of mastoid process osteoma with a long history of mastoid mass. A 36-year-old lady presented with a 15-year history of slowly growing painless mass behind the left ear. The diagnosis of mastoid osteoma was confirmed on the basis of computerized tomography (CT) scan and postoperative histology result of the mass. The patient was treated surgically and followed up by postoperative CT scan, which showed that the disease was completely removed. Surgical excision is commonly carried out for cosmetic purposes.
The classic clinical manifestations of bronchiectasis are cough and daily production of purulent sputum for months to years. The most common complications are hemoptysis and respiratory failure. Brain abscess has become rare in the recent antibiotic era. In this report, we present a case of bronchiectasis complicated by brain abscesses. Despite the early diagnosis and appropriate management, and while the condition of the patient was improving, an intraventricular abscess rupture led to rapid coma then death. Presentation and management of this potentially fatal complication of bronchiectasis are discussed.






Several disease conditions are believed to be related to oxygen free radical formation including a number of neurodegenerative disorders. Therapy using free radical scavengers (antioxidants) has been used to prevent, delay or modify the progress of many neurological disorders. The optimum antioxidant therapeutic options have to be tailored and modified individually. This is because the biochemistry of oxidative pathophysiology is still a complex matter. In this review the role of oxidative stress and the potential therapeutic effect of some antioxidants is discussed in a number of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer disease, Parkinson`s disease and multiple sclerosis.
Prions, a novel biological entity are causative agents of fatal neurodegenerative diseases. Such diseases gain importance because of its effect on both humans and animals and because of the unique biological features of the infectious agent. Since its discovery the agent responsible has remained mysterious in its mechanism of action, pathogenesis and the ability to produce disease. In this review, the considerable evidence regarding the molecular biology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, diagnosis and therapeutic approaches are being discussed. The advances in understandings of fundamental biology of prion diseases may open the possibilities for the prevention and treatment of these unusual diseases.
The College of Medicine at Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, Oman has opted for the credit system that makes the designing of an integrated, multidisciplinary course a challenging proposition. The human nervous system course is no exception to that. The aim of the course is to guide students to understand the structure and function of the brain and to learn about the disorders afflicting it. There are 4 major problems encountered in this course. First, due to the relative weighting of different subjects in the course, the students tend to ignore the topics that have less credit hours and contribute fewer marks to the total marks. Secondly, students make minimal effort to analyze and synthesize information. Thirdly, poor knowledge of the English language hampers comprehension. Finally, it is felt that in its present form the course is too long. We are trying to evolve a version of hybrid problem-based learning that suits our local needs and resources.
The Editors would like to thank the outgoing Editorial Board members who have now finished their term (Siema Bakheet, Saeed Bohlega and Abdelkarim Al-Qudah) and would also like to welcome Talat Al-Wazna, Yousef Comair and Hussein Malibary to the Advisory Board and Ibrahim Al-Orainy, Mahr Al-Jadid, Jun Kimura and Imad Najm to the Editorial Board. Our thanks also goes to the reviewers who have participated in the excellent review of manuscripts and books for the year 2003.
Cephalopods have arguably the largest and most complex nervous systems amongst the invertebrates; but despite the squid giant axon being one of the best studied nerve cells in neuroscience, and the availability of superb information on the morphology of some cephalopod brains, there is surprisingly little known about the operation of the neural networks that underlie the sophisticated range of behaviour these animals display. This review focuses on a few of the best studied neural networks: the giant fiber system, the chromatophore system, the statocyst system, the visual system and the learning and memory system, with a view to summarizing our current knowledge and stimulating new studies, particularly on the activities of identified central neurons, to provide a more complete understanding of networks within the cephalopod nervous system.
Crustacean motor pattern-generating networks have played central roles in understanding the cellular and network bases of rhythmic motor patterns for over half a century. We review here the four best investigated of these systems: the stomatogastric, ventilatory, cardiac, and swimmeret systems. Generally applicable observations arising from this work include (1) neurons with active, endogenous cell properties (endogenous bursting, postinhibitory rebound, plateau potentials), (2) nonhierarchical (distributed) network synaptic connectivity patterns characterized by high levels of inter-neuronal connections, (3) nonspiking neurons and graded transmitter release, (4) multiple modulatory inputs, (5) networks that produce multiple patterns and have flexible boundaries, and (6) peripheral properties (proprioceptive feedback loops, low-frequency muscle filtering) playing an important role in motor pattern generation or expression.
Recent studies documenting the phenomenon of de novo neurogenesis within the adult brain have propelled this area of research to the forefront of neuroscience investigations and stroke pathogenesis and treatment. Traditional theories have suggested that the central nervous system is incapable of neural regeneration; hence the emergence of the field of stem cell biology as a discipline devoted to uncovering novel forms of neural repair. However, several recent experimental observations have shown that the adult brain is capable of ongoing neurogenesis in discrete regions of the uninjured brain and additional forms of endogenous neural regeneration in the presence of an inciting event (induction neurogenesis). Induction neurogenesis has the potential for providing new insights into the cause and treatment of acute stroke syndromes.
A major hallmark of the polyglutamine diseases is the formation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NIIs) of the disease proteins that are ubiquitinated and often associated with various chaperones and proteasome components. Recently, misfolding has come to be considered one of the primary factors for polyglutamine protein aggregation, although, the nature of misfolding and the relationship between misfolding and ubiquitination of the expanded polyglutamine protein is not yet known. By using ataxin-3, the defective gene product of SCA3/MJD, we demonstrate here that the misfolding propensity and the cellular toxicity of a polyglutamine protein is directly proportional to the length of the glutamine repeats and inversely dependent on the size of the corresponding protein. The size of the polyglutamine bearing protein also inversely influences the binding of 1C2 antibody (an antibody that selectively recognizes polyglutamine expansion) to the polyglutamine protein and determines the minimum length of glutamine expansion to be recognized by 1C2 antibody, which suggests that the critical pathological range of glutamine repeats could also be dependent on the size of the corresponding protein. Ataxin-3 (both full length and truncated) with normal glutamine repeats are not ubiquitinated, however, ataxin-3 with expanded polyglutamine is ubiquitinated and the ubiquitination depends on the misfolding propensity of the polyglutamine expanded ataxin-3.
Several studies involving postnatal administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, dizocilpine (MK-801; 3 x 0.5 mg/kg, at 08.00, 16.00 and 24.00 h) on Postnatal day 11, or Ketamine (1 x 50 mg/kg) or Ethanol (1 x 2.5 g/kg, Ethanol-Low, or 2 x 2.5 g/kg, 2-h interval, Ethanol-High) on Postnatal day 10, are described. Some mice from each treatment/vehicle group were sacrificed 24 h after NMDA antagonist treatment and brain regions were taken for fluoro-jade staining analysis. Functional analysis was initiated at 60 days of age. All three treatments inducing an antagonistic action at NMDA receptors, MK-801, Ketamine and Ethanol-High induced a similar pattern of initial hypoactivity followed by marked and lasting hyperactivity in the motor activity test chambers. In each case, the basal hyperactivity level was abolished by acute treatment with a low dose of D-amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg). All three treatments, MK-801, Ketamine and Ethanol-High, induced a deficit in acquisitive performance in the radial arm maze test of instrumental learning. The deficit induced by postnatal MK-801 was abolished by acute treatment with the low dose of D-amphetamine. All three treatments, MK-801, Ketamine and Ethanol-High, resulted in normal acquisitive performance during the first three test days in the circular swim with the submerged platform maintained in a constant position, but on the fourth test day, with the platform position shifted to a different &quot;quadrant&quot;, induced marked deficits. Fluoro-jade staining analyses indicated a devastating cell degeneration in several brain regions of mice administered NMDA antagonists postnatally, including the hippocampus, frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and cerebellum. Severe cell degeneration in the laterodorsal thalamus due to Ethanol or diazepam (5 mg/kg) appeared not to affect the different aspects of function. The pattern of dysfunctional outcome and apoptotic cell loss following postnatal NMDA antagonist treatment offers a plausible similarity to the major aspects of 'syndromatic continuity' in ADHD, hyperactivity, inattention and impulsivity, thereby providing an interesting animal model of the disorder.

The present paper describes the results of recent preclinical and clinical studies conducted in this laboratory in order to characterize the anti-alcohol properties of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen. At a preclinical level, the repeated administration of non-sedative doses of baclofen dose-dependently suppressed the acquisition and maintenance of alcohol drinking behavior in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats tested under the homecage, 2-bottle &quot;alcohol vs water&quot; choice regimen. Acute injection of baclofen completely blocked the temporary increase in voluntary alcohol intake occurring after a period of alcohol abstinence (the so-called alcohol deprivation effect, which models alcohol relapses in human alcoholics). Acute treatment with baclofen also dose-dependently suppressed extinction responding for alcohol (an index of motivation to consume alcohol) in sP rats trained to lever-press for oral alcohol self-administration. Taken together, these results suggest the involvement of the GABA(B) receptor in the neural substrate mediating alcohol intake and alcohol motivational properties in an animal model of excessive alcohol consumption. Further, acutely administered baclofen dose-dependently reduced the severity of alcohol withdrawal signs in Wistar rats made physically dependent upon alcohol. Preliminary clinical surveys suggest that the anti-alcohol properties of baclofen observed in rats may generalize to human alcoholics. Indeed, a double-blind survey demonstrated that repeated daily treatment with baclofen was associated, when compared to placebo, with a higher percentage of subjects totally abstinent from alcohol and a higher number of days of total abstinence. Treatment with baclofen also suppressed the number of daily drinks and decreased the obsessive and compulsive components of alcohol craving. Finally, a single non-sedative dose of baclofen resulted in the rapid disappearance of alcohol withdrawal symptomatology, including delirium tremens, in alcohol-dependent patients. In both clinical studies, baclofen was well tolerated with minimal side effects. These results suggest that baclofen may represent a potentially effective medication in the treatment of alcohol-dependent patients.
Addiction to cocaine results from changes in brain function arising from a combination of pharmacology, environmental circumstances, as well as genetic vulnerability. One change is a reduction in Homer protein in the nucleus accumbens. In this report we summarize the behavioral and neurochemical effects of Homer2 gene deletion in mice and compare this with the effects of chronic cocaine treatment in rats. It was shown that Homer2 KO mice demonstrate enhanced locomotor stimulant and conditioned place preference responses to cocaine. Homer2 deletion also caused mice to show reduced basal extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens and a sensitized increase in extracellular glutamate in response to a cocaine injection. In contrast to glutamate, Homer2 KO mice showed a normal increase in extracellular dopamine following a cocaine challenge injection. The parallel between the effect of Homer2 gene deletion and chronic cocaine administration on behavioral and glutamatergic neurochemical responses to cocaine supports involvement of Homer proteins and glutamate transmission in the sensitization of behavior produced by repeated cocaine.
It is becoming clear that the functions of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), the largest family of plasma membrane-localized receptors, are regulated by direct oligomeric formation between GPCRs, as either homo- or hetero-oligomers. This review article explores the mechanistic implications of GPCR dimerization, especially among purinergic receptors, adenosine receptors and P2 receptors, which play critical roles in the regulation of neurotransmission in the central nervous system. Briefly, adenosine receptors are able to form a heteromeric complex with P2 receptors that generates an adenosine receptor with P2 receptor-like agonistic pharmacology. This mechanism may be used to fine-tune purinergic inhibition locally at sites where there is a particular oligomerization structure between purinergic receptors, and to explain the undefined adenosine-like purinergic functions of adenine nucleotides. Purinergic receptors also form oligomers with GPCRs of other families present in the brain, such as dopamine receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors, to alter the functional properties. The effect of GPCR oligomerization on receptor functions is thus considered as an important system in the central nervous system.
Cerebellar granule cell neurons undergo apoptotic cell death when subjected to serum-free conditions at physiological concentrations of potassium (5 mM). Protein kinase C (PKC) is known to play a role in preventing neuronal apoptosis under trophic factor deprivation, but its role in protecting cerebellar neurons from cell death under conditions of low potassium is unknown. This study sought to determine the involvement of PKC in neuronal survival and to determine if PKC regulated the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-K)/Akt pathway in low physiologic concentrations of potassium. Incubation with a pan-PKC inhibitor, Ro-31-8220 (2 microm), or a specific PKCAlpha inhibitor, G6976, protected cerebellar granule cell neurons from low potassium-mediated cell death. In contrast, phorbol ester (TPA, 100 nm), a PKC activator, increased cell death. Incubation with, Ro-31-8220 rescued neurons from cell death induced by the PI 3-K inhibitor, LY294002, suggesting that Ro-31-8220 may affect Akt phosphorylation. Western blot analysis showed that serum-free, low potassium conditions decreased Akt phosphorylation, which was exacerbated by treatment with LY294002. In contrast, PKC inhibitors, G6976 or Ro-31-8220, increased Akt phosphorylation approximately two and four-fold, respectively in low potassium conditions. Because Akt activation appears to be critical in promoting neuronal survival under these culture conditions, increased Akt phosphorylation brought about by inhibiting PKC promotes neuronal survival.
Oxidative stress is currently considered a mediator of cell death in several neurodegenerative diseases. Notably, it may play an important role in the degeneration of dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease. We examined the effect of a strong oxidant, the herbicide paraquat, on cell distress using native and neuronal pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Paraquat administration for 8 hours induced a significant cellular death in both native and in neuronal PC12 cells. Since the anti-oxidant properties of estrogens may promote neuroprotection in vitro and in vivo, we then investigated the ability of estradiol stereoisomers, 17alpha-estradiol and 17- beta-estradiol, to rescue PC12 cells submitted to paraquat-induced oxidative stress. Our results show a protective effect of both estradiol stereoisomers in neuronal PC12 cells treated with paraquat, whereas this effect could not be observed in native PC12 cells. We also demonstrate that estrogen receptor beta protein expression is modulated by paraquat administration in native PC12 cells, while paraquat does not change estrogen receptor beta ?expression in neuronal PC12 cells. Paraquat also decreases estrogen receptor alpha in neuronal PC12 cells, thus suggesting new routes for paraquat to collapse cellular metabolism. Besides, the oxidation of dihydrodhodamine-123 into fluorescent rhodamine in the presence of paraquat but not in presence of paraquat and 17 alpha-estradiol or 17 beta-estradiol, sustain a possible direct scavenging role of both estradiol stereoisomers.
Valeriana officinalis have been used in traditional medicine for its sedative, hypnotic, and anticonvulsant effects. There are several reports in the literature supporting a GABAergic mechanism of action for valerian. The rationale of the present work is based on the concept that by decreasing neuronal network excitability valerian consumption may contribute to neuroprotection. The aim of our investigation was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of V. officinalis against the toxicity induced by amyloid beta peptide 25-35 Abeta(25-35). Cultured rat hippocampal neurons were exposed to Abeta(25-35) (25 microM) for 24-48 h, after which morphological and biochemical properties were evaluated. The neuronal injury evoked by Abeta, which includes a decrease in cell reducing capacity and associated neuronal degeneration, was prevented by valerian extract. Analysis of intracellular free calcium (Ca(2+)i) indicated that the neuroprotective mechanisms may involve the inhibition of excess influx of Ca2+ following neuronal injury. Moreover, membrane peroxidation in rat hippocampal synaptosomes was evaluated, and our data indicate that valerian extract partially inhibited ascorbate/iron-induced peroxidation. In conclusion we show evidence that the signalling pathways involving Ca(2+)i and the redox state of the cells may play a central role in the neuroprotective properties of V. officinalis extract against Abeta toxicity. The novelty of the findings of the present work, indicating neuroprotective properties of valerian against Abeta toxicity may, at the long-term, contribute to introduction of a new relevant use of valerian alcoholic extract to prevent neuronal degeneration in aging or neurodegenerative disorders.
In the present study we assessed the neuroprotective role of a Hypericum perforatum ethanolic extract and obtained fractions in amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta)((25-35))-induced cell death in rat cultured hippocampal neurons. Lipid peroxidation was used as a marker of oxidative stress by following the formation of TBARS in rat cortical synaptosomes, after incubation with ascorbate/Fe2+, alone or in the presence of EC97 effective concentrations of H. perforatum fractions. Induced lipid peroxidation was significantly inhibited by fractions containing flavonol glycosides, flavonol and biflavone aglycones, and by a fraction containing several phenols, mainly chlorogenic acid-type phenolics (21%, 77% and 98%, respectively). Lipid peroxidation evaluated after incubation with 25 microM Abeta(25-35), was significantly inhibited by H. perforatum extract. Cell viability was assessed by use of the Syto-13/PI assay. The total ethanolic extract (TE) and fractions containing flavonol glycosides, flavonol and biflavone aglycones, reduced Abeta(25-35)-induced cell death (65%, 58% and 59%, respectively). These results were further supported by morphological analysis of cells stained with cresyl violet. Peptide beta-amyloid(25-35) induced a decrease in cell volume, chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation, alterations not evident in the presence of the TE and fractions containing hypericins (hypericin concentration = 11.02 microM), or fractions containing flavonoids (quercetin concentration = 21.13 microM). Dendritic lesion, an evidence of neurodegeneration, was observed by neuronal staining with cobalt following insult with Abeta(25-35), but prevented after exposure to the peptide plus the fractions referred above. The results of the present paper suggest that H. perforatum extracts may be endowed with neuroprotective compounds able to prevent Abeta(25-35)-induced toxicity.
Sensorimotor gating, measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI), is a fundamental form of information processing that is deficient in schizophrenia patients and mice lacking the gene for metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). Both breeding strategies and mothering behaviors are capable of influencing the behavioral phenotype of knockout (KO) mice. Previous studies found a PPI deficit and increased startle magnitudes in mGluR5 KO mice derived from homozygous matings. Here we compared the PPI of mGluR5 wildtype (WT) and KO mice derived from heterozygous matings to that seen in mice derived from homozygous matings. Possible influences of postnatal mothering behaviors were examined using two different methods of cross-fostering. The potential developmental nature of the PPI deficit of the mGluR5 KO mice was also addressed via acute administration of the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) to C57BL/6J mice. The mGluR5 KO mice exhibited reduced PPI independently of breeding strategy or postnatal mothering behavior. Startle magnitude, however, varied with breeding strategy. The PPI deficit seen in the mGluR5 KO mice is not mimicked by acute administration of an mGluR5 antagonist, and is therefore most likely due to compensatory alterations in neuronal circuitry occurring during development independent of maternal behaviors in the postnatal environment.
Stress is the major epigenetic factor that contributes to the etiology, pathophysiology, and treatment outcome of most psychiatric disorders. Understanding the mechanisms by which stress contributes to these processes can have important implications for improving therapeutic outcome. Considering that a dysfunctional prefrontal cortex has been implicated in many psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia and mood disorders, delineating mechanisms by which stress affects prefrontal cortex (PFC) function is critical to our understanding of the role of stress in influencing the disease process. This paper will review recent mechanistic information about the effects of stress on dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission in the PFC.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of the central nervous system is associated with microglia activation and neuronal apoptosis, alterations that are also caused by the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) alone. This study was undertaken to examine the onset of gp120 neurotoxicity, the type of cell death and which cells of the adult rat brain are more sensitive to the toxic action of gp120. Gp120 or vehicle were injected chronically (daily for 3 or 7 days) into the lateral ventricle. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed hypertensive areas in the cortical and hippocampal gray matter in gp120-treated rats 7-10 days after the first injection, suggesting vasogenic edema. This phenomenon was accompanied by an enlargement of the lateral and third ventricles. Immunohistochemical analyses were then carried out to examine the toxic effect of gp120 at a cellular level. Several markers of apoptosis, including activated caspase-3 were observed at both 3 and 7 days throughout brains of gp120-treated rats, especially in the cerebral cortex. In this area, most of the apoptotic cells exhibited a pyramidal shape and were Nissl positive, indicative of neurons. Few non-neuronal cells exhibited signs of apoptosis. The results of the present study support the notion that gp120 is neurotoxic in vivo and provide evidence that gp120 activates a caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway.
Developmental difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) treatment reduces cerebellar weight [Neuroscience 17 (1986) 399, Neurotoxicol. Teratol. 22 (2000) 415, Behav. Brain Res. 126 (2001) 135], but the functional alterations resulting from this have been little investigated. Here, Sprague-Dawley rats were subcutaneously injected with 500 mg/kg DFMO on postnatal days (PNDs) 5-12 and a comprehensive set of behavioral assessments measured early developmental behaviors (righting reflex, negative geotaxis), motor coordination, acoustic startle, short- and long-term activity, social behaviors, anxiety, and spatial learning and memory. DFMO treatment appeared to cause a decreased latency to perform the negative geotaxis behavior on PNDs 8-10 and increased latency to hang by the forelimbs on PNDs 12-14. Our previous study did not indicate similar effects, but age at testing differed between the two studies. DFMO treatment caused a decreased latency to maximum acoustic startle response in both the acoustic startle paradigm and in the pulse-alone trials of the prepulse inhibition test. This DFMO treatment paradigm induced a 10% decrease in adult cerebellar weight [Behav. Brain Res. 126 (2001) 135], but the results here imply that such developmental stunting has few functional alterations.
In spite of significant efforts, the neurobehavioral deficits in infants born from cocaine-abusing mothers have not been clearly defined. In the present study, we examined the presence of these abnormalities in a rhesus monkey model of prenatal cocaine exposure using a nonhuman primate adaptation of the Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale (NBAS). Pregnant monkeys (n = 14) received 10 mg/kg cocaine twice a day orally (in fruit treats) from the 40th through 102nd postconception days (PCD40-PCD102), which is the period of cerebral cortical neuronogenesis (approximately second trimester). The control consisted of pregnant monkeys (n = 14) receiving fruit treats only. The animals were allowed to deliver vaginally at term (approximately PCD165). The first testing session was conducted on PCD171 (within the first week after birth); the second testing session was conducted on PCD177 (within the second week after birth); the third test was conducted on PCD183 (within the third week after birth); and the fourth testing session was conducted on PCD189 (within the fourth week after birth). The prenatally cocaine-exposed infants showed deficits in orientation, state control, and motor maturity, which were detectable during the second, third, and fourth testing sessions. The same testing sessions also revealed a significant reduction in the time devoted to toy manipulation, which points to impaired attention. None of these abnormalities were seen during the first testing session. The first session, however, revealed increased tremulousness (one of the indicators of autonomic stability) in the prenatally cocaine-exposed infants. This impairment disappeared by the third testing session. The present findings demonstrate the potential of prenatal cocaine exposure to induce neurobehavioral deficits detectable by NBAS-like testing in primate infants.
The history of research on the association between platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity and personality traits, such as sensation seeking and impulsiveness, is reviewed. The effects of MAO-inhibiting compounds in cigarette smoke for the interpretation of this association are discussed. Recent results confirming a true association between platelet MAO activity and personality are presented. From a clinical point of view, this association has had its greatest impact on the understanding of the nature of constitutional factors making individuals vulnerable for e.g. substance abuse and the link between low platelet MAO activity and type 2 alcoholism, recently confirmed on non-human primates, is discussed. The molecular mechanisms underlying the association between platelet MAO and behaviour are discussed and evidence that common transcriptional factors, e.g. within the AP-2 family, regulating both the expression of platelet MAO and components of central monoaminergic systems, such as synthetizing enzymes, receptors and transporters, are presented. A hypothesis is put forward, that such common transcription factors may not directly regulate platelet MAO expression, but rather mitochondrial number or outer membrane surface.
Monoamine oxidases A and B (MAO A and B) are the major enzymes in mammals that catalyze the oxidative deamination or oxidation of neurotransmitters, peripheral vasoactive amines, and xenobiotics (e.g. MPTP). Although these enzymes are among the most widely studied flavoproteins, their integral association with the outer mitochondrial membrane has deterred knowledge of their structures until recent work yielded the three-dimensional structure of MAO B [Nat. Struct. Biol. 9 (2002) 22]. In our study, we compared the primary sequence in different regions of MAO B to those in selected proteins of known structure, including cytochrome P-450. Using site-directed mutagenesis [Prog. Nucleic Acid Res. Mol. Biol. 65 (2001) 129], we have identified three amino acids residues (Phe 423, Glu 427, and Thr 428) that appear to play a role in generating catalytically active MAO B. However, examination of models of the MAO B structure show that these residues lie outside the substrate binding site. Thus, it appears that Phe 423, Glu 427 and Thr 428 do not directly affect the active site, but they could modulate activity through an independent function such as non-covalent binding of FAD during synthesis of the MAO B polypeptide chain.







Although anti-hypertensive treatment is known to be effective for preventing first-ever stroke, there has been a long debate, whether this treatment is safe and effective for preventing recurrent stroke and subsequent disabled conditions. PROGRESS trial was designed to clarify these concerns about the efficacy and safety of blood-pressure-lowering treatments for the chronic stroke patients and clearly showed that anti-hypertensive treatment should be quite safe and effective for preventing recurrent stroke. The results of other clinical trials such as HOPE, Syst-Eur2 and SCOPE also suggested the at most importance of anti-hypertensive treatment for primary prevention of cognitive impairment and dementia. In this review, the significance of recent clinical trials were fully discussed in relation to the hypertension-induced pathophysiological changes of the brain.


The objective of the study was to examine differences between asylum seekers, living in asylum seekers' centres, and refugees, who officially have been granted asylum, when they were acutely admitted to a psychiatric hospital. All 53 asylum seekers and 45 refugees, acutely admitted to a Norwegian psychiatric hospital from 1995 to 2001 were included. The number of admissions by coercion, diagnosis, length of hospital stay and years residing in Norway at the time of the admissions were compared between the two groups. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was more frequent among asylum seekers (43.4%) than among refugees (11%), while schizophrenia was more frequent among refugees (62.2%) than among asylum seekers (15%). The refugees (24.4%) were more often admitted by coercion than asylum seekers (11%). The high proportion of PTSD among asylum seekers compared to refugees may be explained by experiences in Norway after arrival into the country. The stresses of life in reception centres and the risk of being expelled from the country may contribute more to these admittances than experiences in the asylum seekers countries of origin.
During the last few decades, quality assurance has been a central issue in the societies, both in, for example the industrial area and in healthcare. It is a tool to measure the outcomes of product or service provided. A review of the literature during the last 17 years with respect to quality assurance work in psychiatric occupational therapy indicates that few articles have been published in the area and that their scientific quality is questionable. The studies show many methodological shortcomings, which result in difficulty drawing any conclusion from the studies. The number of publications is also decreasing. Furthermore, a survey to investigate quality assurance work in psychiatric occupational therapy service shows that the occupational therapists do not work with quality assurance methods to a great extent. The methods they use most are interviews with patients and patient questionnaire. Both these methods require documentation in order to offer the patient a suitable service. Quality assurance work will be difficult to implement if no documentation is available. Documentation is central to communicating with other professions and with the client. This study points out that occupational therapists need to improve practice as well as research concerning quality assurance in order to ensure that they offer the patient a high-quality service.
The protective role of positive beliefs and expectations against suicide has been studied using the Reasons For Living inventory (RFL). The RFL has shown to be useful in research and suggested for use in clinical practice. A Swedish translation of the RFL was examined for psychometric properties, reliability, latent structure and convergent validity in a Swedish general population. The RFL was distributed with the Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire (SBQ) to 1,366 randomly selected subjects aged 20-65 years in the county of stergtland. The results were based on 506 complete replies. The Cronbach alpha of the total RFL was 0.92, ranging from 0.72 to 0.93 in the six scales of RFL. The intercorrelations between the scales were weak and the scale to total RFL score moderate to high. The factor structure and item loadings of the inventory showed great similarities with the American one with exception for the scales Responsibility to Family and Child-related Concerns, which formed one common factor. The convergent validity was supported by significant relationships to the items of the SBQ. It is concluded that the Swedish translation of the RFL inventory in a Swedish general sample possesses great similarities to the American original RFL. Thus, it is suggested as an instrument for research and clinical usage in Sweden.
Research on obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in children and adolescents has led to important developments with clinical implications as regards assessment and treatment. These developments have resulted in new guidelines and recommendations as to what is regarded to be an adequate treatment of the disorder. The objective of the present study was to examine if these developments have led to changes in the views on clinical management of childhood OCD among child psychiatry personnel in Norway. A national survey was conducted by means of a questionnaire addressing preferences and practices among clinicians in their assessment and management of OCD, the clinicians self-reported experienced treatment success, and need to develop clinical skills on assessing and treating childhood OCD. Seventy-nine clinicians (58.5%) responded. The results showed that cognitive/behavioural, family and medication approaches were preferred over psychodynamic and humanistic approaches in the management of OCD. The preferred cognitive/behavioural approach seems to be more cognitive than behavioural, and only one-third of clinicians reported frequent use of anxiety-provoking methods in treatment of childhood OCD. Clinicians that self-rated the Clinical Global Improvement Scale on their last treated OCD case indicated moderate treatment success. Because of low numbers of OCD cases in the clinics, the majority of clinicians are rated as inexperienced in the management of the disorder and results show a need for adequate training opportunities. It is concluded that clinicians have accommodated to recommended standards in the management of childhood OCD, but some results are contradictory and do not justify conclusive statements. The study needs to be supplemented by research focusing on more specific elements of the preferred treatments, thus narrowing the scope of the present study.

Probiotics and prebiotics are the sort of therapy that most patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) wish for. They are without significant side effects, except possibly an increase in gas with prebiotics, and so far, appear to be entirely safe. However, are they effective? More than a dozen studies using probiotics in IBD have now been reported, and there is dear benefit in pouchitis and possibly also in Crohn's, although there are so many clinical types of this condition that a clear indication has yet to emerge. For ulcerative colitis (UC) more studies are needed. The use of prebiotics in IBD is only just starting, although significant effects on both the luminal and mucosa-associated flora have been demonstrated in healthy subjects. Antibiotics offer more certain hope in IBD treatment, although with a much greater risk of unwanted effects. Their efficacy in clinical studies varies, with Crohn's disease and pouchitis reporting more benefit than ulcerative colitis. However, the ideal combination of antibiotics, and rationale for their use has not been determined.
Studies in my laboratory have been employing multiple non-invasive brain imaging techniques to study the characteristics of patients with chronic pain. Some of these results are briefly outlined in this communication. Our studies regarding brain activity in chronic pain are summarized, emphasizing the unique role of the prefrontal cortex in chronic, especially neuropathic pain states. I also review our work examining brain chemistry abnormalities in chronic pain. Given these results, we have examined chronic pain patients in a cognitive task, designed to probe brain regions that we think are specifically abnormal in chronic pain, these results are also summarized. An overview of the mechanisms that may be pertinent to the observed results is included.
Mechanisms for opioid tolerance and addiction are divided into two types of plasticity--cellular level and those occurring through multiple neuronal networks. Receptor desensitization through phosphorylation and endocytosis are currently well discussed using cell lines expressing opioid receptors in relation to acute tolerance mechanisms, while altered gene expression is mainly discussed in relation to the model mechanisms of chronic tolerance and dependence. However, little is known of mechanisms operating through plasticity of neuronal networks. In our approach, we began with the assumption that some non-opioid neurons with anti-opioid activity may cause neuronal plasticity, showing opioid adaptation and dependence. In mice lacking nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor (NOP), or the NMDA receptor epsilon1 subunit, both of which mediate anti-opioid activities, analgesic tolerance and dependence following chronic morphine treatments were markedly attenuated. Chronic morphine-treatments increased NOP gene or epsilon1 subunit protein expression in the spinal cord or specific brain loci, respectively. Furthermore the rescue of the epsilon1 subunit gene in the specific brain locus of knockout mice recovers the tolerance and dependence. All these results suggest that the enhanced anti-opioid system may contribute to the development of morphine tolerance and dependence, and their contribution could be brain locus specific.
An intracellular signalling pathway in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal neurons is a popular target in pain research that is relevant to the neuroplastic changes that occur during chronic pain conditions. First, we examined the phosphorylation of ERK in DRG neurons after peripheral inflammation and sciatic nerve transection without any stimulation to the receptive field. We found an activation of ERK in different populations of DRG neurons after peripheral inflammation and axotomy, which developed from alterations in target-derived nerve growth factor (NGF). We observed that the ERK signalling regulates the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in DRG neurons in both conditions. We also demonstrated that very rapid phosphorylation of ERK occurred in DRG neurons that were involved in the transmission of various noxious signals under normal conditions. Further, we examined the pERK labelling after the mechanical stimuli into the inflamed tissue and found that the pERK labelling occurred through the P2X3 receptors in the terminals. This activity-dependent activation of the ERK signal pathway may be useful for identifying which DRG neurons are involved in transmission of noxious stimuli under normal and pathological conditions.
Damage to peripheral nerves following trauma or disease has a number of consequences including the emergence of neuropathic pain. Commonly, neuropathic pain sufferers experience spontaneous burning pain in and radiating from the area innervated by the damaged nerves, and an exquisite sensitivity to light touch stimuli, which are now perceived as painful. These neuropathic pains are often refractory to conventional analgesic therapy, with most patients obtaining at best only partial relief. Unfortunately, neuropathic pains are frequently also very persistent and do not resolve with time. Thus, neuropathic pain is often an extremely debilitating condition with a bleak outlook. In this paper we review the pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie these neuropathic pain states with particular emphasis on the therapeutic role of neurotrophic factors.
Although it has long been known that sodium channels play an important role in the generation of abnormal neuronal activity and neuropathic pain, it is only recently that we have begun to understand the subtypes of sodium channels which are particularly important in neuropathic pain. Many of the identified subtypes of sodium channels are localized in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Based on their sensitivity to tetrodotoxin (TTX), these sodium channels are classified as TTX-sensitive (TTXs) or TTX-resistant (TTXr) subtypes. In in vitro electrophysiological experiments, ectopic discharges arising from DRG neurons with injured axons are blocked by TTX at doses that are too low to block TTXr subtypes. Furthermore, the same low doses of TTX applied to the DRG of the injured segment in neuropathic rats significantly reduce pain behaviours. These data suggest that TTXs subtypes of sodium channels are playing an important role in the generation of both ectopic discharges and neuropathic pain. Analysis of mRNA of the TTXs subtypes of sodium channels in the DRG after spinal nerve ligation showed that Nav1.3 (Type III) and Nax (NaG) are the only two subtypes that are up-regulated, suggesting their potentially important role in ectopic discharge and neuropathic pain generation.
Consistent with the conformational coupling mechanism, which suggests that store-operated channels are activated via physical interactions with intracellular calcium release channels, previous studies have demonstrated a functional coupling and a physical interaction between the transient receptor potential canonical type 3 (TRPC3) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). The IP3R-TRPC binding domains were determined using in vitro binding assays. This work aimed to study the effect of IP3R-TRPC interaction on TRPC function. Pull-down experiments were used to study the binding of TRPC to IP3R and to calmodulin. Patch clamp recordings in whole-cell and inside-out configurations were used to examine the effect of a TRPC-binding IP3R fragment, Ca2+ and calmodulin on TRPC activity. We found that IP3R and calmodulin compete for a common binding site at the TRPC C-terminus. TRPC channels are activated either by a peptide representing the TRPC-binding domain of IP3R or by inactivation of calmodulin from the excised membrane patches. TRPC3 activity is inhibited by Ca2+ and calmodulin. Therefore, we have identified a critical IP3R-TRPC interaction that is involved in the activation of TRPC-formed channels. We propose that IP3Rs activate TRPC channels by displacing inhibitory calmodulin from a common calmodulin-IP3R binding site located at the C-terminus of TRPC.
A series of iodinated thiadiazolyltetrahydro-1-methyl-pyridine (TZTP) compounds was synthesized and evaluated in vitro and in vivo as potential radioligands for imaging of the muscarinic M2 receptor subtype with SPET. One of these compounds, 5-(E)-iodopentenylthio-TZTP, has high in vitro affinity (Ki = 4.9 nM) and moderate selectivity for the muscarinic M2 receptor subtype. Although the uptake pattern in the biodistribution studies in rats is consistent with muscarinic M2 receptor disribution, specific in vivo binding to these receptors could not be demonstrated. The usefulness of this tracer in human SPET imaging may therefore be limited.
With optimal pregnancy conditions (natural, enriched diet which includes fish) African (Digo) infants are 3-4 weeks ahead of European/American infants in sensorimotor terms at birth, and during the first year. Infants of semi-aquatic sea-gypsies swim before they walk, and have superior visual acuity compared with us. With adverse pregnancy behaviour (fear of fat, a trend to dieting), neglecting the need for brain fat to secure normal brain development and function, we run a risk of dysfunction--death. Sudden Infant Death Syndrome victims have depressed birth weight, lower levels of marine fat in brainstem than controls, and &gt;80 suffer multiple hypoxic episodes prior to death. Depressed birth weight (more than 10% below mean) is seen in learning and behaviour disorders, and a trend towards weights of less than 3kg is increasing, which supports a rise in antenatal sub optimality. Given marine fat deficiency in pregnancy and infancy, neurons starved for fuel could delay myelination and maturation in the latest developed Frontal Lobes. The phylogenetic oldest Lateral Frontal Lobe System (feed-back mechanism etc.) derived from olfactory bulb-amygdala, which crosses in Anterior Commisure is probably spared, while the Medial Frontal Lobe System derived from Hippocampus-Cingulum and crosses in Corpus Callosum (delayed response task) is most likely affected. The rise in infantile autism (intact vision and hearing) with deficit in delayed response task only, could suggest a deficit in the Medial Frontal Lobe System. The human species is unique; 70% of total energy to the foetus goes to development of the brain, which mainly consists of marine fat. It undergoes pervasive regressive events, before birth, in infancy and at puberty. Minimal retraction of neuronal arborisation is advantageous. Attributable to adverse pregnancy childrearing practice, excessive retraction is likely prenatally and in infancy. Pubertal age affects the fundamental property of nervous tissue, excitability: excessive excitatory drive is seen in early, and a deficiency in late puberty. It is postulated that with adequate marine fat, there is probably no risk of psychopathology at the extremes, whereas a deficiency could lead to paroxysmal (subcortical) dysfunction in early puberty, and breakdown of cortical circuitry and cognitive dysfunctions in late puberty. The post-pubertal psychoses, schizophrenia and manic-depressive psychosis at the extremes of the pubertal age continuum, with contrasting excitability and biological treatment, are probably the result of continuous dietary deficiency, which has inactivated the expression of genes for myelin development and oligodendrocyte-related genes in their production of myelin. The beneficial effect of marine fat in both disorders, in other CNS disorders as well as in developmental dyslexia (DD) and ADHD among others, supports our usual diet is persistently deficient. We have neglected the similarity of our great brain to other mammals, and our marine heritage. Given the amount of marine fat needed to secure normal brain development and function is not known, nor the present dietary level, it seems unduly conjectural to postulate that a dietary deficiency in marine fat is causing brain dysfunction and death. However, all observations point in the same direction: our diet focusing on protein mainly, is deficient, the deficiency is most pronounced in maternal nutrition and in infancy.


SUMMARY Neuroscience knowledge is of fundamental importance to the occupational therapist and other health care professionals, but neuroscience courses are often viewed in schools of health sciences as among the most arduous of the curriculum. To enhance student learning, the author has developed a series of in-class activities, &quot;brainteasers,&quot; that are integrated into each subject module of a semester-long undergraduate neuroscience course. In the brain teaser activities, students experience intriguing sensory and motor phenomena, then use inductive reasoning to generate plausible hypotheses concerning the underlying neural mechanisms. Students profit doubly from these activities, learning neuroscience while practicing critical thinking.




To elucidate the underlying mechanisms involved in AIDS therapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, we have developed a model of nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor-induced painful peripheral neuropathy in the rat, using 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (ddI) and 2',3'-didehydro-3'-deoxythymidine (d4T), AIDS chemotherapeutic drugs that are also components of AIDS highly active anti-retroviral therapy. Administration of ddC, ddI and d4T produced dose-dependent mechanical hypersensitivity and allodynia. Peripheral administration of inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein kinase C, protein kinase G, p42/p44-mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2) and nitric oxide synthase, which have demonstrated anti-hyperalgesic effects in other models of metabolic and toxic painful peripheral neuropathies, had no effect on ddC-, ddI- and d4T-induced hypersensitivity. Since suramin, an anti-parasitic and anti-cancer drug, which shares with the anti-retroviral nucleoside analogs, mitochondrial toxicity, altered regulation of intracellular calcium, and a sensory neuropathy in humans, also produced mechanical hypersensitivity that was not sensitive to the above second messenger inhibitors we evaluated the role of intracellular calcium. Intradermal or spinal injection of intracellular calcium modulators (TMB-8 and Quin-2), which had no effect on nociception in control rats, significantly attenuated and together eliminated ddC and suramin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity. In electrophysiology experiments in ddC-treated rats, C-fibers demonstrated alterations in pattern of firing as indicated by changes in the distribution of interspike intervals to sustained suprathreshold stimuli without change in mechanical activation thresholds or in number of action potentials in response to threshold and suprathreshold stimulation. This study provides evidence for a novel, calcium-dependent, mechanism for neuropathic pain in a model of AIDS therapy-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
Chronic and acute pre-mastectomy pain as well as prevalence and characteristics of phantom phenomena following mastectomy were investigated by interview in a sample of 39 women who had undergone unilateral breast amputation. Twenty of 39 participants reported phantom sensations in the breast. Nine of the participants with phantom sensations experienced phantom pain and 11 non-painful phantom sensations. Although some features of phantom breast phenomena appear to be similar to characteristics of phantom phenomena in limb amputees, phantom breast phenomena seem to differ in a variety of ways such as time of onset or localization. This difference may be explained by the absence of kinesthesis and the small representation of the human breast. Seven of the 39 participants experienced chronic and six acute breast pain prior to the amputation. The amount of chronic pre-mastectomy breast pain weighted by the amount of involved tissue was significantly higher among participants with non-painful phantom sensations, compared to women with painful phantoms and those without phantom phenomena.
The decline in the number of medical students choosing to enter the field of child neurology is a concern. We undertook this study to learn more about the qualities of highly regarded medical schools that may play a role in attracting students to the field of child neurology. We surveyed child neurologists at top U.S. medical schools that were most successful and least successful at attracting students to child neurology to determine what factors influenced the number of students entering the field of child neurology. We determined that the medical schools that produced the most child neurologists had stronger neuroscience curricula, stronger academic reputations, and larger Divisions of Child Neurology. Our findings suggest that our attention should be focused on academic centers that have more resources to create an atmosphere that is appealing to prospective applicants. These schools should implement a curriculum in neuroscience and child neurology that specifically exposes students early and maintains their interest in the field of child neurology.

Endomorphin 1 (EM-1) and EM-2 have been widely reported in the cells of the central nervous system (CNS) but limited research has been done regarding their distribution in the peripheral system. The occurrence of EM-1 and -2 in the spleen as measured by RIA and their ability to mediate immune function imply a role for EMs in this area. The current study examines the localization of EM-1 and -2 in the immune cells of the spleen of male and female rats via an immunohistochemical procedure. In both genders, EM-1 and -2 immunoreactive staining was predominantly present in macrophages and B cells with minimal EM immunoreactive staining in T cells. This is the first evidence of a differential distribution of EM-1 and -2 in cells of the immune system.
The perception of shading-defined form results from an interaction between shading cues and the frames of reference within which those cues are interpreted. In the absence of a clear source of illumination, the definition of 'up' becomes critical to deducing the perceived shape from a particular pattern of shading. In our experiments, twelve subjects adjusted the orientation of a planar disc painted with a linear luminance gradient from one side to the other, until the disc appeared maximally convex-that is, until the luminance gradient induced the maximum perception of a three-dimensional shape. The vision, gravity, and body-orientation cues were altered relative to each other. Visual cues were manipulated by the York Tilted Room facility, and body cues were altered by simply lying on one side. The orientation of the disc that appeared maximally convex varied in a systematic fashion with these manipulations. We present a model in which the direction of perceptual 'up' is determined from the sum of three weighted vectors corresponding to the vision, gravity, and body-orientation cues. The model predicts the perceived direction of 'up', contributes to our understanding of how shape-from-shading is deduced, and also predicts the confidence with which the 'up' direction is perceived.
For good ecological reasons humans assume that the illumination in pictures comes from overhead rather than from below. Recent work has also raised the possibility that the preferred angle of illumination is between 20 degrees and 30 degrees to the left of vertical, although the ecological basis for that is obscure. We describe two studies of this question. In study 1, twenty subjects looked in free, unrestricted vision, at a picture of a single 'bubble' which appeared either convex if the illumination was from above, or concave if the illumination was from below. There was no evidence in study 1 that illumination from the left produced a different appearance from illumination from the right, the preferred angle of illumination being 0.5 degrees to the right of vertical. In study 2, on forty subjects, there was fast presentation (200 ms) of an array of 16 bubbles, one of which, the target, was illuminated from the opposite direction to the others, and hence 'popped out' from the display, appearing concave if the others were convex, or vice-versa. The preferred angle of illumination for detection of the target was about 14 degrees to the left of vertical in study 2. The estimates from studies 1 and 2 did not differ significantly, and when combined gave a preferred angle of 9 degrees to the left of vertical. The reasons for the seeming discrepancy between studies 1 and 2, or the smaller overall effect than that found in previous studies are not clear since the methodologies seem equivalent. In both studies 1 and 2 there was a highly significant association between the direction of spontaneous head tilt and preferred direction of illumination, and this factor has not previously been taken into account in studies of the phenomenon. Contrary to the study of Sun and Perona (1998, Nature Neuroscience 1 183-184), there was no association with handedness or other measures of functional lateralisation.
Visual neuroscience is considered to be a contemporary concern, based in large part on relating characteristics of neural functioning to visual experience. It presupposes a detailed knowledge of neural activity for which the neuron doctrine is a fundamental tenet. However, long before either the neuron doctrine had been advanced or the nerve cell had been described, attempts were made to estimate the dimensions of nerve fibres from measures of visual resolution. In the seventeenth century, the microscopes of Hooke and van Leeuwenhoek were unable to resolve structures as small as nerves adequately. However, it was not Hooke's microscope that led to an estimate of the dimensions of nerve fibres but his experiments on the limits of visual resolution. Hooke determined that a separation of one minute of arc was the minimum that could normally be seen. Descartes had earlier speculated that the retina consisted of the terminations of fibres of the optic nerve, and that their size defined the limits of what could be seen. Estimates of the diameters of nerve fibres were made on the basis of human visual acuity by Porterfield in 1738; he calculated the diameters of nerve fibres in the retina as one 7200th part of an inch (0.0035 mm), based on the resolution of one minute of arc as the minimum visible. In the same year, Jurin questioned the reliability of such estimates because of variations in visual resolution with different stimuli. The measurement of visual acuity was refined by Mayer in 1755, with dots, gratings, and grids used as stimuli. In the 1830s, Treviranus fused the microscopic and acuity approaches to determine the dimensions of nerve fibres. His indirect estimates of the dimensions of retinal fibres were close to those derived from microscopic observation. However, the suggestion that the retina consisted of terminations of nerve fibres influenced his detailed illustrations of its microscopic structure. Contrary to the situation that obtained after the microscopic structure of the retina had been established, a function of vision (acuity) was used to determine the dimensions of the structures (retinal elements) that were thought to mediate it.

Theories of object recognition differ to the extent that they consider object representations as being mediated only by the shape of the object, or shape and surface details, if surface details are part of the representation. In particular, it has been suggested that color information may be helpful at recognizing objects only in very special cases, but not during basic-level object recognition in good viewing conditions. In this study, we collected normative data (naming agreement, familiarity, complexity, and imagery judgments) for Snodgrass and Vanderwart's object database of 260 black-and-white line drawings, and then compared the data to exactly the same shapes but with added gray-level texture and surface details (set 2), and color (set 3). Naming latencies were also recorded. Whereas the addition of texture and shading without color only slightly improved naming agreement scores for the objects, the addition of color information unambiguously improved naming accuracy and speeded correct response times. As shown in previous studies, the advantage provided by color was larger for objects with a diagnostic color, and structurally similar shapes, such as fruits and vegetables, but was also observed for man-made objects with and without a single diagnostic color. These observations show that basic-level 'everyday' object recognition in normal conditions is facilitated by the presence of color information, and support a 'shape + surface' model of object recognition, for which color is an integral part of the object representation. In addition, the new stimuli (sets 2 and 3) and the corresponding normative data provide valuable materials for a wide range of experimental and clinical studies of object recognition.
Elements of a contour are often easier to detect when they possess collinearity, with their local orientations matching the global orientation of the contour. We recently reported attentional modulation of such lateral interactions between a central near-threshold target Gabor patch and flanking high-contrast patches (Freeman et al, 2001 Nature Neuroscience 4 1032-1036). Here, we examined whether such attentional effects reflect specific modulation of mechanisms sensitive to collinear configurations, or instead more general modulation of sensitivity to either the global or local orientation-components of the stimulus. Thresholds for detecting a central Gabor target were measured, while observers also judged the Vernier alignment between one pair of flankers and ignored a second flanker pair (when present). Target contrast-thresholds were facilitated only when attending collinear flankers. There was no facilitation when attending flankers that shared only local orientation with the target, or flankers that fell on a global axis aligned with target orientation but having orthogonal local orientation. Ignored collinear flankers had no effect on target thresholds. These results demonstrate strong and specific attentional modulation of contour-integration mechanisms in early vision sensitive to collinear configurations.
Is the extraction of a visually derived semantic code from faces (ethnicity) affected by face identity (familiarity) or not? The traditional view considers that this operation is made independently of face identity, and in parallel with the recognition of identity. However, some recent studies cast doubt on this parallel thesis regarding other visually derived semantic codes, namely: facial expression, facial speech, apparent age, and gender. Twenty-eight Caucasian participants were enrolled in an 'ethnic-decision' task on morphed faces made of an Asiatic source face and a Caucasian source face, in the proportion of 70%-30%. Half of the original faces were previously made familiar by a learning procedure (associating the face, surname, occupation, and city of residence of the person displayed), while the remaining half were unfamiliar. The results showed clearly that ethnic decision was affected by face familiarity. This adds support to the thesis according to which the identification of identity and the extraction of visually derived semantic codes are not made independently from each other and that the 'parallel-route' hypothesis becomes weakly supported.
Context sensitivity of size perception has previously been used to study individual differences related to the distinction between local, analytic, or field-independent and global, holistic, or field-dependent perceptual styles. For example, it has been used in several recent studies of autistic spectrum disorders, which may involve an excessive bias toward local processing. Autism is much more common in males, and there is evidence that this may be in part because males in general tend to be less context-sensitive than females, and thus are more affected by conditions that further reduce context sensitivity. There is also evidence that a bias to local processing is more common in professions that require attention to detail. Context sensitivity of size perception was therefore studied as a function of sex and academic discipline in sixty-four university staff and students by a simple, sensitive, and specific psychophysical measure based on the Ebbinghaus illusion. The results show that in this task males are on average less context-sensitive than females, that the overlap is large, and that subjects with very high or very low context sensitivity tend to have the sex and profession predicted by the above hypotheses.

Clozapine is considered a prototype of the 'so-called' atypical antipsychotic drug class. It has affinity for a broad range of receptors and, in comparison to typical antipsychotic drugs, produces less extrapyramidal side effects. However, its mechanism of action remains unclear. Differential display polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) was implemented in this study to contribute to the current understanding of this mechanism at the genetic level and to identify novel genes regulated by clozapine. This technique generated approximately 2400 gene sequences that were analyzed for differential gene expression following protracted clozapine treatment. One of these sequences, originally termed Clozapine Regulated Gene (CRG), was shown to be significantly upregulated following the treatment. Northern hybridization confirmation of this finding revealed that chronic clozapine administration caused a five-fold increase in CRG mRNA. Elongation of the 5'- and 3'-ends of CRG indicated that the fragment was in fact rat glia-derived nexin mRNA. Western blotting demonstrated that levels of the mRNA's associated protein also increased comparably (three-fold) following chronic treatment with the antipsychotic drug. This study presents a possible neuroprotective role of nexin in clozapine treatment, particularly in the prevention of neuronal proteolytic degradation, since nexin has been shown to be a protease inhibitor.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder for which no restorative or neuroprotective therapy is available. Interest has recently been directed to association studies on polymorphisms of various genes, mainly those related to dopamine metabolism and transport, and their effect on response to PD, which includes primarily levodopa and dopaminomimetics. Approximately 15-20% of patients with PD do not respond to levodopa, and the majority of those who do respond develop adverse fluctuations in motor response, primarily levodopa-induced dyskinesias. This review summarizes the influence of polymorphisms in various genes on the relative risk of IPD and on levodopa efficacy. It focuses on the importance of well-designed polymorphism studies that include large samples of patients with IPD and tightly matched controls and use identical methodologies. Valid data on such polymorphisms might increase the efficacy of levodopa, decrease its side effects, and reduce the occurrence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. They might also provide a novel diagnostic tool for PD.
Methylene blue (MB) increases mitochondrial oxygen consumption and restores memory retention in rats metabolically impaired by inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase. This study tested two related hypotheses using biochemical and behavioral techniques: (1) that low-level MB would enhance brain cytochrome c oxidation, as tested in vitro in brain homogenates and after in vivo administration to rats and (2) that corresponding low-dose MB would enhance spatial memory retention in normal rats, as tested 24 h after rats were trained in a baited holeboard maze for 5 days with daily MB posttraining injections. The biochemical in vitro studies showed an increased rate of brain cytochrome c oxidation with the low but not the high MB concentrations tested. The in vivo administration studies showed that the corresponding MB low dose (1 mg/kg) increased brain cytochrome c oxidation 24 h after intraperitoneal injection, but not after 1 or 2 h postinjection. In the behavioral studies, spatial memory retention in probe trials (percentage of visits to training-baited holes compared to total visits) was significantly better for MB-treated than saline control groups (66% vs. 31%). Together the findings suggest that low-dose MB enhances spatial memory retention in normal rats by increasing brain cytochrome c oxidase activity.
The aim of this study was to determine the influence of a glutamate receptor antagonist or a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor on the central visceral nociceptive amplification process present in an experimental pancreatitis model. The acute pancreatitis model was produced by combining intraductal infusion of an irritative bile salt, glycodeoxycholic acid (GDOC), with intraperitoneal injection of a CCK analogue, caerulein, in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Exploratory activities were measured with an automated photobeam activity system and compared among different treatment groups. To confirm the inflammation, the pancreas was weighed and compared histologically with those taken from naive rats. Exploratory activity changed significantly in rats with experimental pancreatitis (i.e., rearing events, rearing time, active time, distance traveled, and total activity all were decreased; whereas resting time was increased). The inflamed pancreatic tissues were edematous, with moderate to marked acinar atrophy and inflammatory infiltrate. Intrathecal administration (at the T7-T9 spinal levels) of an NMDA receptor antagonist (D-AP5, 1 microg) or a selective PKC inhibitor (GF109203X, 0.15 microg) significantly reversed the changes in exploratory activity when compared with the vehicle-treated group of rats with experimental pancreatitis. Our results demonstrate that pancreatitis pain is the result of central pain processes that play a role in the amplification of responses to peripheral visceral input through NMDA receptor activation and PKC phosphorylation signaling pathways.
Respiratory depression is a serious medical risk of opioid use. Most opioid abusers also smoke cigarettes, perhaps further compromising breathing. Differences in ventilatory response to nonhypoxic hypercapnia were studied in healthy volunteers with limited substance use (LU), tobacco smokers (SM), and opioid-dependent, methadone-maintained smokers (OD). The last two groups had similar current cigarette use and all groups were similar in gender and body mass index. Because previous data suggest that SM are sensitive to hypoxia but not hypercapnia, it was predicted that only the OD group would exhibit decreased carbon dioxide (CO(2)) sensitivity. All subjects rebreathed CO(2) during three identical sessions (four trials per session). Fractional end-tidal (Fet) CO(2) levels during repeated 4-min exposures to progressive hypercapnia (6% to 10%) were similar across groups. Ventilatory response (breathing rate, tidal volume and minute volume) linearly increased with FetCO(2) concentration and did not differ significantly across sessions. Relative to the LU and SM groups (which did not significantly differ), the CO(2)-minute volume and CO(2)-breathing rate functions were significantly shifted rightward (decrease in intercept but not slope) for OD subjects. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that chronic opioid exposure and/or short-term methadone maintenance (but not tobacco or nicotine use) produces a specific decrease in CO(2) sensitivity, primarily through an inhibitory effect on respiratory frequency.

We used changes in body color and eyespot formation, two somatic indices of stress controlled mainly by catecholamine activity, to compare the reactions of dominant and subordinate male green anole lizards (Anolis carolinensis) to a nonsocial stressor, forced movement. Individual males were pretested by subjecting them to 10 min of forced movement induced by chasing them around their home cage with a slender wooden stick. Stress responses were assayed via changes in body color (progressive darkening from green to brown indicating increasing stress) and expression of a black postorbital eyespot (which appears with increasing catecholaminergic stress responses). Lizards were paired and allowed to form stable dominant/subordinate relationships for 2 weeks. After that period of stable social status, dominants and subordinates were separated and subjected to the same forced-movement stress. There was no difference between experimental groups in the pretest. After assuming positions in the dominance hierarchy, however, dominant males showed reduced somatic indicators of stress and were quicker to recover from the stress. The data suggest that animals that assumed the dominant position decreased their stress response relative to the pretest, while animals that assumed the subordinate position increased their stress response relative to the pretest. The results indicate that dominant social status may have advantages beyond the realm of social interactions by enhancing an individual's ability to tolerate other, nonsocial stressful events.
Abnormal repetitive behaviors are often associated with specific developmental, genetic, and neuropsychiatric disorders. Repetitive motor behaviors, often referred to as stereotypies, have been studied extensively as they can be readily induced by certain drugs (e.g., amphetamine). Recent work has shown, however, that such drug-induced models of stereotypy may not accurately reflect the neurobiological perturbations responsible for the spontaneous manifestation of these behaviors. The present study employed the deer mouse model of spontaneous and persistent stereotypy to evaluate the capacity of several selective dopaminergic agonists (apomorphine, SKF81297, and quinpirole) to exacerbate levels of spontaneously emitted stereotypic topographies when administered intrastriatally. Additionally, the effects of intrastriatal administration of the D(2)R antagonist raclopride on the expression of spontaneous stereotypic jumping were evaluated. No induction or exacerbation of stereotypy was observed following administration of the selective D(1)- or D(2)- receptor agonists, and the mixed agonist apomorphine induced hyperlocomotion and excessive grooming but failed to exacerbate spontaneous stereotypy. Thus, a dissociation was observed between spontaneously emitted and drug-induced stereotypy, suggesting significant limitations to the use of dopamine agonist-induced stereotypy as a model of clinical stereotyped movement disorder. Furthermore, an unexpected and statistically significant (P&lt;.05) potentiation of locomotor activity was observed following intrastriatal raclopride administration, suggesting major alterations to the modulatory characteristics of the striatal dopaminergic system in these spontaneously stereotypic animals.
The diverse chemical structures of stimuli that are bitter to humans suggest a need for multiple bitter receptors. Reactions of golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) to 1 mM quinine hydrochloride, 3 mM denatonium benzoate, 180 mM magnesium sulfate, 30-100 mM caffeine, and 1-1.5 mM sucrose octaacetate (SOA) were studied to address whether there are multiple sensations elicited by bitter stimuli. Methods included behavioral generalization of LiCl-induced conditioned taste aversions (CTAs), intake preference tests, and electrophysiological recordings from the chorda tympani (CT) nerve. The five compounds, all bitter to humans, were all innately aversive to hamsters. CTA for the ionic quinine.HCl, denatonium benzoate, and MgSO(4) mutually cross-generalized and these ionic compounds were effective CT stimuli. Yet, the hamsters were much less sensitive to denatonium than humans, requiring a 100,000 times higher concentration for detection. CTA for nonionic caffeine and SOA did not cross-generalize to quinine or the other two ionic stimuli and these nonionic compounds were not effective CT stimuli. SOA and caffeine may elicit aversive reflexes or systemic reactions rather than taste sensations in the animals. Thus, the three ionic and two nonionic compounds form separate aversive stimulus classes in hamsters, neither of which appears to be a close homologue of the human bitter taste.
One of the most significant challenges in neuroscience is to identify the cellular and molecular processes that underlie learning and memory formation. The past decade has seen remarkable progress in understanding changes that accompany certain forms of acquisition and recall, particularly those forms which require activation of afferent pathways in the hippocampus. This progress can be attributed to a number of factors including well-characterized animal models, well-defined probes for analysis of cell signaling events and changes in gene transcription, and technology which has allowed gene knockout and overexpression in cells and animals. Of the several animal models used in identifying the changes which accompany plasticity in synaptic connections, long-term potentiation (LTP) has received most attention, and although it is not yet clear whether the changes that underlie maintenance of LTP also underlie memory consolidation, significant advances have been made in understanding cell signaling events that contribute to this form of synaptic plasticity. In this review, emphasis is focused on analysis of changes that occur after learning, especially spatial learning, and LTP and the value of assessing these changes in parallel is discussed. The effect of different stressors on spatial learning/memory and LTP is emphasized, and the review concludes with a brief analysis of the contribution of studies, in which transgenic animals were used, to the literature on memory/learning and LTP.

The influence of a methanolic extract of Hypericum perforatum L. and of purified hypericin has been comparatively tested on the growth of a human erythroleukemic cell line (K562). After 1 h exposure to increasing concentrations (as hypericin content) of both agents in the dark, leukemic cells were grown for 24 h and 48 h. The effects on cell growth were determined by viable cell count, flow cytometry analysis and fluorescence microscopy. Our data show that purified hypericin has only a weak inhibitory effect on cell growth and no effect in inducing apoptotic cell death. In contrast, the Hypericum flower extract shows a significant concentration-dependent and long-lasting inhibition of cell growth, and induces apoptotic cell death. This work con fi rms the interesting role of Hypericum perforatum L. in cancer therapy and strongly supports the hypothesis that agents, other than hypericin, present in the total extract can impair tumor cell growth acting separately or in a combined manner.
Transferrin (TF), a 76-80 kDa glycoprotein, is responsible for the transport of iron to cells within both the fetal and maternal systems, but it does not cross the multiple cell layer barrier of the placenta. Recent findings that both rat and human placental cells produce TF indicated that placental TF may function in some manner to transport or regulate iron passage across this barrier. However, placental production of TF was brought into question because the cell preparations used to identify TF were obtained using dispersed tissue and may have contained non-placental contaminating elements. In this study, cultures of phenotypically distinct cell types containing only placental cells were used to firmly establish whether or not TF is expressed, and if so to begin to identify the cell(s) associated with its synthesis. Utilizing RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and Western blot analysis, we identified TF mRNA and protein in three trophoblast cell types, HRP-1 (rat), Rcho-1 (rat), and BeWo (human) cells. Additionally, TF mRNA and protein were found in Giant cells, the differentiated form of Rcho-1 cells. When taken together, these results demonstrate clearly that TF is expressed by both differentiated and non-differentiated placental cells, and when viewed in light of previous findings, strengthen the possibility that placental TF may be central to the passage of iron from the mother to the fetus during development.
Historically, nonvascularized bone grafts have been the standard treatment for severe mandibular and maxillary atrophy, followed by immediate or delayed implant placement. Extreme atrophy is an unfavorable biological and mechanical location for nonvascularized autologous bone transplants. The authors present the results of a multidisciplinary treatment protocol for rehabilitation of extreme mandibular and maxillary atrophy by use of the vascularized fibular flap. This protocol includes bone augmentation, implant surgery, soft-tissue management, and prosthetic restoration. Since 1993, 18 patients with a mean age of 47.5 years presented with extreme mandibular and/or maxillary atrophy and underwent alveolar crest augmentation with vascularized fibular flaps. Bone healing was achieved in 17 of the 18 patients. Seventy-three osteointegrated implants were inserted in 12 of 17 fibular flaps. Altogether, 62 implants were loaded and 11 dental prostheses were made. Average follow-up of the loaded implants was 41 months. The success rate of loaded implants was 100 percent. The authors strongly recommend the use of the fibular bone flap when dealing with extreme atrophy of the mandible and maxilla and suggest the protocol outlined in this review.

BACKGROUND: The neurochemical and biological effects of antidepressant medications have become better defined over the last decade. When the anti-depressant bupropion was introduced in the United States in 1989, the specific pharmacologic basis of its clinical effects was uncertain. Research conducted over the past decade has significantly advanced the understanding of the neuropharmacology of bupropion and has demonstrated a novel mechanism of antidepressant activity. This article discusses the mechanism of action of bupropion and relates the drug's neuropharmacologic effects to its clinical efficacy and tolerability profiles. DATA SOURCES: Data were obtained via the MEDLINE database in an English-language search spanning the period 1965 to May 2002 and using the search terms bupropion, bupropion SR, and antidepressants, as well as from the manufacturer's bupropion databases. CONCLUSIONS: The preclinical and clinical data show that bupropion acts via dual inhibition of norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake and is devoid of clinically significant serotonergic effects or direct effects on postsynaptic receptors. Dual norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibition is associated with a unique clinical profile. Bupropion has demonstrated efficacy comparable to that of other antidepressants. However, because bupropion is a selective norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor with no serotonergic activity, common antidepressant-associated side effects, such as sexual dysfunction, weight gain, and sedation, are not associated with bupropion therapy.

Injuries to the adult mammalian spinal cord often lead to severe damage to both ascending (sensory) pathways and descending (motor) nerve pathways without the perspective of complete functional recovery. Future spinal cord repair strategies should comprise a multi-factorial approach addressing several issues, including optimalization of survival and function of spared central nervous system neurons in partial lesions and the modulation of trophic and inhibitory influences to promote and guide axonal regrowth. Neurotrophins have emerged as promising molecules to augment neuroprotection and neuronal regeneration. Although intracerebroventricular, intrathecal and local protein delivery of neurotrophins to the injured spinal cord has resulted in enhanced survival and regeneration of injured neurons, there are a number of drawbacks to these methods. Viral vector-mediated transfer of neurotrophin genes to the injured spinal cord is emerging as a novel and effective strategy to express neurotrophins in the injured nervous system. Ex vivo transfer of neurotrophic factor genes is explored as a way to bridge lesions cavities for axonal regeneration. Several viral vector systems, based on herpes simplex virus, adenovirus, adeno-associated virus, lentivirus, and moloney leukaemia virus, have been employed. The genetic modification of fibroblasts, Schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing glia cells, and stem cells, prior to implantation to the injured spinal cord has resulted in improved cellular nerve guides. So far, neurotrophic factor gene transfer to the injured spinal cord has led to results comparable to those obtained with direct protein delivery, but has a number of advantages. The steady advances that have been made in combining new viral vector systems with a range of promising cellular platforms for ex vivo gene transfer (e.g., primary embryonic neurons, Schwann cells, olfactory ensheating glia cells and neural stem cells) holds promising perspectives for the development of new neurotrophic factor-based therapies to repair the injured nervous system.
Over the last 20 years it has been recognized that neurotrophic factors profoundly influence the development of the nervous system and have the potential to modify disease processes in the adult nervous system. The ability of nervous system growth factors to prevent or reduce neuronal degeneration in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases has led to several clinical trials. One of the main obstacles to the success of these trials has been the method of growth factor delivery: sufficiently high doses of neurotrophic factors must be achieved in the target region of the brain to efficiently modify disease processes, but delivery must be restricted to specific brain regions to prevent adverse effects. Recent advances in molecular medicine have made gene therapy in the nervous system a potentially realistic approach for the delivery of therapeutic molecules such as growth factors. As an alternative to conventional drug delivery, several gene therapy trials for the treatment of central nervous system diseases have started or will start in the near future. This chapter reviews the development of neurotrophic factor gene therapy for neurodegenerative diseases focusing on the therapeutic potential of nerve growth factor in Alzheimer's disease, currently the subject of a phase I clinical trial.
An altered gravitational environment represents a unique challenge for biological systems that have evolved against gravitational background. Ground-based and space research indicates that the developing nervous system is potentially affected by exposure to hyper/microgravity. With the construction of the orbiting International Space Station long-term research on the nervous system will be possible. With this perspective, we started ground-based studies to characterize mouse behavioral responses to rotation-induced 2 g hypergravity, using a custom-made centrifuge device. Brain levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as well as NGF and BDNF expression and mast cell distribution in heart and lung, were evaluated and correlated with the changes in mouse behavior upon hypergravity exposure. Hypergravity strongly affected the spontaneous activity of the animals, selectively modifying mouse behavioral repertoire. Such changes were mainly related to variations in brain levels of NGF, while BDNF was slightly affected, thus confirming a role for these neurotrophins in neuronal plasticity underlying experience-induced neurobehavioral changes. Moreover, gender differences were observed in both behavioral and neurobiological responses to hypergravity. These results indicate that changes in the gravitational environment might represent a useful tool to investigate the neurobiological and behavioral responses to stressors and may provide insights into the mechanisms underlying development and plasticity of nervous system in brain, heart, and lung.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) acts on various classes of central and peripheral neurons to promote cell survival, stimulate neurite outgrowth and modulate differentiation. NGF is synthesized as a precursor, proNGF, which undergoes processing to generate mature NGF. It has been assumed, based on studies in the mouse submandibular gland, that NGF in vivo is largely mature NGF, and that mature NGF accounts for the molecule's biological activity. However, recently we have shown that proNGF is abundant in central nervous system tissues whereas mature NGF is undetectable, suggesting that proNGF may have a function distinct from its role as a precursor. A recent report that proNGF has apoptotic activity contrasts with other data demonstrating that proNGF has neurotrophic activity. This chapter will review the structure and processing of NGF and what is known about the biological activity of proNGF. Possible reasons for the discrepancies in recent reports are discussed.
In a previous work we demonstrated that extracellular adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP), acting on P2 receptors, exerts neuritogenic and trophic effects on the phaeochromocytoma PC12 cell line. These actions are comparable to those sustained by nerve growth factor (NGF) and involve several overlapping pathways. In this work, we describe some of the mechanisms recruited by ATP and NGF in maintaining PC12 cell survival after serum deprivation. We show that both ATP and NGF upregulate the expression of the stress-induced heat shock protein HSP70 and HSP90, whilst glucose-response protein GRP75 and GRP78 are not affected. In parallel with NGF, ATP prevents the cleavage and activation of caspase-2 and inhibits the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria into the cytoplasm. Finally, neither NGF, nor ATP directly modulate the expression of P2 receptors in the induction of cell survival. Our data contribute to dissect the biological mechanisms activated by extracellular purines exerting trophic actions and to establish that survival and neurite outgrowth lie on different mechanistic pathways.
The neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR), is involved in a diverse array of cellular responses, including apoptosis, neurite outgrowth and myelination. Stimulation of p75NTR with neurotrophin can activate multiple downstream signals, including the small GTP binding protein Rac, the transcription factor NF-kappa B and the stress activated kinase, JNK. How these signals are generated and regulated to produce a specific cellular effect has yet to be fully elucidated. A number of proteins have recently been shown to interact with the intracellular domain of p75NTR. Here, we review these p75NTR interacting factors and the current evidence as to how they contribute to the functional effects of p75NTR activation.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) activates TrkA to trigger signaling events that promote the survival, differentiation and maintenance of neurons. The mechanism(s) that controls the retrograde transport of the NGF signal from axon terminals to neuron cell bodies is not known. The 'signaling endosome' hypothesis stipulates that NGF, TrkA and signaling proteins are retrogradely transported on endocytic vesicles. Here, we provide evidence for the existence of signaling endosomes. Following NGF treatment, clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs) contain NGF bound to TrkA together with activated signaling proteins of the Ras/pErk1/2 pathway. NGF signals from isolated CCVs through the Erk1/2 pathway. Early endosomes appear to represent a second type of signaling endosomes. We found that NGF induced a sustained activation of Rap1, a small monomeric GTP-binding protein of the Ras family, and that this activation occurred in early endosomes that contain key elements of Rap1/pErk1/2 pathway. We discuss the possibility that the failure of retrograde NGF signaling in a mouse model of Down syndrome (Ts65Dn) may be due to the failure to retrograde transport signaling endosomes. It is important to define further the significance of signaling endosomes in the biology of both normal and degenerating neurons.
After a lesion in the motor cortex of an adult primate, are cortical motor maps reorganized? This important question has attracted much interest throughout the past decade. In human subjects, substantial progress has resulted from the use of noninvasive imaging and stimulation techniques. For example, there is recent, well-accepted, albeit indirect evidence that following such a lesion on one side of the human brain, a dramatic reorganization of the hand representation occurs within either the ipsilateral primary motor cortex, nonprimary motor areas or both. The contribution of contralateral motor areas to functional recovery of the paretic hand remains uncertain, however, because of the lack of direct confirmatory evidence obtained from experiments undertaken on nonhuman primates. A better understanding of how the brain selects the optimal strategy for functional recovery following cortical lesions, and the neuronal mechanisms underlying cortical plasticity, will be important challenges for the next decade. To this end, the purpose of the present chapter is to provide an update on what is truly known about the functional recovery that takes place after a lesion in the primary motor cortex of both the nonhuman primate and the human. It bears emphasis that work on these fundamental issues is an essential prerequisite to the development of improved therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures for the brain-injured human.
An important issue in the neural control of posture and movement is how motor-related areas of the cerebral cortex modulate the activity of the output nuclei of the basal ganglia. In this chapter, the functional significance of the 'hyperdirect' cortico-subthalamo-pallidal pathway is emphasized, and further a new dynamic model of basal ganglia function is presented. When a voluntary movement is about to be initiated by cortical mechanisms, a corollary signal is conveyed through the 'hyperdirect' pathway to first inhibit large areas of the thalamus and cerebral cortex that are related to both the selected motor program and other competing programs. Next, another corollary signal is sent through the 'direct' cortico-striato-pallidal pathway to disinhibit this second pathway's targets, and ensure activation of only the selected motor program. Finally, a third corollary signal is sent through the 'indirect' cortico-striato-external pallido-subthalamo-internal pallidal pathway to strongly inhibit this third pathway's targets. This sequential information processing ensures that only the selected motor program is initiated, executed and terminated at the appropriate times, whereas other competing programs are canceled.
In movement neuroscience this past decade, a conceptual approach that puts emphasis on population coding was clearly dominant. The purpose of numerous studies has been to define presumably homogeneous groups of neurons on the basis of the correlation of their discharges with sensory and motor events. The goal of this chapter is to stress the importance of taking into account individual properties of neurons, this being an essential prerequisite for a biologically meaningful definition of neuron populations. Taking as an example the executive limb of the neural network controlling gaze movements, we demonstrate the functional and anatomical diversity of tectal and reticular neurons, which are generally considered as homogeneous populations and used, accordingly, as lumped elements in models. We argue that the extraction of effector-specific signals from the global command of gaze displacement is based not on the interplay between discrete neural modules, but rather on a gradual process of signal specification at all levels of the executive network. An eventual accurate description of this network will require knowledge of the unique combinations of afferent inputs and efferent connections for as many subsets of its constituent neurons as is conceivably possible.
This chapter emphasizes the functional significance of the multiple-branching patterns of descending axons implicated in the control of movement. The example provided concerns orienting head movements, which are controlled by pathways from the superior colliculus (SC). Such control is mediated via cervical reticulospinal neurons (C-RSNs), which take origin in the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis and nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, and give off multiple collaterals along the full length of their axonal trajectory. Their projection is not only to lamina IX neck motor nuclei in upper cervical segments, but also to laminae VII-VIII in lower cervical segments. Thus, SC commands for head orienting are transmitted to both neck motoneurons and lower cervical spinal circuitry, which latter network controls appropriate postural adjustments by the coordinated control of motoneurons supplying the four limbs.
In the macaque monkey and in humans, the monosynaptic cortico-motoneuronal system is well developed. It allows the cortical motor areas to make an important direct contribution to the pattern of muscle activity during upper limb movements. There is, in addition, good anatomical evidence for descending corticospinal inputs being able to influence the premotoneuronal networks of the cervical spinal cord, and especially those operating at the segmental level of upper limb motoneurons. While oligosynaptic inhibition has been easy to demonstrate in the macaque, and may be a very important component of descending corticospinal control, it has proved much more difficult to detect signs of oligosynaptic excitation. In contrast, in the squirrel monkey, in which the cortico-motoneuronal system is far less developed, oligosynaptic excitation is prominent. There are important changes in the interplay between direct and indirect pathways in different primates, which may provide important clues on the nature of the corticospinal control of upper limb function.
Nucleus retroambiguus (NRA) consists of a column of neurons in the caudal medulla with crossed descending axons that terminate in almost all spinal segments. Many of these neurons transmit the drive for expiratory movements to the spinal cord. The same neurons are also known to participate, however, in other motor acts, such as vomiting and abdominal straining, for which it appears that the medullary circuits controlling the respiratory pattern are reconfigured. Plasticity in projections from the NRA to hindlimb motor nuclei provides evidence that some of these projections are involved in yet another motor act, female receptive behavior. Here, we present the hypothesis that the medullary circuits are also reconfigured to act as a central pattern generator for this behavior. In addition, we suggest that during estrus, plasticity is shown not only in spinal cord connections, but also in a selected membrane property of hindlimb motoneurons.
Knowledge about neuronal mechanisms that control respiration is being advanced rapidly by studies that make use of both mature in vivo animals and in vitro neonates. The available data suggest that particular types of neurons within selected networks of the ventrolateral medulla are essential for respiratory rhythm generation. There are many uncertainties, however, about the correspondence between neurons identified by the above two approaches, because there are virtually no studies that have combined them. In this chapter, I propose a hypothesis that shows how neonatal respiratory neurons, with either retained or modified intrinsic cellular properties, develop into mature, well-characterized respiratory neurons located in medullary areas called the Btzinger and pre-Btzinger complex. Currently, the most plausible models of respiratory rhythmogenesis are hybrid ones that include both intrinsic cellular and network properties.
In both vertebrates and invertebrates, the elaboration of locomotion, and its neural control by the central nervous system, are extremely flexible. This is due not only to the network properties of relevant sets of central neurons, but also to the active participation of mutually co-operative central and peripheral loops of neural projections and activity. In this chapter, we describe experiments in which the above concepts have been advanced by comparing locomotor properties in the adult vs. neonatal rat preparation. Data obtained from the in vivo vs. in vitro preparation, and swimming vs. walking behavior, suggest that the locomotor pattern progressively exhibited after birth corresponds to successive steps in the maturation of locomotor networks. Our work emphasises that during the late pre- and early postnatal period, three distinct neural entities--segmental sensory input, descending pathways, and motoneurons--play a key role in the maturation of locomotion and its neural control. We propose that the neonatal rat preparation is an excellent model for studying the conversion from immature to adult locomotion. Some neural controls are more clearly demonstrable in the developing animal preparation than in the adult because the latter exhibits an array of complex and redundant adaptive mechanisms.
It is argued that the nervous systems of vertebrates are equipped with a &quot;motor infrastructure,&quot; which enables them to perform the full extent of the motor repertoire characteristic of their particular species. In the human, it extends from the networks/circuits underlying locomotion and feeding to sound production in speech and arm-hand-finger coordination. Contrary to current opinion, these diverse motor patterns should be labeled as voluntary, because they can be recruited at will. Moreover, most, if not all, of the motor patterns available at birth are subject to maturation and are modified substantially through learning. We thus argue that the all-too-common distinction between learned and innate movements is based on a fundamental misconception about the neural control of the vertebrate motor system.


The past decade has provided a wealth of data for theorists of visual awareness. Two empirical approaches, both seeking to dissociate conscious from unconscious neural processes, have been particularly fruitful. The first has focused on the neural correlates of changes in experience occurring in the absence of change in external stimuli, for example during binocular rivalry; the second has investigated the neural correlates of unconscious processes such as blindsight. Several of the theories based on these data propose that visual consciousness arises from interactions between thalamo-cortical modules whose independent operation is unconscious; popular candidate 'modules' include visual regions in the 'ventral' visual pathway and parieto-frontal regions associated with action planning. These theories can be tested against recent findings from patients in the vegetative state, a state of 'wakefulness without awareness', which can follow major insults to the brain. The findings indicate that stimulus-evoked cortical activity occurs in the vegetative state, but tends to be limited in extent, is often restricted to primary sensory areas, and is poorly integrated with activity elsewhere in the cerebrum. The theories of visual awareness reviewed previously predict that such activity should not give rise to visual experience. This prediction is reassuring, but can we be sure that it is correct? Reflection on the indirect nature of the evidence available to theorists of visual awareness makes it doubtful that we can confidently specify the minimum conditions for awareness, unless we are prepared to modify our everyday concept of consciousness. O'Regan and Noe have recently proposed a sophisticated redefinition of visual awareness along these lines. Progress at this frontier of visual neuroscience requires that scientists and philosophers join forces to clarify the concepts of experience and consciousness.
The aim of the present studies was to investigate whether 'perception' and 'visually guided action' could be dissociated with regard to two different aspects of the neglect syndrome. In the first study we tested a group of patients with neglect in two tasks, both within the same experimental setting. One task was to bisect a space between two objects, while the other required subjects to reach between the same pair of objects en route to a target area, so that the objects became potential obstacles to the reach. In the second study we tested a patient with visual extinction to double simultaneous stimulation, using a similar reaching task. Our aim was to determine whether visual awareness of obstacles in the workspace was necessary for successful navigation. In both studies we found evidence that reaching responses took normal account of the presence and location of obstacles on the left side, despite the tendency to neglect such left-sided information in more explicit perceptual tasks. We interpret both sets of results within a theoretical framework that identifies on-line visuomotor control with the occipito-parietal 'dorsal stream' (along with associated premotor and subcortical structures), and visual perception with the occipito-temporal 'ventral stream', plus associated temporo-parietal areas.
Color constancy--by which objects tend to appear the same color under changes in illumination--is most likely achieved by several mechanisms, operating at different levels in the visual system. One powerful contributory mechanism is simultaneous spatial color contrast. Under changes in natural illumination the spatial ratios of within-type cone excitations between natural surfaces tend to be preserved (Foster and Nascimento, 1994); therefore, the neural encoding of colors as spatial contrasts tends to achieve constancy. Several factors are known to influence the strength of chromatic contrast induction between surfaces, including their relative luminance, spatial scale, spatial configuration and context (Ware and Cowan, 1982; Zaidi et al., 1991). Here we test the hypothesis that color contrast is weakened by differences between surfaces which indicate that they may be under distinct illuminants. We summarize psychophysical measurements of the effects of relative motion, relative depth and texture differences on chromatic contrast induction. Of these factors, only texture differences between surfaces weaken chromatic contrast induction. We also consider neurophysiological and neuropsychological evidence and conclude that the mechanisms which mediate local chromatic contrast effects are sited at low levels in the visual system, in primary visual cortex (V1) or below, prior to image segmentation mechanisms which require computation of relative depth or motion. V1 and lower areas may therefore play a larger role in color constancy than previously thought.
During development, retinal ganglion cells undergo conspicuous structural remodeling as they gradually attain their mature morphology and connectivity. Alterations in their dendritic organization and in their axonal projections can also be achieved following early insult to their targets or their afferents. Other retinal cell types are thought not to display this same degree of developmental plasticity. The present review will consider the evidence, drawn largely from recent experimental studies in the carnivore retina, that photoreceptors also undergo structural remodeling, extending their terminals transiently into inner plexiform layer before retracting to the outer plexiform layer. The determinants of this transient targeting to the inner plexiform layer are considered, and the role of cholinergic amacrine cells is discussed. The factors triggering this retraction are also considered, including the concurrent maturational changes in outer segment formation and in the differentiation of the outer plexiform layer. These results provide new insight into the life history of the photoreceptor cell and its connectivity, and suggest a transient role for the photoreceptors in the circuitry of the inner retina during early development, prior to the onset of phototransduction.

Significant achievements of neuroscience point out a role of stimulation in infant brain development. Attachment style is found to reflect in development of cortex--limbic system functional structures having this way fundamental influence on emotional development of the child and its future mental health. Styles of attachment are in this way transmitted from generation to generation. Before treatment methods based on these finding will be developed, prevention in a form of infant care and psychotherapy should be introduced.

This study is a follow-up investigation of a forensic psychiatric sub-population 6-8 years after forensic psychiatric evaluation. The aim was to examine the long-term validity of biological markers of psychopathy and antisocial behavior over time. Data on criminal records were obtained at follow-up from the National Council for Crime Prevention. Basic data included findings of psychiatric and psychological assessments, as well as values for serum triiodothyronine (T3) and free thyroxin (FT4), and platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, all obtained during the forensic psychiatric examination. Criminal recidivists at follow-up had higher serum T3 levels than non-recidivists, and much higher values than normal controls, while their levels of free T4 were lower. The T3 levels in criminal recidivists correlated to psychopathy- and aggression-related personality traits as measured by the Karolinska Scale of Personality. In violent recidivists, a remarkably high correlation was noted between T3 levels and Irritability and Detachment, traits that have previously been linked to the dopaminergic system. Stepwise multiple regression analyses confirmed the relationships of T3 levels and platelet MAO activity with personality traits in criminal recidivists. The predictive validity of biological markers of psychopathy, T3 and platelet MAO, measured during forensic psychiatric investigation, is stable over time. The results indicate chronic alterations of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis in this group of subjects.
To describe lifetime mental disorders among perpetrators of severe inter-personal crimes and to identify the problem domains most closely associated with aggression and a history of repeated violent criminality, we used structured interviews, clinical assessments, analyses of intellectual functioning, medical and social files, and collateral interviews in 100 consecutive subjects of pretrial forensic psychiatric investigations. Childhood-onset neuropsychiatric disorders [attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD), learning disability, tics and autism spectrum disorders] affected 55% of the subjects and formed complex comorbidity patterns with adult personality disorders [including psychopathic traits according to the Psychopathy Checklist (PCL-R)], mood disorders and substance abuse. The closest psychiatric covariates to high Lifetime History of Aggression (LHA) scores and violent recidivism were the PCL-R scores and childhood conduct disorder (CD). Behavioral and affective PCL-R factors were closely associated with childhood AD/HD, CD, and autistic traits. The results support the notion that childhood-onset social and behavioral problems form the most relevant psychiatric symptom cluster in relation to pervasive adult violent behavior, while late-onset mental disorders are more often associated with single acts of violent or sexual aggression.
This review focuses on prenatal stress as a risk factor for psychopathology. Evidence from animal studies is summarized, and the relevance of prenatal stress models in animals for human studies is discussed. In the offspring of prenatally stressed animals, overactivity and impaired negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis are consistent findings and may reflect a pathophysiological mechanism involved in the development of psychopathology. Reduced activity of the opioid GABA/benzodiazepine, serotonin, and dopamine systems and increased activity of the sympathico-adrenal system have been found as well. These alterations have been linked to a diverse spectrum of psychopathology. Therefore, the evidence supports the view that exposure to prenatal stress may result in a general susceptibility to psychopathology, rather than exerting a direct effect on a specific form of psychopathology.
The relationship between luminance (i.e., the photometric intensity of light) and its perception (i.e., sensations of lightness or brightness) has long been a puzzle. In addition to the mystery of why these perceptual qualities do not scale with luminance in any simple way, &quot;illusions&quot; such as simultaneous brightness contrast, Mach bands, Craik-O'Brien-Cornsweet edge effects, and the Chubb-Sperling-Solomon illusion have all generated much interest but no generally accepted explanation. The authors review evidence that the full range of this perceptual phenomenology can be rationalized in terms of an empirical theory of vision. The implication of these observations is that perceptions of lightness and brightness are generated according to the probability distributions of the possible sources of luminance values in stimuli that are inevitably ambiguous.
The authors hypothesize that the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), despite their apparent nonrationality, have what might be termed an epistemic origin--that is, they stem from an inability to generate the normal &quot;feeling of knowing&quot; that would otherwise signal task completion and terminate the expression of a security motivational system. The authors compare their satiety-signal construct, which they term yedasentience, to various other senses of the feeling of knowing and indicate why OCD-like symptoms would stem from the abnormal absence of such a terminator emotion. In addition, they advance a tentative neuropsychological model to explain its underpinnings. The proposed model integrates many previous disparate observations and concepts about OCD and embeds it within the broader understanding of normal motivation.
Oral contraceptives (OCs) are the most widely prescribed and effective of the reversible contraceptive methods. In addition to inhibiting ovulation, OCs alter central nervous system function in women; however, methodological problems have prevented clear human studies. Thus, in this experiment we investigated the effects of OC treatment on behavior, hypothalamic- pituitary-adrenal axis function and the central nervous system in 75 adult female cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) housed in social groups of four to five monkeys per pen. Monkey social groups were randomly divided into either a control or an OC treatment group which was administered a clinically prescribed OC (Triphasil(R), levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) for 2 years. OC treatment increased the frequency of contact aggression received, time spent in locomotion, and sitting close to another animal, and decreased time spent fearfully scanning. OC treatment decreased heart rate, increased activity levels, and increased baseline cortisol concentrations and the cortisol response to adrenocorticotropin compared to control animals. OC treatment decreased the prolactin response to fenfluramine suggesting decreased serotonergic activity. These results suggest that this triphasic OC disrupts social behavior, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation and the underlying central nervous system function.
Abnormal neuropsychological and cognitive functions in nonpsychotic relatives of schizophrenics are currently the subject of intense interest, mainly because of attention being focused again on the theoretical construct of schizotaxia. Contextually, in recent years the issues of subjective experiences have once again become central and respectable topics in psychopathological research. Among self-experiential disturbances, basic symptoms (BS), stemming from Jaspersian phenomenological psychopathology, are considered the first, protopathic, subjective reverberation of the neurobiological deficit of schizophrenia. Thus BS are expected to be detectable in nonpsychotic relatives of schizophrenia patients. The aim of the present study was to compare the degrees of such anomalous subjective experiences, assessed in siblings of schizophrenic patients, schizophrenia spectrum patients (schizotypals and schizophrenics) and nonclinical controls. Different profiles of BS were obtained in the samples. An increasing gradient of BS ranging from nonclinical to clinical samples, with unaffected siblings in the intermediate position, occurred for some of the BS clusters (i.e. 'thought, language, perception and motor disturbances' and 'impaired bodily sensations'). Other BS clusters (i.e. 'disorders of emotion and affect' and 'increased emotional reactivity') turned out to be typical of the clinical subgroups, whereas an enhanced tolerance to normal stress significantly distinguished the sibling specimen from the other ones. The heterogeneity of these patterns suggests that BS constellations may be underpinned by different psychopathological processes and that cognitive and bodily BS may be clinical target phenotypes for schizotropic liability screening.


We recorded 128-channel EEG from 16 participants while they observed, imitated, and self-initiated the precision grip of a manipulandum. Mu rhythm amplitudes were significantly lower during observation of a precision grip than during observation of a simple hand extension without object interaction. Scalp topographies for subtractions of observation, imitation, and execution conditions from the control condition showed a high degree of congruence, supporting the notion of a human observation-execution matching system. Surface Laplacian transformations suggest that the decrease in mu amplitude during precision grip observation reflects desynchronization of mu rhythm generators in the sensorimotor cortex. These results support the hypothesis that sensorimotor cortex is a neural substrate involved in the representation of both self- and other-generated actions and show the mu rhythm is sensitive to subtle changes in observed motor behavior.

Our understanding of the effects of leptin have stemmed mainly from animal studies, which continue to leave important clues of its roles in physiology, metabolism, neuroscience, and cell signaling. Since its discovery, leptin has been linked to various pathways, either directly at its primary site of action in the hypothalamus, or indirectly via downstream effector pathways such as in adipocytes and muscle. Leptin's importance is exemplified by the lack of redundant backup mechanisms, since leptin-deficient mice are obese, diabetic, and sterile. Investigations uncovering the pleiotropic actions of leptin were unfolded mainly from rodent models. Thus, this chapter focuses on these studies and, more specifically, on those findings recently brought forward by transgenic mice overexpressing leptin. The vast amount of biology that has been ascribed to leptin encompasses effects on food intake, insulin sensitivity, adiposity, thermogenesis, reproduction, immunity, and bone regulation. Mechanisms underlying leptin's action revolve essentially around neural pathways but also encompass to a lesser extent peripheral mechanisms. The roles of leptin along these axes are reviewed, with particular emphasis on pathways and phenotypes generated by transgenic hyperleptinemia. An evolutionary significance of hyperleptinemia in association with development of leptin resistance is suggested as a protective armament against some of the detrimental effects caused by hyperleptinemia in transgenic mice overexpressing leptin.
G protein-coupled receptors induce intracellular signals via interaction of with cytosolic/peripheral membrane proteins, mainly G proteins. There has been much debate about the mode of interaction between the receptors, G proteins and effectors, their mobility and the ways of determining the specificity of interaction. Additional complexity has been added to system upon the discovery of i) coupling of single receptors to several G proteins and ii) active direction of this by different ligands (stimulus trafficking). These data suggest that the most primary unit in the signal transduction is the receptor complexed with a specific G protein, making the investigation of the mechanism of receptor-G protein selection and interaction even more important. In this review, I will summarize the general knowledge of receptor interaction with G proteins and effectors and the ways of investigating this.
Activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), insulin (IRK) or neurotrophin B (TrkB), was characterized and compared in olfactory bulb neuron (OBN) cultures from Sprague Dawley rats and sv129 B6 mice. Current suppression attributed to modulation of the delayed rectifier, Kv1.3, a voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel of the Shaker family, was observed following acute application of the growth factors, insulin or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), to mitral cells of either rodent model. Using site-directed mutagenesis of putative tyrosine phosphorylation recognition motifs in the channel, we find that stimulation of Kv1.3 with these growth factors causes multiple phosphorylation, albeit via different residue combinations that are RTK specific.

Longitudinal studies show that almost all stroke patients experience at least some predictable degree of functional recovery in the first six months post stroke. However, the non-linear pattern as a function of time is not well understood. Several mechanisms are presumed to be involved, such as recovery of penumbral tissues, neural plasticity, resolution of diaschisis and behavioural compensation strategies. Rehabilitation is believed to modulate this logistic pattern of recovery, probably by interacting with these underlying processes. However, prediction models that are adjusted for the effects of time after stroke onset suggest that outcome is largely defined within the first weeks post stroke, although functional improvement has been found to extend beyond six months post stroke. In addition, kinematic studies show that functional improvement is more than recovery from impairments alone, suggesting that patients are able to improve in terms of gait or dexterity deficits using behavioural compensation strategies. Therefore, understanding the impact of task-dependent cortical activation patterns in non-invasive methods requires not only information derived from longitudinal studies pertaining to functional outcomes, but also a better understanding of what is kinematically learned during the acquisition of new skills.
Modern cognitive neuroscience provides a powerful framework in which biological models of recovery and neurorehabilitation can be constructed and tested. The widespread availability, relatively low cost and informativeness of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has made it the most popular of the techniques available to help with this task. Here, on the basis of functional imaging studies of stroke, diffuse microvascular disease and multiple sclerosis, we argue that processes of motor control and learning in the healthy brain share common mechanisms with those for adaptive functional reorganisation during spontaneous recovery after brain injury or with neurorehabilitation. Relatively stringent criteria can be met to confirm that adaptive functional reorganisation limits disability even in the adult brain: functional brain changes are related to disease burden, can be found in patients with demonstrable pathology but no clinical deficits and can be defined (in motor cortex) even in the absence of volitional recruitment. Initial studies of neurorehabilitation responses using fMRI and transcranial magnetic stimulation demonstrate that adaptive reorganisation can be manipulated directly with both pharmacological and behavioural interventions. The combination of strategies based on a strong biological rational with monitoring their effects using highly informative functional brain imaging methods heralds a new era of scientifically-founded neurorehabilitation.
Our genes interact with environmental stimuli throughout our lives. The attitude and reaction to an acute cerebral trauma or stroke, as well as the pre-lesion life event and activities, can influence functional outcome. Although difficult to separate in adult human beings, genetic and environmental factors can be selectively evaluated in animal studies. Post-ischemic housing in an enriched environment, i.e. larger cages which allow both social interaction and various activities improves functional outcome, modifies gene activation, and increases dendrite branching and number of dendritic spines in pyramidal neurons in layers II-III in the contra-lateral cortex. Furthermore, it alters lesion-induced progenitor cell differentiation and interacts with neocortical transplantation, drug treatment and training. It is proposed that the interaction between environment and specific treatment needs more clinical attention, and that a general stimulating and positive environment is the optimal base for specific interventions in neurological rehabilitation.
The effects of extreme disuse or overuse of the limbs in rat models of Parkinson's disease and stroke are discussed. In unilaterally lesioned rats, immobilizing one forelimb in a cast forces complete disuse of this limb and extreme overuse of the uncasted limb. This procedure has diverse effects on histological and behavioral outcomes in these models, depending upon how and when it is applied relative to the lesion. Effects on behavioral outcome, post-lesion plasticity events, and expression of trophic factors are discussed. The effects of forced disuse or overuse vary among lesion types and can include neuroprotection, changes in synaptogenesis, or even exaggeration of tissue loss. The diversity of behavior-driven structural changes in the brain underscores the potential importance of carefully tailoring physical restorative therapy to specific neurological problems in order to optimize outcomes. In addition, we stress the need to recognize the reciprocal influence that behavior and the brain can have upon each other.


Constipation, however it is defined, is a common problem in the community. The exact prevalence of constipation depends on the definition used; prevalence estimates range from 2% to 28%. The prevalence of constipation has been stable because the onset and disappearance rates over time are similar, but accurate data on the incidence of constipation are lacking. Approximately one third of those individuals with constipation seek health care; this is an expensive fraction due to investigational and medication costs. The evidence that life-style factors are causally linked to constipation is weak, although nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and the use of other constipation-inducing medications are important risk factors. Constipation is not of clinical importance until it causes physical risks or impairs quality of life. There is accumulating evidence that self-reported constipation and functional constipation as defined by the Rome Criteria lead to significant impairment of quality of life, with the implication that this is a serious condition in the majority of people afflicted. Constipation may have other serious consequences; an increased risk of colon cancer has been reported but could be explained by confounding. Although hemorrhoids have been attributed to constipation, this association has been questioned. The costs of testing in patients presenting with constipation has been conservatively estimated to be 6.9 billion dollars annually in the United States; treatment costs add substantially to the health care burden.
Constipation is a common problem in the United States. Although most individuals do not seek health care for its symptoms, there are still more than 2 million visits to physicians annually for treatment. In this article, the author presents an overview of current diagnostic tools and treatment options for chronic constipation.
Connective tissue diseases represent a varied and challenging group of disorders. Neuromuscular structures are highly susceptible targets for damage. In this review, the neurophysiological explorations of the neuromuscular complications are examined with particular attention to the peripheral nerve system. The most common presentations are sensorimotor polyneuropathy, mononeuritis multiplex, distal symmetric neuropathy, compression neuropathy and trigeminal sensory neuropathy.
When the anterior interosseous nerve (AIN) is involved, a motor deficit of the distal pinch appears. It usually occurred suddenly, with or without pain and the deficit may be complete or partial. Other nerve lesions and some precipitating conditions can be noticed and are important to assess the exact mechanism of the nerve lesion. Partial AIN lesion is frequently misdiagnosed as tendon rupture. The electrodiagnostic examination should always study the pronator quadratus or another muscle innervated by the AIN, the AIN conduction and the motor and sensory median nerve conduction. Thus electrodiagnosis will always assess the AIN lesion and precise its axonal or compressive mechanism. Mononeuritis as neuralgic amyotrophy is the most frequent cause of AIN palsy and never requires surgery. Traumatic lesions are less frequent and usually recover spontaneously. Thus, surgery is rarely required before 12 to 18 months except when no recovery occurs after trauma.



Functional neuroanatomical tools have played an important role in proposing which structures underlie brain stimulation reward circuitry. This review focuses on studies employing metabolic markers of neuronal and glial activation, including 2-deoxyglucose, cytochrome oxidase, and glycogen phosphorylase, and a marker of cellular activation, the immediate early gene c-fos. The principles underlying each method, their application to the study of brain stimulation reward, and their strengths and limitations are described. The usefulness of this strategy in identifying candidate structures, and the degree of overlap in the patterns of activation arising from different markers is addressed in detail. How these data have contributed to an understanding of the organization of reward circuitry and directed our thinking towards an alternative framework of neuronal arrangement is discussed in the final section.
The many signs of cognitive processes in the activation pattern of the primary motor cortex or in corticospinal (CS) excitability gave rise to the idea that the motor cortex is a crucial node in the processing of cognitive information related to sensorimotor functions. Moreover, it became clear that the preparatory motor sets offer a privileged window to investigate the interaction between cognitive and sensorimotor function in the motor cortex. In the present review, we examine how the study of the preparatory motor sets anticipating a mechanical movement perturbation contributes to enlightening this question. Following the initial observation made by Hammond that some components of the stretch reflex can be modulated by a prior intention either to resist or to relax in response to a subsequent perturbation, first evidence of the phenomenon was obtained in behaving monkeys. Moreover, this study related this peripheral fact to the observed anticipatory activity of motor cortex neurons after a prior instruction telling the animal how to respond to the subsequent perturbation, which triggered the instructed movement. Indeed, this anticipatory activity was found to be different according to the instruction. In the 1980s, this work inspired a lot of studies in human beings that brought support to the idea of a cognitive tuning of the long latency stretch response (LLSR). Specifically, the MI component of the response was shown to be modulated by a prior intent to resist versus to let go when faced with the perturbation. Recently, new approaches have been developed to obtain evidence of a cognitive tuning of CS excitability, thanks to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS has been used both as a reliable tool for quantifying the CS excitability via the motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and to centrally perturb the organization of movement. Such central perturbations offer the unique opportunity to activate the descending motor tracts while shunting, for a short time period, the ascending tracts assisting the movement. Thus, CS excitability was measured before the movement was perturbed. These studies demonstrated the readiness of the CS tract to be involved in anticipatory compensatory responses to central movement perturbations induced by TMS in relation to the subject's cognitive attitudes. The question of the cerebral regions upstream of the motor cortex that could be responsible for this modulation in CS excitability remains largely open.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is located on the medial wall of the cerebral hemisphere in humans and non-human primates, and has well developed intracortical and subcortical connections. Recent brain-imaging studies have suggested the possible involvement of the ACC in a variety of cognitive and motor-related functions. To clarify the cellular mechanisms underlying such higher-order functions in the ACC, neuronal activity in distinct areas of the ACC and its adjacent cingulate areas has been examined, through single unit recordings, in monkeys performing specific tasks. Each of the rostral (CMAr), dorsal (CMAd), and ventral (CMAv) cingulate motor areas basically participates in motor-related functions such as preparation and execution of movements. In particular, the CMAr appears to be involved in selection of appropriate motor responses as well as in planning of sequential movements. Furthermore, the CMAr and area 32 may participate in attentional functions which are necessary to select correct actions. These areas have also been implicated in detection of error actions and/or monitoring of action performance. Finally, a number of neurons in the ACC exhibit specific or modulated activity relevant to reward expectation. The primate ACC may play critical roles in performing appropriate actions with attention and in checking the performance to acquire rewards efficiently.
For decades, the important physiological roles of the pineal hormone have inspired scientific investigations. Research efforts have generated a broad amount of information relevant to various genetic aspects of melatonin biology. Nevertheless, our understanding of the effect of genetic factors upon melatonin biosynthesis and the mechanisms of gene expression regulation by melatonin in target tissues is far from complete. The present review makes an effort to summarize and systematize the existing information on the subject, sequentially discussing (i) the effect of genetic factors upon melatonin biosynthesis, (ii) melatonin receptor expression profiles, and (iii) the effect of melatonin upon expression of genes in target tissues.
Small non-messenger RNAs (snmRNAs) are a heterogeneous group of non-coding RNAs with a variety of regulatory functions including regulation of protein expression and guidance in RNA modifications. They are actively being investigated in Archaebacteria, yeast, invertebrates and mammals. Brain-specific snmRNAs have been identified in mammals and they seem to contribute to neuronal differentiation during development and to brain functions subserving learning and memory. Here we review the current knowledge of the properties, expression and functions of three groups of brain-specific snmRNAs: small nucleolar RNAs, BC1/BC200 RNAs and microRNAs.
This article presents an overview of those animal studies which so far have been performed with dedicated small animal positron emission tomographs in the field of the neurosciences. In vivo investigations focus on energy metabolism, perfusion and receptor/transporter binding in rat models of reinforcement, learning and memory, traumatic brain injury, epilepsy, depression, cardiovascular diseases--such as ischemia and focal stroke--and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's disease. In the majority of studies, important novel aspects arise from the fact that the investigators made use of an option inherent to in vivo studies, namely to conduct longitudinal investigations on the same animals. Relevant findings pertain to the relationship of brain metabolism/perfusion and the cholinergic system, the regulation state of dopamine receptors upon cocaine administration and withdrawal, the regulation state of dopamine receptors and transporters in animal models of Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, and potential treatments of progressive dopaminergic depletion with adenoviral vectors, embryonic grafts, stem cells and nerve growth factors.
Animal models for neuropsychiatric disorders are implemented for the purpose of investigating a single or multiple aspects of a specific disease entity. In Parkinson's disease (PD) several models have been utilised to study the biochemical and behavioural consequences of dopamine (DA) neurone degeneration with the intent of further understanding the aetiology of this disease and improving its treatment. While the bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model has been used to produce a broad spectrum of neurochemical and behavioural deficits characterising DA degeneration in humans, this model is traumatic, labour intensive and is associated with high mortality due to the acute effects of the neurotoxin. Consequently, the unilateral 6-OHDA model was developed and implemented. In this model damage to the ascending DA system is produced on one side of the brain thereby inducing postural rotation. This movement is exaggerated by activating the remaining DA systems with apomorphine or amphetamine thereby making it more quantifiable. In view of the less traumatic effects on homeostasis and relative ease with which this model can be implemented it has been used routinely for the purpose of screening potential anti-Parkinsonian drugs for clinical use. However, like any model, the use of the unilateral rotation model has its limitations. It is proposed that the process of exaggerating DA function using this paradigm limits the discovery of potential anti-PD drugs to those which are effective in counteracting an exaggerated DA response. This factor may account for the high incidence of unwanted side effects including involuntary movement, tardive dyskinaesia (TD) and psychosis which are commonly observed in DA replacement therapy. Secondly, this approach limits potential drug candidates to those acting exclusively on brain DA systems. This too is a problem in the sense that PD is known to be a disease involving numerous systems in the human brain and potential therapies acting via other neurochemical systems are being excluded when this model is used exclusively. The object of the present paper is to report the discovery of a non-DA drug possessing potent anti-Parkinsonian qualities which were revealed using the bilateral 6-OHDA model of PD as a screening tool. When the same drug was retested in the traditional unilateral screening model no effect was observed, while more advanced models confirmed its efficacy. These results illustrate that the implementation of appropriate models for revealing new treatment strategies for PD should be broadly based so that single treatment entities are not exclusively pursued for diseases whose aetiologies are multifaceted. Premature extrapolation of findings from a single, early stage model to its clinical counterpart can be detrimental to advancing new treatment strategies, induce false hope, and increase morbidity in PD patients.
We have summarized the history of electroencephalography(EEG) since 1875, when a paper by Richard Caton was published describing the first EEG recordings in animals. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were recorded by George Dawson in 1951. Thereafter, SEPs were developed for clinical use with other evoked potentials such as auditory evoked potentials(VEPs). To understand evoked potentials, related mechanism of induction of far-fields-potentials(FFP) following stimulation of the median nerve has been discussed. SEPs consisted of P9, N9, N10, P11, N11, N13, P13, P14, N18, N20 and P20/P22. Scalp recorded P9 FFP arises from the distal portion of the branchial plexus as reflected by N9 stationary negative potential recorded over the stimulated arm. Cervical N11 and N13 arise from the root entry zone and dorsal horn, respectively. Scalp recorded P13, P14 and N18 FFP originate from the brainstem. In this communication, magnetoencephalography(MEG) and results of one of our recent studies on somatosensory evoked fields(SEFs) are also discussed. One of the important features of MEG is that magnetic signals detected outside the head arise mainly from cortical currents tangential to the skull. Since the net postsynaptic current follows the orientation of cortical pyramidal cells, the MEG signals mainly reflect activity of the fissural cortex, whereas radial current may remain undetected. In our study, we demonstrated SEFs elicited by compression and decompression of a subject's glabrous skin by a human operator. Their dipoles were tangentially oriented from the frontal lobe to parietal lobe.

Several studies suggest that caffeine intake is high in patients with schizophrenia and a few of them suggest that caffeine may contribute to schizophrenia symptomatology. None of these studies control for the effect of tobacco smoking, which is associated with induction of caffeine metabolism. Therefore, the high amount of caffeine intake among patients with schizophrenia may be due to their high prevalence of smoking. This is the first large study to explore whether caffeine intake in patients with schizophrenia is related to tobacco (or alcohol) use or to the severity of schizophrenia symptomatology. The sample included 250 consecutive consenting outpatients with a diagnosis of DSM-IV schizophrenia from Granada, Spain. Fifty-nine percent (147/250) of patients consumed caffeine. Current caffeine intake was associated with current smoking and alcohol use. As none of the females used alcohol, the association with alcohol was only present in males with schizophrenia. Among caffeine consumers, smoking was associated with the amount of caffeine intake. Cross-sectional schizophrenia symptomatology was not associated with caffeine intake.
There is some evidence that schizotypal traits are related to a genetic or familial liability to develop schizophrenia. However, it is unclear whether the number of schizotypal traits is elevated in parents of schizophrenia patients compared with controls. This study used the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire to investigate the difference in number of schizotypal traits between both parents of 36 patients with schizophrenia (n = 72 persons) and 26 healthy married control couples (n = 52 persons). Parents of patients had a lower score on the positive dimension of schizotypy than healthy controls. There was no difference on the negative or disorganization dimension between groups. The difference on the positive dimension might have been caused by a difference in response style between parents of patients and controls due to the fact that parents are more familiar with schizophrenia than controls. Of interest, parents with a family history of schizophrenia spectrum disorders had more positive and negative schizotypal traits than parents without a family history of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. Because these two groups of parents differ in only genetic risk, not familiarity with schizophrenia, results suggest that the negative and positive dimension of schizotypy are related to a familial or genetic vulnerability to schizophrenia.
Cognitive rehabilitation is becoming an increasingly popular intervention in treatment programs for people with schizophrenia. Despite this increased acceptance, however, the evidence base on its effectiveness is not impressive. Moreover, given the evidence of cognitive recovery in treated patients who do not receive cognitive rehabilitation--from newer medications and from other evidence-based psychosocial interventions--it is not clear whether cognitive rehabilitation is worth its expense in time and resources. We believe that the slow progress in the field of cognitive rehabilitation of schizophrenia is related to failure to address several critical issues: (1) the importance of manipulating stimulus and context structure in rehabilitative interventions; (2) the need to base a cognitive rehabilitation of schizophrenia on cognitive neuroscience as opposed to neuropsychology; (3) the importance of systematically addressing motivation, self-esteem, and affective factors when designing cognition-enhancing interventions; (4) the need to move beyond one-size-fits-all interventions and develop individualized treatments; and (5) the need to address abnormalities in the experience of the self when designing interventions to optimize cognitive and behavioral performance. Suggestions for addressing these issues are discussed.


For decades, psychiatrists have considered that concepts of impaired consciousness in the study of psychiatry were inconsistent with those applied in the field of neurology, in which the usefulness of the concept of consciousness has long been seriously doubted. Gloor concluded that the concept of consciousness does not further the understanding of seizure mechanisms or brain function, which is the current representative opinion of most epileptologists. Loss of consciousness tends to be reduced to aggregates of individual impairments of higher cognitive functions, and the concept of consciousness is preferably avoided by neurologists by assigning various behavioral disturbances during disturbed consciousness to particular neuropsychological centers. In contrast, psychiatrists, especially those in Europe, are more likely to include phenomena involving problems related to phenomenological intentionality in impaired consciousness. For the present study, we first divided consciousness into vigilance and recursive consciousness, and then attempted to determine what kind of impaired consciousness would be an ideal candidate to represent pure disturbance of recursive consciousness. Then, 4 patients, 1 each with pure amnestic states followed immediately by complex partial seizures, an akinetic mutistic state caused by absence status, and mental diplopia as a manifestation of postictal psychosis, as well as a patient with Alzheimer's disease who gracefully performed Japanese tea ceremony, were studied. Based on our findings, we concluded that impaired consciousness as a generic term in general medicine does not indicate any unitary entity corresponding to some well-demarcated physiological function or constitute a base from which recursive consciousness emerges as a superstructure. From that, we stressed that a pure form of impairment of recursive consciousness could occur without the impaired consciousness named generically in general medicine. Second, following observation of an additional 3 cases, descriptions of naissance of the first word (taken from the autobiography of Helen Keller), visual object agnosia, and chronic schizophrenia with schizophasia were discussed to examine the relationship between impairments of recursive consciousness and semantic generation dysfunction. Attempts to bridge semantic generation and recursive consciousness, performed by psychopathologists such as Bin Kimura and Hiroyuki Koide, were also briefly discussed. In light of these case presentations and related discussions, we re-examined traditional theories of impaired consciousness, including Mayer-Gross's Gestalt theory, later replaced by Conrad and Henri Ey's theory related to intentionality. Furthermore, we attempted to link Denett's theory of consciousness to those traditional theories as well as to our own postulations, and neuropsychological data such as those of implicit memory and blindsight. Finally, the significance of Freud's unconsciousness in the framework of neuroscience was discussed.
To clarify the mechanism of adaptation to stress in the brain, we performed neuroimaging studies by functional magnetic resonance imaging and magnetoencephalography. First, to investigate which areas of the brain play an important role in the perception of stressful events, we performed fMRI for recognition of unpleasant words concerning interpersonal relationships. Secondly, we evaluated the effect of various stresses on the sensory gating system by MEG to show whether stress could affect the brain mechanism. Finally, we studied the neural activity associated with the expectancy of emotional stimuli using fMRI and MEG, because of the importance of expectancy in adaptation to stress. Our results suggested that stressful events might be recognized in the same brain regions, that acute stress might affect one brain mechanism, and that expectancy might suppress incoming stressful stimuli.
Important progresses has been made in the study of pain-related somatosensory evoked potentials (pain SEP) in the past decades. Pain generating stimulation techniques in humans are used in combination with the methodology of evoked electrical brain potentials. The current review will discuss stimulation techniques, components of evoked potentials, dipole source analysis of evoked potentials with the recent study of pain SEP.

Over recent years much has been learned about the way in which depth cues are combined (e.g. Landy et al.. 1995). The majority of this work has used subjective measures, a rating scale or a point of subjective equality, to deduce the relative contributions of different cues to perception. We have adopted a very different approach by using two interval forced-choice (21FC) performance measures and a signal processing framework. We performed summation experiments for depth cue increment thresholds between pairs of pictorial depth cues in displays depicting slanted planar surfaces made from arrays of circular 'contrast' elements. Summation was found to be ideal when size-gradient was paired with contrast-gradient for a wide range of depth-gradient magnitudes in the null stimulus. For a pairing of size-gradient and linear perspective, substantial summation (&gt; 1.5 dB) was found only when the null stimulus had intermediate depth gradients; when flat or steeply inclined surfaces were depicted, summation was diminished or abolished. Summation was also abolished when one of the target cues was (i) not a depth cue, or (ii) added in conflict. We conclude that vision has a depth mechanism for the constructive combination of pictorial depth cues and suggest two generic models of summation to describe the results. Using similar psychophysical methods. Bradshaw and Rogers (1996) revealed a mechanism for the depth cues of motion parallax and binocular disparity. Whether this is the same or a different mechanism from the one reported here awaits elaboration.


Snowboarding has become one of the premier alpine sports. The past decade has seen the popularity of snowboarding increase dramatically and the recent Winter Olympic Games at Salt Lake City, USA, showcased the strong visual appeal of the sport and the youth-oriented lifestyle and culture that accompanies it. The injury profile of the sport has also undergone change along with technological advances in boot and binding systems and the changing demographics of the sports participants. Central to the development of injury-prevention strategies is knowledge of the profile of injuries that occur, understanding those who are at particular risk and, if possible, the biomechanical factors involved in each injury type. Snowboarding was initially considered a dangerous, uncontrolled, alpine sport - an opinion based on little or no scientific evidence. That evidence has rapidly grown over the past decade and we now know that snowboard injury rates are no different to those in skiing; however, the injury profile is different. The purpose of this review is to give some perspective to the current snowboard injury literature. It discusses not only the demographic profile of those injured and the type of injuries that occur, but also gives some insight into the progress that has occurred in determining the impact of specific prevention strategies, such as splints to prevent injuries to the wrist/forearm. The next decade will also see a greater understanding of the biomechanical forces involved in snowboard injuries, which may well impact on future technological advances. As the literature indicates, however, some things will not change, e.g. injuries are more likely to occur in beginners and lessons need to be reinforced as a fundamental aspect of any injury-prevention strategy.
We describe 2 patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) treated with bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in whom unilateral stimulator battery depletion resulted in the rapid appearance of disabling PD symptoms (severe rigidity, bradykinesia and gait difficulty). Both patients did not respond to high doses of dopaminergic medications and were restored to their previous level of function only with battery replacement. One patient developed a deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary emboli as a result of prolonged immobility. Although extreme worsening of PD secondary to battery depletion may be rare, such patients should have their stimulators replaced promptly.

That distribution of specialists in neurological sciences worldwide is lopsided is an accepted fact. That, increasing the number of specialists, providing them with the requisite infrastructure and maintaining high standards to provide neurological and neurosurgical surgical care worldwide is just not possible, is also accepted. Patients from suburban areas are sent to the limited number of tertiary neurosciences referral centers, incurring expense and time and resulting in overwork at these centers. It is easier to set up an excellent telecommunication infrastructure, to increase the reach of the limited number of urban specialists, than to put them in suburban areas.
This paper describes an approach to neuroscientific reaction-time experiments and resulting methods for data processing under real-time constraints in virtual environments (VE). Immersive VEs produce huge amounts of data, which has to be processed in real-time to meet the interactivity requirement of VE. Furthermore, data is needed often with a timing resolution and even more crucial with an accuracy in the range of milliseconds. Unfortunately recent operating systems do not in general guarantee timing precision in this range. For these purposes we have researched possibilities for reaction-time measurement and real-time data acquisition. Our system enables neuroscientists to perform reaction-time experiments in platform-independent virtual environments.
We have merged two established anatomical terminologies with an evolving ontology of biological structure: the Foundational Model of Anatomy. We describe the problems we have encountered and the solutions we have developed. We believe that both the problems and solutions generalize to the integration of any legacy terminology with a disciplined ontology within the same domain.
Several recent studies have investigated whether knowledge representation turns possible within virtual reality simulated environments. According to these affirmative results different clinical applications were developed in psychology. Among these applications virtual reality seems to have a specific role in assessment and treatment of neuropsychological diseases. This chapter will firstly investigate possibilities and challenges carried from virtual-reality-based neuropsychological applications focusing both on patient's and therapist's point of view. Afterward it will provide a survey of research and intervention application examples. More in detail a clear explanation of contribution goals will be discussed, in order to place research and applied works within a cognitive neuroscience frame of reference, according with their usefulness and effectiveness in clinical treatment. Fulfilling these objectives neuropsychological virtual reality approaches in memory, motor abilities, executive functions and spatial representation will be shown.
This article outlines several distinctions in cognition and related topics in emotion that receive support from work in cognitive neuroscience and have important implications for prevention: implicit cognition, working memory, nonverbal memory, and neurobiological systems of habit. These distinctions have not been widely acknowledged or applied in drug use prevention research, despite their neural plausibility and the availability of methods to make this link. The authors briefly review the basis for the distinctions and indicate general implications and assessment possibilities for prevention researchers conducting large-scale field trials. Subse-quently, the article outlines a connectionist framework for specific applications in prevention interventions. These possibilities begin the attempt to derive useful fusions of normally distinct areas of prevention and cognitive neuroscience, in the spirit of a transdisciplinary approach.




It is clear that a variety of gene defects can result in absence seizures. In addition, the problem is complicated by observation that the behavioral and EEG phenotype in some of the models is highly dependent on pedigree. Despite these difficulties, advances in molecular-genetic techniques coupled with electrophysiological studies are likely to be highly revealing. While the relationship between the rat and mice models and the human condition thus far remains tenuous, insights from the animal models have already been very helpful in choosing antiepileptic drugs and providing insights into the pathophysiology of the seizures.





Descending modulation of nociception is enhanced following tissue injury. These changes include suppression and facilitation of nocifensive behavior and spinal dorsal horn hyperexcitability originating at brain stem sites. Evidence has been presented that such descending modulation undergoes time-dependent changes following persistent inflammation. There is an initial decrease and a subsequent increase in the excitability of neurons in the RVM involving facilitation and inhibition. The enhanced descending modulation includes changes in the activation and gene expression of the NMDA and AMPA excitatory amino acid receptors. In vivo electrophysiological recordings further reveal a change in the response profile of RVM neurons during the development of inflammation: cells previously unresponsive to nociceptive stimuli, exhibit response profiles characteristic of pain-modulating neurons. These findings demonstrate activity-dependent plasticity in brain stem circuits that includes changes in excitatory amino acid receptor activation and sensitivity and a phenotypic switch of some RVM neurons.
Parkinsonism is defined by the association of akinesia with one of the following symptoms: extrapyramidal rigidity, tremor at rest, or postural instability. A drug-induced aetiology must always be suspected when parkinsonian symptoms appear, or increase in a patient receiving drug treatment. Indeed drug-induced is the more frequent aetiology of secondary parkinsonism. The main treatments involved are antipsychotic and other neuroleptic drugs (accounting for up to two-thirds of drug-induced parkinsonism), and calcium-channel entry blockers. The risk associated with antipsychotics is often dose dependent and related to dopamine D2 striatal receptor occupancy induced by the antipsychotic drug. This risk is inferior for the second generation antipsychotics. The other treatments more rarely involved are antidepressants (tricyclic and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors), lithium, valproic acid, and others. The main criterium for imputability is chronological, regression of symptoms being observed in 40-74% of cases, after a mean delay of 3 months from cessation of treatment. However, 15% of cases persist after drug withdrawal, leading to a diagnosis of underlying idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
Signaling through the highly conserved Wingless/Wnt pathway plays a crucial role in a diverse array of developmental processes, many of which depend upon the precise regulation of Wingless/Wnt signaling levels. Recent evidence has indicated that the intracellular trafficking of Wingless/Wnt signaling components can result in significant changes in the level of signaling. Here, we examine three mechanisms through which intracellular trafficking might regulate Wingless signaling--the degradation of Wingless, its transport and the transduction of its signal. The intracellular trafficking of several Wingless/Wnt signaling components, including LRP5, LRP6, Dishevelled and Axin, as well as the functional implications of protein localization on Wingless/Wnt signaling, will be discussed.
Genetic analysis and studies of normal and leukemia cells in culture have shown that Abl family nonreceptor tyrosine kinases regulate cell morphogenesis and motility. Abl family kinases, which include Drosophila (D-) Abl and the vertebrate Abl and Arg proteins, relay signals from cell surface growth-factor and adhesion receptors to promote cytoskeletal rearrangements. Recent biochemical and crystallographic analyses have clarified the mechanisms by which growth-factor and adhesion receptors might regulate the activity of Abl family kinases. When activated, Abl family kinases can regulate cytoskeletal dynamics by phosphorylating several known cytoskeletal regulatory proteins. In addition, the C-terminal half of Abl family kinases has several domains that bind to cytoskeletal components. Emerging evidence suggests that Abl family kinases can use these domains to directly organize cytoskeletal structure in vivo.
Dense-core granules (DCGs), cytoplasmic organelles competent for regulated exocytosis, show considerable heterogeneity depending upon the specificity of their expressing cells--primarily neurons and neurosecretory cells. DCGs have been mainly identified by detecting their cargo molecules, often members of the granin family, and using conventional electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. However, by a critical analysis of the various stages of DCG &quot;life&quot; within neurosecretory cells, we have highlighted several specific molecular and functional properties that are common to all these organelles. We propose that these properties be considered as strict requirements for the identification of DCGs.
Bimanual coordination, a prototype of a complex motor skill, has recently become the subject of intensive investigation. Whereas past research focused mainly on the identification of the elementary coordination constraints that limit performance, the focus is now shifting towards overcoming these coordination constraints by means of task symbolization or perceptual transformation rules that promote the integration of the task components into a meaningful &quot;gestalt&quot;. The study of these cognitive penetrations into action will narrow the brain-mind gap and will facilitate the development of a cognitive neuroscience perspective on bimanual movement control.
The stability of microbial genomes is constantly challenged by horizontal gene transfer, recombination and DNA damage. Mechanisms for rapid genome variation, adaptation and maintenance are a necessity to ensure microbial fitness and survival in changing environments. Indeed, genome sequences reveal that most, if not all, bacterial species have numerous gene functions for DNA repair and recombination. These important topics were addressed at the Second Genome Maintenance Meeting (GMM2).


gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is a short-chain fatty acid that occurs naturally in the mammalian brain and is formed primarily from the precursor gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The properties of GHB suggest that it has a neuromodulatory role in the brain and has the ability to induce several pharmacological and behavioral effects. GHB has been used clinically as an anesthetic and to treat alcoholism and narcolepsy. Furthermore, GHB has emerged recently as a major recreational drug of abuse. GHB appears to have dual mechanisms of action in the brain. Biochemical data suggest that the intrinsic neurobiological activity of GHB might be mediated through the GHB receptor, which is separate and distinct from the GABA(B) receptor. However, many of the pharmacological and clinical effects of exogenously administered GHB, including the properties of addiction, tolerance, withdrawal and intoxication, are probably mediated via the GABA(B) receptor, where GHB might act both directly as a partial agonist and indirectly through GHB-derived GABA.

The enteric nervous system (ENS) controls different tasks in the gastrointestinal tract. One of the ganglionated networks, the myenteric plexus is situated between longitudinal and circular muscle layers of the gut wall and basically controls intestinal motility. Several studies using micro-electrode recordings have generated invaluable information on neuronal subtypes, membrane conductances and simple synaptic inputs. Besides physiological recordings immunohistochemical techniques have also advanced the understanding of the organization of the ENS. Antibodies against several epitopes have identified a variety of neuronal subtypes, each with its characteristic combination of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. In order to understand how the integrated plexus functions, especially in view of interactions between different cells, it is important to use optical techniques. They allow studying several cells simultaneously and provide both spatial and temporal information with a reasonably adequate resolution. Fluorescence is the method of choice, since due to the spectral properties; several probes can be combined to obtain information about different events within the cell. We used Ca2+ indicators both as general markers for activity and also as a tool to study the intrinsic Ca2+ handling characteristics of myenteric neurons. This enabled us to visualize neuronal activity in cultures and in multi-layered intestinal preparations. Using this method, the mechanisms underlying acetylcholine, substance P and serotonin signaling were dissected out as well as the Ca2+ removal mechanisms in enteric neurons. Further, we used neuronal retrograde tracers and combined this with Ca2+ imaging techniques to study specific signaling in a functionally identified population of neurons. Mitochondria are important organelles, which provide the bulk of the energy and play an important role in buffering cytosolic Ca2+. We investigated the role of mitochondria in myenteric neurons and found that Ca2+ mitochondrial buffering actually sets membrane excitability, especially in the primary afferent neurons of the intestine. Furthermore, mitochondria were also studied in processes of enteric neurons in culture, where they modify the Ca2+ signals in nerve boutons. In order to provide energy and Ca2+ buffer capacity to these distant regions, mitochondria need to be transported. The characteristics of this axonal transport were investigated using MitoTracker green. Last, we also visualized synaptic transmission directly, by using markers, which are trapped during vesicle recycling. The kinetics of release were studied optically both in culture and tissue preparations and were found to be remarkably similar to central nervous system synapses. In this report we summarize the results of different fluorescent imaging techniques to investigate important cellular and subcellular characteristics of enteric neurons. Because optical methods provide both spatial and temporal information they can be used to study activity and patterns in neuronal networks. Imaging is applicable to multi-layered intestinal preparations; therefore it provides a useful and promising tool to further expand our understanding of gastro-intestinal motility control and enteric neuroscience in general.
This work summarizes the difficulties and aims of psychotropic administration in the treatment of mental disorders. The results of a survey about attitudes of psychoanalysts of the main psychoanalytic institutions in Argentina towards indications and objectives of psychotropic drugs use in psychoanalytic patients are summarized. Neurosciences attempts to build a bridge to connect biological and psychological and psychoanalytic knowledge, but for this efforts to be fruitful the non-dogmatic participation of professionals from the mind sciences may be necessary.

We have examined the role of neighbor relationships between cholinergic amacrine cells upon their positioning and dendritic field size by producing partial ablations of this population of cells during early development. We first determined the effectiveness of L-glutamate as an excitotoxin for ablating cholinergic amacrine cells in the developing mouse retina. Subcutaneous injections (4 mg/g) made on P-3 and thereafter were found to produce a near-complete elimination, while injections at P-2 were ineffective. Lower doses on P-3 produced only partial reductions, and were subsequently used to examine the effect of partial ablation upon mosaic organization and dendritic growth of the remaining cells. Four different Voronoi-based measures of mosaic geometry were examined in L-glutamate-treated and normal (saline-treated) retinas. Partial depletions of around 40% produced cholinergic mosaics that, when scaled for density, approximated the mosaic geometry of the normal retina. Separate comparisons simulating a 40% random deletion of the normal retina produced mosaics that were no different from those experimentally depleted retinas. Consequently, no evidence was found for positional regulation in the absence of normal neighbor relationships. Single cells in the ganglion cell layer were intracellularly filled with Lucifer Yellow to examine the morphology and dendritic field extent following partial ablation of the cholinergic amacrine cells. No discernable effect was found on their starburst morphology, and total dendritic field area, number of primary dendrites, and branch frequency were not significantly different. Cholinergic amacrine cells normally increase their dendritic field area after P-3 in excess of retinal expansion; despite this, the present results show that this growth is not controlled by the density of neighboring processes.
Mirror symmetry is ubiquitous in natural visual scenes, and detection of mirror symmetry seems to be a global, automatic, effortless and important aspect of visual perception. The perception of mirror symmetry has not been studied in humans with amblyopia. In this paper we measured and quantified the detection of mirror symmetry in adults with naturally occurring amblyopia. Our results show that amblyopia may severely impair the detection of mirror symmetry, and that this impairment is not simply a consequence of reduced stimulus visibility. Rather, we suggest that this loss may reflect, at least in part, a deficit in the integration of local orientation information.
This study examines whether subretinal transplantation of a human retinal pigment epithelial cell line (ARPE19) or human Schwann cells early in the course of degeneration can limit the loss of visual acuity that normally occurs in dystrophic Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rats as they age. The acuity of both transplanted groups was significantly better than controls at all ages tested, though the rescue profile of each cell type was unique. These data indicate that the transplantation of cells with very different phenotypes can be used to limit the deterioration of spatial vision in an animal model of retinal degenerative disease.
Motion can influence the perceived position of nearby stationary objects (Nature Neuroscience 3 (2000) 954). To investigate the influence of high-level motion processes on the position shift while controlling for low-level motion signals, we measured the position shift as a function of the motion seen in a bistable quartet. In this stimulus, motion can be seen along either one or the other of two possible paths. An illusory position shift was observed only when the flashes were adjacent to the path where motion was perceived. If the flash was adjacent to the other path, where no motion was perceived, there was no illusory displacement. Thus for the same physical stimulus, a change in the perceived motion path determined the location where illusory position shifts would be seen. This result indicates that high-level motion processes alone are sufficient to produce the position shift of stationary objects. The effect of the timing of the test flash between the onset and offset of the motion was also examined. The position shifts were greatest at the onset of motion, then decreasing gradually, disappearing at the offset of motion. We propose an attentional repulsion explanation for the shift effect.
We report a novel psychophysical paradigm that distinguishes the information present in abrupt stimulus onset from that in the following display. The task is to pick the one odd item from a set added to a pre-existing background of similar items. When all new items are added simultaneously, observers are impaired even at distinguishing one red item amongst several green ones. An asynchrony of about 40 ms between target and distracter items restores performance, with evidence that it is cortical, rather than stimulus timing difference that is significant. The results are consistent with a role for neural synchrony in dynamic grouping.
The mouse retina contains both middle-wavelength-sensitive (M) and ultraviolet-sensitive (UV) photopigments that are coexpressed in cones. To examine some potential visual consequences of cone pigment coexpression, spectral sensitivity functions were measured in mice (Mus musculus) using both the flicker electroretinogram (ERG) and behavioral discrimination tests. Discrimination tests were also employed to search for the presence of color vision in the mouse. Spectral sensitivity functions for the mouse obtained from ERG measurements and from psychophysical tests each reveal contributions from two classes of cone having peak sensitivities (lambda(max)) of approximately 360 and 509-512 nm. The relative contributions of the two pigment types to spectral sensitivity differ significantly in the two types of measurements with a relationship reversed from that often seen in mammals. Mice were capable of discriminating between some pairs of spectral stimuli under test conditions where luminance-related cues were irrelevant. Since mice can make dichromatic color discriminations, their visual systems must be able to exploit differences in the spectral absorption properties among the cones. Complete selective segregation of opsins into individual photoreceptors is apparently not a prerequisite for color vision.
The aim of project is to build a European network, which will integrate the research capabilities of a group of research institutes and university departments to provide an infrastructure for the highest quality research in psychiatric disorders, particularly in schizophrenia and schizoaffective disturbances. This network will integrate original computer expert advisory system called &quot;Saba&quot; with modern brain imaging techniques and neurophysiological methods, which allows for the delineation of specific subtypes and particular episodes of mental disorders and their neural bases will be studied by state-of-the art (high tech) imaging techniques. This approach will lead to new investigatory, diagnostic and therapeutic techniques. Together the members of this network will comprise an unmatched critical mass of human and other resources aimed at fundamental and applied research into a group of disorders, which impose a huge burden on social and material capital. The relationships and mutual responsibilities between neuroscience and the society it serves will be addressed specifically. Top brain research is performed at several locations in Europe. In particular, in the area of linking classical psychiatric and psychological assessment methods and the newest brain imaging techniques in mental disorders, major progress can only be made when various research groups join their efforts. Large-scale studies using different databases are critically required, which demands standardization of the description of mental disorders and of the applied techniques and methods of analysis. Imaging techniques, including functional MRI (fMRI), Evoked Potentials (EPs), brain mapping, and the computer gathered information will be shared, standardized and further developed within the network. Developing new information technology tools for simulation, visualization and data-mining will be required to enable effective search for links between mental disorders and brain characteristics (function, structure) in very large scale data-sets acquired and stored in various research facilities.
Adequate and reliable methods for evaluation of clients with work disabilities are crucial for both the individuals who are assessed and for society as a whole. Sound and precise work assessments are needed to guide clients to suitable interventions using a minimum of rehabilitation resources. Occupational therapy literature contains evidence that work function assessments are complex and that there is confusion over work assessment concepts. Therefore, further development and evaluation of adequate concepts and theoretical models within the area of work assessment is needed. This article proposes a conceptual framework for different dimensions of work functioning and points out important factors for work assessment. The concepts proposed and defined in the article are: work functioning, work participation, work performance, and individual capacity.

The neuroectoderm arises during gastrulation as a population of undifferentiated proliferating neuroepithelial cells. As development continues, neuroepithelial cells leave the cell cycle and differentiate into neurons and glia of the functioning central nervous system. What processes establish the spatial distribution of proliferating neuroepithelial cells? To investigate this question, zic2a was isolated from zebrafish, a homolog of the Drosophila pair-rule gene odd-paired, which is involved in nervous system patterning. At shield stage, zic2a was expressed in the zebrafish organizer and the blastoderm margin, and became restricted to the axial mesoderm in mid-gastrula. Expression of zic2a appeared in the prospective neuroectoderm during gastrulation, and later demarcated the presumptive forebrain. This expression pattern suggests that zic2a may function early in the organizer and later in the neural plate to demarcate the population of proliferating neuroectoderm. Consistent with a function for zic2a in transducing signals from the organizer, overexpression of zic2a resulted in an expansion of proliferating neuroectoderm. Furthermore, zic2a overexpression rescued the ventralized phenotype of chordino mutant embryos, which lack a functional chordin gene. Early expression of zic2 in the zebrafish organizer, and the phenotype resulting from overexpression, show a role for zic2a downstream of chordin or other secreted organizer proteins in establishing the initial size of the population of neuroectoderm cells.

Centre of Theoretical and Computational Neuroscience, University of Plymouth, UK Basing on the hypothesis about the mechanisms of the theta rhythm generation, the article presents mathematical and computational models of theta activity in the hippocampus. The problem of the theta rhythm modeling is nontrivial because the slow theta oscillations (about 5 Hz) should be generated by a neural system composed of frequently firing neural populations. We studied a model of neural pacemakers in the septum. In this model, the pacemaker follows the frequency of the external signal if this frequency does not deviate too far from the natural frequency of the pacemaker, otherwise the pacemaker returns to the frequency of its own oscillations. These results are in agreement with the experimental records of medial septum neurons. Our model of the septal pacemaker of the theta rhythm is based on the hypothesis that the hippocampal theta appears as a result of the influence of the assemblies of neurons in the medial septum which are under control of pacemaker neurons. Though the model of the pacemaker satisfies many experimental facts, the synchronization of activity in different neural assemblies of the model is not as strong as it should be. Another model of the theta generation is based on the anatomical data about the existence of the inhibitory GABAergic loop between the medial septum and the hippocampus. This model shows stable oscillations at the frequency of the theta rhythm in a broad range of parameter values. It also provides explanation to the experimental data about the variation of the frequency and the amplitude of the theta rhythm under different external stimulations of the system. The role of the theta rhythm for information processing in the hippocampus is discussed.

In a prospective randomised controlled trial, 48 students were randomly assigned to stress reduction training before exams with self-hypnosis, Johrei or a mock neurofeedback relaxation control. Peripheral blood lymphocyte subpopulations and self-reported stress (Perceived Stress Scale) were measured before training and 1-2 months later as exams approached. Absolute number and percentages of CD3(+)CD4(+) and CD3(+)CD8(+) T lymphocytes, CD3(-)CD56(+) Natural Killer cells (NK cells) and NK cell cytotoxic activity was measured from venous blood. Stressed participants showed small but significant declines in both CD3(-)CD56(+) NK cell percentages and NK cell cytotoxic activity levels while CD3(+)CD4(+) T cell percentages increased, changes supported by correlations with perceived stress. The effects of stress were moderated in those who learned Johrei at exam time; 11/12 showed increases in CD3(-)CD56(+) NK cell percentages with decreased percentages of CD3(+)CD4(+) T cells, effects not seen in the relaxation control group. Stress was also buffered in those who learned and practised self-hypnosis in whom CD3(-)CD56(+) NK cell and CD3(+)CD4(+) T cell levels were maintained, and whose CD3(+)CD8(+) T cell percentages, shown previously to decline with exams, increased. The results compliment beneficial effects on mood of self-hypnosis and Johrei. The results are in keeping with beneficial influences of self-hypnosis and provide the first evidence of the suggestive value of the Japanese Johrei procedure for stress reduction, which clearly warrants further investigation.
The cortical abnormalities found in animal models of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) suggest a disruption of axon growth. After emerging from the cell body, axons exhibit saltatory growth, cycling between periods of extension and periods of retraction. The timing of neuronal process outgrowth an the balance between extension and retraction together determine the net rate of axon elongation, and may be independently regulated. In this study, we used time-lapse digital microscopy and custom-designed analytic software to assess the effects of ethanol on the growth of axons from embryonic rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons in culture during 24 h of development, beginning approximately 7 h after plating. We recorded the amount of time elapsed before axons emerged, the relative amount of time spent in periods of growth and nongrowth, and the rate and direction of change in axon length during both periods of growth and nongrowth. The initiation of axonal outgrowth was significantly delayed by ethanol in a dose-dependent fashion at concentrations in the medium at or above 100 mg/dl. However, once established, axons exhibited accelerated growth in the presence of ethanol. This increase in overall growth rate was primarily due to a significant decrease in axon retraction during nongrowth periods. Ethanol did not affect the duration or frequency of growth and nongrowth periods. We propose, therefore, that mechanisms underlying ethanol-mediated changes in axon growth are linked to signaling events that differentially regulate outgrowth and retraction.
Ethanol can affect normal development of the cerebral cortex, e.g., it can disrupt cell migration and exacerbate cell death. In vitro studies using primary cultures or cell lines provide further evidence that cell migration and death are altered by ethanol exposure. Organotypic cultures are more complex than primary cell cultures, and maintain some normal connectivity, thus providing a &quot;more in vivo-like&quot; model of brain development. We predict that exposing organotypic cultures of fetal rat cerebral cortex to ethanol results in changes similar to those described in vivo. Organotypic cultures of brains from 16-day-old fetuses were exposed to ethanol (0, 200, 400 or 800 mg/dl) for 72 h. Stereological methods were used to assess the frequency of viable and dying cells. Dying cells were identified as having DNA with polyadenylated tails or as having condensed chromatin. A small amount of cell death was evident in the marginal zone (MZ) and cortical plate (CP) of control cultures. The MZ, normally a cell body-poor layer, was enriched with somata following exposure to 400 mg/dl ethanol. Ethanol-induced cell death in the MZ; the amount of cell death was doubled following exposure to 800 mg/dl ethanol. The CP was more sensitive than the MZ; cell death increased following treatment with 400 mg/dl ethanol. Thus, organotypic cultures show that ethanol disrupts neuronal migration and increases cell death in the developing cerebral cortex. The effects of ethanol were site-specific and concentration-dependent. These changes are similar to those described in vivo.
Prenatal exposure to drugs of abuse is the single largest preventable cause of developmental compromise of American children today. In the clinical population, it is difficult to determine the independent effects of gestational exposure to a single drug on brain development, in part due to the confounding effects of additional risk factors that are encountered in the substance-abusing population. The enormous clinical and societal problem of gestational toxicity of drugs of abuse, both legal and illegal, has driven the need to develop and investigate animal models of gestational drug exposure in which these variables can be controlled. More specifically, as clinical data are gathered suggesting an increased liability to substance abuse among children of drug-abusing mothers, a mechanistic understanding of the lasting effects of early drug exposure on the developing brain and the behavioral repertoire of the developing animal is crucial. In this review we summarize experimental animal research that investigates the role of drug exposure in utero on the functional development of specific brain circuits that are involved in the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse, and on the behaviors that are mediated by these brain reward systems.
The extent to which cocaine abuse by pregnant women can affect development of their offspring remains a matter of significant debate. In large part, this is due to difficulties in accurate determination of the type, dose, and pattern of cocaine administration by drug abusing women as well as to difficulties in controlling for a wide range of potentially confounding variables, such as other drugs used, race, socioeconomic status, and level of prenatal care. On this background, examination of the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure in highly controlled nonhuman primate models represents an important complement to the human research. The present review summarizes the data obtained in several different rhesus monkey models of cocaine exposure in utero. These data demonstrate the potential of prenatal cocaine exposure to interfere with structural and biochemical development of the brain leading to behavioral deficits at birth and/or during adulthood. However, the differences in the outcomes between individual models also suggest that the specific types and severity of cocaine effects are likely dependent on the route, dose, gestational period, and daily pattern of administration.
The disorders of two adjacent sets of mesencephalic dopaminergic (MDNs) are associated with two significant health problems: Parkinson's disease and drug addiction. Because of this, a great deal of research has focused on understanding the growth, development and maintenance of MDNs. Many transcription factors and signaling pathways are known to be required for normal MDNs formation, but a unified model of MDN development is still unclear. The long-term goal is to design therapeutic strategies to: (i) nurture and/or heal endogenous MDNs, (ii) replace the affected tissue with exogenous MDNs from in vitro cultivated stem cells and (iii) restore normal connectivity. Recent developmental biology studies show great promise in understanding how MDNs develop both in vivo and in vitro. This information has great therapeutic value and may provide insight into how environmental and genetic factors increase vulnerability to addiction.
In the field of neuroscience, there has always been a need for imaging techniques that provide high-resolution, large field-of-view measurements of neural activity. Functional MRI has this capability, but the link between the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal and neural activity is indirect. High magnetic field strengths (&gt;3 T) improve the strength and specificity of the BOLD signal, but there are additional concerns about imaging artifacts at high field. We have tested the capabilities of ultra high field fMRI in the anesthetized juvenile cat, demonstrating rapid, non-invasive retinotopic mapping of early visual areas. Maps of topographic organization and measured cortical magnification factors are in good agreement with electrophysiological studies. Measurement precision was estimated at 1 mm. This mapping, performed with an MRI scanner at ultra high field (9.4 T), demonstrates the capabilities of high-resolution functional mapping of the visual system at ultra high field.
We established selective primary cultures of neurons, astrocytes, and microglial cells from cryopreserved fetal cerebral cortex of cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). At 14 days in serum-containing medium, the cell cultures of the fetal cerebral cortex consisted primarily of neurons, astrocytes, and floating microglial cells. At 21 days, we observed a small number of myelin basic protein (MBP)-positive oligodendrocytes. The addition of cytosine arabinoside (a selective DNA synthesis inhibitor) at 2 days in culture eliminated proliferative glial cells, allowing adequate numbers of neurons to survive selectively. A chemically defined serum-free medium successfully supported neuronal survival at a level equivalent to that supported by the serum-containing medium. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) significantly affected the survival of primate neurons. Glutamate induced a significant degree of neuronal cell death against primate neurons and MK-801, a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, blocked cell death, which suggests that primate cortical neurons have NMDAR and the glutamate-induced cell toxicity is mediated by NMDAR. In the serum-free medium, type-1 astrocytes responded to dibutyryl cyclic AMP and showed a process-bearing morphology. The growth of type-1 astrocytes in the serum-free medium was stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and hydrocortisone, which are known growth factors in rat type-1 astrocytes. Cultured microglial cells expressed CD68, a monocyte marker. Macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) stimulated microglial cell growth in the serum-free medium. These selective primary culture systems of primate cerebral cortical cells will be useful in issues involving species specificity in neuroscience.
This paper describes the circuitry and construction of a novel electronic threshold discriminator, and details its specific application to in vivo intracellular recording. The discriminator reliably triggers electrophysiological recording at pre-selectable membrane potentials in neuronal systems that exhibit membrane potential oscillations. It has been used successfully whilst recording from spiny projection neurons of the striatum to measure membrane properties and trigger electrical stimulation within either of two discrete membrane potential &quot;states&quot;. The device works by comparing the analogue membrane potential waveform with a user-defined threshold membrane potential, and outputs a logic signal to flag the occurrence of a threshold-crossing event. This signal is used to trigger the commencement of episodic recording and the application of current injection or electrical stimulation at a consistent membrane potential. Thus, the discriminator acts as a functional clamp to isolate evoked responses from endogenous fluctuations in membrane potential. The unit uses cheap and easily available components and can be constructed with the minimum of electronics experience. It could be adapted to isolate discrete events within any oscillatory system.
Microwire array electrodes are important in multi-site, multiple single-unit recording experiments. A simple method is described herein for the construction of microwire arrays consisting of evenly spaced insulated microwires in either horizontal or vertical orientations. Several key steps in the fabrication of a good microwire array electrode are made easier with this method. These steps include (1) arranging microwires into a desirable configuration, (2) keeping track of microwire sequences, and (3) soldering microwires to closely packed slots. This method needs only general mechanical tools and is relatively simple even for inexperienced workers.

An enhanced polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to detect the coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV) was developed in which a target gene pre-amplification step preceded TaqMan real-time fluorescent PCR. Clinical samples were collected from 120 patients diagnosed as suspected or probable SARS cases and analyzed by conventional PCR followed by agarose gel electrophoresis, conventional TaqMan real-time PCR, and our enhanced TaqMan real-time PCR assays. An amplicon of the size expected from SARS-CoV was obtained from 28/120 samples using the enhanced real-time PCR method. Conventional PCR and real-time PCR alone identified fewer SARS-CoV positive cases. Results were confirmed by viral culture in 3/28 cases. The limit of detection of the enhanced real-time PCR method was 10(2)-fold higher than the standard real-time PCR assay and 10(7)-fold higher than conventional PCR methods. The increased sensitivity of the assay may help control the spread of the disease during future SARS outbreaks.
The postmitotic nature and longevity of skeletal muscle fibers permit stable expression of any transfected gene. Direct in vivo injection of plasmid DNA, in both adult and regenerating muscles, is a safe, inexpensive, and easy approach. Here we present an optimized electroporation protocol based on the use of spatula electrodes to transfer cDNA in vivo into the adult myofibers of an anatomically defined muscle, which could be functionally characterized. In our hands, about 80% of adult myofibers were transfected in vivo by different plasmids for GFP fusion proteins or for beta-galactosidase. The luciferase activity increased several orders of magnitude when compared to standard DNA delivery. In an anatomical defined muscle, the wide gene transfer was comparable to or better than that of retrovirus delivery, that recently has been shown to be prone to severe side-effects in human clinical studies. Furthermore, with our method the tissue damage was greatly decreased. Thus, the present work describes in vivo functional electrotransfer of genes in adult skeletal muscle fibers by a protocol that is of great potential for gene therapy, as well as for basic research.
Microglia, major immune effector cells in the central nervous system, become activated during brain injury. In this study we showed that the blood component plasminogen/plasmin activates microglia. Plasminogen-induced IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS mRNA expression in primary cultured rat microglia and BV2 murine microglial cells. Plasmin caused a similar response. Serine protease inhibitors suppressed both plasminogen- and plasmin-induced IL-1beta and TNF-alpha expression, indicating the importance of serine protease activity in plasminogen/plasmin activation of microglia. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) appeared to play an important role in plasminogen-induced microglial activation, with ROS being generated within 15min of plasminogen treatment, and antioxidants (100 microM trolox and 10mM NAC) reducing IL-1beta and TNF-alpha expression in plasminogen-treated cells. Furthermore, plasminogen stimulated CREB and NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, and this activation was also reduced by trolox and NAC. These results suggest that plasminogen activates microglia via stimulation of ROS production.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine, which is the first and rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis. In the present study, we report that treatment with the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, trichostatin A (TSA) or sodium butyrate, prominently induces the TH promoter activity in both non-neuronal and neuronal cell lines. By analyzing a series of deletional reporter constructs, we also determined that the proximal 151bp region of the TH promoter is largely responsible for TSA-mediated activation. Finally, we found that mutation of the Sp1 or CRE site, residing in the proximal area, abolishes TSA-mediated activation, strongly suggesting that the Sp1 and CRE sites may mediate TH promoter activation by inhibition of HDAC. In summary, our results provide a novel regulatory frame in which modulation of chromatin structure by histone deacetylase may contribute to transcriptional regulation of the TH via the Sp1 and/or CRE site.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) are related serine/threonine kinases that have been well studied for their role in tau hyperphosphorylation, however, little is known about their significance in APP processing. Here we report that GSK3 and CDK5 are involved in APP processing in a divergent manner. Specific inhibition of cellular GSK3 by lithium or GSK3beta antisense elicits a reduction in Abeta. Conversely, negative modulation of cellular CDK5 activity by CDK5 inhibitor, roscovitine, or CDK5 antisense stimulates Abeta production. Neither GSK3 nor CDK5 inhibition by these means significantly affected cellular APP levels or APP maturation. Moreover, oral administration of lithium significantly reduces Abeta production whereas direct ICV administration of roscovitine augmented Abeta production in the brains of PDAPP (APP(V717F)) mice. Our data support a function for both GSK3 and CDK5 in APP processing, further implicating these two kinases in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Activity of heterologously expressed NKCC1 was analyzed under basal and activated conditions in the presence and absence of binding of Ste20-related proline-alanine-rich kinase (SPAK). Mutant NKCC1 that lacks the ability to bind to this kinase showed K+ transport function identical to wild-type NKCC1. Thus, preventing the binding of the kinase to the cotransporter does not affect cotransporter function. In contrast, several experiments suggest a possible role for SPAK as a scaffolding protein. First, Western blot analysis revealed the presence, and in some tissues abundance, of truncated forms of SPAK and OSR1 in which the kinase domains are affected and thus lack kinase activity. Second, a yeast two-hybrid screen of proteins that interact with the regulatory (binding) domain of SPAK identified several proteins all involved in cellular stress pathways. Third, p38, one of the three major MAPKs, can be coimmunoprecipitated with SPAK and with NKCC1 in an activity-dependent manner. The amount of p38 coimmunoprecipitated with the kinase and the cotransporter significantly decreases upon cellular stress, whereas the interaction of the kinase with NKCC1 remains unchanged. These findings suggest that cation-chloride cotransporters might act as &quot;sensors&quot; for cellular stress, and SPAK, by interacting with the cotransporter, serves as an intermediate in the response to cellular stress.
Substance P (SP) is released peripherally from nociceptive terminals and has a direct effect on vascular cells. The present study suggests an indirect effect as well. In normal rats and rats with one hindpaw inflamed for 48 h following intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant, neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors were immunohistochemically localized on postganglionic sympathetic axons. The percentage of NK1-labeled axons in the gray rami from normal rats was 35.0+/-5.0; in inflamed rats this percentage increased significantly to 49.1+/-2.3. These data suggest a sensory-sympathetic reflex, where SP activates these peripheral sympathetic receptors with subsequent release of noradrenaline and other compounds to affect vascular cells indirectly. This control is enhanced after inflammation.
We investigated whether selective stimulation of neurons of the sympathoinhibitory ventral periaqueductal gray (VPAG), or sympathoexcitatory dorsal periaqueductal gray (DPAG), differentially modulates CBF and EEG and exerts neuroprotection. Electrical stimulation of either regions of PAG comparably elevated AP and CBF, whereas chemical stimulation with the D,L-homocysteine produced either sympathoinhibition accompanied by decrease in CBF from ventral region or sympathoexcitation accompanied by increase in CBF from dorsal region in nonspinalized rats. The CBF effects evoked from DPAG and VPAG by chemical stimulation were preserved in spinalized rats supporting that the evoked CBF responses result directly from stimulation and are not secondary to AP changes. Stimulation of either region, whether chemical or electrical, synchronized the EEG. To explore whether PAG stimulation might protect the brain against ischemic injury, in other rats the VPAG or DPAG were stimulated for 1 h (50 Hz, 1 s on/1 s off, 75-100 microA) and the middle cerebral artery occluded 72 h later. Stimulation of the DPAG, but not VPAG, significantly reduced infarction volumes relative to sham-stimulated controls as determined 24 h after occlusion. Elevations of AP and CBF did not differ between groups. We conclude: (a). intrinsic neurons of D- and VPAG differentially regulate CBF; (b). neurons of DPAG are neuroprotective independently of changes in CBF and/or AP. The DPAG effect on infarct volume may be related to the central neuroprotective pathway evoked by stimulation of the cerebellar FN.
The authors report the clinical characteristics of a Sephardic Jewish kindred with autosomal recessive DYT2-like primary torsion dystonia. Three siblings had childhood onset of limb dystonia, and slow progression to generalized dystonia with predominant cranio-cervical involvement. There were no other abnormal signs, apart from dystonia and jerky tremor over a 12-year follow-up. All investigations for other causes of primary and secondary dystonia had normal results.


Mutations in ALS2, carrying three putative guanine exchange factor (GEF) domains, are causative for a juvenile, autosomal recessive form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), primary lateral sclerosis, and infantile-ascending hereditary spastic paralysis. Endogenous ALS2 is shown here to be enriched in nervous tissue and to be peripherally bound to the cytoplasmic face of endosomal membranes, an association that requires the amino-terminal &quot;RCC1 (regulator of chromatin condensation)-like&quot; GEF domain. Disease-causing mutants and a naturally truncated isoform of ALS2 are shown to be rapidly degraded when expressed in cultured human cells, including lymphocytes derived from patients with ALS2 mutations. Thus, mutations in the ALS2 gene linked to early-onset motor neuron disease uniformly produce loss of activity through decreased protein stability of this endosomal GEF.
Cell surface receptor membrane localization is strongly dependent on protein-protein interactions often involving regulation by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of the intracellular domains of membrane proteins. The present study was carried out to identify metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 3 regulatory binding proteins. Using the yeast two-hybrid technique, we found that the 50-aa C-terminal cytoplasmic tail of mGluR3 interacts specifically with protein phosphatase 2Calpha (PP2Calpha). This interaction was confirmed by GST pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation assays. mGluR3 interacts with PP2Calpha, beta, gamma, and delta isoforms; however, among the mGluR family only mGluR3 interacted with PP2C. The minimal interacting domain of mGluR3 comprised residues 836-855. Alignment between mGluR3 and mGluR2, a closely related group II receptor, indicated that this domain is not conserved between the two receptors. The mGluR3 cytoplasmic C-terminal tail contains one phosphorylation site for protein kinase A (Ser-845), but the phosphatase that dephosphorylates this site has not been previously identified. We find that PP2C, but not PP1, PP2A, or PP2B, dephosphorylates the mGluR3 cytoplasmic tail in vitro. The dephosphorylated form of the mGluR3 cytoplasmic tail, but not the equivalent region of mGluR2, inhibited PP2C assayed by using [32P]casein as a substrate. However, phosphorylation of the mGluR3 cytoplasmic tail at Ser-845 inhibits the interaction with PP2C. These results indicate distinct functions for mGluR2 and mGluR3 and suggest a dynamic regulation of mGluR3 by PP2C.
Recent evidence indicates that cGMP plays an important role in neural development and neurotransmission. Since cGMP levels depend critically on the activities of phosphodiesterase (PDE) enzymes, mRNA expression patterns were examined for several key cGMP-hydrolyzing PDEs (type 2 [PDE2], 5 [PDE5], and 9 [PDE9]) in rat brain at defined developmental stages. Riboprobes were used for nonradioactive in situ hybridization on sections derived from embryonic animals at 15 days gestation (E15) and several postnatal stages (P0, P5, P10, P21) until adulthood (3 months). At all stages PDE9 mRNA was present throughout the whole central nervous system, with highest levels observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells, whereas PDE2 and PDE5 mRNA expression was more restricted. Like PDE9, PDE5 mRNA was abundant in cerebellar Purkinje cells, although it was observed only on and after postnatal day 10 in these cells. In other brain regions, PDE5 mRNA expression was minimal, detected in olfactory bulb, cortical layers, and in hippocampus. PDE2 mRNA was distributed more widely, with highest levels in medial habenula, and abundant expression in olfactory bulb, olfactory tubercle, cortex, amygdala, striatum, and hippocampus. Double immunostaining of PDE2, PDE5, or PDE9 mRNAs with the neuronal marker NeuN and the glial cell marker glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that these mRNAs were predominantly expressed in neuronal cell bodies. Our data indicate that three cGMP-hydrolyzing PDE families have distinct expression patterns, although specific cell types coexpress mRNAs for all three enzymes. Thus, it appears that differential expression of PDE isoforms may provide a mechanism to match cGMP hydrolysis to the functional demands of individual brain regions.
Male zebra finches develop a robust neural song system that supports singing, but females have a minimal song circuit and do not sing. Estrogens masculinize the song circuit and are especially potent during the first 3 weeks of posthatch development. The gonads do not seem to supply the masculinizing steroids, implying that another tissue synthesizes steroids. Evidence suggests that the brain is capable of synthesizing neurosteroids, which in developing zebra finches may be required for song system differentiation. Aromatase, the enzyme that synthesizes estrogen from androgen, is equally abundant in male and female brains. To investigate further the potential for neurosteroidogenesis in the zebra finch brain, we cloned and examined the expression of 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase (CYP17), the enzyme that synthesizes the androgenic substrate for aromatase. We used Northern blots, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and in situ hybridization to show that CYP17 is transcribed in developing and adult brains. CYP17 is transcribed at developmental stages and in brain areas potentially important to aspects of the developing song system, although no sex difference was detected in mRNA levels. Our results support the hypothesis that neurosteroids may act to influence brain organization and function in the zebra finch.
Anterior parietal somatosensory areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2 generally contain cells with receptive fields that are on the contralateral body. However, inputs from midline structures such as the mouth must be uniquely integrated across the midline. This hypothesis is supported by studies of these fields from nonhuman primates that demonstrate ipsilateral representations of oral structures. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to examine the cortical representations of the lips and tongue in humans and to examine the time course of interaction of bilateral inputs from these structures. Ipsilateral activation was observed in response to tactile stimulation of the upper lip in 69% of cases, the lower lip in 85% of cases, and the tongue in 88% of cases. In the contralateral hemisphere, the map of oral structures tended to be in agreement with that from nonhuman primates, although variation was large and source locations were not statistically significantly different from each other. There were no differences in latency of activation for ipsi-vs. contralateral responses (about 30 msec), and cortical sources from ipsi-and contralateral stimulation tended to be located together. Differential activation for bilateral vs. unilateral stimulation occurred later than activation in S1, around 110 msec, and was localized to the upper bank of the Sylvian sulcus. Our findings indicate that, unlike nonhuman primates, humans have an ipsilateral representation of the lips in 3b/1, possibly related to the precise manipulation necessary for the articulation of speech. The distinct pattern of differential activation for uni-vs. bilateral stimulation suggests a unique neural mechanism of integration across the midline for inputs from the mouth.
High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), an abundant, highly conserved cellular protein, is widely known as a nuclear DNA-binding protein. HMGB1 has been recently implicated as a proinflammatory cytokine because of its role as a late mediator of endotoxin lethality and ability to stimulate release of proinflammatory cytokines from monocytes. Production of central cytokines is a critical step in the pathway by which endotoxin and peripheral proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-1beta (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), produce sickness behaviors and fever. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of HMGB1 has been shown to increase TNF expression in mouse brain and induce aphagia and taste aversion. Here we show that ICV injections of HMGB1 induce fever and hypothalamic IL-1 in rats. Furthermore, we show that intrathecal administration of HMGB1 produces mechanical allodynia (lowering of the response threshold to calibrated stimuli). Finally, while endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) administration elevates IL-1 and TNF mRNA in various brain regions, HMGB1 mRNA is unchanged. It remains possible that HMGB1 protein is released in brain in response to LPS. Nonetheless, these data suggest that HMGB1 may play a role as an endogenous pyrogen and support the concept that HMGB1 has proinflammatory characteristics within the central nervous system.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a member of the TNF/nerve growth factor superfamily that, apart from inducing cell death in susceptible cells, displays immunoregulatory functions influencing, for instance, T cell proliferation. It can be found in two forms: membrane-bound and soluble protein. The regulation of these is still not fully understood. In this study, we have analyzed the regulation of TRAIL surface expression and secretion in human T cells, B cells, and monocytes in response to specific stimuli. T cells, B cells, and monocytes were cultured in the presence of phytohemagglutinin (PHA)+interleukin (IL-2), anti-CD40+IL-4, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), respectively. In particular, not only PHA+IL-2 but also LPS were able to induce secretion of soluble TRAIL, but did not enhance the expression of surface-bound TRAIL. Simultaneously, we investigated the effect of the pleiotropic stimulus interferon (IFN)-beta, known to target all leukocyte subsets, on TRAIL. Predominantly, monocytes were affected by IFN-beta, causing both release of soluble TRAIL and upregulation of the surface-bound form. IFN-beta, however, did not cause any upregulation of TRAIL in T cells. Our data serve as a basis to better understand the complex regulation of TRAIL in human peripheral immune cells and might help to clarify the role of the TRAIL system in immunopathology.
This study utilized anatomical and behavioral-pharmacological methods to determine the role of NK(1)-Substance P receptors in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) in defensive rage behavior in cats. For behavioral pharmacological experiments, monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted in the medial hypothalamus for elicitation of defensive rage behavior and cannula-electrodes were implanted in the PAG for microinjections of receptor compounds. Microinjections of the NMDA antagonist, AP-7 (2 nmol), into the dorsal PAG blocked defensive rage elicited by medial hypothalamic stimulation, thus establishing the PAG as a synaptic region that receives hypothalamic inputs linked to defensive rage behavior. Microinjections of the NK(1) agonist, GR73632, into the same injection sites facilitated defensive rage in a dose-dependent manner, and also induced spontaneous hissing in five cats. The effects of GR73632 were reduced by pretreatment of the PAG with the NK(1) antagonist, GR82334 (16 nmol), microinjected into the same sites. Microinjections of GR73632 (8 nmol) into the PAG also suppressed predatory attack elicited by stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. Immunohistochemical methods utilized to detect Substance P and Fos immunoreactivity revealed that neurons in the PAG activated after defensive rage-inducing medial hypothalamic stimulation lie in the same region as Substance-P-immunoreactive processes. Fos immunoreactivity was highest in the dorsomedial aspect of the rostral PAG after medial hypothalamic stimulation. Cats that were unstimulated or that exhibited predatory attack after lateral hypothalamic stimulation had low c-fos expression levels in the PAG. Substance P immunoreactivity was high throughout the dorsal PAG. The results indicate that NK(1) receptors in the PAG potentiate defensive rage and suppress predatory aggression in the cat.
Huntington's disease (HD) is associated with decreased activity of mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase (complex II). De novo biosynthesis of uridine nucleotides is directly coupled to the respiratory chain. Cells with impaired mitochondrial function become uridine auxotrophs and can be maintained with high micromolar concentration of uridine and pyruvate. The therapeutic role of pyrimidines and possible changes in uridine content has not been assessed in neurological diseases involving mitochondrial dysfunction in vivo. Oral administration of PN401 delivers much higher levels of uridine to the circulation than oral administration of uridine itself. Administration of complex II inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) induced neuronal damage in the striatum, substantia nigra and/or thalamus in 80% of the mice and led to 38% mortality. Treatment with PN401 almost completely prevented the neuronal damage due to 3NP and completely prevented mortality. In two subsequent experiments, 3NP-induced weight loss, mortality and behavioral impairment in rotarod performance and spontaneous motor activity were attenuated by treatment with oral PN401. 3NP did not reduce forebrain total uridine nucleotides (TUN), though higher doses of PN401 associated with optimal neuroprotection did elevate TUN to supranormal levels. Thus, oral PN401 treatment has neuroprotective effects in a HD model of mitochondrial dysfunction and the mechanism is more complex than correction of a pyrimidine deficit.
During early postnatal development, motoneurons innervating rat hindlimb muscles die following injury to the sciatic nerve. However, prematurely enhancing transmitter release from nerve terminals of neonatal rats renders motoneurons less vulnerable to nerve injury, whereas reducing transmitter release increases their susceptibility to injury. Thus, alterations in transmitter release may have an influence on motoneuron phenotype. Here we investigated the relationship between the vulnerability of motoneurons to injury, and the expression of proteins associated with axonal growth and neuromuscular transmission. We examined the effect of agents that affect transmitter release from nerve terminals and that have been shown to influence the expression of transmitter and growth related proteins in developing motoneurons in response to nerve injury. In newborn rats, implants containing either 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), to increase transmitter release, or magnesium sulphate (MgSO4), to decrease release, were applied to the soleus muscle in one hindlimb. The effect of these treatments on the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in nerve terminals in the soleus muscle was measured using a radiochemical assay. Levels of GAP-43 in sciatic nerve were also assessed, by Western blot analysis. The results showed that during normal development, there was a gradual increase in ChAT activity during the second week of postnatal development, whereas GAP-43 levels declined sharply between postnatal days 12-14. However, following 4-AP treatment, there was a dramatic increase in ChAT activity in nerve terminals contacting the treated soleus muscles and the levels of GAP-43 in the sciatic nerve declined at an earlier age than normal. Conversely, following treatment with MgSO4 the normal increase in ChAT activity that occurs during the second postnatal week was delayed, and GAP-43 levels in the sciatic nerve were maintained for significantly longer than normal. Thus, manipulating transmitter release from nerve terminals in neonatal rats alters the normal pattern of expression of transmitter and growth related proteins in developing motoneurons. This alteration in protein expression may influence both the maturation of motoneurons and their ability to withstand nerve injury.
Among the many reported effects of irradiation in cells is activation of the stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), which has been shown to result in apoptotic cell death. The trigger that leads to JNK activation has not been identified, although, in rat hippocampus at least, irradiation-induced apoptosis has been coupled with increased accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Significantly, irradiation-induced changes in hippocampus are abrogated by treatment of rats with the polyunsaturated fatty acid, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). A close coupling between ROS accumulation and concentration of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) in hippocampus has been reported, and the evidence suggests that IL-1 beta may be responsible for the enhanced ROS production. Here we set out to assess the possibility that whole body gamma-irradiation increases IL-1 beta concentration in hippocampus and to investigate the consequences of such a change. We present evidence that reveals that the irradiation-induced increase in IL-1 beta concentration in hippocampus is accompanied by increased expression of IL-1 type I receptor and IL-1 accessory protein and increased activation of IL-1 receptor-activated kinase. These changes, which were coupled with increased activation of JNK and evidence of apoptotic cell death, were absent in hippocampus of rats that received EPA treatment. Significantly, EPA treatment enhanced hippocampal IL-10 concentration that was inversely correlated with IL-1 beta concentration. The data are consistent with the idea that EPA exerts anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects in the central nervous system.
We created a molecular model of the human melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) and introduced a series of His residues into the receptor protein to form metal ion binding sites. We were able to insert micromolar affinity binding sites for zinc between transmembrane region (TM) 2 and TM3 where the metal ion alone was able to activate this peptide binding G-protein-coupled receptor. The exact conformation of the metal ion interactions allowed us to predict the orientation of the helices, and remodeling of the receptor protein indicated that Glu100 and Ile104 in TM2 and Asp122 and Ile125 in TM3 are directed toward a putative area of activation of the receptor. The molecular model suggests that a rotation of TM3 may be important for activation of the MC4R. Previous models of G-protein-coupled receptors have suggested that unlocking of a stabilizing interaction between the DRY motif, in the cytosolic part of TM3, and TM6 is important for the activation process. We suggest that this unlocking process may be facilitated through creation of a new interaction between TM3 and TM2 in the MC4R.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons and appearance of Lewy bodies, cytoplasmic inclusions that are highly enriched with ubiquitin. Synphilin-1, alpha-synuclein, and Parkin represent the major components of Lewy bodies and are involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Synphilin-1 is an alpha-synuclein-binding protein that is ubiquitinated by Parkin. Recently, a mutation in the synphilin-1 gene has been reported in patients with sporadic Parkinson's disease. Although synphilin-1 localizes close to synaptic vesicles, its function remains unknown. To investigate the proteins that interact with synphilin-1, the present study performed a yeast two-hybrid screening and identified a novel interacting protein, Siah-1 ubiquitin ligase. Synphilin-1 and Siah-1 proteins were endogenously expressed in the central nervous system and were found to coimmunoprecipitate each other in rat brain homogenate. Confocal microscopic analysis revealed colocalization of both proteins in cells. Siah-1 was found to interact with the N terminus of synphilin-1 through its substrate-binding domain and to specifically ubiquitinate synphilin-1 via its RING finger domain. Siah-1 facilitated synphilin-1 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway more efficiently than Parkin. Siah-1 was found to not facilitate ubiquitination and degradation of wild type or mutant alpha-synuclein. Synphilin-1 inhibited high K+-induced dopamine release from PC12 cells. Siah-1 was found to abrogate the inhibitory effects of synphilin-1 on dopamine release. Such findings suggest that Siah-1 might play a role in regulation of synphilin-1 function.
Parkin is a protein that when mutated leads to an inherited form of Parkinson's disease. Under normal conditions, this molecule has multiple functions in different cell types, including protein degradation and tumor suppression. To understand the relationship between parkin and circulating corticosteroid hormones, we studied the long-term depletion of corticosterone due to bilateral adrenalectomy in rats. We show that adrenalectomy deletes the expected expression of nuclear parkin in hippocampal neurons. Notably, the effect of adrenalectomy on parkin was prevented by corticosterone hormone replacement therapy. This finding suggests that adrenal hormones may be critical in sustaining parkin ubiquitinating activity in the rat hippocampus.
To understand functional roles of striatal interneurons in primate basal ganglia circuitry, we ablated interneurons expressing substance P (SP) receptors (SPR) in the putamen with SP-saporin, a SPR selective neurotoxin. The effect of SP-saporin injection into the putamen was evaluated by examining the loss of cholinergic interneurons and NADPHd-positive (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase positive) interneurons. We then analyzed regional metabolic changes using cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry. CO activity in some regions of the internal and external segments of the globus pallidus (GP) in the lesioned hemisphere was lower than that in the contralateral or surrounding GP regions. CO activity in the subthalamic nucleus, however, showed no significant change. The present findings suggest that striatopallidal projection neurons exert enhanced inhibitory influence on the GP without modulatory control by the striatal SPR-expressing interneurons.



During normal vision, the focus of gaze continually jumps from one important image feature to the next. In this issue of Neuron, Mazer and Gallant analyze neural activity in higher-level visual cortex during this kind of active visual exploration, and they demonstrate a localized enhancement of visual responses that predicts the target of the upcoming eye movement.
The 2003 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to two structural biologists, Roderick Mackinnon of Rockefeller University and Peter Agre of Johns Hopkins University, for their groundbreaking work on the structure and function of ion channels. In recognition of the outstanding impact that MacKinnon's work has had for neuroscience, Chris Miller traces MacKinnon's scientific path to the Nobel Prize.
The purpose of this study was to investigate a possible interaction between histaminergic and dopaminergic systems in learning and memory processes, in an inhibitory avoidance test in goldfish. Haloperidol, a dopaminergic antagonist, was administrated pre-training and the chlorpheniramine (CPA), a histaminergic antagonist, post-training. The inhibitory avoidance procedure was performed in 3 days, using a rectangular aquarium divided into two compartments (black and white), with a central door. On the first day, the animals were habituated for 10 min. On the second day, they were injected with 2 mg/kg of haloperidol or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 20 min before training. Then, the animals were placed in the white compartment, the central door was opened and the time spent for crossing between compartments was recorded. After the fish crossed the line between compartments a 45 g weight was dropped. This procedure was done five times in a row. Immediately after the fifth trial, the fish were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with either saline or CPA (0.4, 1.0, 4.0, 8.0 or 16 mg/kg). On the next day (test) the time to cross was recorded again. On the training trials, the animals treated with DMSO or haloperidol presented a significant increase in the latencies indicating learning (Friedman P = 0.0062 and 0.0001). The latencies in the test day showed that groups pre-treated with haloperidol and treated with CPA presented a dose-dependent increase in latencies, and those treated with the 16 mg/kg CPA group showed a significant increase (ANOVA two-way followed by Student-Newman-Keuls (SNK) P &lt; 0.01). Thus, it can be suggested that the facilitatory action occurs due to an additive interaction between both systems, in a dose-dependent way.
The behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress that are collectively called learned helplessness (LH) are mediated in part by increased levels of serotonin (5-HT) activity in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and it's projection regions. Recently, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) within the DRN has been implicated in the development of LH because intra-DRN CRH produces LH at very high doses, and because intra-DRN antagonists for the CRH 2 receptor (CRHR2) block LH. Since these behavioral effects are mediated by both 5-HT excitation and CRHR2 activation, we have suggested that CRHR2 mediates excitation of DRN 5-HT neurons. However, CRH has been shown to inhibit DRN 5-HT neurons at low doses that are expected to bind to CRHR1. Since CRHR1 antagonists were ineffective in blocking LH, we have further suggested that CRHR1 might mediate the inhibition of DRN 5-HT neurons. In support of this hypothesis, although low doses of CRH that preferentially bind CRHR1 inhibit DRN 5-HT activity, higher doses at which CRH would be expected to bind both receptor subtypes no longer inhibit DRN 5-HT. In addition, high doses of CRH are required to produce LH, which is known to be mediated by 5-HT excitation, and the CRHR2 agonist urocortin II (UCN II) produces LH at much lower doses than does CRH. The present studies show that intra-DRN CRH microinjection blocks the behavioral effects produced by DRN UCN II, but only at doses that have been shown to inhibit DRN 5-HT activity. Indeed, a higher dose of CRH that has been shown to no longer inhibit DRN 5-HT activity did not affect the behavioral consequences of DRN UCN II. In a separate experiment, the effective dose of CRH blocked the usual behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress.
Motor and cognitive phenotypes were assessed in mice deficient for the close homologue of the L1 adhesion molecule (CHL1). The CHL1-deficient mice displayed signs of decreased stress and a modification of exploratory behaviour. The mice also showed motor impairments on the Rotarod, but they were able to move as fast as controls in the alleys of a T-maze. The observed changes were assumed to be related to a deficit in attention. In addition, gender differences in CHL1 deficits were found and are discussed in view of a possible interaction with other cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) during development. The results are discussed in relation with motor and cognitive deficits in the human, caused by mutations of the distal part of the chromosome 3 which contains the CHL1 orthologue.
A large number of studies have investigated the effects of chronic ethanol administration (CEA) on performance in different types of learning and memory tasks in adult rodents. As a general rule, CEA has been reported to impair performance, although this depends both on the condition of administration (e.g. duration, presence or not of a withdrawn period) and on task demands (e.g. spatial versus non-spatial). Indeed, either no impairment or even a facilitation of performance have been reported following CEA. However, no study has directly addressed the issue as to whether the effect of CEA depends on the age of subjects. In this study, C57Bl/6 mice of two age ranges (i.e. 2-3- and 16-18-month-old) were given either a solution of ethanol (12% v/v) as their only source of fluid for 5 months (experimental groups) or were pair-fed with an isocaloric solution of dextri-maltose (control groups). Then, they were submitted to a place discrimination task in an 8-arm radial maze. Additionally, mice were tested for long-term retention following a 21-day interval. Confirming our previous findings, the results showed that, with respect to adults (7-8-month-old at the time of testing), aged mice (21-23-month-old) of the control group displayed impaired relational memory but not procedural memory performance. Further they exhibited a higher level of forgetting than adults over the 21-day interval. In the same paradigm, CEA resulted in an overall attenuation of both type of deficit in aged subjects without altering their procedural memory. Furthermore these ethanol-consuming aged mice displayed significantly less levels of forgetting than their age-matched controls. Conversely, in the adult group, CEA resulted in an overall, although, somewhat less selective impairment of relational memory with respect to procedural memory but had no effect on long-term forgetting. While confirming the deleterious effect of CEA on learning and memory processes in adults, our present findings provide evidence that CEA can selectively ameliorate certain cognitive deficits normally associated with ageing.
The number and shape of dendritic spines are influenced by activity and regulated by molecules that organize the actin cytoskeleton of spines. Cortactin is an F-actin binding protein and activator of the Arp2/3 actin nucleation machinery that also interacts with the postsynaptic density (PSD) protein Shank. Cortactin is concentrated in dendritic spines of cultured hippocampal neurons, and the N-terminal half of the protein containing the Arp2/3 and F-actin binding domains is necessary and sufficient for spine targeting. Knockdown of cortactin protein by short-interfering RNA (siRNA) results in depletion of dendritic spines in hippocampal neurons, whereas overexpression of cortactin causes elongation of spines. In response to synaptic stimulation and NMDA receptor activation, cortactin redistributes rapidly from spines to dendritic shaft, correlating with remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton, implicating cortactin in the activity-dependent regulation of spine morphogenesis.
Neurogenesis occurs in restricted regions in the adult mammalian brain, among which the neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus plays the crucial role in learning and memory. To date, little is known about neurogenic cues, which result in the neuronal fate adoption of neural stem cells residing in neurogenic regions, especially neurogenic cues in adult hippocampal neurogenesis. In the present study, we show that hippocampal astrocytes and also dentate granule cells adjacent to neural stem cells secrete a newly cloned novel secretory factor, Neurogenesin-1. This protein contains three cysteine-rich domains and a unique sequence and contributes to neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells in the adult brain by preventing the adoption of a glial fate. Furthermore, the neurogenic activity detected in the hippocampal culture medium was markedly suppressed by the administration of an anti-Neurogenesin-1 antibody. These findings suggest endogenous mechanisms that induce adult hippocampal neurogenesis and propose an innovative treatment for the neurodegenerative diseases that cause loss of hippocampal neurons.
Changes in the expression of subunits of the GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptor are implicated in the development of ethanol tolerance and dependence as well as in the central hyperexcitability associated with ethanol withdrawal. The impact of such changes on GABA(A) receptor function and pharmacological sensitivity was investigated with cultured rat hippocampal neurons exposed to ethanol for 5 d and then subjected to ethanol withdrawal. Both ethanol treatment and withdrawal were associated with a marked decrease in the maximal density of GABA-evoked Cl- currents, whereas the potency of GABA was unaffected. Ethanol exposure also reduced the modulatory efficacy of the benzodiazepine receptor agonists lorazepam, zolpidem, and zaleplon as well as that of the inverse agonists Ro 15-4513 and FG 7142, effects that were associated with a reduced abundance of mRNAs encoding the receptor subunits alpha1, alpha3, gamma2L, and gamma2S. Ethanol withdrawal restored the efficacy of lorazepam, but not that of low concentrations of zolpidem or zaleplon, to control values. Flumazenil, which was ineffective in control neurons, and Ro 15-4513 each potentiated the GABA response after ethanol withdrawal. These effects of withdrawal were accompanied by upregulation of the alpha2, alpha3, and alpha4 subunit mRNAs as well as of the alpha4 protein. Diazepam or gamma-hydroxybutyrate, but not baclofen, prevented the changes in both GABA(A) receptor pharmacology and subunit mRNA levels induced by ethanol withdrawal. Changes in GABA(A) receptor gene expression induced by prolonged exposure to and withdrawal of ethanol are thus associated with altered GABA(A) receptor function and pharmacological sensitivity.
We studied the effects of phosphorylation by protein kinase A (PKA) on GABA(A) receptors (alpha1beta1gamma2L andalpha1beta3gamma2L) transiently expressed in HEK 293T cells. Under conditions favorable for PKA activation, currents obtained using whole-cell patch clamp of lifted cells displayed increased rate and extent of the fast phases of desensitization, decreased rate of current deactivation after GABA removal, and prolongation of brief IPSC-like currents. Mutation of serine residues (beta1 S409, beta3 S407, beta3 S408) revealed that only beta1 S409 and beta3 S408 were critical for the modulatory effect of PKA on GABA(A) receptor currents. Additionally, repeated pulse inhibition was increased in receptors after mutation of the critical serine to glutamate and decreased when the serine was mutated to alanine. These data demonstrate that PKA phosphorylation modulated GABA(A) receptor currents by increasing fast phases of macroscopic desensitization and suggest a role for PKA in regulating GABAergic IPSC duration.
Occulocutaneous albinism is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme tyrosinase. Individuals with this disorder are predisposed to visual system deficits. We determined the critical period during development when tyrosinase expression is essential for the appropriate pathfinding of ganglion cell axons from the retina to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. We used a line of mice with a Tyrosinase transgene, the expression of which is regulatable with the lac operator-repressor system, to restrict tyrosinase activity to discrete periods of embryogenesis. When tyrosinase was expressed throughout the period of neuroblast divisions that produce the ipsilaterally projecting ganglion cells, axonal projections innervated the same volume of the ipsilateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus as in normal mice. If tyrosinase expression ceased before the end of neuroblast divisions, or was not initiated until after they had begun, the degree of ipsilateral innervation was smaller, as in albino mice. Tyrosinase expression was not required during the entire period of pathfinding itself or during final maturation of the retinogeniculate pathway. Thus, tyrosinase appears to set up a signal early in visual system development that determines the pathway taken later by ganglion cell axons.
In focal cerebral ischemia, peri-infarct depolarizations (PIDs) cause an expansion of core-infarcted tissue into adjacent penumbral regions of reversible injury and have been shown to occur through 6 hr after injury. However, infarct maturation proceeds through 24 hr. Therefore, we studied PID occurrence through 72 hr after both transient and permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) via continuous DC recordings in nonanesthetized rats. PIDs occurred an average 13 times before reperfusion at 2 hr and then ceased for an average approximately 8 hr. After this quiescent period, PID activity re-emerged in a secondary phase, which reached peak incidence at 13 hr and consisted of a mean 52 PIDs over 2-24 hr. This phase corresponded to the period of infarct maturation; rates of infarct growth through 24 hr coincided with changes in PID frequency and peaked at 13 hr. In permanent MCAo, PIDs also occurred in a biphasic pattern with a mean of 78 events over 2-24 hr. Parameters of secondary phase PID incidence correlated with infarct volumes in transient and permanent ischemia models. The role of secondary phase PIDs in infarct development was further investigated in transient MCAo by treating rats with a high-affinity NMDA receptor antagonist at 8 hr after injury, which reduced post-treatment PID incidence by 57% and provided 37% neuroprotection. Topographic mapping with multielectrode recordings revealed multiple sources of PID initiation and patterns of propagation. These results suggest that PIDs contribute to the recruitment of penumbral tissue into the infarct core even after the restoration of blood flow and throughout the period of infarct maturation.
We have investigated possible roles of the Eph family receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligand ephrins in the developing primary olfactory nerve pathway in the moth Manduca sexta. The Manduca homologs of the Eph receptor (MsEph) and ephrin ligand (MsEphrin) are most closely related to Drosophila Eph and ephrin, respectively. In situ labeling with Fc-fusion probes, in which IgG Fc was linked to the extracellular domain of MsEph (Eph-Fc) or MsEphrin (ephrin-Fc), reveals that both Eph receptors and ephrins are expressed on axons of olfactory receptor cells (ORCs) during their ingrowth to the primary center, the antennal lobe (AL). Interestingly, Eph receptors and ephrins are differentially distributed among identifiable glomeruli such that glomeruli with high receptor staining show little or no ligand staining, and vice versa, suggesting a complementary Eph-ephrin expression by subsets of ORC axons innervating a particular set of glomeruli. In contrast, neither Eph receptors nor ephrins are detectable in intrinsic components of the AL. In vitro, ephrin-Fc and Eph-Fc, when present homogeneously in the substratum, inhibit neurite outgrowth from olfactory epithelial explants. Moreover, in patterned substratum, neurites growing on the standard substratum turn or stop after encountering the test substratum containing ephrin-Fc. These in vitro observations indicate that MsEphrin can act as an inhibitor/repulsive cue for ORC axons. Based on results from in situ and in vitro experiments, we hypothesize that Eph receptors and ephrins mediate axon sorting and fasciculation through repulsive axon-axon interactions.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a frequent neurological emergency associated with a significant risk of morbidity in survivors. Impairment of hippocampal-specific memory is a common and serious deficit occurring in many of the survivors. However, the pathophysiological basis of cognitive deficits after SE is not clear. To directly address the cellular concomitants of spatial memory impairment, we recorded the activity of place cells from CA1 in freely moving rats subjected to SE during early development and compared this activity to that in control rats. Place cells discharge rapidly only when the rat's head is in a cell-specific part of the environment called the &quot;firing field.&quot; This firing field remains stable over time. Normal place cell function seems to be essential for stable spatial memory for the environment. We, therefore, compared place cell firing patterns with visual-spatial memory in the water maze in SE and control rats. Compared with controls, place cells from the SE rats were less precise and less stable. Concordantly, the water maze performance was also impaired. There was a close relationship between precision and stability of place cells and water maze performance. In contrast, a single, acute, chemically induced seizure produced cessation of place cell activity and spatial memory impairment in water maze performance that reversed within 24 hr. These results strongly bolster the idea that there is a relationship between abnormal place cells and spatial memory. Our findings also suggest that the defects in place cell and spatial memory after SE and acute chemically induced seizures result from different processes.


In the postgenomic era, integrating data obtained from array technologies (e.g., oligonucleotide microarrays) with published information on eukaryotic genomes is beginning to yield biomarkers and therapeutic targets that are key for the diagnosis and treatment of disease. Nevertheless, identifying and validating these drug targets has not been a trivial task. Although a plethora of bioinformatics tools and databases are available, major bottlenecks for this approach reside in the interpretation of vast amounts of data, its integration into biologically representative models, and ultimately the identification of pathophysiologically and therapeutically useful information. In the field of neuroscience, accomplishing these goals has been particularly challenging because of the complex nature of nerve tissue, the relatively small adaptive nature of induced-gene expression changes, as well as the polygenic etiology of most neuropsychiatric diseases. This report combines published data sets from multiple transcript profiling studies that used GeneChip microarrays to illustrate a postanalysis approach for the interpretation of data from neuroscience microarray studies. By defining common gene expression patterns triggered by diverse events (administration of psychoactive drugs and trauma) in different nerve tissues (telencephalic brain areas and spinal cord), we broaden the conclusions derived from each of the original studies. In addition, the evaluation of the identified overlapping gene lists provides a foundation for generating hypotheses relating alterations in specific sets of genes to common physiological processes. Our approach demonstrates the significance of interpreting transcript profiling data within the context of common pathways and mechanisms rather than specific to a given tissue or stimulus. We also highlight the use of gene expression patterns in predictive biology (e.g., in toxicogenomics) as well as the utility of combining data derived from multiple microarray studies that examine diverse biological events for a broader interpretation of data from a particular microarray study.
Respiratory neuronal networks in vertebrates appear to be able to generate a variety of rhythmic patterns in vivo, leading to the biological diversity of eupneic patterns as well as to life-threatening dyspneic patterns. Eupnea is best viewed as the collection of respiratory strategies preventing potential dyspneas, the major (and perhaps the only) criterion for a definition being that eupnea allows survival. Specific criteria can then be derived from the physiological identification of neurobiological mechanisms underlying identified dyspneic patterns, by exaggerating (pro-dyspneic mechanisms) or suppressing them (anti-dyspneic mechanisms). Because eupnea is vital, and one of the major targets of evolutionary pressure, identification of dyspnea-related neuronal systems seems to be important to understand the normal biological organization of the respiratory neuronal system.


Among injection drug users, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1 infection may be associated with an increased risk of nervous system disease. For HIV-infected drug users with vitamin A deficiency, the overall risk of HIV-related morbidity and mortality may also be higher. In previous studies, levels of retinol, retinol-binding protein, and transthyretin in samples from such individuals were examined and found to be lower than such levels in seronegative control subjects. Also, in studies using an activated mononuclear cell line, all-trans retinoic acid and 9-cis retinoic acid suppressed production of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma. However, simultaneous exposure of the cells to morphine at a concentration similar to that to which drug users are exposed resulted in increased production of these cytokines. Therefore, morphine may alter the immunomodulatory effects of retinoids, thereby potentially affecting the clinical outcome of studies involving retinoid administration to HIV-infected drug users and increasing the risk for the development of HIV-related complications, including neurological disease.
The identification of the genes regulating neural progenitor cell (NPC) functions is of great importance to developmental neuroscience and neural repair. Previously, we combined genetic subtraction and microarray analysis to identify genes enriched in neural progenitor cultures. Here, we apply a strategy to further stratify the neural progenitor genes. In situ hybridization demonstrates expression in the central nervous system germinal zones of 54 clones so identified, making them highly relevant for study in brain and neural progenitor development. Using microarray analysis we find 73 genes enriched in three neural stem cell (NSC)-containing populations generated under different conditions. We use the custom microarray to identify 38 &quot;stemness&quot; genes, with enriched expression in the three NSC conditions and present in both embryonic stem cells and hematopoietic stem cells. However, comparison of expression profiles from these stem cell populations indicates that while there is shared gene expression, the amount of genetic overlap is no more than what would be expected by chance, indicating that different stem cells have largely different gene expression patterns. Taken together, these studies identify many genes not previously associated with neural progenitor cell biology and also provide a rational scheme for stratification of microarray data for functional analysis.
The aim of this study was to characterise the expression of the melanocortin system in the normal and injured rat visual system. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry, we detected melanocortin MC(3), MC(4) and MC(5) receptors and proopiomelanocortin in adult retina and superior colliculus. Melanocortin MC(4) receptor mRNA was the most abundant receptor. Melanocortin MC(3), MC(4) and MC(5) receptors were localised to the ganglion cell and inner nuclear layers and the melanocortin MC(3) and MC(4) receptors were localised to retinal ganglion cells. Transection of the optic nerve leads to ganglion cell death and both melanocortin receptor and proopiomelanocortin expression decreased in superior colliculus after transection whereas the expression was unchanged or even increased in the retina. alpha-Melanocyte-stimulating hormone elicited neurite outgrowth from embryonic retinal explants. Together, these data implicate a role for the melanocortin system in the adult rat retina and that melanocortins can stimulate neurite growth from retinal neurons.
Species differences have been described previously for histamine H(3) receptor pharmacology. Rat selective histamine H(3) receptor ligands such as ciproxifan and A-304121 (2-amino-1-[4-[3-(4-cyclopropanecarbonyl-phenoxy)-propyl]-piperazin-1-yl]-propan-1-one) show over 100-fold selectivity for the rat receptor compared to the human receptor. To date, however, the pharmacology of the cloned monkey histamine H(3) receptor has not been examined. In this study, we cloned the monkey histamine H(3) receptor gene (H(3)R) and evaluated the receptor pharmacology in binding and functional assays. The monkey histamine H(3) receptor is highly homologous to the human receptor with 438 identities in their 445 amino acid sequences, but less homologous to the rat receptor. However, unlike the human or rat, we found no evidence for additional splicing for the monkey H(3)R. Pharmacological analysis indicated that the monkey receptor exhibited similar pharmacological profiles to those of the human receptor, providing critical information for characterizing histamine H(3) receptor ligands in monkey behavioral models.
The pathogenetic findings of rhinopathies show an increase in infiltrating cells including eosinophils. RANTES is a beta chemokine in which the cysteines are adjacent (C-C), and it attracts and activates eosinophil. We hypothesize that RANTES is locally produced within the nasal polyp microenvironment and is responsible for the inflammatory cell recruitment present in nasal polyposis. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated nasal polyps and mucosa from allergic and control, non-allergic patients for RANTES content. The relative levels of RANTES and MCP-1 protein in tissue homogenates were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technology, and quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for RANTES and MCP-1 mRNA expression were performed. The results indicate that RANTES expression and production increase in nasal mucosa (septal and turbinate portions) of allergic patients compared to the same mucosa in non-allergic patients. In allergic patients, RANTES levels of nasal polyp homogenates were nearly 12-fold higher than the RANTES levels in mucosa homogenate. In this study, we hypothesize that the particular anatomic structure and physiologic function of the turbinates are more involved in the pathogenesis of rhinitis and may undergo polypoid degeneration in allergic rhinitis than any other anatomical structure of the nose. Our data suggest that RANTES is more involved than MCP-1 in recruiting inflammatory cells in rhinological disease and may reflect the degree of local inflammation as consequence of the specific chemoattractant properties of RANTES. The level of RANTES in nasal polyps could be important in the development of the pathological state.

Area TPO in the upper bank of the superior temporal sulcus (STS) of macaque monkeys is thought to correspond to the superior temporal polysensory (STP) cortex, but has been shown to have neurochemical/connectional subdivisions. To examine directly the relationship between chemoarchitecture and cortical connections of area TPO, the upper bank of the STS was sectioned tangential to the cortical surface. Three subdivisions of area TPO (TPOr, TPOi, and TPOc) were examined with cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry and neurofilament protein (NF) immunoreactivity and architectonic patterns were compared with connections on the same or adjacent sections. Area TPOc, which may partly overlap with the location of the medial superior temporal area MST, exhibited regular patchy staining for CO in layers III/IV and a complementary pattern in the NF stain. Area TPOr, but not TPOi, also had a patchy pattern of complementary staining in CO and neurofilament similar to TPOc, although not as distinct. Tracer injections within cortex including the frontal eye fields (areas 46 and 8) labeled areas TPOc, TPOi, and TPOr. The caudal inferior parietal lobule (IPL) projected to all three areas. The projections from prearcuate and posterior parietal cortices showed both overlap and nonoverlap with each other within TPOc, TPOi, and TPOr. Projections were to all neurochemical components within the subdivisions of TPO. The findings support the parcellation of area TPO into three subdivisions and extend findings of chemoarchitectonic modules within high-order association cortices.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is the prototypical member of a growth factor family that signals via the cognate receptors ret and GDNF-receptor alpha-1. The latter receptors are expressed on a variety of neurons that project into the spinal cord, including supraspinal neurons, dorsal root ganglia, and local neurons. Although effects of GDNF on neuronal survival in the brain have previously been reported, GDNF effects on injured axons of the adult spinal cord have not been investigated. Using an ex vivo gene delivery approach that provides both trophic support and a cellular substrate for axonal growth, we implanted primary fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete GDNF into complete and partial mid-thoracic spinal cord transection sites. Compared to recipients of control grafts expressing a reporter gene, GDNF-expressing grafts promoted significant regeneration of several spinal systems, including dorsal column sensory, regionally projecting propriospinal, and local motor axons. Local GDNF expression also induced Schwann cell migration to the lesion site, leading to remyelination of regenerating axons. Thus, GDNF exerts tropic effects on adult spinal axons and Schwann cells that contribute to axon growth after injury.
During development, delta-opioid receptors (DORs) in the rat caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) appear later than mu-opioid receptors (MORs), whose developmental pattern specifically relates to synaptogenesis. We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine whether there are also age-related changes in subcellular localization of DORs in the rat CPN. Sections from postnatal day (P) 0-P30 and adult dorsomedial CPN were immunogold-silver labeled to examine the plasmalemmal and cytoplasmic distribution of these receptors. In addition, immunoperoxidase labeling was used to determine the numerical density of synapses relative to DOR-labeled profiles. Immunolabeling for DOR was undetectable at P0, light at P5, and dense from P10 onward. The labeling during P5-P10 was mainly localized in somatodendritic profiles but also was readily seen in axon terminals, most of which formed asymmetric synapses with dendrites. From P15, a few immunogold particles were seen in contact with postsynaptic densities in spines, and the proportion of these particles significantly increased in P30 and adult CPN. Other particles were localized in the cytoplasm of dendrites and terminals without significant age-related changes. Stereological analysis showed that compared with labeled dendritic shafts and spines, labeled axon terminals have a closer correlation with synapse formation. These results are in marked contrast with MORs, which show an age-related increase in association with dendritic plasma membrane and a good correlation in the developmental pattern of MOR-labeled spines with synapse formation (Wang et al. [2003] Neuroscience 118:695-708). Together, our results suggest receptor-type specific roles for endogenous opioids acting at both pre- and postsynaptic sides in the developing CPN.
Abuse of methamphetamine (METH) is a frequent comorbidity among individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1. In cell cultures and animal models, METH accelerates retroviral replication. To determine whether METH increases HIV replication in humans, we evaluated HIV loads in HIV-positive METH users and nonusers. We studied 3 groups: Tox+, active METH use and positive urine toxicology results; METH(+)Tox-, previous METH dependence/abuse and negative urine toxicology results; METH(-)Tox-, no METH dependence/abuse and negative urine toxicology results. Tox+ subjects' plasma virus loads were significantly higher than METH(+)Tox- and METH(-)Tox- subjects'; cerebrospinal fluid virus loads showed a similar but nonsignificant trend. Stratification by use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) revealed that virus loads were higher only in those Tox+ subjects who reported receiving HAART. In contrast, abstinent former METH abusers (METH(+)Tox-) receiving HAART effectively suppressed viral replication. These data suggest that abstinence programs are a key component of effective treatment of HIV in METH-abusing populations.
According to a basic formulation of the quantal model, evoked synaptic currents are made up of a linear summation of uniquantal synaptic currents, which in turn are equivalent to the spontaneous miniature synaptic currents ('minis') that often persist when evoked neurotransmitter release is blocked. Here I describe a convolution method for calculating linear summations of the 'mini' amplitude distribution, which can then be fitted to the measured amplitude distribution for evoked synaptic currents. Provided certain conditions are satisfied, this method can give information about the statistics of neurotransmitter release even when clear quantal peaks are not apparent in the evoked amplitude distribution. The method is illustrated by an experiment in which the appropriate minis are identified with the asynchronous excitatory postsynaptic currents that follow synaptic stimulation when the cell is bathed in strontium. Finally, I discuss the assumptions behind the convolution method, and the conditions under which the properties of the minis are likely to be appropriate for an analysis of this type.
Over the last five years, rapid advances have been made in our understanding of the location, function, and recently, organization of the central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion. In the mammal, the use of the neonatal rat has largely contributed to these advances. Additionally, the use of the in vitro mouse spinal cord preparation is becoming more common, catalysed in part by the potential for the use of genetic approaches to study locomotor function. Although tempting, it is necessary to resist the a priori assumption that the organization of the spinal CPG is identical in the rat and mouse. This review will describe the development of locomotor-like behaviour in the mouse from embryonic day 12 to postnatal day 14. While there are still many gaps in our knowledge, compared with the rat, the in vitro mouse appears to follow a qualitatively similar course of locomotor development. The emphasis in this review is the use or potential use of the mouse as a complement to existing data using the neonatal rat preparation.
Nerve growth factor and its receptor with tyrosine kinase activity (TrkA) have been implicated in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Entire coding regions of TrkA gene harboring exons 1 through 17 were sequenced in 114 patients with sporadic AD and 112 control subjects in a Japanese population, and six known and two novel single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified, but no mutation associated with sporadic AD was identified. Concurrently, case-control analysis of TrkA gene A1674G polymorphism in 534 patients with sporadic AD and 454 control subjects has revealed no significant differences in TrkA genotype or allele frequencies even after stratification for Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 carrier statuses. Thus, the TrkA genotype does not appear to influence the risk of developing sporadic AD in a Japanese population.
Patients suffering from sciatica may develop altered patterns of corticospinal drive to muscles of the leg. Electromyographic recordings were made bilaterally from tibialis anterior and lateral gastrocnemius muscles during transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex from nine patients with unilateral sciatica and seven healthy controls. The mean thresholds for eliciting motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and the silent period were higher in the patients than in the control subjects. In addition, there was a positive correlation between the patients' self rated score of disability (the Oswestry Disability Index) and their threshold for MEPs and the silent period. This study suggests that the chronic pain experienced by the patients leads to a reduction in corticospinal drive to the legs. These changes might help to relax muscles close to the perceived site of pain and so alleviate symptoms. Investigation of these patients following remedial treatment will allow us to establish if the changes are transient in nature.
The death of neurons after brain ischaemia may be associated with activation of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and upregulation of cyclins, reflecting aberrant entry of neurons into the cell cycle. Little has been published on the expression of cell cycle proteins after brain ischaemia in man. Well-characterized antisera were therefore used to examine the neuronal expression of CDK2, CDK4 and cyclins A, D1 and E in sections of brain from patients who had experienced cardiac arrest or focal brain infarction, and died 3.5 h to 9 days later. Scattered neurons contained elevated levels of cyclin D1, CDK2 and, to a lesser extent, CDK4, but little or no cyclin A or E. Present findings indicate that brain ischaemia induces the entry of some neurons from G0 into the G1 phase of the cell cycle, and suggest a potential therapeutic role for CDK inhibitors in ischaemic stroke.
The determination of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) is regarded as vital in monitoring patients with severe traumatic brain injury. Besides indicating the status of cerebral blood flow (CBF), it also reveals the status of intracranial pressure (ICP). The abnormal or suboptimal level of CPP is commonly correlated with high values of ICP and therefore with poor patient outcomes. Eighty-two patients were divided into three groups of patients receiving treatment based on CPP and CBF, ICP alone, and conservative methods during two different observation periods. The characteristics of these three groups were compared based on age, sex, time between injury and hospital arrival, Glasgow Coma Scale score, pupillary reaction to light, surgical intervention, and computerized tomography scanning findings according to the Marshall classification system. Only time between injury and arrival (p = 0.001) was statistically significant. There was a statistically significant difference in the proportions of good outcomes between the multimodality group compared with the group of patients that underwent a single intracranial-based monitoring method and the group that received no monitoring (p = 0.003) based on a disability rating scale after a follow up of 12 months. Death was the focus of outcome in this study in which the multimodality approach to monitoring had superior results.
Previous studies have demonstrated that schizophrenia patients score highly on self-reported measures of schizotypy such as the Kings Schizotypy Questionnaire (KSQ), but relatively little is known about the specificity of these self-reported features to schizophrenia. We aimed to explore the specificity of schizotypal features to schizophrenia by measuring their prevalence in subjects with bipolar disorder. The Kings Schizotypy Questionnaire (KSQ) was administered to participants (n=92) in a sibling-pair genetic linkage study of bipolar disorder. Scores were compared with those of participants in a similarly designed, concurrent family study of schizophrenia (n=135) and psychiatrically well controls (n=263). The bipolar group had significantly more schizotypal features than controls but significantly less than schizophrenia patients. Whether a bipolar subject had experienced positive psychosis had no effect on his/her schizotypy score. We conclude that elevated self-reported schizotypy as measured by the KSQ is not specific to schizophrenia, and may be associated with functional psychosis in general.


A large number of individuals afflicted with psychiatric disorders, particularly depression with psychotic features, do not respond to conventional drug therapy. An option for this phenomenon is to augment a standard selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor with an atypical antipsychotic agent. In this regard, fluoxetine and olanzapine have been used concomitantly for treatment-resistant depression and bipolar depression. Although highly efficacious in terms of producing superior improvement of symptoms across a variety of psychological measures, the motor patterns, endocrine profiles, and intracellular signaling pathways affected by drug augmentation have not been determined. Here we show that fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) plus olanzapine (5 mg/kg) given to rats for 7 consecutive days (i.e., subchronic treatment) alters motor activity and diminishes spontaneous behaviors as measured by spatial position and angular path analyses. In addition, the same drug combination pattern sensitizes peak adrenal corticosterone secretion without altering serum glucose levels. We also show that subchronic fluoxetine and olanzapine exposure suppresses the induction of two immediate-early gene transcription factors (e.g., pCREB and FOS) that are associated with long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy and structural modifications in the prefrontal cortex, piriform cortex, and hippocampus. These results suggest that fluoxetine plus olanzapine can interact in a fashion not predicted by the currently accepted model of fluoxetine monotherapy and provide insight into the synergistic actions of drug augmentation in patients with treatment-resistant depression.
In contrast to the classic signal transduction of D1 dopamine receptors in striatum or molecular expression systems, it has been reported that D1 receptor agonists do not stimulate adenylate cyclase in homogenates of microdissected nuclei of the amygdaloid complex. This article examines this phenomenon in detail to determine if lack of cAMP signaling in the amygdaloid complex is an experimental artifact, or an indication of a marked difference from the well-studied basal ganglia terminal fields. Thus, whereas dopamine agonists failed to increase cAMP synthesis in the amygdala, forskolin, guanine nucleotides, or Mg2+ were able to stimulate adenylate cyclase activity in the same preparations. Under several different conditions, caudate preparations responded more robustly than amygdaloid preparations, while amygdala homogenates exhibited higher basal production of cAMP. Whereas the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol was able to stimulate cAMP efflux in membranes from both the caudate and amygdala under a variety of tested conditions, neither dopamine nor fenoldopam (D1 agonist) could stimulate adenylate cyclase in the amygdala. Additionally, while manipulation of Ca2+ and calmodulin affected the differential actions of dopamine in the caudate, no change in these parameters restored sensitivity to dopamine in the amygdala. Together, these data challenge the commonly accepted notion that cAMP is a mandatory signaling pathway for D1 receptors. Because it is now proven that G protein-coupled receptors can signal promiscuously, elucidation of the non-cAMP-dependent signaling mechanisms resulting from D1 activation is clearly critical in understanding how this important receptor functions in situ.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (EC 3.4.17.21) catalyzes the hydrolysis (Km = 0.2 microM) of the neuropeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate to yield N-acetylaspartate and glutamate and also serves as a high-affinity folate hydrolase in the gut, cleaving the polyglutamate chain to permit the absorption of folate. N-acetylaspartylglutamate is an agonist at the mGluR3 metabotropic receptor and a source of extracellular glutamate through hydrolysis by glutamate carboxypeptidase II. Given the important role of glutamate in brain development and function, we were interested in the effects of a null mutation of glutamate carboxypeptidase II that would potentiate the effects of N-acetylaspartylglutamate. The PGK-Neomycin cassette was inserted to delete exons 9 and 10, which we previously demonstrated encode for the zinc ligand domain essential for enzyme activity. Successful germline transmission was obtained from chimeras derived from embryonic stem cells with the targeted mutation of glutamate carboxypeptidase II. Homozygous null mutants did not survive beyond embryonic day 8. Folate supplementation of the heterozygous mothers did not rescue the homozygous embryos. Mice heterozygous for the null mutation appeared grossly normal and expressed both mutated and wild-type mRNA but the activity of glutamate carboxypeptidase II is comparable to the wild-type mice. The results indicate that the expression of glutamate carboxypeptidase II is upregulated when one allele is inactivated and that its activity is essential for early embryogenesis.
Repeatedly delivered psychological, chemical or physical stress leads to drastic changes of physiology in various regions of body including liver. The underlying hepatic mechanisms whereby body copes with the stress conditions, however, are poorly understood. In the present study, we performed a genome-wide screen for the altered gene expression in liver of mice that were exposed to chronic restraint stress. cDNA microarray analysis followed by RT-PCR techniques led us to identify &gt;235 genes that were up- or down-regulated by &gt;1.8-fold in their expression levels. Among the wide ranges of genes identified from the screen, the elevated expression of a group of genes important for lipid metabolism and detoxification were particularly notable. The results of this study suggest that similar to the effects of genetically predisposed or externally-delivered environmental chemicals, diets, and drugs, the chronic restraint stress potently alters the gene expression profile in liver.
Most neuroprotective compounds that appear promising in the pre-clinical phase of testing are subsequently dismissed as relatively ineffective when entered into large-scale clinical trials. Many pre-clinical studies of potential neuroprotective candidates evaluate efficacy in only one or possibly two different models of ischaemia. In this study we examined the effects of 1,2-trifluoromethylphenyl imidazole (TRIM), a novel neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, in three models of cerebral ischaemia (global gerbil, global rat and focal rat). In addition, to follow the progression of the pathology, we also compared traditional histology methods with more advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as endpoint measures for neurological damage and neuroprotection. TRIM (50 mg/kg i.p.) prevented ischaemia-induced hippocampal damage following global ischaemia in gerbils when administered before or immediately post-occlusion, but failed to protect when administration was delayed until 30 min post-occlusion. Further studies indicated that the compound (administered at 50 mg/kg, i.p., immediately after occlusion) also protected in a rat four-vessel occlusion (4-VO) model using both histological and diffusion-weighted (DW) imaging techniques. In a final study, TRIM (50 mg/kg i.p. 30 min after occlusion) provided a significant reduction in infarct volume at 4 and 24 h as measured using diffusion-weighted (DW) and proton density (PD)-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This was confirmed using histological techniques. These studies confirm that nNOS inhibitors may have utility in stroke and provide evidence that combined magnetic resonance and histological methods can provide a powerful method of assessing neuronal damage in rodent models of cerebral ischaemia.
Increased expression of Bim, a pro-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, has been shown to be critical for neuronal apoptosis. To study the involvement of Bim in injury-induced cell death in retina, Bim expression was studied in normal rat retina and in retina after optic nerve transection using quantitative RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. As a complement to this, the apoptotic regulators Bax, Bcl-2, caspase-3 and phosphorylated c-jun were studied. The relative levels of Bim mRNA in retina were significantly higher 4 days after optic nerve transection and below normal levels at 14 days after transection. A parallel increase in the number of Bim-immunoreactive cells in the retinal ganglion cell layer could be seen. Bim-immunoreactivity localized to retrogradely True Blue-labeled retinal ganglion cells. The relative mRNA levels for both Bax and Bcl-2 were higher at 4 days after transection when compared to normal. Immunoreactivity for Bax, Bcl-2 as well as for caspase-3 and phosphorylated c-jun, indicative of cell death, localized to True Blue-identified retinal ganglion cells 4 days after injury. Bcl-2 immunoreactivity was also seen on other cells, most likely Mller glia cells. In addition, optic nerve transection caused an increase in Bim, Bax, and Bcl-2 mRNA levels in optic nerve and superior colliculus. Our results suggest that Bim is involved in injury-induced retinal ganglion cell death and indicate that the increase in Bim and Bax expression promote cell death of axotomized retinal ganglion cells whereas the elevation in Bcl-2 in retina may contribute to the control of the extent of apoptosis after the optic nerve transection.
The activities of many neuronal proteins are modulated by ethanol, but the fundamental mechanisms underlying behavioral effects of ethanol remain unclear. To identify mechanisms responsible for intoxication, we screened for Caenorhabditis elegans mutants with altered behavioral responses to ethanol. We found that slo-1 mutants, which were previously recognized as having slightly uncoordinated movement, are highly resistant to ethanol in two behavioral assays. Numerous loss-of-function slo-1 alleles emerged from our screens, indicating that slo-1 has a central role in ethanol responses. slo-1 encodes the BK potassium channel. Electrophysiological analysis shows that ethanol activates the channel in vivo, which would inhibit neuronal activity. Moreover, behaviors of slo-1 gain-of-function mutants resemble those of ethanol-intoxicated animals. These results demonstrate that selective activation of BK channels is responsible for acute intoxicating effects of ethanol in C. elegans. BK channel activation may explain a variety of behavioral responses to ethanol in invertebrate and vertebrate systems.

Centre-surround inhibition--the suppression of activity of neighbouring cells by a central group of neurons--is a fundamental mechanism that increases contrast in patterned sensory processing. The initial stage of neural processing in olfaction occurs in olfactory bulb glomeruli, but evidence for functional interactions between glomeruli is fragmentary. Here we show that the so-called 'short axon' cells, contrary to their name, send interglomerular axons over long distances to form excitatory synapses with inhibitory periglomerular neurons up to 20-30 glomeruli away. Interglomerular excitation of these periglomerular cells potently inhibits mitral cells and forms an on-centre, off-surround circuit. This interglomerular centre-surround inhibitory network, along with the well-established mitral-granule-mitral inhibitory circuit, forms a serial, two-stage inhibitory circuit that could enhance spatiotemporal responses to odours.
Sudden visual events capture attention involuntarily because they may signal potential threats. Some theoretical accounts consider that the biological significance of these events is established through the limbic structures. Thus, the manipulation of the limbic activity would affect attentional capture. Since these structures are directly linked to the olfactory system, we have tended to modulate their activity with olfactory stimulations. We have examined behavioral performance in a task of attentional capture by luminance under conditions of ambient odors. Our results show that attentional capture is indeed modulated by ambient odors, and that this modulation may depend on the odor's properties.
Transgenic mice overexpressing the human mutated form (G93A) of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (mSOD1) develop motor neuron degeneration resembling amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In vitro studies have shown that mSOD1-induced, reactive oxygen species-mediated apoptosis of motor neurons depends on the presence of copper and the relative absence of zinc. Oral intake of zinc sulphate induces the expression of metallothioneins, enzymes that decrease oxidative stress, and leads to higher serum zinc, and lower copper levels. We therefore tested the effect of chronic oral administration of zinc sulfate (0.075 and 0.375 g/kg) on disease onset and survival of mSOD1 transgenic mice. We observed that zinc sulfate, rather than prolonging survival, decreased survival. We conclude that zinc sulfate amplifies the mSOD1 transgenic mouse phenotype. This finding may shed more light on the role of zinc in mSOD1-mediated toxicity.
Glial calcium signals play important roles during CNS development. Calcium transients induced by ATP, acting on purinergic receptors, stimulate DNA synthesis, increase astrocytic and neural stem cell proliferation, and are prominent during the differentiation of radial glia. We have shown previously that expression of P2Y receptors in astrocytes is altered when connexin43 (Cx43) is downregulated. To evaluate the consequences of Cx43 deletion on calcium signaling during neural progenitor development, studies were performed on neurospheres derived from embryonic striatum. After adhesion, cells migrating from wild-type (WT) and Cx43-null neurospheres displayed spontaneous calcium oscillations. Such activity was blunted by apyrase, 2'-deoxy-N6-methyladenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate (MRS-2179), and suramin, suggesting that ATP released by neural cells acts on purinergic receptors to induce calcium oscillations. The amplitudes of Ca2+ transients induced by P2Y but not P2X receptor agonists were larger in WT than in Cx43-null progenitors, suggesting that these two cell populations express different P2 receptors. Suramin, a nonselective P2 receptor antagonist, and MRS-2179, a P2Y1 receptor-selective antagonist, reduced the proliferation rate and the migration of WT progenitor cells to levels similar to those of Cx43-null cells. Conversely, exogenous expression of P2Y1 receptors in Cx43-null cells restored their migration pattern to levels seen in WT progenitors. However, treatment with P2 receptor antagonists did not alter the ratio of nestin to GFAP expression in WT neural progenitors. These data show that altered autocrine-paracrine communication attributable to reduced levels of P2Y1 receptors in neural progenitor cells lacking Cx43 affects proliferation and migration but not cell differentiation during early CNS development.
Somatic and dendritic whole-cell recording was used to examine action potential (AP) initiation and propagation in layer 5 pyramidal neurons of the rat prelimbic prefrontal cortex. APs generated by somatic current injection, or via antidromic stimulation, were reliably recorded at apical dendritic locations as far as 480 microm from the soma. Although the backpropagation of single APs into the apical dendrite was robust, frequency-dependent attenuation was observed during AP trains delivered at 10-100 Hz. APs were usually initiated close to the soma (presumably in the axon); however, strong depolarizing input to the apical dendrite could generate dendritic spikes that preceded somatic APs. AP backpropagation was dependent solely on activation of dendritic voltage-gated sodium channels and did not require activation of dendritic calcium channels. Despite not playing a role in AP backpropagation, calcium-imaging experiments demonstrated that dendritic calcium channels are activated by backpropagating APs, leading to transient increases in intracellular calcium. In addition, calcium imaging revealed that AP backpropagation into the distal apical tuft was frequency dependent. Finally, we tested whether dopamine, a prominent neuromodulator associated with prefrontal activity, could alter AP initiation or backpropagation. Bath-applied dopamine (10 or 100 microm) did not effect AP backpropagation, frequency-dependent depression, local dendritic spike initiation, or AP-induced calcium signaling. These data indicate that AP backpropagation in prefrontal layer 5 pyramidal neurons is robust but frequency dependent in the distal tuft, requires dendritic sodium rather than calcium channel activation, and, unlike other aspects of neuronal excitability, insensitive to modulation by dopamine.
Using millisecond time-resolved optical recordings of transmembrane voltage and intraterminal calcium, we have determined how activity-dependent changes in the population action potential are related to a concurrent modulation of calcium transients in the neurohypophysis. We find that repetitive stimulation dramatically alters the amplitude of the population action potential and significantly increases its temporal dispersion. The population action potentials and the calcium transients exhibit well correlated frequency-dependent amplitude depression, with broadening of the action potential playing only a limited role. High-speed camera recordings indicate that the magnitude of the spike modulation is uniform throughout the neurohypophysis, thereby excluding propagation failure as the underlying mechanism. In contrast, temporal dispersion and latency of the population spike do increase with distance from the stimulation site. This increase is enhanced during repeated stimulation and by raising the stimulation frequency. Changes in Ca influx directly affect the decline in population spike amplitude, consistent with electrophysiological measurements of the local loss of excitability in nerve terminals and varicosities, mediated by a Ca-activated K conductance. Our observations suggest a model of &quot;stuttering conduction&quot;: repeated action potential stimulation causes excitability failures limited to nerve terminals and varicosities, which account for the rapid decline in the population spike amplitude. These failures, however, do not block action potential propagation but generate the cumulative increases in spike latency.
In mammals, the ventilatory response to decreased oxygen tension in the arterial blood is initiated by excitation of specialized O2-sensitive chemoreceptor cells in the carotid body that release neurotransmitters to activate endings of the sinus nerve afferent fibers. We investigated the role of ATP acting via ionotropic P2X receptors in the carotid body function and ventilatory response to hypoxia in mice. Mice deficient in P2X2 receptor subunit showed a markedly attenuated ventilatory response to hypoxia, whereas the response to hypoxia in P2X3-deficient mice was comparable with that seen in wild-type controls. P2X2 and P2X3 receptor subunit deficiency did not affect the ventilatory responses to hypercapnia. P2X2 subunit deficiency resulted in a dramatic reduction in the responses of the carotid sinus nerve to hypoxia in the in vitro carotid body-sinus nerve preparation. ATP and its stable analog alpha,beta-methyleneATP both evoked rapid excitation of sinus nerve afferents, and the P2 receptor antagonist PPADS (pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid) (100 microm) blocked hypoxia-induced increase in sinus nerve discharge. Immunoreactivities for P2X2 and P2X3 subunits were both detected on afferent terminals surrounding clusters of glomus cells in the wild-type animals but were absent in mice deficient in P2X2 and P2X3 receptor subunits. These observations provide the first definitive evidence that, in the carotid body, ATP is a key transmitter released by chemoreceptor cells to activate endings of the sinus nerve afferent fibers. We conclude that P2X receptors containing the P2X2 subunit play a pivotal role in carotid body function and in mediating ventilatory responses to hypoxia.
The local expression of proteins involved in handling glutamate may be regulated by the number and activity of synapses in regions of glutamatergic innervation. The systematically varying innervation of inner hair cells (IHCs) of the cochlea provides a model to test this suggestion. IHCs are glutamatergic and form a single row along the cochlear spiral. Along this row the number of afferent fibers terminating on IHCs increases toward the base, reaching a peak and thereafter declining. The afferents are segregated so that higher spontaneous rate fibers terminate on the pillar-cell side of the IHC and lower rate fibers terminate on the modiolar side. Using immunofluorescence and postembedding immunogold labeling, we investigated the distributions of the glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST or excitatory amino acid transporter 1), vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT1), and the AMPA receptor glutamate receptor 4 (GluR4) along the spiral. Immunofluorescent labeling for GLAST in IHC supporting cells increased in intensity to a peak in the region of 6-9 mm from the apex. Immunogold labeling for GLAST was greater overall in these cells in the 10 mm region than in the 1 mm region and also on the pillar-cell side of the IHC compared with the modiolar side. Immunogold labeling for GluR4 was confined to synaptic sites, represented by puncta in immunofluorescence. The relative numbers of puncta changed with a gradient similar to that of GLAST labeling. VGLUT1 labeling occurred in IHCs but showed no clear cochleotopic gradient. These data suggest that both the density of innervation and the activity levels of glutamatergic synapses may be involved in modulating regional expression of GLAST.
Mutations in SCN1A, the gene encoding the brain voltage-gated sodium channel alpha1 subunit (NaV1.1), are associated with at least two forms of epilepsy, generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) and severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy (SMEI). We examined the functional properties of four GEFS+ alleles and one SMEI allele using whole-cell patch-clamp analysis of heterologously expressed recombinant human SCN1A. One previously reported GEFS+ mutation (I1656M) and an additional novel allele (R1657C), both affecting residues in a voltage-sensing S4 segment, exhibited a similar depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation. Additionally, R1657C showed a 50% reduction in current density and accelerated recovery from slow inactivation. Unlike three other GEFS+ alleles that we recently characterized, neither R1657C nor I1656M gave rise to a persistent, noninactivating current. In contrast, two other GEFS+ mutations (A1685V and V1353L) and L986F, an SMEI-associated allele, exhibited complete loss of function. In conclusion, our data provide evidence for a wide spectrum of sodium channel dysfunction in familial epilepsy and demonstrate that both GEFS+ and SMEI can be associated with nonfunctional SCN1A alleles.
Tropomyosin, a coiled coil protein that binds along the length of actin filaments, contains 40 uninterrupted heptapeptide repeats characteristic of coiled coils. Yet, it is flexible. Regions of tropomyosin that may be important for binding to the filament and for interacting with troponin deviate from canonical coiled coil structure in subtle ways, altering the local conformation or energetics without interrupting the coiled coil. In a region rich in interface alanines (an Ala cluster), the chains pack closer than in canonical coiled coils, and are staggered, resulting in a bend [Brown et al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98, 8496-8501]. Brown et al. suggested that bends at alanine clusters allow tropomyosin to wind on the actin filament helix. Another explanation is that local destabilization of the coiled coil, rather than close packing of the chains at Ala clusters per se, allows flexibility. Changing three Ala residues to canonical interface residues, A74L-A78V-A81L, greatly stabilized tropomyosin, measured using circular dichroism and differential scanning calorimetry, and reduced actin affinity &gt;10-fold. Normal actin affinity and stability were restored in a mutant A74Q-A78N-A81Q that mimicked the stability of the Ala cluster but not the close packing of the chains. Analysis and modeling of comparable mutations introduced closer to the N-terminus show that the effects on stability and function depend on context. Models based on tropomyosin crystal structures give insight into possible effects of the mutations on the structure. We conclude that the significance of the Ala clusters in allowing flexibility of tropomyosin is stability-driven.


Thirty patients with chronic stroke received 6 weeks of sensorimotor robotic training in a pilot study that targeted motor function of the affected shoulder and elbow. The impairment and disability scores were stable during a 2-month observation/measurement period, improved significantly by program completion, and remained robust in the 3-month follow-up. Task-specific motor training attenuated a chronic neurologic deficit well beyond the expected period for improvement after stroke.



Improving the translation of novel findings from basic laboratory research to better therapies for neurologic disease constitutes a major challenge for the neurosciences. This brief review of aspects of the development of an adenosine A2A antagonist for use in the management of Parkinson's disease (PD) illustrates approaches to some of the relevant issues. Adenosine A2A receptors, highly expressed on striatal medium spiny neurons, signal via kinases whose aberrant activation has been linked to the appearance of parkinsonian signs after dopaminergic denervation and to the motor response complications produced by dopaminomimetic therapy. To assess the ability of A2A receptor blockade to normalize certain of these kinases and thus benefit motor dysfunction, the palliative and prophylactic effects of the selective antagonist KW6002 were first evaluated in rodent and primate models. In hemiparkinsonian rats, KW6002 reversed the intermittent L-dopa treatment-induced, protein kinase A-mediated hyperphosphorylation of striatal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid receptor GluR1 S845 residues and the concomitant shortening in motor response duration. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys, coadministration of KW6002 with daily apomorphine injections acted prophylactically to prevent dyskinesia onset. These and related preclinical observations guided the design of a limited, randomized, controlled, proof-of-concept study of the A2A antagonist in patients with moderately advanced PD. Although KW6002 alone or in combination with a steady-state IV infusion of optimal-dose L-dopa had no effect on parkinsonian severity, the drug potentiated the antiparkinsonian response to low-dose L-dopa with fewer dyskinesias than produced by optimal-dose L-dopa alone. KW6002 also safely prolonged the efficacy half-time of L-dopa. The results suggest that drugs capable of selectively blocking adenosine A2A receptors could confer therapeutic benefit to L-dopa-treated parkinsonian patients and warrant further evaluation in phase II studies. They also illustrate a strategy for successfully bridging a novel approach to PD therapy from an evolving research concept to pivotal clinical trials.
Recently evidence has been presented that adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors form functional heteromeric receptor complexes as demonstrated in human neuroblastoma cells and mouse fibroblast Ltk- cells. These A2A/D2 heteromeric receptor complexes undergo coaggregation, cointernalization, and codesensitization on D2 or A2A receptor agonist treatments and especially after combined agonist treatment. It is hypothesized that the A2A/D2 receptor heteromer represents the molecular basis for the antagonistic A2A/D2 receptor interactions demonstrated at the biochemical and behavioral levels. Functional heteromeric complexes between A2A and metabotropic glutamate 5 receptors (mGluR5) have also recently been demonstrated in HEK-293 cells and rat striatal membrane preparations. The A2A/mGluR5 receptor heteromer may account for the synergism found after combined agonist treatments demonstrated in different in vitro and in vivo models. D2, A2A, and mGluR5 receptors are found together in the dendritic spines of the striatopallidal GABA neurons. Therefore, possible D2/A2A/mGluR5 multimeric receptor complexes and the receptor interactions within them may have a major role in controlling the dorsal and ventral striatopallidal GABA neurons involved in Parkinson's disease and in schizophrenia and drug addiction, respectively.

The transduction of taste is a fundamental process that allows animals to discriminate nutritious from noxious substances. Three taste modalities, bitter, sweet, and amino acid, are mediated by G protein-coupled receptors that signal through a common transduction cascade: activation of phospholipase C beta2, leading to a breakdown of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) into diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, which causes release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. The ion channel, TRPM5, is an essential component of this cascade; however, the mechanism by which it is activated is not known. Here we show that heterologously expressed TRPM5 forms a cation channel that is directly activated by micromolar concentrations of intracellular Ca2+ (K1/2 = 21 microM). Sustained exposure to Ca2+ desensitizes TRPM5 channels, but PIP2 reverses desensitization, partially restoring channel activity. Whole-cell TRPM5 currents can be activated by intracellular Ca2+ and show strong outward rectification because of voltage-sensitive gating of the channels. TRPM5 channels are nonselective among monovalent cations and not detectably permeable to divalent cations. We propose that the regulation of TRPM5 by Ca2+ mediates sensory activation in the taste system.
Repetitive correlated activation of pre- and postsynaptic neurons induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission among hippocampal neurons grown on a layer of astrocytes (mixed cultures) but not among neurons cultured in glial conditioned medium. Supplement of D-serine, an agonist for the glycine-binding site of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, enhanced NMDA receptor activation and enabled LTP induction in glial conditioned medium cultures. The induction of LTP in both mixed cultures and hippocampal slices was suppressed by NMDA receptor antagonists, glycine-binding-site blockers of NMDA receptors, or an enzyme that degrades endogenous D-serine. By providing extracellular D-serine that facilitates activation of NMDA receptors, astrocytes thus play a key role in long-term synaptic plasticity.
The color context effects referred to as color contrast, constancy, and assimilation underscore the fact that color percepts do not correspond to the spectral characteristics of the generative stimuli. Despite a variety of proposed theories, these phenomena have resisted explanation in a single principled framework. Using a hyperspectral image database of natural scenes, we here show that color contrast, constancy, and assimilation are all predicted by the statistical organization of spectral returns from natural visual environments.
The novel Ras-like small GTPase Rin is expressed prominently in adult neurons, and binds calmodulin (CaM) through its COOH-terminal-binding motif. It might be involved in calcium/CaM-mediated neuronal signaling, but Rin-mediated signal transduction pathways have not yet been elucidated. Here, we show that expression of Rin induces neurite outgrowth without nerve growth factor or mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Rin-induced neurite outgrowth was markedly inhibited by coexpression with dominant negative Rac/Cdc42 protein or CaM inhibitor treatment. We also found that expression of Rin elevated the endogenous Rac/Cdc42 activity. Rin mutant proteins, in which the mutation disrupted association with CaM, failed to induce neurite outgrowth irrespective of Rac/Cdc42 activation. Disruption of endogenous Rin function inhibited the neurite outgrowth stimulated by forskolin and extracellular calcium entry through voltage-dependent calcium channel evoked by KCl. These findings suggest that Rin-mediated neurite outgrowth signaling requires not only endogenous Rac/Cdc42 activation but also Rin-CaM association, and that endogenous Rin is involved in calcium/CaM-mediated neuronal signaling pathways.
The espin actin-bundling proteins, which are the target of the jerker deafness mutation, caused a dramatic, concentration-dependent lengthening of LLC-PK1-CL4 cell microvilli and their parallel actin bundles. Espin level was also positively correlated with stereocilium length in hair cells. Villin, but not fascin or fimbrin, also produced noticeable lengthening. The espin COOH-terminal peptide, which contains the actin-bundling module, was necessary and sufficient for lengthening. Lengthening was blocked by 100 nM cytochalasin D. Espin cross-links slowed actin depolymerization in vitro less than twofold. Elimination of an actin monomer-binding WASP homology 2 domain and a profilin-binding proline-rich domain from espin did not decrease lengthening, but made it possible to demonstrate that actin incorporation was restricted to the microvillar tip and that bundles continued to undergo actin treadmilling at approximately 1.5 s-1 during and after lengthening. Thus, through relatively subtle effects on actin polymerization/depolymerization reactions in a treadmilling parallel actin bundle, espin cross-links cause pronounced barbed-end elongation and, thereby, make a longer bundle without joining shorter modules.
Cell polarity is essential for generating cell diversity and for the proper function of most differentiated cell types. In many organisms, cell polarity is regulated by the atypical protein kinase C (aPKC), Bazooka (Baz/Par3), and Par6 proteins. Here, we show that Drosophila aPKC zygotic null mutants survive to mid-larval stages, where they exhibit defects in neuroblast and epithelial cell polarity. Mutant neuroblasts lack apical localization of Par6 and Lgl, and fail to exclude Miranda from the apical cortex; yet, they show normal apical crescents of Baz/Par3, Pins, Inscuteable, and Discs large and normal spindle orientation. Mutant imaginal disc epithelia have defects in apical/basal cell polarity and tissue morphology. In addition, we show that aPKC mutants show reduced cell proliferation in both neuroblasts and epithelia, the opposite of the lethal giant larvae (lgl) tumor suppressor phenotype, and that reduced aPKC levels strongly suppress most lgl cell polarity and overproliferation phenotypes.
We performed nonradioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry in the monkey cerebellum to investigate the localization of protein kinase C-substrate (growth-associated protein-43 [GAP-43], myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate [MARCKS], and neurogranin) mRNAs. Hybridization signals for GAP-43 mRNA were observed in the molecular and granule cell layers of both infant and adult cerebellar cortices. Signals for MARCKS mRNA were observed in the molecular, Purkinje cell, and granule cell layers of both infant and adult cortices. Moreover, both GAP-43 and MARCKS mRNAs were expressed in the external granule cell layer of the infant cortex. In the adult cerebellar vermis, signals for both GAP-43 and MARCKS mRNAs were more intense in lobules I, IX, and X than in the remaining lobules. In the adult hemisphere, both mRNAs were more intense in the flocculus and the dorsal paraflocculus than in other lobules. Such lobule-specific expressions were not prominent in the infant cerebellar cortex. Signals for neurogranin, a postsynaptic substrate for protein kinase C, were weak or not detectable in any regions of either the infant or adult cerebellar cortex. The prominent signals for MARCKS mRNA were observed in the deep cerebellar nuclei, but signals for both GAP-43 and neurogranin mRNAs were weak or not detectable. The prominent signals for both GAP-43 and MARCKS mRNAs were observed in the inferior olive, but signals for neurogranin were weak or not detectable. The cell type- and region-specific expression of GAP-43 and MARCKS mRNAs in the cerebellum may be related to functional specialization regarding plasticity in each type of cell and each region of the cerebellum.
Transforming growth factor (TGF)beta inhibits normal epithelial cell proliferation. A decreased expression of TGFbeta receptors (TbetaR) has been associated with loss of TGFbeta sensitivity and enhanced tumor progression in many types of cancer. Although lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death, a comparative analysis of TbetaR mRNA and protein expression in non-small-cell (NSC) lung tumors has not been performed. Lung tumor tissues and control non-lesional lung tissues were obtained from 17 patients undergoing thoracotomy for primary NSC lung tumors in clinical stage II. Each tissue sample was studied for TbetaRI and TbetaRII mRNA and immunoreactive protein expression, using a semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR method, and a quantitative immunohistochemistry method, respectively. TbetaRI protein expression was higher in tumors than in controls (p=0.0005) and a similar trend was present at the mRNA level. TbetaRII protein expression was not significantly different between tumors and controls, however an intense peri-nuclear staining for TbetaRII was observed in several tumor cells. TbetaRII mRNA levels were lower in tumors than in controls (p=0.005) and an inverse relation between TbetaRII mRNA and protein expression was detected in tumors (p=0.0013). Our findings suggest an altered function of the TbetaR system in NSC lung cancer.

The present study was designed to examine the possible differential roles of the medial and lateral pain systems in pain perception. We used a microwire array recording technique to record the pain-evoked neural activity of multiple neurons in freely moving rats. Noxious radiant heat was delivered to either hind-paw in a randomized order. A total of 256 single units were recorded in primary somatosensory cortex (SI), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and medial dorsal (MD) and ventral posterior (VP) thalamus during the painful stimulation. The results showed that SI neurons displayed a strong pain-related excitatory response with short duration and significant contralateral bias; VP had very similar functional patterns to that of SI. This suggested that SI, together with VP, participate in the processing of the sensory-discriminative aspect of pain. In contrast, ACC and MD shared common characteristics of moderate and longer-lasting increase of neural activity, bilateral receptive fields without contralateral preference, as well as the anticipatory response at the start of a painful stimulus, corresponding to the specific role of ACC and MD in the affective-motivational aspects of pain. The results provide an initial demonstration of distributed activity patterns within different pain systems in awake and freely moving rats, hence, providing confirmation of the existence of the dual pain pathways.
We have previously shown that hypothalamic injections of glutamate, or agonists of its ionotropic receptors (iGluRs), elicit intense feeding responses in satiated rats [Brain Res. 613 (1993) 88, Brain Res. 630 (1993) 41]. While attempting to clarify the role of the AMPA and kainate (KA) receptor subtypes in glutamatergic feeding systems, we discovered that lateral hypothalamic (LH) injection of high doses of the competitive AMPA/KA receptor antagonist, NBQX (10 and 30 nmol), elicited a pronounced feeding response. We questioned whether this effect was due to inactivation of AMPA or possibly KA receptors. To determine whether other AMPA/KA antagonists can also elicit feeding, we tested whether injection of CNQX, another AMPA/KA receptor antagonist, also stimulates eating and whether these feeding stimulatory effects were due to antagonists' actions in the LH or in other hypothalamic sites. Here we report that NBQX and CNQX elicit feeding in a dose dependent manner and are most effective when injected into the perifornical hypothalamus (PFH), or into the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and, to a lesser extent, into the LH of satiated rats. In contrast, AMPA was most effective in stimulating feeding when injected into the LH, confirming previous reports. These data suggest that either activation or inactivation of AMPA/KA receptors in distinct but overlapping hypothalamic sites may be sufficient to induce feeding behavior, indicating a broadened role for glutamate in hypothalamic feeding mechanisms.
Cannabinoids activate several members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase superfamily including p44 and p42 extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). We used N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells and the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN) to examine the signal transduction pathways leading to the activation of ERK. ERK phosphorylation (activation) was measured by Western blot. The EC50 for stimulation of ERK phosphorylation was 10 nm, and this effect was blocked by pertussis toxin and the CB1 (cannabinoid) receptor antagonist SR141716A. The MEK inhibitors PD 98059 and U0126 blocked ERK phosphorylation, as did the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin. The phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase inhibitor LY 294002 and the Src kinase inhibitor PP2 partially occluded the response but also decreased basal levels of phospho-ERK. The PI 3-kinase and Src pathways are known to promote cell survival in many systems; therefore, MTT (1-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-3,5-diphenylformazan) conversion was used to examine the effects of these inhibitors on cellular viability. LY 294002 decreased the number of viable cells after 18 h of treatment; therefore, the inhibition of ERK by this inhibitor is probably because of cytotoxicity. Forskolin blocked ERK phosphorylation with an EC50 of &lt;3 microm, and the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H-89 enhanced ERK phosphorylation. c-Raf phosphorylation at an inhibitory PKA-regulated site (Ser259) was also reduced by WIN. This is probably due to constitutive phosphatase activity because WIN did not directly stimulate PP1 or PP2A activity when measured using 6,8-difluoro-4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate as a fluorogenic substrate. These data implicate the inhibition of PKA as the predominant pathway for ERK activation by CB1 receptors in N1E-115 cells. PI 3-kinase and Src appear to contribute to ERK activation by maintaining activation of kinases, which prime the pathway and maintain cellular viability.
Presynaptic Ca2+ channels are inhibited by metabotropic receptors. A possible mechanism for this inhibition is that G protein betagamma subunits modulate the binding of the Ca2+ channel beta subunit on the Ca2+ channel complex and induce a conformational state from which channel opening is more reluctant. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the binding of Ca2+ channel beta and G protein beta subunits on the two separate binding sites, i.e. the loopI-II and the C terminus, and on the full-length P/Q-type alpha12.1 subunit by using a modified mammalian two-hybrid system and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) measurements. Analysis of the interactions on the isolated bindings sites revealed that the Ca2+ channel beta1b subunit induces a strong fluorescent signal when interacting with the loopI-II but not with the C terminus. In contrast, the G protein beta subunit induces FRET signals on both the C terminus and loopI-II. Analysis of the interactions on the full-length channel indicates that Ca2+ channel beta1b and G protein beta subunits bind to the alpha1 subunit at the same time. Coexpression of the G protein increases the FRET signal between alpha1/beta1b FRET pairs but not for alpha1/beta1b FRET pairs where the C terminus was deleted from the alpha1 subunit. The results suggest that the G protein alters the orientation and/or association between the Ca2+ channel beta and alpha12.1 subunits, which involves the C terminus of the alpha1 subunit and may corresponds to a new conformational state of the channel.
Increasing hypoxia tolerance in mammalian cells is potentially of major importance, but it has not been feasible thus far. The disaccharide trehalose, which accumulates dramatically during heat shock, enhances thermotolerance and reduces aggregation of denatured proteins. Previous studies from our laboratory showed that over-expression of Drosophila trehalose-phosphate synthase (dtps1) increases the trehalose level and anoxia tolerance in flies. To determine whether trehalose can protect against anoxic injury in mammalian cells, we transfected the dtps1 gene into human HEK-293 cells using the recombinant plasmid pcDNA3.1(-)-dtps1 and obtained more than 20 stable cell strains. Glucose starvation in culture showed that HEK-293 cells transfected with pcDNA3.1(-)-dtps1 (HEK-dtps1) do not metabolize intracellular trehalose, and, interestingly, these cells accumulated intracellular trehalose during hypoxic exposure. In contrast to HEK-293 cells transfected with pcDNA3.1(-) (HEK-v), cells with trehalose were more resistant to low oxygen stress (1% O2). To elucidate how trehalose protects cells from anoxic injury, we assayed protein solubility and the amount of ubiquitinated proteins. There was three times more insoluble protein in HEK-v than in HEK-dtps1 after 3 days of exposure to low O2. The amount of Na+-K+ ATPase present in the insoluble proteins dramatically increased in HEK-v cells after 2 and 3 days of exposure, whereas there was no significant change in HEK-dtps1 cells. Ubiquitinated proteins increased dramatically in HEK-v cells after 2 and 3 days of exposure but not in HEK-dtps1 cells over the same period. Our results indicate that increased trehalose in mammalian cells following transfection by the Drosophila tps1 gene protects cells from hypoxic injury. The mechanism of this protection is likely related to a decrease in protein denaturation, through protein-trehalose interactions, resulting in enhanced cellular recovery from hypoxic stress.
Previously we found that X11-like protein (X11L) associates with amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP). X11L stabilizes APP metabolism and suppresses the secretion of the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) that are the pathogenic agents of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we found that Alcadein (Alc), a novel membrane protein family that contains cadherin motifs and originally reported as calsyntenins, also interacted with X11L. Alc was abundant in the brain and occurred in the same areas of the brain as X11L. X11L could simultaneously associate with APP and Alc, resulting in the formation of a tripartite complex in brain. The tripartite complex stabilized intracellular APP metabolism and enhanced the X11L-mediated suppression of Abeta secretion that is due to the retardation of intracellular APP maturation. X11L and Alc also formed another complex with C99, a carboxyl-terminal fragment of APP cleaved at the beta-site (CTFbeta). The formation of the Alc.X11L.C99 complex inhibited the interaction of C99 with presenilin, which strongly suppressed the gamma-cleavage of C99. In AD patient brains, Alc and APP were particularly colocalized in dystrophic neurites in senile plaques. Deficiencies in the X11L-mediated interaction between Alc and APP and/or CTFbeta enhanced the production of Abeta, which may be related to the development or progression of AD.
Morphine is now believed not to cause tolerance and dependence when it is appropriately used in clinic. However, in terminal cancer pain, patients' analgesic tolerance to morphine is developed due to the use of high doses of morphine for complete blockade of pain. At higher doses, morphine has more opportunity to show serious side effects, which worsens quality of life (QOL), and leads to the use of potent analgesic adjuvants to reduce the morphine dosage. Here we attempt to summarize recent studies of the molecular basis of morphine tolerance and dependence, and to discuss whether these mechanisms could provide new molecular targets as analgesic adjuvants. They include protein kinase C inhibitor, opioid agonist with low RAVE value, and antagonists of antiopioid receptors (GluRepsilon1 or nociceptin/OFQ receptor). In addition, we demonstrate new approaches to find further candidates of such molecular targets. These approaches include the visualization of neuronal networks in the downstream of opioid neurons by use of the WGA transgene technique and the single cell dissection technique to get new genes involved in plasticity during morphine tolerance and dependence.

Several phenolic acids-caffeic and gallic acid derivatives-were synthesized and screened for their potential antiproliferative and cytotoxic properties, in different human cancer cell lines: mammary gland and cervix adenocarcinomas and lymphoblastic leukemia. The selected phenols were structurally related, which allowed us to gather important information regarding the structure-activity relationships underlying the biological activity of such compounds. This is proposed to be due to a balance between the antioxidant and pro-oxidant properties of this kind of agent. Distinct effects were found for different cell lines, which points to a significant specificity of action of the drugs tested. It was verified, for the types of cancer investigated, that the trihydroxylated derivatives yielded better results than the dihydroxylated ones. Tests in noncancerous cells, human lung fibroblasts, were also undertaken, in view of determining the toxic side effects of the compounds studied.
Neurotransmission requires a balance of synaptic vesicle exocytosis and endocytosis. Synaptotagmin I (Syt I) is widely regarded as the primary calcium sensor for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Previous biochemical data suggest that Syt I may also function during synaptic vesicle endocytosis; however, ultrastructural analyses at synapses with impaired Syt I function have provided an indirect and conflicting view of the role of Syt I during synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Until now it has not been possible experimentally to separate the exocytic and endocytic functions of Syt I in vivo. Here, we test directly the role of Syt I during endocytosis in vivo. We use quantitative live imaging of a pH-sensitive green fluorescent protein fused to a synaptic vesicle protein (synapto-pHluorin) to measure the kinetics of endocytosis in sytI-null Drosophila. We then combine live imaging of the synapto-pHluorins with photoinactivation of Syt I, through fluorescein-assisted light inactivation, after normal Syt I-mediated vesicle exocytosis. By inactivating Syt I only during endocytosis, we demonstrate that Syt I is necessary for the endocytosis of synaptic vesicles that have undergone exocytosis using a functional Syt I protein.
Age-related memory impairment (AMI) is observed in many species. However, it is uncertain whether AMI results from a specific or a nonspecific decay in memory processing. In Drosophila, memory acquired after a single olfactory conditioning paradigm has three distinct phases: short-term memory (STM), middle-term memory (MTM), and longer-lasting anesthesia-resistant memory (ARM). Here, we demonstrate that age-related defects in olfactory memory are identical to those of the MTM mutant amnesiac (amn). Furthermore, amn flies do not exhibit an age-dependent decrease in memory, in contrast to other memory mutants. The absence of AMI in amn flies is restored by expression of an amn transgene predominantly in DPM cells. Thus, we propose that AMI in flies results from a specific decrease in amn-dependent MTM.
Hair cells in the vertebrate cochlea are arranged tonotopically with their characteristic frequency (CF), the sound frequency to which they are most sensitive, changing systematically with position. Single mechanotransducer channels of hair cells were characterized at different locations in the turtle cochlea. In 2.8 mM external Ca2+, the channel's chord conductance was 118 pS (range 80-163 pS), which nearly doubled (range 149-300 pS) on reducing Ca2+ to 50 microM. In both Ca2+ concentrations, the conductance was positively correlated with hair cell CF. Variation in channel conductance can largely explain the increases in size of the macroscopic transducer current and speed of adaptation with CF. It suggests diversity of transducer channel structure or environment along the cochlea that may be an important element of its tonotopic organization.
Extracellular ATP released from axons is known to assist activity-dependent signaling between neurons and Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system. Here we report that ATP released from astrocytes as a result of neuronal activity can also modulate central synaptic transmission. In cultures of hippocampal neurons, endogenously released ATP tonically suppresses glutamatergic synapses via presynaptic P2Y receptors, an effect that depends on the presence of cocultured astrocytes. Glutamate release accompanying neuronal activity also activates non-NMDA receptors of nearby astrocytes and triggers ATP release from these cells, which in turn causes homo- and heterosynaptic suppression. In CA1 pyramidal neurons of hippocampal slices, a similar synaptic suppression was also produced by adenosine, an immediate degradation product of ATP released by glial cells. Thus, neuron-glia crosstalk may participate in activity-dependent synaptic modulation.
Recent genetic linkage studies complement the existing evidence that implicates abnormalities in NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. At the same time, advances in our understanding of the complex mechanisms that modulate the function of NMDA receptors suggest several novel sites for pharmacological manipulation of these receptors. This presents exciting opportunities for rational rather than serendipitous discovery of therapeutics for schizophrenia.

A genetic association of an intronic single nucleotide polymorphism site of heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2) with Alzheimer's disease (AD) was investigated among Finnish AD patients (n=213) and controls (n=269). No association of the HSPG2 polymorphism alone was observed with AD. However, an association of HSPG2 A allele with AD was detected in apolipoprotein (APOE) epsilon4 allele carriers. The odds ratio for AD was doubled in subjects carrying both epsilon4 and HSPG2 A alleles (OR=6.6) when compared to subjects with epsilon4 allele alone (OR=3.1). The impact of HSPG2 polymorphism on beta amyloid and tau pathology was studied using immunohistochemistry. Paired helical filament labeling was significantly more pronounced in AD patients carrying both epsilon4 and HSPG A alleles when compared to epsilon4 carriers lacking the HSPG2 A allele. In conclusion, HSPG2 A allele may possess an additive risk effect among the APOE epsilon4 carriers in AD.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is an important, though still relatively neglected, aspect of the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and both the source of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) in CAA, and its relationship to senile plaque (SP) Abeta, remain unclear. We have investigated the relationship between Abeta deposition in SP and CAA in four regions of brain from 69 patients with AD in order to gain insight into the pathogenetic mechanism(s) underlying these pathologies. CAA was present to some degree in all 69 patients, with the occipital cortex being affected more often and more severely than frontal, temporal and parietal cortices. By definition, SPs were present in all brain areas in all 69 patients, with greater uniformity of distribution than CAA, though the occipital cortex was less severely affected than the other brain regions. There was no significant (positive) correlation between CAA rating and that of SP for any one cortical region, but on combining data from all four regions there was a significant inverse correlation (P=0.037) between CAA and SP ratings. Such data suggest that the cellular sources and mechanisms leading to Abeta deposition as SP or CAA are likely to differ and may proceed independently of each other.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to faces have been shown to be altered in patients suffering from prosopagnosia. In this report we present ERP findings from two patients suffering from a congenital form of prosopagnosia, with other visual and cognitive functions being spared and without any structural abnormalities as assessed by anatomical brain imaging. Subjects were presented with photographs of faces and houses, and they had to respond to photographs of hands. Both patients did not show a difference in N170 amplitude to faces compared to houses, whereas there was a significant N170 difference of these two stimulus classes in healthy control subjects.
Trans-sodium crocetinate (TSC) is a vitamin A-analog that increases diffusivity of oxygen in aqueous solutions, including plasma. The current study is the initial investigation of the effects of TSC on oxygen delivery to brain. Adult male rats were intubated and ventilated with 21%, 60%, or 100% oxygen. A craniotomy was performed and a Licox rat brain tissue PO(2) probe inserted into parietal cortex. Rats were then administered intravenous infusions of either TSC or saline and brain tissue PO(2) values were recorded. TSC significantly increased brain tissue oxygen delivery. This effect was minimal in rats ventilated with normal air and substantial in rats on oxygen supplementation. Arterial blood gas parameters did not differ within groups. These results provide clear indication to study the utility of TSC in ameliorating hypoxic/ischemic insults in neurological disorders.
Neuroimaging studies have suggested differences in cortical activation in human vocalization and musical tasks. However, functional neurophysiological evidence on cortical excitability changes is lacking. We utilized transcranial magnetic stimulation to demonstrate changes in cortical excitability during overt humming and singing tasks. The findings complement those from neuroimaging and support the existence of separate bilateral deep-seated neural networks, as distinct from those for vocalization.
Skill learning may be based on integrating and adapting movement building blocks organized in the CNS. We examined at what level integration and adaptation occur during early skill learning, the level of individual muscles, muscle synergies or combinations of synergies through time, and whether these operations are expressed through the primary motor cortex (M1). Forelimb muscle and M1 cell activity were recorded over the first day of training on a reach-to-grasp task in rodents. Independent components analysis was used to assess how well muscle activation patterns could be described as time-varying combinations of synergies. In 3 of 11 animals, prereach M1 activity predicted the activation of different combinations of independent components (ICs) to perform the task. With training, animals increasingly adopted postures and prereach patterns of M1 activity that supported activation of the more successful combination. With training, animals also adjusted the activation magnitude (6 of 11 animals) and weights (11 of 11) of specific ICs that constituted the selected combination. Weights represent how IC activation patterns were distributed to forelimb muscles; this distribution pattern was adapted with training. M1 cells (37 of 100) had task-related firing rates that were significantly correlated with IC activation patterns. Changes in M1 firing rates were associated with corresponding changes in either the activation magnitude or weights of the correlated IC. Our data suggest that early skill learning is expressed through selection and tuning of M1 firing rates, which specify time-varying patterns of synergistic muscle contractions in the limb.
Action potentials (APs) are the principal physiological stimuli for neurotransmitter secretion in neurons. Most studies on stimulus-secretion coupling have been performed under voltage clamp using artificial electrical stimuli. To investigate the modulatory effects of AP codes on neural secretion, we introduce a capacitance method to study AP-induced secretion in single cells. The action potential pattern was defined by a four-parameter &quot;code function:&quot; F(n, m, f, d). With this method, cell secretion evoked by stimulation with an AP code was quantified in real time by membrane capacitance (Cm) in adrenal chromaffin cells. We found, in addition to AP frequency (f), for a given number of APs, another parameter of the AP code, the number of AP bursts (m) in which the set of APs occurs, can effectively modulate cell secretion. Possible mechanisms of the m effect are depletion of the readily releasable pool and inactivation of Ca2+ channels during a burst of APs. The physiological m effect may play a key role in AP-mediated neural information transfer within a single neuron and among the elements of a neural network.
Proliferation and survival of different cell types is thought to be modulated by cell interactions during development that achieve numerical and functional balance. We tested the precision of coregulation of numbers of neurons, glial cells, and endothelial cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) in 58 isogenic strains of mice. We acquired matched counts of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in these strains and tested the precision of numerical matching between retina and LGN. Cells were counted using unbiased counting protocols and tissue from the Mouse Brain Library (www.mbl.org). Classification criteria were assessed using immunohistochemical criteria. The LGN contains an average of 17,000 neurons, 12,000 glial cells, and 10,000 endothelial cells. Variation around these means is typically twofold, and cell ratios vary widely. Strain differences in LGN volume correlate moderately well with glial cell number (r = 0.69) and less well with RGC number (r = 0.35) and with LGN neuron number (r = 0.32). Populations of LGN neurons and glial cells correlate only modestly (r = 0.44; p &lt; 0.01). The single most surprising and unequivocal finding was the lack of any detectable correlation between populations of LGN neurons and RGCs, a correlation of merely 0.01 across 56 strains. In contrast, RGC number correlates significantly with LGN glial cell number, a surprising twist on the numerical matching hypothesis (r = 0.33; p &lt; 0.01). We conclude that numbers of these two functionally coupled neuron populations are modulated over a wide range by independent genetic and developmental mechanisms.
Networks of living neurons exhibit diverse patterns of activity, including oscillations, synchrony, and waves. Recent work in physics has shown yet another mode of activity in systems composed of many nonlinear units interacting locally. For example, avalanches, earthquakes, and forest fires all propagate in systems organized into a critical state in which event sizes show no characteristic scale and are described by power laws. We hypothesized that a similar mode of activity with complex emergent properties could exist in networks of cortical neurons. We investigated this issue in mature organotypic cultures and acute slices of rat cortex by recording spontaneous local field potentials continuously using a 60 channel multielectrode array. Here, we show that propagation of spontaneous activity in cortical networks is described by equations that govern avalanches. As predicted by theory for a critical branching process, the propagation obeys a power law with an exponent of -3/2 for event sizes, with a branching parameter close to the critical value of 1. Simulations show that a branching parameter at this value optimizes information transmission in feedforward networks, while preventing runaway network excitation. Our findings suggest that &quot;neuronal avalanches&quot; may be a generic property of cortical networks, and represent a mode of activity that differs profoundly from oscillatory, synchronized, or wave-like network states. In the critical state, the network may satisfy the competing demands of information transmission and network stability.
Remyelination is a critical repair process that is initiated after a demyelinating insult. The failure to remyelinate contributes to neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Here, we test the hypothesis that proteinase activity is required for the extensive remodeling of the extracellular matrix that occurs during remyelination. We show that mice lacking matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 are impaired in myelin reformation after lysolecithin-induced demyelination. This deficiency may be explained at least in part by the failure to clear the accumulation of NG2, an inhibitory proteoglycan that retards the maturation and differentiation of oligodendrocytes that are needed for remyelination. These results emphasize for the first time that upregulation of MMP activity can be important for facilitating regeneration from some types of CNS injury.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins, reduce the incidence of strokes and reduce infarct volume after cerebral ischemia in mice. Excitoxicity caused by overstimulation of glutamate receptors is a major cause of neuronal death after an ischemic brain insult. Experiments presented here explored whether statins protect cultured neurons from excitotoxic death caused by the glutamate receptor agonist NMDA. Treatment with statins preserved NMDA receptor-expressing cortical neurons and potently and substantially reduced lactate dehydrogenase release caused by exposure of embryonic mouse neocortical cultures to NMDA. The rank order of neuroprotective potency was rosuvastatin = simvastatin &gt; atorvastatin = mevastatin &gt; pravastatin, which is similar to the known rank order of potency for inhibition of the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme. Resistance of cultures to NMDA excitotoxicity developed after several days of statin exposure. Neuroprotection by rosuvastatin was coincident with a decrease in cell sterols and occurred with a similar potency as inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis. Neuroprotection was substantially attenuated by cotreatment with either mevalonate or cholesterol and was mimicked by acute treatment with the cholesterol-extracting agent beta-cyclodextrin, suggesting that neuroprotection was mediated by depletion of a cellular pool of cholesterol because of the inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis. These results suggest the possibility that, in addition to effects on cerebrovascular function, statins have the potential to render cortical neurons more resistant to NMDA-induced excitotoxic death as a result of changes in cell cholesterol homeostasis.
The amygdala plays a role in learning and memory processes that involve an emotional component. However, neural structures that regulate these amygdala-dependent processes are unknown. Previous studies indicate that regulation of affect may be imposed by the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and its efferents to the amygdala. The presentation of conditioned affective stimuli enhances activity of neurons in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LAT), which is thought to drive conditioned affective responses. Moreover, plasticity of LAT neuronal responses to stimuli during the course of conditioning is believed to underlie affective learning. This study examines the role of the PFC in the regulation of affective behaviors by evaluating how the PFC affects LAT neuronal plasticity and activity that is evoked by previously conditioned stimuli. In vivo intracellular recordings were performed from the LAT of anesthetized rats during pavlovian conditioning and during the presentation of stimuli that were conditioned in the awake rat before recording. Train stimulation of the PFC suppressed LAT neuronal activity that was evoked by both previously conditioned and neutral stimuli. In addition, PFC stimulation blocked LAT neuronal plasticity associated with an affective conditioning procedure. These results indicate that the PFC has the potential to regulate affective processes by inhibition of the LAT. Patients with disruptions of the PFC-LAT interaction often display an inability to regulate affective responses. This may be attributable to the loss of PFC-imposed inhibition of the emotional response to a stimulus but may also include the formation or diminished extinction of inappropriate associations.
Hearing impairment affects significant numbers of the people who are most likely to use healthcare services. Nursing skills in this area still fall short of acceptable standards. Awareness of the scale of the problem, identification of those affected and knowledge of how best to communicate with them are crucial to providing sensitive and individualized care.


We tested the hypothesis that inhibition of NMDA-receptors in rats would lead to a selective impairment of reversal learning in a serial reversal task in the Skinner box. Low doses of MK-801 (0.025 and 0.05 mg/kg) did not affect acquisition of the two-lever discrimination, but impaired performance during the first reversal more than during the third reversal. Similar effects were observed during the series of extinction sessions. The high dose (0.1 mg/kg) completely inhibited reversal and extinction learning, as the rats perseverated in pressing the previously rewarded lever(s). We conclude that NMDA receptor blockade leads to a selective impairment in cognitive flexibility, and shows some similarity to transient inactivation of the medial prefrontal cortex in this respect.
We examined neuroprotective effects of growth inhibitory factor (GIF) on injured adult rat facial motoneurons. The right facial nerves of adult rats were avulsed and removed from the stylomastoid foramen, and an adenoviral vector encoding rat GIF and Myc epitope (AxCArGIFM) were injected into the facial canal. Animals treated with AxCArGIFM showed intense immunolabeling for GIF/Myc in injured facial motoneurons. Treatment with AxCArGIFM after avulsion significantly prevented the loss of injured facial motoneurons, improved choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and prevented the induction of nitric oxide synthase activity in these neurons. These results indicate that GIF may have therapeutic potential against degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases.
Two recent developments in motor neuroscience are promising the extension of theoretical concepts from motor control towards cognitive processes, including human social interactions and understanding the intentions of others. The first of these is the discovery of what are now called mirror neurons, which code for both observed and executed actions. The second is the concept of internal models, and in particular recent proposals that forward and inverse models operate in paired modules. These two ideas will be briefly introduced, and a recent suggestion linking between the two processes of mirroring and modelling will be described which may underlie our abilities for imitating actions, for cooperation between two actors, and possibly for communication via gesture and language.

An increasing number of studies suggest the usefulness of both personality features and neurocognitive vulnerability as tools for isolating phenotypes associated with susceptibility to schizophrenia, however the clinical and heuristic topicality of self-experienced vulnerability has yet to be properly recognized. Biological relatives of schizophrenic patients (because of the familial/genetic load) constitute a promising and suggestive paradigm for addressing the psychopathological relationship between personality features and subjective experience of vulnerability. The current study found that 1st degree unaffected relatives of schizophrenics exceeded normal controls in schizotypal, paranoid, and borderline dimensions, and showed an overlap in the schizoid dimension of clinical Schizotypals (i.e. Schizotypal Personality Disorder Patients). Subsequent correlation analysis showed that schizotypal and schizoid traits are linked to specific domains of self-experienced vulnerability. Clinical heuristics is discussed.
Clinical and morphological features have been studied in 11 late onset Acid Maltase Deficient (AMD) patients. All patients have been diagnosed on biochemical evidence of acid maltase deficiency on muscle biopsy. Molecular studies showed a heterozygous mutation (IVS1-13 T &gt; G transversion resulting in aberrant splicing) in the GSDII gene, which is the most common mutation in late onset AMD patients. Morphological features in muscle biopsy showed a vacuolar myopathy and Golgi apparatus proliferation within fibres. The peripheral areas of autophagic vacuoles were positive for caveolin-3 and dystrophin, documenting an extensive membrane turnover. The ultrastructural study of muscle biopsy showed randomly distributed or isolated vesicles sometimes derived from the Golgi apparatus. In subsarcolemmal region, lipofucsin bodies and abnormal mitochondria with crystalline inclusions were observed. Primary and secondary lysosomes were typically filled with glycogen. These data suggest a predominant role of Golgi in vesicle proliferation and extensive intra-fibral membrane remodelling. The pathological changes observed are selective for muscle fibres (mostly in type 1) and for muscle groups (mainly proximal). An attractive hypothesis for the variability of clinical phenotype in adult and infantile onset AMD patients is that in the former, an aberrant transcript of smaller size may have originated from alternative splicing (exon 2 skipping). A residual enzyme activity is detectable in muscle, but the intracellular processing of the enzyme precursor from Golgi to the mature form in lysosomes might be blocked.




The primary motivation for integrating any form of education technology into a particular course or curriculum should always be to enhance student learning. However, it can be difficult to determine which technologies will be the most appropriate and effective teaching tools. Through the alignment of technology-enhanced learning experiences with a clear set of learning objectives, teaching becomes more efficient and effective and learning is truly enhanced. In this article, I describe how I have made extensive use of technology in two neuroscience courses that differ in structure and content. Course websites function as resource centers and provide a forum for student interaction. PowerPoint presentations enhance formal lectures and provide an organized outline of presented material. Some lectures are also supplemented with interactive CD-ROMs, used in the presentation of difficult physiological concepts. In addition, a computer-based physiological recording system is used in laboratory sessions, improving the hands-on experience of group learning while reinforcing the concepts of the research method. Although technology can provide powerful teaching tools, the enhancement of the learning environment is still dependent on the instructor. It is the skill and enthusiasm of the instructor that determines whether technology will be used effectively.
A computer-assisted learning (CAL) package, NeuroLab, developed for use by first-year university students undertaking professional programs in the health area, is described and evaluated. NeuroLab is a simulation of a laboratory, in which students are able to impale neurons to measure resting membrane potentials and subsequently undertake experiments including measuring resting membrane potentials, determining threshold potentials, measuring refractory periods, and examining effects on membrane potential through altering the membrane permeability to sodium and potassium ions. Students find the package to be a worthwhile learning experience, with 81 +/- 2.2% reporting the package increased their understanding of neuron function, and 78 +/- 2.5% expressing a desire for more CAL packages. Exposure to the package resulted in significantly higher mean scores in a multiple-choice question test on measuring neuron membrane potentials compared with those who were not exposed (mean scores out of 4 of 2.42 and 2.02, respectively, P &lt; 0.001).
Educational research has demonstrated that the use of concrete objects or manipulatives in the classroom enhances problem-solving skills and conceptual learning. This project examines the use of manipulatives in a neurophysiology curriculum and assesses their effectiveness on student comprehension. Three activities, building an ion channel, building a nerve cell, and passive membrane properties, were developed using modeling clay and beads as manipulatives. Their effect on learning was assessed in a neurobiology class that had been divided into an experimental group that worked with manipulative-based activities and a control group that did not. After the experimental group had completed the manipulative activity, both groups were given a quiz. Students who had used manipulatives scored significantly better than those who had not. In a second study, students were given a quiz before and after completing a manipulative activity. Students who had used manipulatives showed the greatest grade improvement. These studies suggest that manipulative activities can be used to enhance learning in the neurophysiology curriculum.
Teaching students about the physiology of neurotransmitter receptors usually requires practical lessons with the use of sophisticated equipment and complex analysis of data. Here, we report our experience in teaching medical students with a simple, practical protocol that transforms the physiology of glutamate receptors into neuronal staining, observable under bright-field microscopy. Essentially, the students were challenged to selectively stain a subpopulation of cultured neurons expressing Ca(2+)-permeable alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors (a subgroup of ionotropic glutamate receptors). Neurons expressing this type of receptors were loaded with Co(2+) (in substitution for Ca(2+)) after nondesensitizing activation of AMPA receptors. After precipitation, the Co(2+) was revealed after treatment with silver. At the end of the procedure, the neurons expressing Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors were visually identified under bright-field microscopy. The procedure allowed the visualization of the complete dendritic network of the stained neurons and allowed the students to learn very efficiently about the physiology of glutamate receptors.
One purpose of this study was to quantify, by means of single-format, multiple-choice questions at the beginning and end of the course, the extent to which first-year medical students learn neuroscience material from an introductory course in their curriculum. Compared with their precourse test performance (mean = 41.8%), collectively, the students nearly doubled their grade by the end of the course (mean = 81.4%). Their scores in subcategories of the material improved in inverse proportion to what they knew initially. A second goal was to evaluate a two-dimensional, computer-generated matrix as a way to assess test question validity and value. The evaluation of individual test questions as assessed from the matrix often, but not always, was similar to the classical pedagogical analysis that uses difficulty and discrimination indexes. Strengths of the matrix are its ability to render data as a gestalt, as well as flexibility and intuitive ease of use.

The University of Florida on-campus AuD program is described. To date, 63 students have been enrolled in this program. Sixteen doctoral-level audiology faculty teach in this program, either in the classroom or clinically. Coursework spans all areas included in the audiology scope of practice. The curriculum also has classes taught by faculty in other related disciplines, such as medicine, neuroscience, pharmacology, and counseling. Clinical practicum experiences throughout the program occur in a major health science center on campus, along with a number of other clinical sites. With the support of a large faculty and the availability of a wide variety of clinical placements, the University of Florida AuD program provides the necessary knowledge and skills for students to become autonomous professionals.



Patch-clamp electrophysiological methods were used on dissociated rat nodose neurons maintained in culture to determine whether responses to cholecystokinin (CCK) were associated with capsaicin-resistant (A type) or capsaicin-sensitive (C type) neurons. Nodose neurons were classified as A or C type on the basis of the characteristics of the Na+ current, a hyperpolarization-activated current, and sensitivity to a low concentration of capsaicin to ascertain the presence of vanilloid receptor 1 that has been associated with C-type neurons in sensory ganglia. It was expected that only capsaicin-sensitive C-type neurons would respond to CCK, because most vagally mediated actions of CCK are blocked by capsaicin treatment. However, we found that subpopulations of both A- and C-type neurons responded to CCK (24 and 38%, respectively). Thus some vagally mediated actions of CCK may be mediated by capsaicin insensitive A-type neurons.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) generate the electrical slow wave required for normal gastrointestinal motility. The ionic conductances expressed in human intestinal ICC are unknown. The aim of this study was to determine expression of a Na+ current in human intestinal ICC and to determine the effects of the Na+ current on the slow wave. Visually identified, freshly dissociated, single ICC were verified by the presence of c-kit mRNA by using single-cell RT-PCR. Standard whole cell currents were recorded from patch-clamped ICC held at -100 mV between pulse protocols. A Na+ current was identified in human intestinal ICC. The current activated at -55 mV and peaked at -30 mV. Extracellular N-methyl-d-glucamine abolished and QX-314 (500 microM) blocked the Na+ current, but nifedipine and Ni2+ did not. The Na+ current was activated by shear stress. Single-cell RT-PCR detected mRNA for the Na+ alpha-subunit SCN5A in single human intestinal ICC. Lidocaine (200 microm) and QX-314 (500 microM) decreased slow wave frequency, and stretch increased slow wave frequency. A mechanosensitive Na+ channel current is present in human intestinal ICC and appears to play a role in the control of intestinal motor function.
We recently reported that downregulation of gastrin gene expression in colon cancer cells significantly suppresses relative levels of mitochondrial cytochrome c (cyt c) oxidase Vb (Cox Vb) RNA and protein. These unexpected findings suggested the possibility that gastrin gene products [mainly progastrin (PG)] may be directly or indirectly mediating the observed effects in colon cancer cells. Because colon cancer cells do not respond to exogenous PG, we examined the possibility of whether PG regulates Cox Vb expression in gastrin-responsive intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) in vitro. Levels of Cox Vb RNA and protein were significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner in response to PG. Mitochondrial synthesis of ATP was also increased by approximately three- to fivefold in response to optimal concentrations (0.1-1.0 nm) of PG. Possible antiapoptotic effects of PG were additionally examined, because activation of caspases 9 and 3 had been noted in colon cancer cells downregulated for gastrin gene expression. We measured a significant loss in the levels of cyt c in the cytosol of PG-treated vs. control IEC cells, which correlated with a significant loss in the activation of caspases 9 and 3, resulting in a significant loss in DNA fragmentation on PG treatment of the cells. Our results thus suggest the novel possibility that the precursor PG peptide exerts direct antiapoptotic effects on IECs, which may contribute to the observed growth effects of PG on these cells. Additionally, Cox Vb gene appears to be an important intracellular target of PG, resulting in an increase in ATP levels, which may also contribute to the observed increase in the growth of target cells in response to PG.
Orexins are involved in the central nervous control of appetite and behavior, and in addition, they are present in endocrine cells and/or neurons in the intestine. The role of these peptides in peripheral regulation of intestinal secretion has not been investigated. We thus compared the effects of orexin A and some established secretagogues on duodenal HCO3- secretion in fed rats with effects in rats exposed to short (overnight) food deprivation. Rats were anesthetized with thiobarbiturate, a 12-mm segment of proximal duodenum with intact blood supply was cannulated in situ, and the alkaline secretion was titrated by pH stat. Secretagogues were supplied specifically to the duodenum by close intra-arterial infusion. Orexin A (60-600 pmol x kg(-1) x h(-1)) caused marked and dose-dependent stimulation of the duodenal secretion in fed animals but did not affect secretion in overnight food-deprived animals. Similarly, short fasting caused a 100-fold increase in the amount of the muscarinic agonist bethanechol (from 50 to 5,000 nmol x kg(-1) x h(-1)) required for stimulation of the secretion. In contrast, the secretory responses to VIP (50-1,000 pmol x kg(-1) x h(-1)) and melatonin (20-200 nmol x kg(-1) x h(-1)) were not affected. The appetite-regulating peptide orexin A is thus a stimulant of intestinal secretion, but the response to this peptide as well as the muscarinic agonist bethanechol is markedly dependent on previous intake of food. Overnight fasting is a standard experimental procedure in studies of gastrointestinal function and pathophysiology in humans and animals. Studies made on neuroendocrine control of intestinal secretion may require reevaluation with respect to feeding status.
To evaluate the role of C1 neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) in cardiovascular regulation, we studied rats in which this cell group was destroyed by the injection of anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-saporin into the RVLM. These immunotoxin injections resulted in 32-99% depletion of the RVLM-C1 neurons and approximately 50% depletion of the A5 cell population. In conscious rats with large (&gt;80%) depletion of the RVLM-C1 cell population, resting arterial pressure was approximately 10 mmHg lower than in control injected rats, although heart rate was not significantly different. Similar results were observed when arterial pressure was recorded in urethan-anesthetized rats, although under anesthesia, heart rate was also reduced in rats with large (&gt;80%) depletion of the RVLM-C1 neuronal population. Sympathoexcitatory responses to baroreceptor unloading, chemoreceptor activation, and electrical stimulation of sciatic nerve afferent fibers were attenuated in rats with &gt;80% depletion of the RVLM-C1 cell population. These effects of RVLM-C1 plus A5 cell populations were not mimicked by either smaller lesions of the RVLM-C1 population or by selective destruction of the A5 cell population with 6-hydroxydopamine. Sympathoinhibitory responses such as decreases in arterial pressure and heart rate evoked by injection of GABA into the RVLM or by intravenous phenylbiguanide administration were not altered by RVLM-C1 plus A5 cell depletion. These data suggest that RVLM-C1 cells contribute to the maintenance of baseline arterial pressure and play an integral role in sympathoexcitatory responses.
This review has focused on the evidence for the involvement of nitrative oxidation in certain neurodegenerative disorders (Parkinson's Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis), stroke, and inflammatory and autoimmune disorders (with particular attention devoted to multiple sclerosis). The relationship between protein peroxidation and pathological changes observed in the above disorders has been reported. Whereas many of the findings are from studies with animal models and autoptic specimens from human patients, few data are available from cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples of the patients at different times and disease stages. The participation of nitrative oxidation to the direct and indirect injury of neurons and other cells of the brain (i.e., oligodendrocytes, for multiple sclerosis) is clear; less evident is their relevance for the development and progression of these disorders.Further studies should be aimed to establish the clinical and prognostic value of peroxidative markers for the CNS diseases considered. This is fundamental for the development of therapeutic interventions antagonizing nitric oxide-related species damage.
Thiols (RSH) are potent nucleophilic agents, the rates of which depend on the pKa of the sulfhydryl. Unlike compounds having other nucleophile moieties (-OH or -NH(2)), RSH are involved in reactions, such as conjugations, redox and exchange reactions. Although protein SH groups (PSH) react like non-protein thiols (NPSH), the biochemistry of proteins is much more complex for reasons such as steric hindrance, charge distribution and accessibility of PSH to the solvent (protein conformation). The reaction rates and types of end-products of PSH vary a lot from protein to protein. The biological problem is even more complex because in all compartments and tissues, there may be specific competition between thiols (namely between GSH and PSH), regulated by the properties of antioxidant enzymes. Moreover, PSH are divided biologically into essential and non-essential and their respective influence in the various biological systems is unknown. It follows that during phenomena eliciting a prompt thiol response (oxidative stress), the antioxidant PSH response and reaction mechanisms vary considerably from case to case. For example, in spite of a relatively low pKa that should guarantee good antioxidant capacity, PSH of albumin has much less propensity to form adducts with conjugating agents than NPSH; moreover, the structural characteristics of the protein prevent albumin from forming protein disulfides when exposed to oxidants (whereas protein-thiol mixed disulfides are formed in relative abundance). On the other hand, proteins with a relatively high reactivity, such rat hemoglobin, have much greater antioxidant capacity than GSH, but although human hemoglobin has a pKa similar to GSH, for structural reasons it has less antioxidant capacity than GSH. When essential PSH are involved in S-thiolation and S-nitrosation reactions, a similar change in biological activity is observed. S-thiolated proteins are a recurrent phenomenon in oxidative stress elicited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). This event may be mediated by disulfides, that exchange with PSH, or by the protein intermediate sulfenic acid that reacts with thiols to form protein-mixed disulfides. During nitrosative stress elicited by reactive nitrogen species (RNS), depending on the oxygen concentration of the system, nitrosation reactions of thiols may also be accompanied by protein S-thiolation. In this review we discuss a number of cell processes and biochemical modifications of enzymes that indicate that S-thiolation and S-nitrosation may occur simultaneously in the same protein in the presence of appropriate interactions between ROS and RNS.
Stereological studies are more and more frequent in literature, particularly in the development/evolution, pathology, and neurosciences areas. The stereology challenge is to understand the structural inner three-dimensional arrangement based on the analysis of the structure slices only showing two-dimensional information. Cavalieri and Scherle's methods to estimate volume, and Buffon's needle problem, are commented in the stereological context. A group of actions is needed to appropriately quantify morphological structures (unbiased and reproducibly), e.g. sampling, isotropic and uniform randomly sections (Delesse's principle), and updated stereological tools (disector, fractionator, nucleator, etc). Through the correct stereology use, a quantitative study with little effort could be performed: efficiency in stereology means a minimum slices sample counting (little work), low cost (slices preparation), but good accuracy. In the present text, a short review of the main stereological tools is done as a background basis to non-expert scientists.
The voltammetric responses of carbon-fiber microelectrodes with a 1.0 V and a 1.4 V anodic limit were compared in this study. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry was used to characterize the response to dopamine and several other neurochemicals. An increase in the adsorption properties of the carbon fiber leads to an increase in sensitivity of 9 fold in vivo. However the temporal response of the sensor is slower with the more positive anodic limit. Increased electron transfer kinetics also causes a decrease in the relative sensitivity for dopamine vs. other neurochemicals, and a change in their cyclic voltammograms. Stimulated release in the caudate-putamen was pharmacologically characterized in vivo using Ro-04-1284 and pargyline, and was consistent with that expected for dopamine.
Nitric oxide is an unconventional transmitter since it is not transported and released by exocytosis. In the pituitary gland, nitric oxide is locally synthesised by gonadotroph and folliculo-stellate cells. Dopamine, the principal central inhibitory signal in prolactin release, may exert its inhibitory effects by stimulation of nitric oxide production. However, the effects of dopaminergic modulation on nitric oxide-producing pituitary cells have not been analysed. Therefore, we examined the effects of intraventricular administration of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (40 microg) on the pituitary expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in male adult rats. In untreated and control animals, nNOS-positive cells were very similar. Two types of nNOS-positive cells appeared in the pars distalis: round or polygonal cells and stellate cells. Although some isolated cells were found, the nNOS-positive cells commonly appeared grouped in clusters close to blood vessels. nNOS immunoreactivity appeared as a uniform staining throughout the cytoplasm, including cell prolongations. The number and size of nNOS-expressing cells in the pituitary gland decreased significantly after treatment with haloperidol (p&lt;0.01). To evaluate the potential direct effect of dopamine on pituitary cells, pituitary monolayer cultures were treated with dopamine during a time-course of 12 h. Our in vitro studies revealed that dopamine increases the percentage of nNOS-positive cells and augments cellular area (p&lt;0.05). These results demonstrate that: (1) treatment of rats in vivo with a dopamine antagonist significantly decreases expression of nNOS in the pituitary and (2) in vitro dopamine exerts a direct effect on pituitary cultures by increasing nNOS-positive cells. Thus, these findings suggest that dopamine may function as a physiological stimulator of nNOS expression in the rat pituitary gland.
The adductor hallucis muscle (ADH) is evolutionally and functionally important, but no detailed morphological data about this muscle in the human body is available. In the present study, we examined the origin and insertion of the oblique and transverse heads of the ADH. Forty-five feet (20 right, 25 left) of 34 cadavers (13 men, 21 women, average age of 80 years old) were used in the present study. The origin, insertion and nerve supplies of the oblique and transverse heads of the ADH were macroscopically examined in detail. Most commonly, the oblique head of the ADH arose from the bases of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th metatarsal bones, the plantar metatarsal ligaments spanned between the bases of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th metatarsal bones, the lateral cuneiform bone, the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle and the long plantar ligament, and inserted into the lateral sesamoid bone of the great toe and the capsule of the 1st metatarsophalangeal joint. Most commonly, the transverse head of the ADH originated from the capsules of the 3rd and 4th (and occasionally 5th) metatarsophalangeal joint and the deep transverse metatarsal ligaments, and inserted into the lateral sesamoid bone of the great toe, the capsule of the 1st metatarsophalangeal joint and lateral surface of the base of the 1st proximal phalanx. This muscle was classified into four types based on the origin of its oblique head and was classified into three types based on the origin of its transverse head. The percent ratio of the weight of the oblique head to the total weight of all the intrinsic muscles of the foot was 9.4% +/- 1.5, and the transverse head was 1.5% +/- 0.6 (n = 14). The transverse head of ADH tends to be reduced in size in the human, but the oblique head is well developed with no sign of reduction.
Drugs of abuse induce the release of dopamine in the central nervous system, particularly in the mesolimbic-mesocortical pathway. As dopamine may act as a neurotoxin, in this study, we analyzed the effects of the drugs of abuse, cocaine, heroin, and amphetamine, on the neurodegeneration of PC12 cells, a dopaminergic cell line, by evaluating the activity of caspase-3 and mitochondrial cytochrome c release. All the drugs were shown to induce caspase-3 activation, similarly to staurosporine, a classical inducer of apoptotic cell death. Furthermore, like staurosporine, the drugs of abuse induced a decrease in mitochondrial cytochrome c content, suggesting the involvement of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.
This study sought to identify the RV protein that causes apoptosis. For this purpose, we first compared the ability of G and N proteins of a pathogenic and a nonpathogenic strain to trigger apoptosis of Jurkat rtTA by using an inducible Tet-on expression system. Then we analyzed apoptosis induced by a reverse genetic-engineered recombinant rabies virus in which the G gene from a nonpathogenic strain was replaced by its pathogenic strain counterpart. No other virus proteins than G of nonpathogenic RV strains induce apoptosis, and the G polypeptide of RV is a critical determinant for apoptosis in human cells.
In this study, we analyzed the effect of Bcl-2 overexpression, an important anti-apoptotic protein, by using two hypothalamic cell lines, GT1-7puro or GT1-7bcl-2. 3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP) mediated a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability in GT1-7puro cells, as determined by following the MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) reduction, which was significantly prevented in GT1-7bcl-2 cells. In addition, activation of caspases-2, -3, and -6 induced by 3-NP was prevented by Bcl-2 overexpression. The data suggest that irreversible inhibition of mitochondrial complex II induces apoptotic features of cell death in a process prevented by Bcl-2.
Diabetes activates all three groups of MAP kinases in sensory ganglia. Inhibition of this activation for the ERK and p38 groups prevents nerve damage, and agents that improve neuronal function in diabetic rats-antioxidants and aldose reductase inhibitors-also inhibit activation of ERK and p38 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG). However, these same treatments consistently increase activation of JNK. Thus, in DRG from rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes of 12-week duration, the p54/56 isoforms of JNK were activated by 2.75 compared to controls (P &lt;.05). In DRG from diabetic rats treated with a gamma-linolenic acid and alpha-lipoic acid diester (GLA/LA), the activity of the p54/56 isoform was 3.75 that of controls and the p46 isoform was also increased to 1.75 that of controls (both P &lt;.05 compared to both controls and untreated diabetics). We therefore tested the hypothesis that JNK activation is protective. Exposure of rats to diabetes increased activation of JNK in DRG, but treatment with GLA/LA increased this effect (P &lt;.05). Specific inhibition of JNK in primary cultures of DRG neurons using a peptide inhibitor of JNK (JNKi1, 159-600-R100, 7.5 micro M, Alexis Biochemicals) increased the release of LDH and reduced MTT staining; both findings indicate an increase in neuronal damage. Taken together these findings indicate that multiple isoforms of JNK were activated in sensory neurons of diabetic rats, probably by a combination of raised glucose and oxidative stress, and that this activation of JNK serves to protect the neurons from damage.
Moxonidine is a mixed alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline receptor agonist with an improved side effect profile compared to clonidine. Intrathecal (i.t.) moxonidine has been found to possess analgesic activity that, in contrast to the majority of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor (alpha(2)AR) agonists, does not require activation of the alpha(2A)AR subtype, which mediates many of the side effects associated with alpha(2)AR use. In addition, moxonidine (i.t.) interacts in a synergistic manner with opioid agonists and this synergy is retained in neuropathic pain states. Moxonidine may therefore be clinically useful in the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain, either alone or as a coadjuvant with opioids.
Rodent maternal separation and primate rearing environment paradigms demonstrate that early disturbances in caregiving that sensitize stress-responsive neurocircuits may play a role in the etiology of mood disorders. Psychosocial studies document the importance of adverse early experiences in the risk for psychopathology. The time is ripe for integrating the animal neuroscience and human psychosocial research on early experiences and stress. Based on work by the National Institute of Mental Health Early Experience, Stress Neurobiology Prevention Science research network, findings in the human literature that are consistent with those in animal models are reviewed. In addition, however, anomalous findings and the challenge they pose in translating the basic neuroscience findings to human development are also discussed.
Irritability is an important symptom in childhood psychopathology that has received relatively little research attention. Recent controversy concerning the diagnosis of mania in children has focused attention on how little is known about how to assess irritability in a systematic way, and about its diagnostic associations. For example, subtyping irritability according to course (chronic vs. episodic), precipitants, and family history may facilitate the identification of psychopathology and the study of pathophysiology. While normative and pathologic irritability can be differentiated reliably, the validity of the distinction is unclear. In addition, there is a need for scales designed to measure the severity of irritability in children with mood and anxiety disorders. In order to facilitate research, we propose a definition of irritability from the perspective of affective neuroscience. Because reactive aggression may be a helpful animal model for irritability, we review the neural circuitry mediating this behavior. Behavioral paradigms that evoke frustration, as well as those that assess the ability to inhibit a prepotent motor response, maintain attentional focus, execute response reversal, recognize angry faces, and regulate emotional responses, may be useful in the study of irritability. Examples of such paradigms are described, and the pharmacology of irritability is reviewed briefly.
Some discussion of the development of affect regulation in relation to two papers by Drs. Kalin and Leibenluft is provided. The goals are to frame the broader issues, including the conceptualization and definitions of affect regulation, to address questions about the development of affect regulation, and to consider ways to bridge between basic and clinical approaches to understanding disorders of affect regulation emerging in childhood and adolescence. The conceptual framework for affect regulation presented here focuses on interactions between cognitive systems and affective systems. It also appears that this area of research is at a very early point in its development-one rich with opportunities to bridge between basic research in affective neuroscience, developmental psychology, and developmental psychopathology, and holds great promise to advance understanding regarding the earliest roots of these disorders.
Significant state and national policy initiatives are focusing on strategies for financing and structuring the delivery of evidence-based services for children. These initiatives reflect, in part, an increased awareness of and respect for scientific standards about effective treatments and services. At the same time, major studies of system reform and organizational behavior are calling into question the effectiveness of current practices and identifying the complexities of taking science-based services to scale. Four major policy initiatives are described and the implications of scientific developments within the basic neurosciences for improving policy, practice, and service in children's mental health is discussed.
After summarizing the main points raised in articles by Kaslow et al. and Plotsk, a number of questions that derive from these authors' work are listed. Additional questions are then posed, the answers to which will likely facilitate one's ability to translate animal models of child psychopathology into human terms. After summarizing the various advantages and disadvantages to models using mice, rats, and monkeys, several examples of recent research that have attempted to meld animal models with human studies are described.
Advances in the treatment of mental illness depend, in part, on the elimination of barriers to the use of new basic research findings. Some of the barriers originate in the different research perspectives adopted by clinical and basic researchers. Clinical research is driven by the need to recruit and examine classes of individuals, and so the conceptual framework focuses largely on categories of disorders. Basic researchers, including psychologists and behavioral neuroscientists, investigate fundamental features of behavior such as emotion regulation, attention, or arousal; therefore, disorders are commonly approached from a &quot;dimensional&quot; framework. In the broadest sense dimensions are those features that are common to multiple disorders. Categories are an effort to draw distinctions among disorders. The differences between these frameworks, and the perspectives held among clinicians and basic scientists, are not dichotomous. Many clinicians investigate fundamental aspects of pathophysiology and behavior that apply to multiple disorders, and many basic researchers are developing animal &quot;models&quot; of categorical disorders. It is timely and important to examine these approaches critically, and to work toward formulating perspectives that capture the strengths of each group of researchers so that their common goal of translating research findings into treatments for childhood mental health disorders is strengthened.

Fluorescence digital imaging microscopy was used to develop a method that allows the continuous monitoring and quantitative measurement of a single myelin internode throughout its development. Using this technique, steroid hormones such as progesterone and dexamethasone were shown to reduce the time required for the initiation and to regulate the rate of myelin synthesis. Progesterone was capable of increasing the rate of myelin synthesis in Schwann cell/neuronal co-cultures in a dose-dependent manner. RT-PCR and in situ hydridization studies revealed that the mRNAs for P450scc and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, the enzymes involved in progesterone biosynthesis, were induced at the onset of myelin synthesis. The progesterone receptor protein translocated into the nucleus of the neurons during myelin synthesis, suggesting that progesterone could also be affecting neuronal gene expression. Changes in gene expression caused by progesterone are being examined to identify additional factors that may control myelin formation.
The role of steroid hormones as a conduit for reciprocal glial-neuronal communication is an emerging but relatively unexplored concept. Research in our laboratory has discovered that the relationship between astrocytic and neuronal morphology during development is distinct for different brain regions and provides a fundamental basis for region-specific sexual differentiation. The functional significance of estradiol-induced differentiation of astrocytes and the cross-talk of these cells with neurons includes permanent changes in synaptic patterning and control of adult reproductive behaviors. The cellular mechanisms as currently understood for each region are discussed and unanswered questions as well as other areas for future research are reviewed.
The classical view of steroid-dependent organization of brain and behavior holds that gonadal steroid hormones, acting during an early critical period of development, cause permanent structural changes in neural circuits that determine behavioral responses to hormones in adulthood. This classical view has been modified to incorporate evidence that organizational effects of steroids can occur outside of the established perinatal critical period and that multiple critical periods may exist during development. Experiments in this laboratory indicate that steroid-dependent organization of neural circuits underlying male social behaviors occurs during puberty. This work shows that adult-typical reproductive and flank marking behaviors cannot be activated by gonadal steroids in male Syrian hamsters prior to puberty, suggesting that developmentally timed processes during puberty render the nervous system responsive to activating effects of gonadal steroids in adulthood. Additional experiments demonstrate that the presence or absence of gonadal hormones during puberty is a major factor in the ability of steroids to activate reproductive and flank marking behavior in adult male hamsters and in androgen receptor expression within the neural circuit underlying these behaviors. Thus, gonadal hormones during puberty appear to exert long-lasting changes in neural circuits that are responsible for the programming of activational responses to steroids later in adulthood. A two-stage model for maturation of male social behaviors is proposed: a perinatal critical period for sexual differentiation of neural circuits, followed by the pubertal period, during which gonadal steroids further organize the circuits to enhance behavioral responsiveness to hormones in adulthood. Whether puberty is a critical period for the proposed second wave of steroid-dependent organization of behavioral circuits remains to be determined.
The ovarian steroids estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P) act on target neurons in the hypothalamus and preoptic area to coordinate the expression of female reproductive behaviors with the timing of the preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. This chapter will summarize evidence that E(2) and P facilitation of the receptive component of female reproductive behavior, lordosis, involves changes in both the expression of and intracellular signal transduction pathways engaged by alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors in the hypothalamus and preoptic area. The alpha(1)-adrenoceptors are thought to mediate the facilitatory effects of the catecholamine neurotransmitter norepinephrine on both lordosis behavior and LH release. E(2) first induces the expression of the alpha(1B)-adrenergic receptor subtype in the hypothalamus and preoptic area. P then acts in an E(2)-dependent manner to promote linkage of hypothalamic alpha(1)-adrenoceptors to an intracellular signaling pathway involving nitric oxide and cyclic GMP. This chapter will also describe recent findings that implicate brain insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptors as obligatory co-mediators of hormonal regulation of hypothalamic alpha(1)-adrenoceptors and female neuroendocrine function. Additional studies suggest that E(2) and IGF-I facilitate lordosis behavior by activating kinases traditionally associated with growth factor signal transduction (mitogen-activated protein kinases and phosphatidlyinositol-3-kinases). These molecular events are proposed to help coordinate the timing of ovulation with the expression of sexual receptivity, thereby maximizing reproductive success.
The elaboration of in vitro paradigms has enabled direct study of GnRH secretion and the regulation of this process. Common findings using different models are the pulsatile nature and calcium-dependency of GnRH secretion, the excitatory effect of glutamate, and the inhibitory or excitatory effect of GABA. Among the different paradigms, the fetal olfactory placode cultures exhibit the unique property of migration in vitro and may retain the capacity to undergo maturational changes in vitro. The short-term incubation of hypothalamic explants obtained at different ages enables one to study developmental changes as well. Estrogens may have important roles in the regulation of GnRH function and can act indirectly via the neighboring neuronal/glial apparatus and directly on GnRH neurons at the cell body and terminal levels. A direct effect is supported by the recent localization of ERalpha and ERbeta transcripts in GnRH neurons using most paradigms. Discrepant effects of estrogens on GnRH neurons were observed since GnRH biosynthesis is inhibited while GnRH secretion can be either stimulated, unaffected, or reduced. It is likely that the regulatory role of sex steroids including estradiol is very complex since it could involve direct and indirect effects on GnRH neurons through genomic and/or non-genomic mechanisms.
There are 750,000 new cases of stroke each year in the United States, and brain damage from stroke leads to high health care costs and disabilities. Needed, but currently not available, are therapies that can be administered prior to, during, or after cerebral ischemia that reduce or eliminate neuronal damage from stroke. To address this issue, we began to assess the neuroprotective effects of estrogens and related compounds in stroke neuroprotection to determine whether these compounds had potential for clinical application. First, we demonstrated that 17 beta-estradiol (E2) pretreatment exerted potent neuroprotection of the cerebral cortex over a wide dose range and pretreatment interval. Thereafter, we assessed the ability of a variety of non-feminizing estrogens to protect brain tissue from stroke. We observed that pretreatment with 17 alpha-estradiol, the complete enantiomer of E2 (ENT-E2), 2-adamantylestrone, and the enantiomer of 17-desoxyestradiol, were as effective as E2 in pretreatment protection from stroke damage. These data suggest that non-estrogen receptor mechanisms are involved in brain neuroprotection under our treatment conditions. We then determined whether the observed E2 protection could be extended to times after the onset of the cerebral ischemic event. Using a formulation of E2 that rapidly delivers the steroid, a necessary condition for acute therapy of an ongoing stroke, we demonstrated that 100 mg E2/kg could protect brain tissue for up to 3 h after the onset of the stroke. To determine whether this therapeutic window could be extended with higher doses of the steroid, we conducted a dose-response assessment of E2 when administered at 6 h after the onset of the ischemic event. While the effectiveness of the 100 micro g E2/kg was reduced at this time interval, higher doses of E2 were effective. E2, at doses of 500 and 1000 micro g/kg, reduced infarct volume by more than 50%, even with this 6-h delay in treatment. Collectively, these data indicate that estrogens could prove to be useful therapies in preventing brain damage from strokes.
Compelling evidence now exists for estrogen's involvement in the regulation of mood and cognitive functions. Serum estrogen levels have been shown to play an important role in the expression of psychiatric disorders such as depression and schizophrenia. We have characterized the distribution of the estrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta, in the human brain and showed a preferential limbic-related expression pattern for these transcripts. The ERalpha mRNA dominates in the amygdala and hypothalamus, suggesting estrogen modulation of autonomic and neuroendocrine as well as emotional functions. In contrast, the hippocampal formation, entorhinal cortex, and thalamus appear to be ERbeta-dominant areas, suggesting a role for ERbeta in cognition, non-emotional memory, and motor functions. The role of estradiol can also be examined in regard to its relationship to other neurotransmitter systems known to be linked to specific psychiatric disorders. Estradiol has been shown to regulate the serotonin (5-HT) system, which has been strongly implicated in affective disorders. We have studied a genetic animal model of depression, and found altered 5-HT receptor mRNA levels in discrete brain regions; many of the abnormalities are reversed by estradiol treatment, especially for the 5-HT(2A) receptor subtype. The norepinephrine (NE) system is, similar to serotonin, a target for antidepressant drugs, and projects to mesocorticolimbic structures implicated in mood disorders. We have recently observed that NE neurons in the human locus coeruleus (LC) express moderate levels of both ER transcripts. The possibility of estrogen's regulating LC function has been documented in animal studies. Results from our preliminary experiments have revealed that the ERbeta mRNA is decreased in persons committing suicide, a cause of death that is highly linked to affective disorder. Follow-up studies are currently under way with a much larger population to validate these results. Overall, the discrete anatomical organization of the ER mRNAs in the human brain provide evidence as to the specific neuronal populations in which the actions of ERs could modulate mood and thus underlie the neuropathology of psychiatric disorders such as depression.
5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) mediates lordosis of rodents. If fluoxetine's effects on lordosis are mediated in part by midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP, then fluoxetine regimens that decrease and increase lordosis would be expected to respectively lower and elevate midbrain 3alpha,5-THP levels. Experiment 1: Ovariectomized (ovx) rats received estradiol benzoate (EB; 5 micro g, SC) at 0 and 24 h and fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, IP) or vehicle 30 min before sex testing and tissue collection. Other rats received fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, IP) or vehicle for 15 days followed by EB-priming and testing. Systemic acute or chronic fluoxetine significantly decreased lordosis and midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels compared to vehicle. Experiment 2: Ovx rats with unilateral cannula to the VTA were primed with EB (5 micro g; 0, 24 h) and/or progesterone (0 or 100 micro g; 44 h, SC). At 47.5 h, fluoxetine (3.6 mM) or vehicle was infused to the VTA. At 48 h, rats were tested. Administering fluoxetine to the VTA significantly increased lordosis and midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels compared to vehicle infusions. Experiment 3: Ovx EB-primed rats were tested prior to, and 30 min after, treatmemt with acute fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, IP). Rats were then infused with 3alpha,5alpha-THP (100 ng) or vehicle to the VTA and were retested. 3alpha,5alpha-THP, but not vehicle, to the VTA reversed acute fluoxetine's inhibitory effects on lordosis. Together, these data suggest fluoxetine may alter lordosis in part through actions of 3alpha-THP in the midbrain.
Nongenomic gonadal steroid feedback to oxytocin containing neurons in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus is mediated via the neurosteroid allopregnanolone (3alpha-OH-DHP) that acts as an allosteric modulator of the postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors. We found evidence to support the idea that neurosteroids not only potentiate GABA(A) receptor function but also prevent its suppression by PKC. In addition, we found that neurosteroid sensitivity of GABA(A) receptor itself is dependent on the balance between endogenous phosphatase and PKC activity and not, as previously suggested, on subunit composition changes of the GABA(A) receptor. These data imply that native GABA(A) receptors are only sensitive to 3alpha-OH-DHP if there is endogenous phosphatase activity. In contrast, when, due to endogenous release of oxytocin in the hypothalamus, the intracellular balance is shifted from high phosphatase activity toward a higher level of PKC-dependent phosphorylation, this leads to 3alpha-OH-DHP-insensitivity of the GABA(A) receptors. How the regulatory mechanisms of the GABA(A) receptor physiology for the hypothalamus may also account for alterations in GABA transmission observed in other brain areas is discussed.


The amygdala is a distinctive portion of the anterior temporal lobe that has been implicated in a variety of functions including expression of fear, modulation of memory, and mediation of social communication. While work on the rodent amygdala often deals with emotion, much of the research in nonhuman primates and in man deals with its role in the perception of social signals, such as facial expressions, and the maintenance of social position, such as in primate dominance hierarchies. We have established a program of research that has as its major goal the definition of neural systems that underlie species-typical social communication. A first phase of the program was launched on the premise that the amygdala is essential for species-typical social behavior. We sought to examine in more detail the impairments of social behavior that followed discrete, bilateral lesions of the amygdala. We found, however, that mature rhesus monkeys with bilateral lesions of the amygdala not only were capable of species-typical social behavior, but actually engaged in more affiliative social interactions. The lesioned animals also demonstrated a striking lack of fear of normally fear-inducing stimuli such as replicas of snakes. In a second, ongoing series of studies in the infant rhesus monkey, we are examining whether the amygdala is essential for gaining social knowledge during development. Infant animals that receive bilateral lesions of the amygdala at two weeks of age and are raised by their biological mothers demonstrate all expected social behaviors for their ages. These animals, like the adults, demonstrate a lack of fear of objects such as snakes. However, unlike the adults, they demonstrate more fear when placed into novel social situations. The results from these studies are most consistent with the conclusion that the amygdala is not necessary for species-typical social behavior or for gaining social knowledge during development. We hypothesize that the amygdala is a critical component of a system that evaluates the environment for potential dangers. As such, it has a modulatory role on social behavior-that is, it typically inhibits social interaction with novel conspecifics while they are evaluated as potential adversaries. This perspective predicts that hyperactivity of the amygdala would be associated with increased fear or anxiety and may contribute to disorders such as social phobia.
The amyloid-beta protein precursor, a type 1 transmembrane protein, gives rise to the amyloid beta-protein, a neurotoxic peptide postulated to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we show that soluble amyloid beta protein accelerates amyloid precursor protein complex formation, a process that contributes to neuronal cell death. The mechanism of cell death involves the recruitment of caspase-8 to the complex, followed by intracytoplasmic caspase cleavage of amyloid precursor protein. In vivo, the levels of soluble amyloid beta protein correlated with caspase-cleaved fragments of the amyloid precursor protein in brains of Alzheimer's disease subjects. These findings suggest that soluble amyloid beta protein-induced multimerization of the amyloid precursor protein may be another mechanism by which amyloid beta protein contributes to synapse loss and neuronal cell death seen in Alzheimer's disease.
Brief focal ischemia leading to temporary neurological deficits induces delayed hyperintensity on T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the striatum of humans and rats. The T1 hyperintensity may stem from biochemical alterations including manganese (Mn) accumulation after ischemia. To clarify the significance of this MRI modification, we investigated the changes in the dorsolateral striatum of rats from 4 hours through 16 weeks after a 15-minute period of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), for MRI changes, Mn concentration, neuronal number, reactivities of astrocytes and microglia/macrophages, mitochondrial Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), glutamine synthetase (GS), and amyloid precursor protein. The cognitive and behavioral studies were performed in patients and rats and compared with striatal T1 hyperintensity to show whether alteration in brain function correlated with MRI and histological changes. The T1-weighted MRI signal intensity of the dorsolateral striatum increased from 5 days to 4 weeks after 15-minute MCAO, and subsequently decreased until 16 weeks. The Mn concentration of the dorsolateral striatum increased after ischemia in concert with induction of Mn-SOD and GS in reactive astrocytes. The neuronal survival ratio in the dorsolateral striatum decreased significantly from 4 hours through 16 weeks, accompanied by extracellular amyloid precursor protein accumulation and chronic glial/inflammatory responses. The patients and rats with neuroradiological striatal degeneration had late-onset cognitive and/or behavioral declines after brief focal ischemia. This study suggests that (1) the hyperintensity on T1-weighted MRI after mild ischemia may involve tissue Mn accumulation accompanied by Mn-SOD and GS induction in reactive astrocytes, (2) the MRI changes correspond to striatal neurodegeneration with a chronic inflammatory response and signs of oxidative stress, and (3) the subjects with these MRI changes are at risk for showing a late impairment of brain function even though the transient ischemia is followed by total neurological recovery.

We used ELISPOT and cell ELISA to study secretion of IL-4, IFN-gamma, TGF-beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha by circulating mononuclear cells during the course of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Compared to healthy controls, patients with GBS had higher numbers of TGF-beta-secreting cells and the number of individuals with myelin-peptide-induced IL-4 and TGF-beta secretion was higher in the GBS group. No significant differences were seen concerning the predominantly pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-6 or TNF-alpha. Our findings indicate a down-regulatory role for TGF-beta and IL-4 in GBS.
Transfection of PC12 pheochromocytoma cells with bcl-2 potentiates apoptosis induced by the antimitotic agent, neocarzinostatin (NCS). The mechanism of potentiation involves caspase 3-dependent cleavage of Bcl-2 to its pro-apoptotic counterpart, but the cellular events proximal to caspase 3 activation in this system are not known. Two min after initiation of NCS treatment, Bax begins to translocate from cytosol to the mitochondria; the mitochondrial localization of Bax persists for 30 min after NCS treatment. At the same time, cytochrome C is released from the mitochondria to cytosol. The mitochondrial membrane potential exhibits differential change in mock- and bcl-2 -transfected PC12 cells. In mock-transfected PC12 cells, the mitochondrial membrane potential increases immediately, peaks at 15 min following initiation of NCS treatment, and drops thereafter. In contrast, in bcl-2 -transfected PC12 cells, the membrane potential drops immediately following NCS treatment. Caspase 9 is activated and peaks at 10 min in both mock- and bcl-2 transfected PC12 cells, however, the peak activity of caspase 9 is higher and caspase 9 activation lasts longer (30 min) after the treatment in bcl-2 transfectants. Not until 30 min after initiation of a 1 h treatment with NCS is Bcl-2 protein cleaved in bcl-2 -transfected cells. Thus, in bcl-2 -transfected cells, the mitochondrial membrane potential drops and cytochrome C is released from the mitochondria despite the presence of large amounts of intact mitochondrial Bcl-2. This makes it unlikely that cleavage of Bcl-2 is the only factor involved in potentiation of NCS-induced apoptosis by Bcl-2.
The NARC 1 gene encodes a novel proteinase K family proteinase. The domain structure of rat Narc 1 resembles that of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertases (SPCs), except that rNarc 1 lacks the canonical P-domain of SPCs, retaining only the RGD motif as part of what might be a cryptically functioning P-domain. Narc 1 undergoes autocatalytic intramolecular processing at the site LVFAQ/, resulting in the cleavage of its prosegment and the generation of an active proteinase with a broad alkaline pH optimum and no apparent calcium requirement for activity. Both primary and secondary structural determinants influence Narc 1 substrate recognition. Our functional characterization of Narc 1 reinforces the inference drawn from the analysis of its predicted structure that this enzyme is most closely related to representatives of the proteinase K family, but that it is also sufficiently different to warrant its possible classification in a separate sub-family.

Parkinson disease (PD) is a progressive degenerative neurological disorder characterized by resting tremor, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, and postural instability.1 In the later stages, approximately 25% or more of patients develop cognitive compromise. The cardinal pathological features of PD are degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and their axons, which project principally to the caudate and putamen, and the presence of eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusions, Lewy bodies.2-3 Although the loss of neurons is most conspicuous in the substantia nigra pars compacta, neuronal loss and/or Lewy bodies are found in other brain regions (eg, the locus coeruleus, entorhinal region, and amygdala),2 which suggests that treatments that target only the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, though they may substantially benefit patients, are unlikely to completely resolve the deficits of PD.
Valuing and promoting quality of life after stroke is an essential component of practice for neuroscience nurses and other clinicians working in rehabilitation settings. Although some research studies have addressed factors that contribute to quality of life post-stroke, the majority of studies have focused on stroke survivors, not their spouses. Additionally, little attention has been given to family strengths associated with quality of life. In this paper, the investigator presents the findings of a recent descriptive, correlational study that was based on the conceptual framework of the Developmental Model of Health and Nursing (DMHN) (Allen &amp; Warner, 2002; Ford-Gilboe, 2002a). This was the first study to examine the relationships among hope, family health promoting activity, and quality of life. The study was conducted with a convenience sample of 40 stroke survivors with moderate to severe functional impairments and their spouses. Participants had completed a rehabilitation program. Spouses' employment status, number of supports, and functional independence at discharge were common predictors of quality of life for both partners. However, hope was found to contribute to quality of life of stroke survivors, but not their spouses. The different patterns of findings are discussed and the key implications for clinical and research practice are addressed.

High temporal resolution event-related brain potential and electroencephalographic coherence studies of the neural substrate of short-term storage in working memory indicate that the sustained coactivation of both prefrontal cortex and the posterior cortical systems that participate in the initial perception and comprehension of the retained information are involved in its storage. These studies further show that short-term storage mechanisms involve an increase in neural synchrony between prefrontal cortex and posterior cortex and the enhanced activation of long-term memory representations of material held in short-term memory. This activation begins during the encoding/comprehension phase and evidently is prolonged into the retention phase by attentional drive from prefrontal cortex control systems. A parsimonious interpretation of these findings is that the long-term memory systems associated with the posterior cortical processors provide the necessary representational basis for working memory, with the property of short-term memory decay being primarily due to the posterior system. In this view, there is no reason to posit specialized neural systems whose functions are limited to those of short-term storage buffers. Prefrontal cortex provides the attentional pointer system for maintaining activation in the appropriate posterior processing systems. Short-term memory capacity and phenomena such as displacement of information in short-term memory are determined by limitations on the number of pointers that can be sustained by the prefrontal control systems.
The goal of this study is to reintegrate the theory of generative grammar into the cognitive sciences. Generative grammar was right to focus on the child's acquisition of language as its central problem, leading to the hypothesis of an innate Universal Grammar. However, generative grammar was mistaken in assuming that the syntactic component is the sole course of combinatoriality, and that everything else is &quot;interpretive.&quot; The proper approach is a parallel architecture, in which phonology, syntax, and semantics are autonomous generative systems linked by interface components. The parallel architecture leads to an integration within linguistics, and to a far better integration with the rest of cognitive neuroscience. It fits naturally into the larger architecture of the mind/brain and permits a properly mentalistic theory of semantics. It results in a view of linguistic performance in which the rules of grammar are directly involved in processing. Finally, it leads to a natural account of the incremental evolution of the language capacity.
Advances in molecular pharmacology and behavioral science have helped elucidate the structure and function of the central nervous system and its relationship to behavior and has sparked the development of pharmacological agents that have increasingly selective and potent effects with fewer adverse side effects. The sensitivity and predictive validity of the two most commonly used methodologies for assessing the neuropharmacological effects of centrally active drugs, subject report of drug effects and drug discrimination, were examined. The sensitivity of the measures was comparable across stimulant, sedative, and opioid drugs. Results with drug-discrimination methodologies were generally consistent with hypothesized neuropharmacological mechanisms across all drug classes, whereas subject reports conformed under more limited testing conditions. Firm conclusions regarding the relative utility of drug-discrimination and subject-report measures for clinical studies of neuropharmacological mechanisms are limited by the small number of studies in which the two methodologies have been tested using identical pharmacological pretreatment manipulations.
This study examined the interaction between hormones and serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor modulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response. Male and female rats were gonadectomized; some castrated rats received testosterone- or estrogen-filled implants. Rats were randomly injected with saline or 0.02 or 0.50 mg/kg 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist. All rats showed a dose-dependent disruption of PPI in response to 8-OH-DPAT. In untreated castrated rats, this disruption was significantly reduced (33% compared with 78% in sham-operated rats). Testosterone treatment reversed this reduction, but estrogen was less effective. Ovariectomized and sham-operated rats showed similar PPI in response to 8-OH-DPAT. These data suggest that the effect of 8-OH-DPAT on PPI in male rats depends on circulating hormone levels, particularly testosterone.
Although research suggests that ovariectomy (ovx) is detrimental to spatial cognition in young rats, little work has evaluated the cognitive effects of ovx in aged rats. The authors investigated the effects of ovx in aged rats using the water radial-arm maze. In Study 1, young rats and aged rats receiving ovx 1.5 months before testing outperformed aged rats receiving sham surgery or ovx 21 days before testing. In Study 2, young rats and aged rats receiving ovx 2.0 or 6.0 months before testing outperformed aged sham rats. Aged rats exhibited estradiol and elevated progesterone levels comparable to those of young rats. The findings suggest that 1.5-6.0 months, but not 21 days, of ovx improves spatial memory in aged rats. The hypothesis that long-term ovarian hormone loss is detrimental to spatial memory in aged rats was not supported. The authors hypothesize that removal of elevated progesterone levels is related to the ovx-induced cognitive enhancement.
Nicotine and ethanol are 2 commonly used and abused drugs that have divergent effects on learning. The present study examined the effects of acute nicotine (0.25 mg/kg), ethanol (1.0 g/kg), and ethanol-nicotine coadministration on fear conditioning in C57BL/6 mice. Mice were assessed for contextual and cued fear conditioning at 1 day and 1 week posttraining. Ethanol disrupted acquisition but not consolidation of contextual fear conditioning; nicotine enhanced contextual fear conditioning and ameliorated ethanol-associated deficits in contextual fear conditioning. Mecamylamine antagonized this effect. Fear conditioning was reassessed 1 week after initial testing with no drug administered. At the 1-week retest, mice previously treated with nicotine continued to show enhanced contextual fear, and mice previously treated with ethanol continued to show contextual fear deficits. Thus, nicotine both produces a long-lasting enhancement of contextual fear conditioning and protects against ethanol-associated deficits.
Cholesterol plays an important role in synapse formation, receptor function, and synaptic plasticity, and animal studies show that modifying cholesterol may improve learning and memory. Other data show that feeding animals cholesterol can induce beta amyloid accumulation. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) fed 2% cholesterol for 8 weeks were given trace conditioning of the nictitating membrane response using a 100-ms tone, a 700-ms trace, and periorbital electrical stimulation or airpuff. Rabbits fed cholesterol showed significant facilitation of trace conditioning to airpuff and conditioning-specific reflex modification to periorbital electrical stimulation and airpuff. The cholesterol-fed rabbits had beta amyloid accumulation in the cortex, but little in the hippocampus. The data suggest cholesterol had facilitative effects that outweighed potential amnesic effects of cortical beta amyloid.
Pavlovian eyeblink conditioning is a useful model system for studying how the temporal relationship between a conditioned stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus is represented in the brain. As an example, the response topography formed under a complex conditioning paradigm, involving 2 randomly alternating interstimulus intervals (ISIs), manifests a conditioned response (CR) with 2 distinctive peaks that correspond to the 2 ISIs. The authors present the first full report of neuronal activities in the cerebellar interpositus nucleus of rabbits performing bimodal responses. All CR-related activities exhibited firing patterns that highly correlated with and preceded eyeblink responses. The striking similarity between the time course of bimodal CRs and neuronal responses indicates that neuronal activities in the cerebellum are causally related to the production of behavioral CRs.
The physiological and psychological effects of 2 human sex-steroid derived compounds, 4.16-androstadien-3-one (AND) and l,3,5(10),16-estratetraen-3-ol(EST) were measured in 24 subjects who participated in a within-subjects, double-blind experiment. A dissociation was evident in the physiological effects of AND, in that it increased physiological arousal in women but decreased it in men. EST did not significantly affect physiological arousal in women or men. Neither compound significantly affected mood. AND is an androgen derivative that is the most prevalent androstene in human male sweat, male axillary hair, and on the male axillary skin surface. The authors argue that AND's opposite effects on physiology in men and women further implicate this compound in chemical communication between humans.
The purpose of the present study was to examine sensitivity to the antinociceptive effects of kappa opioids during chronic treatment with the nonselective opioid antagonist naltrexone. In a warm-water tail-withdrawal procedure, rats were restrained and the latencies to remove their tails from water maintained at 50 and 55 degrees C were recorded. Prior to chronic treatment, spiradoline, U50,488 and (-)-pentazocine produced dose-dependent increases in tail-withdrawal latencies at both 50 and 55 degrees C. Chronic treatment with 3.0 mg/kg naltrexone twice daily (b.i.d.) failed to alter sensitivity to the antinociceptive effects of spiradoline when tested 24 h following naltrexone administration. When the maintenance dose of naltrexone was increased to 30 mg/kg b.i.d., sensitivity to the effects of spiradoline was reduced when tested 24 h after naltrexone administration, but enhanced when tested 48 h after naltrexone administration. Enhanced sensitivity was also observed to the antinociceptive effects of U50,488 and (-)-pentazocine when tested 48 h after chronic treatment with 30 mg/kg naltrexone. After termination of chronic treatment, sensitivity to the antinociceptive effects of spiradoline, U50,488 and (-)-pentazocine returned to that originally observed prior to naltrexone treatment. These data indicate that chronic naltrexone treatment enhances sensitivity to the antinociceptive effects of kappa opioids, and that this effect is both dose and time dependent.
Pharmacological manipulations that alter dopamine (DA) at DA receptor subtypes produce reductions in feeding behaviour. What remains uncertain is the exact way in which these reductions in feeding are achieved as a consequence of differing drug actions at separate receptor subtypes. In this study our aim was to compare the anorectic effects of the preferential D3/D2 agonists 7-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (7-OH-DPAT) and quinpirole and the non-selective D2/D3 antagonist raclopride on the microstructure of licking responses in non-deprived rats. In a 20-min test, trained adult, male hooded rats had access to one of three solutions: 1%, 3% or 10% sucrose. 7-OH-DPAT (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), quinpirole (0.03-0.3 mg/kg, s.c.), raclopride (0.03-0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle were injected 20 min prior to the start of the licking test. A lickometer recorded the timing of each lick, from which the microstructural parameters of bout frequency and bout duration were also computed. All compounds reduced the mean bout duration, while 7-OH-DPAT and raclopride also brought about a compensatory increase in bout number. Analysis of the licking rates over the test session showed that 7-OH-DPAT, quinpirole and raclopride decreased the initial rate, without affecting the rate of decline of licking. Changes in licking microstructure (i.e. initial rate of licking and mean bout duration) after the administration of 7-OH-DPAT, quinpirole and raclopride, are consistent with an action of these dopaminergic compounds to reduce palatability.
Anaesthesia alters normal thermoregulatory control of the body, usually leading to perioperative hypothermia. Hypothermia is associated with a large number of serious complications. To assess perianaesthetic hypothermia, core temperature should be monitored vigorously. Pulmonary artery, tympanic membrane, distal oesophageal or nasopharyngeal temperatures reflect core temperature reliably. Core temperatures can be often estimated with reasonable accuracy using oral, axillary and bladder temperatures, except during extreme thermal perturbations. The body site for measurements should be chosen according to the surgical procedure. Unless hypothermia is specifically indicated, efforts should be made to maintain intraoperative core temperatures above 36 degrees C. Forced air is the most effective, commonly available, non-invasive warming method. Resistive heating electrical blankets and circulating water garment systems are an equally effective alternative. Intravenous fluid warming is also helpful when large volumes are required. In some patients, induction of mild therapeutic hypothermia may become an issue for the future. Recent studies indicate that patients suffering from neurological disease may profit from rapid core cooling.
Perioperative hypothermia triples the incidence of adverse myocardial outcomes in high-risk patients. Mild hypothermia significantly increases blood loss and augments allogeneic transfusion requirement, but the molecular pathophysiology of this effect remains to be elucidated. Only 1.9 degrees C core hypothermia triples the incidence of surgical wound infection following colon resection and increases the duration of hospitalization by 20%. Hypothermia adversely affects antibody- and cell-mediated immune defences, as well as the oxygen availability in the peripheral wound tissues. Mild perioperative hypothermia changes the kinetics and action of various anaesthetic and paralysing agents, increases thermal discomfort, and is associated with delayed post-anaesthetic recovery. Finally, mild core hypothermia influences pulse oximetry monitoring and various electrophysiological indices of the nervous system, with questionable clinical significance, as yet.
A group of integral membrane proteins, known as C-tail anchored, is defined by the presence of a cytosolic N-terminal domain that is anchored to the phospholipid bilayer by a single segment of hydrophobic amino acids close to the C-terminus. The mode of insertion into membranes of these proteins, many of which play key roles in fundamental intracellular processes, is obligatorily post-translational, is highly specific and may be subject to regulatory processes that modulate the protein's function. Recent work has demonstrated that tail-anchored proteins translocate their C-termini across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane by a mechanism different from that used for Sec61-dependent post-translational signal-peptide-driven translocation. Here we summarize recent results on the insertion of tail-anchored proteins and discuss possible mechanisms that could be involved.
A Bayesian inference framework for estimating the parameters of single-trial, multicomponent, event-related potentials is presented. Single-trial recordings are modeled as the linear combination of ongoing activity and multicomponent waveforms that are relatively phase-locked to certain sensory or motor events. Each component is assumed to have a trial-invariant waveform with trial-dependent amplitude scaling factors and latency shifts. A Maximum a Posteriori solution of this model is implemented via an iterative algorithm from which the component's waveform, single-trial amplitude scaling factors and latency shifts are estimated. Multiple components can be derived from a single-channel recording based on their differential variability, an aspect in contrast with other component analysis techniques (e.g., independent component analysis) where the number of components estimated is equal to or smaller than the number of recording channels. Furthermore, we show that, by subtracting out the estimated single-trial components from each of the single-trial recordings, one can estimate the ongoing activity, thus providing additional information concerning task-related brain dynamics. We test this approach, which we name differentially variable component analysis (dVCA), on simulated data and apply it to an experimental dataset consisting of intracortically recorded local field potentials from monkeys performing a visuomotor pattern discrimination task.
Evidence suggests that a disruption in limbic system network integrity and, in particular, the cingulate gyrus (CG), may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia; however, the cingulum bundle (CB), the white matter tract furnishing both input and output to CG, and the most prominent white matter fiber tract in the limbic system, has not been evaluated in schizophrenia using the new technology of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). We used line scan DTI to evaluate diffusion in the CB in 16 male schizophrenia patients and 18 male control subjects, group-matched for age, parental socioeconomic status, and handedness. We acquired 4-mm-thick coronal slices through the entire brain. Maps of fractional anisotropy (FA) were generated to quantify diffusion within the left and right CB on eight slices that included the central portion of the CB. Results showed group differences, bilaterally, in area and mean FA for CB, where patients showed smaller area and less anisotropy than controls. For patients, decreased left CB correlated significantly with attention and working memory measures as assessed by the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. These data provide strong evidence for CB disruptions in schizophrenia, which may be related to disease-related attention and working memory abnormalities.
Estrogen signaling to GnRH neurons is critical for coordinating the preovulatory surge release of LH with follicular maturation. Until recently it was thought that estrogen signaled GnRH neurons only indirectly through numerous afferent systems. This minireview presents new evidence indicating that GnRH neurons are directly regulated by estradiol (E2), primarily through estrogen receptor (ER)-beta, and indirectly through E2-sensitive neurons in the anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) region. The data described suggest that E2 generally represses GnRH gene expression but that this repression is transiently overcome by indirect E2-dependent signals relayed by AVPV neurons. We also present evidence that the AVPV neurons responsible for relaying E2 signals to GnRH neurons are multifunctional gamma aminobutyric acid-ergic/glutamatergic/neuropeptidergic neurons.
A highly sensitive, selective and simple method is described for the determination of histamine by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. The method is based on an intramolecular excimer-forming fluorescence derivatization of histamine with 4-(1-pyrene)butyric acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (PSE), followed by reversed-phase HPLC. Histamine, having two amino moieties in a molecule, was converted to the dipyrene-labeled derivative by reaction with PSE. The derivative afforded intramolecular excimer fluorescence (450-540 nm), which can clearly be discriminated from the monomer fluorescence (370-420 nm) emitted from PSE. Typically, a 10 micro L sample solution was mixed with 100 micro L of derivatization reagent solution, which was a mixture of 0.5 mm PSE in acetonitrile and 0.5 mm potassium carbonate in water (8:2, v/v). The derivatization was carried out at 100 degrees C for 90 min. The PSE derivative of histamine could be separated by reversed-phase ODS column with isocratic elution using acetonitrile:water (82:18, v/v) containing 0.03% triethylamine. The detection limit (singnal-to-noise ratio = 3) of histamine was 0.5 fmol for a 30 micro L injection. The method was successfully applied to the determination of histamine in human urine, and had enough selectivity and sensitivity for urinary histamine quantification.
We have carried out a molecular dynamics simulation of a hydrated 18:0 sphingomyelin lipid bilayer. The bilayer contained 1600 sphingomyelin (SM) molecules, and 50,592 water molecules. After construction and initial equilibration, the simulation was run for 3.8 ns at a constant temperature of 50 degrees C and a constant pressure of 1 atm. We present properties of the bilayer calculated from the simulation, and compare with experimental data and with properties of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC) bilayers. The SM bilayers are significantly more ordered and compact than DPPC bilayers at the same temperature. SM bilayers also exhibit significant intramolecular hydrogen bonding between phosphate ester oxygen and hydroxyl hydrogen atoms. This results in a decreased hydration in the polar region of the SM bilayer compared with DPPC. Since our simulation system is very large we have calculated the power spectrum of bilayer undulation and peristaltic modes, and we compare these data with similar calculations for DPPC bilayers. We find that the SM bilayer has significantly larger bending modulus and area compressibility compared to DPPC.
Haemangioma calcificans is a relatively rare intracranial tumour, which is characterized by the presence of a calcified nodule in or near the brain. The patient is most often an adult of either sex, who develops seizures. The lesion can be large enough to produce raised intracranial pressure. The location of tumour is subcortical and often in the temporal lobe. It is usually solitary and benign in nature. Microscopically, there are thin-walled blood vessels separated by dense fibrous bands containing deposits of haemosiderin and calcium. On electron microscopy, tubular structures limited by a wall of electrodense material and irregular calcium deposits within them are prominent features. Four cases of haemangioma calcificans are described here with review of literature.
A patient with high-grade multi-focal glioma deteriorated rapidly despite high dose corticosteroid therapy (dexamethasone: 16 mg/day). MRI was used to measure diffusion tensor parameters and longitudinal relaxation time (T1) values of peritumoural oedematous brain before and after commencing steroid treatment. Forty-eight hours after steroid treatment there was no evidence of brain oedema reduction. Specifically, regions of oedematous brain showed a significant increase in mean diffusivity (&lt;D&gt;) with a significant decrease in diffusion anisotropy (p &lt; 0.05), but without any change in T1 values. These quantitative MRI data were mirrored by the rapid deterioration seen when assessing the patient clinically. This case shows that quantitative MRI can not only measure steroid treatment response but also failure in patients with malignant gliomas.
The inadvertent 'plunging' of an instrument into the cranial cavity is a feared complication of drilling a burr hole and while anecdotes abound, little is known about the extent or the consequences of this problem. A survey by anonymous postal questionnaire of 304 neurosurgeons in Britain and Ireland was conducted to analyse the extent of this complication. Of respondents, 65.6% had experienced 'plunging', 22.3% having 'plunged' at least twice, indicating a high prevalence of this complication. The Cushing perforator was implicated by most. 'Plunging' carried a 12% risk of death or permanent neurological morbidity. The authors analyse the prevalence and significance of this preventable complication, and discuss various options available to minimize its occurrence.

We have recently reported that systemic delivery of A-317491, the first non-nucleotide antagonist that has high affinity and selectivity for blocking P2X3 homomeric and P2X2/3 heteromeric channels, is antinociceptive in rat models of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In an effort to further evaluate the role of P2X3/P2X2/3 receptors in nociceptive transmission, A-317491 was administered either intrathecally or into the hindpaw of a rat in several models of acute and chronic nociception. Intraplantar (ED50=300 nmol) and intrathecal (ED50=30 nmol) injections of A-317491 produced dose-related antinociception in the CFA model of chronic thermal hyperalgesia. Administration of A-317491 by either route was much less effective to reduce thermal hyperalgesia in the carrageenan model of acute inflammatory hyperalgesia. Intrathecal, but not intraplantar, delivery of A-317491 attenuated mechanical allodynia in both the chronic constriction injury and L5-L6 nerve ligation models of neuropathy (ED50=10 nmol for both models). Intrathecal injections of A-317491 did not impede locomotor performance. Both routes of injection were effective in reducing the number of nocifensive events triggered by the injection of formalin into a hindpaw. Nocifensive behaviors were significantly reduced in both the first and second phases of the formalin assay (intrathecal ED50=10 nmol, intraplantar ED50&gt;300 nmol). Nocifensive behaviors induced by the P2X receptor agonist alpha,beta-meATP were also significantly reduced by intraplantar injection of A-317491. These data indicate that both spinal and peripheral P2X3/P2X2/3 receptors have significant contributions to nociception in several animal models of nerve or tissue injury. Intrathecal administration of A-317491 appears to be more effective than intraplantar administration to reduce tactile allodynia following peripheral nerve injury.
In vitro experiments were performed to investigate the actions of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on vasomotion and vasospasm in guinea-pig mesenteric lymphatics. ET-1 modulated lymphatic vasomotion independent of the endothelium, with lower concentrations (&lt;or=10 nm) increasing lymphatic vasomotion and higher concentrations (&gt;or=100 nm) causing vasospasm. ET-1-induced increases in vasomotion were accompanied by an increase in tonic [Ca2+]i. These actions were inhibited by the ETA receptor antagonist BQ-123 (1 microm), the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122 (5 microm), removal of extracellular Ca2+, chelation of intracellular Ca2+ with BAPTA/AM (10 microm), the store Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin (1 microm), caffeine (10 mm) and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor blocker heparin and 2-APB (30 microm). In contrast, the ETB receptor antagonist BQ-788 (1 microm), ryanodine (1 &amp; 20 microm), pertussis toxin (PTx) or Cs+ had no significant actions on vasomotion or the magnitude of increase in tonic [Ca2+]i. ET-1-induced vasospasm was accompanied by a transient increase in smooth muscle [Ca2+]i followed by a sustained plateau, an action that was abolished by removal of extracellular Ca2+, but only marginally inhibited by nifedipine (1 microm). Caffeine (10 mm), SKF 96165 (30 microm) or U73122 (5 microm) together with nifedipine (1 microm) abolished ET-1-induced vasospasm and increase in [Ca2+]i. These results indicate that ET-1 increases lymphatic vasomotion by acting on smooth muscle ETA receptors and activation of G-protein-PLC-IP3 cascade, which is known to cause pacemaker Ca2+ release and resultant pacemaker potentials. High concentrations of ET-1 cause a failure in Ca2+ homeostasis causing vasospasm, triggered by excessive Ca2+ influx primarily through store-operated channels (SOCs) with l-Ca2+ voltage-operated channels (VOCs) also contributing, but to a much lesser extent.
Low-frequency median nerve stimulation, paired with suprathreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the optimal site for activation of the abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscle induces a long-lasting increase in the excitability of corticospinal output neurons, if median nerve stimulation is given 25 ms before TMS. Here we employed this protocol of stimulation to assess associative plasticity of the primary motor hand area in 10 patients with writer's cramp and 10 age-matched controls. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from right APB muscle and right first dorsal interosseus (FDI) muscle. Resting and active motor threshold, mean MEP amplitude at rest, short-latency intracortical inhibition (SICI) at an interstimulus interval of 2 ms and the duration of the cortical silent period (CSP) were assessed immediately before and after associative stimulation. In both groups, associative stimulation led to an increase in resting MEP amplitudes which was more pronounced in the right APB muscle. Compared with healthy controls, stimulation-induced facilitation of MEP amplitudes was stronger in patients with writer's cramp. In addition, only patients showed a slight decrease of resting and active motor thresholds after conditioning stimulation. In both groups, associative stimulation induced a prolongation of CSP in the APB and FDI muscles, which was significant only in the APB muscle in healthy controls. Associative stimulation had no effects on SICI in patients and healthy controls. Taken together, in patients with writer's cramp, the motor system exhibited an abnormal increase in corticospinal excitability and an attenuated reinforcement of intracortical inhibitory circuits that generate the CSP in response to associative stimulation. This altered pattern of sensorimotor plasticity may favour maladaptive plasticity during repetitive skilled hand movements and, thus, may be of relevance for the pathophysiology of writer's cramp and other task-specific dystonias.
Cases of amnesia following unilateral temporal lobe surgery are rare, but they may provide important insights into human brain functioning. Such cases are reconsidered here in the light of recent developments in clinical and cognitive neuroscience. Descriptions of preoperative seizure activity in these cases indicate the potentially valuable role of ictal semiology in localizing the source of epileptiform discharges. Cases of amnesia after unilateral temporal lobectomy illustrate the complexity of intra- and inter-hemispheric propagation of epileptiform discharges and highlight possible neurophysiological mechanisms underlying false localization of abnormal EEG activity. This review points to the value of preoperative neuropsychological assessment in providing information on the likely primary locus of pathology and in predicting outcome after surgery. The analysis of cases upholds the benefits of the Wada procedure, but it highlights the variability in Wada test procedures and the fact that Wada test scores themselves may be open to varying interpretation. These cases of postoperative amnesia are further considered in the context of the cognitive neuroscience of human memory and, in particular, mechanisms underlying the human amnesic syndrome. They confirm the critical role of bilateral medial temporal lobe structures in anterograde memory, but they also highlight the complexity in teasing apart neural mechanisms underlying remote memory loss.
Here we test the hypothesis that there are distinct temporal patterns of synchronized neuronal activity in the pallidum that characterize untreated and treated parkinsonism and dystonia. To this end we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from the caudal and rostral contact pairs of macroelectrodes implanted into the pallidum of patients for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (12 cases recorded on and off medication, 17 macroelectrodes) and dystonia (10 cases, 19 macroelectrodes). Percentage LFP power in the 11-30 Hz band was decreased and that in the 4-10 Hz band increased across both contact pairs in treated Parkinson's disease compared with untreated Parkinson's disease. Dystonic patients had even less 11-30 Hz power and greater 4-10 Hz power compared with untreated or treated Parkinson's disease patients. The change in the 4-10 Hz band in patients with dystonia was particularly manifest in the more rostral contact pair, presumed to be within or bridging the globus pallidus externus. We conclude that untreated and treated Parkinson's disease and dystonia are characterized by different spatiotemporal patterns of activity in the human pallidum.
We used PET to examine the pattern and time course of changes produced by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) in healthy subjects and in patients with primary focal dystonia. Subjects received 1800 stimuli of subthreshold 1 Hz rTMS or sham stimulation to the left PMd. Afterwards, we measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as a marker of synaptic activity at rest and during performance of freely selected random finger movement. In both groups of subjects, real rTMS caused widespread bilateral decreases in neuronal activity in prefrontal, premotor, primary motor cortex, and left putamen. Conversely, rCBF in the cerebellum increased. Effects were equivalent at rest and during movement, indicating that the pattern of movement-related activation did not change. rTMS-induced changes in neuronal activity lasted for at least 1 h except in the medial aspect of the left globus pallidus. Conditioning effects on neuronal activity were larger in the patients than in the healthy subjects: there was a greater decrease of rCBF in lateral and medial premotor areas, putamen, and thalamus, including the stimulated premotor cortex, and a larger increase in cerebellar rCBF. Our findings indicate that, in healthy subjects and patients with dystonia, a single session of rTMS can produce powerful and widespread changes in regional synaptic activity as indexed by rCBF. Since the greater effects of premotor rTMS were not related to any differences in task performance, increased responsiveness of the motor system to rTMS reveals a physiological trait that characterizes patients with focal arm dystonia.
In this paper the authors discuss the most prominent views addressing the issue of how we imitate actions. It is argued that the existing theories lay along a continuum, with the direct mapping approach at one end (Butterworth, 1990; Gray, Neisser, Shapiro, &amp; Kouns, 1991) the Active Intermodal Matching approach (Melzoff &amp; Moore, 1997) in the middle, and the goal-directed theory (Bekkering, Wohlshger, &amp; Gattis, 2000) and the dual route theory (Rumiati &amp; Tessari, 2002) at the opposite end. Interestingly the latter views can account for behaviors that cannot be explained by invoking the direct mapping or the Active Intermodal Matching approach.
Tourette's syndrome is characterized by simple, involuntary muscle contractions and/or more complex movements or stereotyped behaviors, including vocalizations. There are strong indications that the basal ganglia play an important role in the pathophysiology of Tourette's syndrome. The present account reviews the functional anatomy of the basal ganglia, with an emphasis on the prefrontal cortex-ventral striatopallidal system. Different parts of the basal ganglia and thalamocortical system, with a focus on the premotor and prefrontal cortices, are connected with each other via parallel, functionally segregated basal ganglia-thalamocortical systems. These parallel circuits, representing sensorimotor, cognitive and emotional-motivational behavioral processes, are connected with each other through specific pathways that serve to integrate these various functions. In the context of the discussion on the pathophysiological mechanisms that lead to the expression of tics, emphasis is placed on the pathways that lead from the ventral striatum via the dopaminergic substantia nigra to the dorsal striatum. The dorsal striatum is crucial for habit formation. A conclusion of this overview of the anatomical organization of the basal ganglia is that via dopaminergic pathways limbic-relation information can influence the expression of (fragments of) motor and behavioral repertoires. Whether such mechanisms indeed play a role in the expression of tics in Tourette's syndrome remains to be established.
All of the experimental studies of the past 25 years combined and the meta-analyses of their findings have not advanced our knowledge of the lateralization of language in bilingual speakers one bit. We are left with a clutter of inherently uninterpretable contradictory results. Successive studies do not contribute a single brick to the edifice or a single piece to the puzzle-only more confusion. study is no exception. So far, there has been no demonstration of the validity of any experimental paradigm claiming to measure degree of language laterality in bilingual speakers. Experimentation is pointless unless the nature of what is alleged to be lateralized is clearly defined and the validity of the measures employed has been established. Because of the lack of validity of the paradigms used in bilingual laterality studies, experiments and meta-analyses of their findings cannot have any scientific significance. Like their predecessors, Evans et al. pay lip service to a number of methodological problems, but ignore their implications and simply carry on anyway. The authors ought to demonstrate, rather than assume, that degree of visual half-field advantage for single words corresponds to degree of lateralization of any component of language (even if only of words).
We used multidimensional statistical procedures to study semantic and lexical processes underlying word retrieval in verbal-fluency performance. Forty healthy participants were given a two-choice letter task (i.e., generate items beginning with the letter 'A' or 'F', in any order) and a two-choice category task (i.e., generate animal or fruit names, in any order). Using correspondence analysis (CoA) and hierarchical clustering (HC), we found evidence of prominent semantic organization in both letter and category fluency. For example, a striking categorical segregation between animate and inanimate entities emerged during the letter task. Analysis of inter-item times revealed strong sequential priming effects in both tasks. Taken together, these results indicate that semantic facilitation is pervasive in word retrieval processes, even in the letter-fluency task, and therefore suggest that the traditional view of letter fluency as a purely phonemically based task should be revised. Finally, our findings may help explain patterns of verbal-fluency measures obtained in focal brain lesion patients.



Cortical neurons rapidly die in necrosis due to poor glucose uptake in the low-density (LD) culture under serum-free condition without any supplements. The scanning and transmission electron microscopical analyses characterized the necrosis by membrane disruption, mitochondrial swelling and loss of cytoplasmic electron density. High-glucose treatment delayed the neuronal death by suppressing necrosis, but induced apoptosis through increase in Bax levels, cytochrome c release, caspase-3 activation and DNA ladder formation. Although pyruvate as well as high glucose inhibited necrotic cell death and rapid decrease in cellular ATP levels, possibly related to decreased [(3)H]-2-deoxy glucose uptake under the serum-free condition, it did not induce apoptosis. Protein kinase C inhibitors blocked these changes related to the cell death mode switch. Several neurotrophic factors did not affect the necrosis, but potentiated high-glucose-induced survival activity, while inhibiting cytochrome c release. All these results suggest that high-glucose treatment causes neuronal cell death mode switch by inhibiting necrosis, while inducing apoptosis, which is prevented by neurotrophic factors.
Gestational exposure to the environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (dioxin) has been implicated as causative to disparities between ethnic groups with respect to learning disabilities. Dioxin is an extremely toxic environmental pollutant that bioaccumulates in maternal adipose tissue, and is transferred to the developing organism during gestation and lactation. Long-term cognitive deficits have been reported following prenatal exposure to dioxin. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the central nervous system (CNS) have been well known to play an important role in the activity-dependent synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory and in CNS development including brain cell differentiation. Here, the effects of prenatal exposure to dioxin on the developmental expression profiles of rat hippocampal NMDA receptor subtype 1 mRNA and protein was examined. F-344 rats were exposed to 0 and 700 ng of dioxin/kg on gestational day 15. Real-time PCR and Western blot analysis clearly revealed that dioxin significantly downregulated NMDAR1 mRNA and protein expression during the first postnatal month. The study provides support to the hypothesis that NMDA receptors are important targets for dioxin-induced neurotoxicity in F1 preweaning pups. The results also support the concept that prenatal exposure to dioxin may contribute to the pathogenesis of diseases in the adult.
1. Autistic disease (AD) is a severe neuropsychiatric disorder affecting 2-4 children per 10,000. We have recently shown reduction of Bcl-2 and increase in P53, two important markers of apoptosis, in parietal cortex of autistic subjects. 2. We hypothesized that brain levels of Bcl-2 and P53 would also be altered in superior frontal cortex and cerebellum of age-, sex, and postmortem-interval (PMI)-matched autistic subjects (N = 5 autistic, N = 4 controls). 3. Brain extracts were prepared from superior frontal cortex and cerebellum and subjected to Western blotting. 4. Results showed that levels of Bcl-2 decreased by 38% and 36% in autistic superior frontal and cerebellar cortices, respectively when compared to control tissues. By the same token, levels of P53 increased by 67.5% and 38% in the same brain areas in autistic subjects vs. controls respectively. Calculations of ratios of Bcl-2/P53 values also decreased by 75% and 43% in autistic frontal and cerebellar cortices vs. controls respectively. The autistic cerebellar values were significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.08) vs. control only. There were no significant differences in levels of beta-actin between the two groups. Additionally, there were no correlations between Bcl-2, P53, and beta-actin concentrations vs. age or PMI in either group. 5. These results confirm and extend previous data that levels of Bcl-2 and P53 are altered in three important brain tissues, i.e. frontal, parietal, and cerebellar cortices of autistic subjects, alluding to deranged apoptotic mechanisms in autism.
1. Thyroid hormones play important roles in the development of the brain. Increasing evidence suggests that the deprivation of thyroid hormones in the early developmental stage causes structural and functional deficits in the CNS, but the precise mechanism underlying this remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the effects of thyroid hormones on synapse formation between cultured rat cortical neurons, using a system to estimate functional synapse formation in vitro. 2. Exposure to 10(-9) M thyroid hormones, 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine or thyroxine, caused an increase in the frequency of spontaneous synchronous oscillatory changes in intracellular calcium concentration, which correlated with the number of synapses formed. 3. The detection of synaptic vesicle-associated protein synapsin I by immunocytochemical and immunoblot analysis also confirmed that exposure to thyroxine facilitated synapse formation. 4. The presence of amiodarone, an inhibitor of 5'-deiodinase, or amitrole, a herbicide, inhibited the synapse formation in the presence of thyroxine. 5. In conclusion, we established a useful in vitro assay system for screening of miscellaneous chemicals that might interfere with synapse formation in the developing CNS by disrupting the thyroid system.
The present study investigates the receptor and mechanisms involved in ATP-stimulated transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) mRNA expression of a type-2 astrocyte cell line, RBA-2. RT-PCR analysis revealed that RBA-2 type-2 astrocytes possess abundant P2X(4) and P2X(7) receptors. ATP and P2X(7) receptor-sensitive agonist, BzATP, both stimulated TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression in a time and dose-dependent manner. The stimulation required a minimum of 500 muM ATP; BzATP was much more potent that ATP, and P2X(7)-selective antagonist, oATP, inhibited the effects. In addition, ATP metabolites ADP, AMP and adenosine were ineffective in stimulation of TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression. Thus, the effect of ATP was mediated through the P2X(7) receptors. To investigate further the mechanisms by which the P2X(7) receptor mediated the TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression, the cells were treated with inhibitors for mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) or protein kinase C (PKC), PD98059 or GF109203X, respectively. Both PD98059 and GF109203X inhibited the ATP-stimulated TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression. Furthermore, ATP and BzATP stimulated ERK1/2 activation and the activation was inhibited by PKC inhibitors, GF109203X and G6976. In conclusion, activation of P2X(7) receptors enhanced TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression and the effect involved PKC/MAPK signalling pathway in RBA-2 type-2 astrocytes.
One hundred and sixty-three consecutive patients (129 females and 34 males) over 60 years of age attending the Headache Centre of the University of Perugia in the period January 2000-December 2001 were included in the study. One hundred and fifty-two (93.3%) were affected by a primary headache disorder. According to the 1988 IHS Criteria, their prevailing attacks could be diagnosed as migraine without aura (MwoA) in 57.2% of cases (n = 87) and as migraine with aura (MwA) in 11.8% of cases (n = 18). Attacks both in MwoA and MwA were unilateral and of severe-to-moderate intensity in 45% and 50% of cases. Head pain was referred as pulsating by 56% and 38.9% of MwoA patients MwA patients, respectively. Aggravation with routine daily activities was present in 72.4% and 61.1% in MwoA and MwA patient groups. The most frequent accompanying symptoms were photophobia and phonophobia. Headache attacks were of shorter duration in MwA patients, but in 3.4% of MwoA patients attacks lasted between 2 and 4 h. Of patients affected by MwA, 55% referred, together with the typical attacks, symptoms of aura not followed by headache. A worsening of headache in the last 5 years was reported by 67.8% and 44.4% of MwoA and MwA patients, respectively. Of the patients with MwoA, 86.2% (n = 75), and 83.3% (n = 15) of those with MwA used symptomatic drugs for their attacks. In the majority of cases they took more than one analgesic or non steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. A total of 51.7% of patients with MwoA and 55.5% of patients with MwA were under prophylactic treatment. Preventive drugs included antidepressants, beta-blockers, calcium channel antagonists and antiepileptic drugs. The choice of symptomatic or prophylactic drugs was made, in the majority of cases, on the basis of concomitant diseases.
Eletriptan 40 mg and 80 mg have shown greater efficacy in acute migraine than oral sumatriptan 100 mg and naratriptan 2.5 mg. This study continues the systematic series of active comparator trials in the eletriptan clinical development programme. In a multicentre double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-groups trial, 1587 outpatients with migraine by IHS criteria were randomised in a 3: 3 : 3: 1 ratio to eletriptan 80 mg, eletriptan 40 mg, zolmitriptan 2.5 mg or placebo. Of these, 1312 treated a single migraine attack and recorded baseline and outcome data to be included in the intention-to-treat population. The primary analysis was between eletriptan 80 mg and zolmitriptan. For the primary efficacy end-point of 2-h headache response, rates were 74% on eletriptan 80 mg, 64% on eletriptan 40 mg, 60% on zolmitriptan (P &lt; 0.0001 vs. eletriptan 80 mg) and 22% on placebo (P &lt; 0.0001 vs. all active treatments). Eletriptan 80 mg was superior to zolmitriptan on all secondary end-points at 1, 2 and 24 h, in most cases with statistical significance. Eletriptan 40 mg had similar efficacy to zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in earlier end-points, and significantly (P &lt; 0.05) lower recurrence rate and need for rescue medication over 24 h. All treatments were well tolerated; 30-42% of patients on active treatments and 40% on placebo reported all-causality adverse events that were mostly mild and transient. On patients' global ratings of treatment, both eletriptan doses scored significantly better than zolmitriptan.
Possible peculiarities in face perception in the autistic population were explored through two experiments. Fourteen autistic children (mean age=10 years 1 month) were individually matched to verbal mental age (VMA) and chronological age (CA) subjects. In a first experiment, subjects were to match faces on the basis of either their outer (hair, chin, ears) or their inner (eyes, nose, mouth) aspects. Autistic children performed equally well in both conditions, while VMA-matched children performed better in the outer than the inner part condition. In a second experiment, chimeric faces consisting of the outer part of an individual's face and the inner part of another individual's face were presented to the subjects. None of the groups showed a preference for neither the outer nor the inner part of the face in this condition. Results were discussed in terms of the existence of a local visual processing strategy in this population.
Acts of war and terrorism are increasingly prevalent in contemporary society. Throughout history, weaponry has become more efficient, accurate, and powerful, resulting in more devastation and loss of human life. Children are often overlooked as victims of such violence. Around the world, children are exposed to violence in multiple forms, frequently developing traumatic stress reactions. Such reactions are best understood within the context of social-emotional and cognitive development, as children respond differently to the stress of violence depending on their developmental level. Furthermore, the violence of war and terrorism often results in a multitiered cascade of negative life events including loss of loved ones, displacement, lack of educational structure, and drastic changes in daily routine and community values. These numerous losses, challenges, and stresses affect children's brains, minds, and bodies in an orchestrated whole-organism response. This paper describes these effects, synthesizing the current state of research on childhood traumatic stress reactions from the fields of neuroscience, clinical psychology, and pediatric diagnostic epidemiology.

Children's prosodically conditioned substitutions have been recently described in terms of syllable structure. In this paper we present an alternative analysis, based on the position of the consonant within the foot. We review data from a previous case study (Chiat, 1989) that provide evidence in favour of a foot domain account and against the syllable structure account. One consequence of this finding is that it may be unnecessary to postulate that intervocalic consonants are captured into the coda of the previous syllable. While we caution that more evidence is needed to further test the foot and syllable accounts, we suggest that the foot be considered as a locus of substitution errors in phonology-disordered children.


Intentional action involves both a series of neural events in the motor areas of the brain, and also a distinctive conscious experience that &quot;I&quot; am the author of the action. This paper investigates some possible ways in which these neural and phenomenal events may be related. Recent models of motor prediction are relevant to the conscious experience of action as well as to its neural control. Such models depend critically on matching the actual consequences of a movement against its internally predicted effects. However, it remains unclear whether our conscious experience of action depends on a precise matching process, or a retrospective inference that &quot;I&quot; must have been responsible for a particular event. We report an experiment in which normal subjects judged the perceived time of either intentional actions, involuntary movements, or subsequent effects (auditory tones) of these. We found that the subject's intention to produce the auditory tone produced an intentional binding between the perceived times of the subject's action and the tone. However, if the intention was interrupted by an imposed involuntary movement, followed by the identical tone, no such binding occurred. The phenomenology of intentional action requires an appropriate predictive link between intentions and effects, rather than a retrospective inference that &quot;I&quot; caused the effect.
Empirical approaches on topics such as consciousness, self-awareness, or introspective perspective, need a conceptual framework so that the emerging, still unconnected findings can be integrated and put into perspective. We introduce a model of self-consciousness derived from phenomenology, philosophy, the cognitive, and neurosciences. We will then give an overview of research data on one particular aspect of our model, self-agency, trying to link findings from cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Finally, we will expand on pathological aspects of self-agency, and in particular on psychosis in schizophrenia. We show, that a deficient self-monitoring system underlies, in part, hallucinations and formal thought (language) disorder in schizophrenia. We argue, that self-consciousness is a valid construct and can be studied with the instruments of cognitive and neuroscience.
How do we know that our own actions belong to us? How are we able to distinguish self-generated sensory events from those that arise externally? In this paper, I will briefly discuss experiments that were designed to investigate these questions. In particular, I will review psychophysical and neuroimaging studies that have investigated how we recognise the consequences of our own actions, and why patients with delusions of control confuse self-produced and externally produced actions and sensations. Studies investigating the failure of this 'self-monitoring' mechanism in patients with delusions of control will be discussed in the context of the hypothesis that overactivity in the parietal cortex and the cerebellum contribute to the misattribution of an action to an external source.
There is converging evidence from developmental and cognitive psychology, as well as from neuroscience, to suggest that the self is both special and social, and that self-other interaction is the driving force behind self-development. We review experimental findings which demonstrate that human infants are motivated for social interactions and suggest that the development of an awareness of other minds is rooted in the implicit notion that others are like the self. We then marshall evidence from functional neuroimaging explorations of the neurophysiological substrate of shared representations between the self and others, using various ecological paradigms such as mentally representing one's own actions versus others' actions, watching the actions executed by others, imitating the others' actions versus being imitated by others. We suggest that within this shared neural network the inferior parietal cortex and the prefrontal cortex in the right hemisphere play a special role in the essential ability to distinguish the self from others, and in the way the self represents the other. Interestingly, the right hemisphere develops its functions earlier than the left.

There is a significant unmet need for therapeutic agents in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Given their clinical importance, prototypical molecules that clearly exhibit both neuroprotective and neuroregenerative activities have been highly sought after. The journey led to the exploitation of neurotrophins, a family of proteins that had extraordinary therapeutic properties in pre-clinical models of neurodegeneration. Although experimentally promising, clinical development of neurotrophins for various neurological indications, such as Alzheimer's Disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, and Parkinson's Disease was met with severe obstacles and setbacks, such as the inability to deliver these large proteins to target population of neurons, instability of the proteins, and non-specific activity. Immunophilins are proteins that act as receptors for immunosuppresant drugs, i.e. FK506 (tacrolimus), cyclosporin A, and rapamycin (sirolimus, Rapamune). Studies indicate immunophilins are expressed 10-100 fold higher in CNS and PNS tissue than in immune tissue. Subsequent studies revealed potent neuroprotective and neuroregenerative properties of immunophilin ligands in both culture and animal models. In contrast to neurotrophins, most immunophilin ligands are highly stable, small molecules that can readily cross the blood-brain barrier and are orally bioavailable. Taken together, these data prompted the development of nonimmunosuppressive immunophilin ligands with potent therapeutic activities, although the potency of select compounds has come into question in more recent studies. This review will examine the experimental evidence supporting the use of immunophilin ligands for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and the current progression of these molecules in clinical trials.

A decline in mitochondrial function is well recognized in neurodegenerative diseases and aging, and is thought to play a causal role in their biology. Unfortunately, the molecular basis underlying this detrimental loss in mitochondrial function remains mysterious. Interestingly, mitochondria undergo frequent fission and fusion. This process is regulated by molecular machinery that has been highly conserved during evolution, including dynamin-related GTPases that manifest opposing effects. A balance between mitochondrial fission and fusion events is required for normal mitochondrial and cellular function. Emerging evidence indicates that mitochondria undergo rapid and extensive fission at an early stage during apoptosis. A clue that these new findings are of significance for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease is provided by the observation that OPA-1, a dynamin-related GTPase regulating mitochondrial fusion, is mutated in humans with dominant optic atrophy, which is characterized by degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and childhood blindness. Loss of function of OPA-1, analogous to deficiency of its yeast homologue, Mgm1p, is expected to lead to mitochondrial fission, loss of mitochondrial DNA, respiratory deficits and an increase in reactive oxygen species. Here we review the molecular mediators controlling mitochondrial fission and fusion, and how death effector molecules may hijack this ancient machinery. A shift in the rate of mitochondrial fission or fusion may provide a new mechanistic explanation for the mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases and normal aging, and may offer a new target for therapeutic intervention.
Echolocating bats (sub-order: Microchiroptera) form a highly successful group of animals, comprising approximately 700 species and an estimated 25% of living mammals. Many echolocating bats are nocturnal predators that have evolved a biological sonar system to orient and forage in three-dimensional space. Acoustic signal processing and vocal-motor control are tightly coupled, and successful echolocation depends on the coordination between auditory and motor systems. Indeed, echolocation involves adaptive changes in vocal production patterns, which, in turn, constrain the acoustic information arriving at the bat's ears and the time-scales over which neural computations take place.
Invertebrates are outstanding model systems for the study of aggression. Recent advances and promising new research approaches are bringing investigators closer to the goal of integrating behavioral findings with those from other disciplines of the neurosciences. The presence of highly structured, easily evoked behavioral systems offer unique opportunities to quantify the aggressive state of individuals, to explore the mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of dominance relationships, to investigate the dynamic properties of hierarchy formation, and to explore the significance of neural, neurochemical and genetic mechanisms in these behavioral phenomena.
Ants and other insects often follow fixed routes from their nest to a foraging site. The shape of an ant's route is set, initially, by navigational strategies, such as path integration and the ant's innate responses to landmarks, which depend minimally on memory. With increasing experience, these early routes are stabilised through the learning of views of landmarks and of associated actions. The substitution of memory-based strategies makes an insect's route more robust and precise. The ability to select between different learnt routes might incur additional memory requirements to those needed for performing a route, and lead to the associative grouping of those memories that relate to a particular route.
Deep brain stimulation at high frequency was first used in 1997 to replace thalamotomy in treating the characteristic tremor of Parkinson's disease, and has subsequently been applied to the pallidum and the subthalamic nucleus. The subthalamic nucleus is a key node in the functional control of motor activity in the basal ganglia. Its inhibition suppresses symptoms in animal models of Parkinson's disease, and high frequency chronic stimulation does the same in human patients. Acute and long-term results after deep brain stimulation show a dramatic and stable improvement of a patient's clinical condition, which mimics the effects of levodopa treatment. The mechanism of action may involve a functional disruption of the abnormal neural messages associated with the disease. Long-term changes, neural plasticity and neural protection might be induced in the network. Similar effects of stimulation and lesioning have led to the extension of this technique for other targets and diseases.
For many years pathophysiological studies on patients with movement disorders were viewed as inferior to those in animal models because, given the complexity of dealing with the complete interconnected CNS, it was difficult to assign any particular physiological abnormality exclusively to the site of a known lesion. More recently this has come to be seen as an advantage. All the articles reviewed below focus on how healthy parts of the CNS react to damage at a distance, with the result that we are now beginning to have much more insight into how these reactions both compensate and exacerbate the primary deficit.
Neurophysiological studies on non-human primates have provided a large body of information on the response patterns of neurons in primary motor cortex during volitional motor tasks. Rather than finding a single simple pattern of activity in primary motor cortex neurons, these studies illustrate that neural activity in this area reflects many different types of information, including spatial goals, hand motion, joint motion, force output and electromyographic activity. This richness in the response characteristics of neurons makes estimates of any single variable on motor performance from population signals imprecise and prone to errors. It initially seems puzzling that so many different types of information are represented in primary motor cortex. However, such richness in neural responses reflects its important role in converting high-level behavioral goals generated in other cortical regions into complex spatiotemporal patterns to control not only alpha-motoneuron activity but also other features of spinal processing.
Dopamine agonists are effective in the management of both advanced and early-stage Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, randomized head-to-head comparative studies between the many different dopamine agonists now available are sparse. Indirect comparisons of dopamine agonists show that ergot derivatives, such as pergolide and cabergoline, are as effective as non-ergot derivatives, such as ropinirole and pramipexole, in ameliorating Parkinson's disease symptoms in patients in early or advanced stages of the condition. As far as safety and tolerability are concerned, no significant differences between dopamine agonists are found. However, some specific adverse events, such as somnolence and sleep attacks, seem less frequent in monotherapy studies with pergolide than in those with the non-ergot dopamine agonists; however, because of the lack of direct-comparison studies this cannot be proved conclusively. Randomized, controlled comparative studies between dopamine agonists are necessary to verify any possible differences in their effectiveness and tolerability in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Three decades of research have led to a fuller understanding of the pharmacokinetics of pergolide. Pergolide is rapidly absorbed following oral dosing, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 2-3 h. It is about 90% protein bound yet has negligible drug interactions. Pergolide undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism and is completely eliminated within 4-5 days. The metabolism/elimination profile varies between patients but is consistent within the individual, highlighting the importance of careful titration to an effective dose. Pergolide has a long half-life of about 21 h; this has interesting implications, as it should produce a more physiological or continuous stimulation of dopamine receptors, avoiding or delaying the induction of dyskinesia.
The neurodegenerative diseases are in need of drugs that are capable of treating their many different presentations. Some drugs have recently been developed and approved by the authorities for use in Alzheimer's disease; their beneficial effects are no longer questionable. From the discussion about what to call these drugs (anti-dementia drugs?), it is apparent that pharmacology research has veered from pursuing the myth of the fount of eternal youth back to the reality of the struggle for survival of neurons whenever they are attacked, long before the signs of dementia have developed (anti-apoptotic drugs?). The neurosciences teach that there is a biology of cognition (hence a pharmacology of cognition), and that the brain is the permanent area of the confrontation between neurogenesis and apoptosis. Pharmacology has taken this new understanding on board, and has finally defined its objective as preventing the decline of the neuron as much as of cognitive performance. It remains for clinicians to confirm the authenticity of this worldwide project.


A requirement for normal gastrointestinal motility is the tight regulation of ion channels expressed in interstitial cells of Cajal and smooth muscle. Interstitial cells of Cajal generate the slow wave and amplify neuronal signals; smooth muscle functions as the final effector organ. Recent advances in our understanding of the expression and mechano-regulation of these different subtypes of ion channels have allowed the development of hypotheses on how ion channels transduce a variety of inputs into electrical signals that directly or indirectly regulate gastrointestinal motor activity.
Tension-type headache is a common primary headache with tremendous socioeconomic impact. Establishment of an accurate diagnosis is important before initiation of any pharmacologic therapy. Simple analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the mainstays of treatment of episodic tension-type headache. The tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline is the drug of choice in the preventive treatment of chronic tension-type headache. Progress in basic neuroscience has emphasized the importance of nitric oxide inhibition and N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxasole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonism in the treatment of chronic pain. It has been demonstrated that inhibition of nitric oxide is effective in chronic tension-type headache. These interesting data indicate that more specific and effective treatment possibilities will emerge in the future.
The formation of laminae within the retina requires the coordinate regulation of cell differentiation and migration. The cell adhesion molecule and member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase Mu, PTPmu, is expressed in precursor and early, differentiated cells of the prelaminated retina, and later becomes restricted to the inner plexiform, ganglion cell, and optic fiber layers. Since the timing of PTPmu expression correlates with the peak period of retinal lamination, we examined whether this RPTP could be regulating cell adhesion and migration within the retina, and thus influencing retinal development. Chick retinal organ cultures were infected with herpes simplex viruses encoding either an antisense sequence to PTPmu, wild-type PTPmu, or a catalytically inactive mutant form of PTPmu, and homophilic adhesion was blocked by using a function-blocking antibody. All conditions that perturbed PTPmu dramatically disrupted retinal histogenesis. Our findings demonstrate that catalytic activity and adhesion mediated by PTPmu regulate lamination of the retina, emphasizing the importance of adhesion and signaling via receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases in the developing nervous system. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that an Ig superfamily RPTP regulates the lamination of any neural tissue.

The behavioral and neurochemical effects of striatal DA depletions were investigated in rats lesioned as weanlings (Day 27) or as adults (250-300 g). Administration of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle resulted in comparably large (&gt; or = 95%) depletions of tissue levels of DA in both age groups. As expected, rats depleted of DA as adults exhibited marked deficits in motoric behavior and body weight regulation that persisted for the 8 days of postsurgical observation. In contrast, rats depleted of DA as weanlings were spared from such deficits, and their behavior closely resembled that of age-matched controls. Microdialysis studies revealed dialysate levels of striatal DA that paralleled these age-dependent behavioral differences. At a time when age-related behavioral differences were still quite pronounced (5-6 days postsurgery), basal DA levels were reduced by 80% of control values in rats lesioned as adults whereas basal DA levels in rats lesioned as weanlings were unchanged relative to their controls. Finally, adults depleted of striatal DA as weanlings were no more sensitive to the movement-impairing effects of intrastriatal sulpiride (3.0 or 10.0 micrograms/hemisphere) infusions than were control rats. These data suggest that weanlings compensate for large, but incomplete, denervation of striatal DA with markedly enhanced release and turnover from residual terminals. This developmental plasticity may prevent the occurrence of behavioral deficits soon after the lesion and also the supersensitivity to the challenging effects of DA antagonists as animals grow into adulthood.
We have investigated how E-cadherin controls the elaboration of adherens junction associated cytoskeletal structures crucial for assembling tubular networks. During Drosophila development, tracheal branches are joined at branch tips through lumens that traverse doughnut-shaped fusion cells. Fusion cells form E-cadherin contacts associated with a track that contains F-actin, microtubules, and Shot, a plakin that binds F-actin and microtubules. Live imaging reveals that fusion occurs as the fusion cell apical surfaces meet after invaginating along the track. Initial track assembly requires E-cadherin binding to beta-catenin. Surprisingly, E-cadherin also controls track maturation via a juxtamembrane site in the cytoplasmic domain. Fusion cells expressing an E-cadherin mutant in this site form incomplete tracks that contain F-actin and Shot, but lack microtubules. These results indicate that E-cadherin controls track initiation and maturation using distinct, evolutionarily conserved signals to F-actin and microtubules, and employs Shot to promote adherens junction-associated cytoskeletal assembly.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate two different questionnaires for screening of eating disorders (ED) in males; the Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI) and the Survey for Eating Disorders (SEDs). The study sample consisted of 1196 Norwegian males serving as compulsory military recruits (mean age 19.9, SD = 1.4). The best predictors for having a SEDs-based diagnosis of ED were the EDI scales Drive for thinness (D7), bulimia (B), ineffectiveness (I) and interpersonal awareness (IA). When we classified men with an EDI sum score of 40 or higher as having an ED, the sensitivity was 47% and the specificity was 91%, compared to the SEDs diagnosis of ED. Our results suggest modest agreement between the ability of the EDI and that of the SEDs to identify men with ED. Our results indicate the need of further studies including clinical samples to validate the EDI against the SEDs.

In multicellular organisms from Caenorhabditis elegans to Homo sapiens, the maintenance of homeostasis is dependent on the continual flow and processing of information through a complex network of cells. Moreover, in order for the organism to respond to an ever-changing environment, intercellular signals must be transduced, amplified, and ultimately converted to the appropriate physiological response. The resolution of the molecular events underlying signal response and integration forms the basis of the signal transduction field of research. An evolutionarily highly conserved group of molecules known as heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) are key determinants of the specificity and temporal characteristics of many signaling processes and are the topic of this review. Numerous hormones, neurotransmitters, chemokines, local mediators, and sensory stimuli exert their effects on cells by binding to heptahelical membrane receptors coupled to heterotrimeric G proteins. These highly specialized transducers can modulate the activity of multiple signaling pathways leading to diverse biological responses. In vivo, specific combinations of G alpha- and G beta gamma-subunits are likely required for connecting individual receptors to signaling pathways. The structural determinants of receptor-G protein-effector specificity are not completely understood and, in addition to involving interaction domains of these primary acting proteins, also require the participation of scaffolding and regulatory proteins.
The localizing value of postictal versus interictal event-related potentials (ERPs) was studied in patients with medically intractable TLE admitted for long-term video EEG monitoring. Ten patients with partial seizures and secondary generalization underwent preictal (upon hospital admission), postictal (&lt;/=6h after seizure), and interictal (7-48h after seizure) ERP recordings of an auditory oddball paradigm. Preictal ERPs were compared to postictal and interictal recordings. Intraclass correlations, transformed into z scores, were utilized to analyze amplitude differences between electrodes placed on the hemisphere ipsilateral versus contralateral to the epileptogenic focus. The results showed that in 9 out of 10 patients the ERP amplitude was reduced in postictal compared to preictal recordings for electrodes placed ipsilateral to the epileptogenic focus (P&lt;0.0001). However, there was no difference in amplitude between ipsilateral and contralateral electrodes in preictal and interictal recordings. These findings suggest that postictal ERPs are of localizing value in patients with TLE while interictal ERPs are not.
Reports focusing on auras of ecstasy or pleasure have been limited largely to single case descriptions. We examined 11 consecutive patients with such ictal symptoms. Eight had sensory hallucinations, four had erotic sensations, five described &quot;a religious/spiritual experience,&quot; and several had symptoms that were felt to have no counterpart in human experience. Ictal EEG recordings were performed in four patients; two had seizure onset in the right temporal lobe and two in the left. In seven the onset could not be definitely localized. The diagnosis of epilepsy was often delayed. Eight patients wished to experience seizures; self-induction was possible in five and four showed treatment noncompliance. In patients with insufficient drug intake, in whom good compliance should be expected, it is relevant to consider seizures with pleasant symptomatology. According to the literature, experiential and ecstatic seizures seem to have had a substantial impact on our cultural and religious history.
Callosotomy has played a unique role in the treatment of epilepsy and in the understanding of human brain function. The pioneering work of Dejerine and Liepmann presenting the first findings of callosal lesion pathology at the turn of the 20th century was accepted but then quickly forgotten. Two schools resurrected the phoenix of callosal syndromes: Roger Sperry and Michael Gazzaniga leading in experimental neuroscience, and Norman Geschwind leading in clinical neurology. Callosotomy remains an effective technique to treat atonic, tonic, and tonic-clonic seizures, especially in patients with symptomatic generalized epilepsies such as Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Neurologic, cognitive, and behavioral complications limit its use given that precise characterization of these complications as well as their frequency is difficult. The high frequencies of developmental delays, severe seizures, head injuries, antiepileptic drug burden, and other factors limit the ability to attribute a specific change to surgical intervention, since surgery can change multiple factors. For example, subtle behavioral changes in executive function and personality are difficult to delineate in a population with preexisting neurologic and psychiatric disorders. Despite this, a clearer picture of the effects of callosotomy, as defined by clinical neurology and neuropsychology as well as cognitive neuroscience, is emerging.
Hypothalamic hamartoma presents with precocious puberty, epilepsy or both. There are two epileptic syndromes, one presenting initially in infancy with gelastic seizures evolving rapidly into a syndrome with multiple seizures, developmental delay and a moderate to severe behaviour disorder. The other presents later with a milder epileptic syndrome, again usually including gelastic seizures, but with normal intellect and behaviour. Magnetic resonance imaging identifies and gives a detailed anatomical picture of these lesions. Direct surgery, using microsurgical techniques and neuronavigation guidance has been used for these lesions. Three surgical approaches have been used, one lateral pterional, another midline frontal through the lamina terminalis and a third is a transcallosal interforniceal approach. In addition a disconnection procedure, usually pterional, aims to disconnect the lesion without the risks of major resection. The transcallosal interforniceal approach is the most successful with 69% of patients seizure-free. There are complications in about 24% of patients, the same as other approaches, but the complications are milder and include fewer neurological deficits than the other routes. Alternate strategies include stereotactic radiosurgery and radiofrequency ablation under stereotactic control.
Juvenile obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been hypothesized to be different from adult-onset OCD suggesting that juvenile OCD may be a developmental subtype of the disorder. There is some evidence that juvenile OCD may be phenotypically different from juvenile-onset adult OCD. This study examines the phenotypic characteristics of juvenile OCD (current age &lt; or = 18 years, n = 39), juvenile-onset adult OCD (onset &lt; or = 18 years, current age &gt;18 years, n = 87) and adult-onset OCD (onset &gt; 18 years, n = 105). Qualified psychiatrists expert in evaluating OCD subjects conducted clinical and structured interviews. In the multinomial logistic regression analysis, controlling for chronological age and gender, the juvenile OCD was associated with male preponderance, elevated rates of certain obsessive-compulsive symptoms, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, chronic tics, body dysmorphic disorder and major depression. In addition, juvenile-onset adult OCD differed from juvenile OCD by having later age-at-onset and low rate of ADHD. The juvenile-onset adult OCD was positively associated with social phobia and chronic tics compared to adult-onset OCD. The juvenile OCD appears to be different from both juvenile-onset adult OCD and adult-onset OCD supporting previous observations that juvenile OCD could be a developmental subtype of the disorder.
Defining how the agonist-receptor interaction differs from that of the antagonist-receptor and understanding the mechanisms of receptor activation are fundamental issues in cell signalling. The V1a vasopressin receptor (V1aR) is a member of a family of related G-protein coupled receptors that are activated by neurohypophysial peptide hormones, including vasopressin (AVP). It has recently been reported that an arginyl in the distal N-terminus of the V1aR is critical for binding agonists but not antagonists. To determine specific features required at this locus to support high affinity agonist binding and second messenger generation, Arg46 was substituted by all other 19 encoded amino acids. Our data establish that there is an absolute requirement for arginyl, as none of the [R46X]V1aR mutant constructs supported high affinity agonist binding and all 19 had defective signalling. In contrast, all of the mutant receptors possessed wildtype binding for both peptide and nonpeptide antagonists. The ratio of Ki to EC50, an indicator of efficacy, was increased for all substitutions. Consequently, although [R46X]V1aR constructs have a lower affinity for agonist, once AVP has bound all 19 are more likely than the wildtype V1aR to become activated. Therefore, in the wildtype V1aR, Arg46 constrains the inactive conformation of the receptor. On binding AVP this constraint is alleviated, promoting the transition to active V1aR. Our findings explain why arginyl is conserved at this locus throughout the evolutionary lineage of the neurohypophysial peptide hormone receptor family of G-protein coupled receptors.
Prenatal stress (PS) can produce profound and long-lasting perturbations of individual adaptive capacities, which in turn can result in an increased proneness to behavioural disorders. Indeed, in PS rats there is evidence of impaired social play behaviour, disturbances in a variety of circadian rhythms, enhanced anxiety and increased hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity. This study was designed to experimentally investigate the degree of reversibility of PS-induced disturbances of social play and HPA reactivity by assessing the effect of the enrichment of the physical environment on PS rats during periadolescence. PS subjects showed a reduced expression of social play behaviour and a prolonged corticosterone secretion in response to restraint stress, but both these effects were markedly reversed following environmental enrichment. Interestingly, the enrichment procedure increased social behaviour but had no effect on corticosterone secretion in nonstressed animals, indicating a differential impact of the postnatal environment as a function of prenatal background. As a whole, results clearly indicate that rats prenatally exposed to stress can benefit during periadolescence from the modulatory effects of an enriched environment. Moreover, they confirm that PS may well represent a suitable animal model for the design and testing of new therapeutic strategies for behavioural disorders produced by early insults.
Sensorimotor gating, measured by prepulse inhibition of the startle response (PPI), is a cross-species form of information processing that is deficient in patients with schizophrenia and is widely used as a model to study the neurobiology of this disorder. The eight known metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are divided into three groups on the basis of sequence homology and pharmacological properties. Group I consists of mGluR5 and mGluR1, both of which are coupled positively to phospholipase C. Mice lacking mGluR5 exhibit a deficit in PPI. Like mGluR5, mGluR1 is located in regions that are involved in the modulation of PPI. To test the hypothesis that mGluR1 is involved in the modulation of PPI we assessed PPI in mGluR1 knockout (KO) mice. Littermate mGluR1 wild-type and KO mice were tested at multiple ages in a standard PPI paradigm containing a 65 dB background, 120 dB pulses and prepulses of 69, 73 and 77 dB. At all ages tested, mGluR1 KO mice exhibited a significant PPI deficit. The PPI deficit of the mGluR1 KO mice was not further exaggerated by administration of the N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist phencyclidine nor was it reversed by administration of the dopamine antagonist raclopride (3.0 mg/kg). The PPI deficit of the mGluR1 KO mice was, however, ameliorated by administration of the mood stabilizer lamotrigine (27 mg/kg base equivalent weight), though increases in PPI were also seen with lamotrigine in the wild-type mice. Thus, both group I metabotropic glutamate receptors are involved in the regulation of PPI in mice.
Aged Long-Evans rats exhibit deficits in attentional set shifting, an aspect of executive function, relative to adult rats. Impairments in set shifting and spatial learning are uncorrelated in aged rats, indicating a possible dissociation of the effects of ageing in prefrontal versus hippocampal systems. Ionotropic glutamate receptor binding was assessed using an in vitro autoradiography method in young and aged rats. The rats had been tested on a set-shifting task that measured attentional set shifts and reversal learning, as well as in a spatial learning task in the Morris water maze. [3H]Kainate, [3H]AMPA and NMDA-displaceable [3H]glutamate receptor binding were quantified in orbital cortex, cingulate cortex, medial frontal cortex, dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatum. Age-related decreases in [3H]kainate binding were apparent in all regions measured. Similarly, NMDA-displaceable [3H]glutamate binding was decreased in the aged rats in all the regions measured except for the medial frontal area where no age effects were observed. [3H]AMPA receptor binding was preserved with age in all the regions measured. Lower levels of [3H]kainate binding in the cingulate cortex were significantly correlated with poorer set-shifting performance, whereas higher levels of NMDA binding in the dorsomedial striatum were correlated with poorer set-shifting performance. There were no significant correlations between the levels of ionotropic glutamate receptors and performance in the reversal task or spatial learning in the Morris water maze. These results indicate that age-related behavioural deficits in attentional set shifting are selectively associated with neurobiological alterations in the cingulate cortex and dorsomedial striatum.
The mouse model for megencephaly, mceph/mceph, carries a truncating deletion in the Shaker-related voltage gated potassium channel gene 1. Affected mice display neurological disturbances and motor dysfunctions. Symptoms begin to show at 3-4 weeks of age. The cause of the brain enlargement is not clear. To elucidate early events in the development of the disease we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to quantify, over time, the increase in size of several discrete brain regions in the same mice at 3, 8 and 12 weeks of age. We also analysed markers for neuropeptides and growth factors to explore their possible involvement at an early stage. The results show an enlargement of the total coronal area of the brain already at 3 weeks of age. Total brain volume, ventral cortex, hippocampal formation and cerebral cortex were enlarged at 8 weeks and onwards. Thalamus, brainstem, cerebellum and spinal cord did not differ from controls even at 12 weeks. We also report distinct disturbances in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 and several neuropeptides at 2 and 3 weeks of age, that is, before an obvious behavioural phenotype can be observed. These results provide an objective description of the size changes in different brain regions of the mceph/mceph mouse, and suggest that certain molecules could be involved in the early processes underlying these changes.
Glutamate receptors are internalized from the cell membrane via clathrin-coated pits. However, little is known about where this occurs - whether at or near the synapse or at some distance from it. In this study we used immunogold localization in the rat brain (mainly hippocampus) to show that clathrin-coated pits are found both at the edge of the synaptic active zone and at further postsynaptic distances, including on the sides of the spine; we also localize these pits specifically to glutamatergic synapses. In addition, we show that clathrin-coated pits can internalize both N-methyl-d-aspartate (in vivo) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (in vitro data only) receptors at extrasynaptic sites not associated directly with synapses. Also, caveolin might be prevalent at excitatory synapses, although it is not known whether it is involved in receptor internalization, receptor stabilization, or some other function.
Anterior cingulate cortex is comprised of perigenual and midcingulate regions based on cytology, imaging and connections. Its anterior (aMCC) and posterior (pMCC) parts and transition to posterior area 23 were evaluated in six human cingulate gyri with Nissl staining and immunoreactions for neuron-specific nuclear binding protein and intermediate neurofilament proteins (NFP), and their pain and emotion functions evaluated in standard coordinates. Morphological differences included a poorly differentiated layer III with few NFP-expressing neurons in aMCC and a very dense layer Va with small and large pyramids intermingled in pMCC. The density of NFP-positive, layer Vb neurons was higher in pMCC than in aMCC. The junction of pMCC with area 23 had a dysgranular area 23d with clumps of layer IV neurons and a very dense layer Va. Each case was co-registered to standard coordinates and the regional borders identified and measured. Although both regions had overall equivalent activations during noxious cutaneous thermal stimulation, the posterior two-thirds of pMCC was relatively inactive. About 60% of fear-induced activity was in aMCC, sadness and happiness activated perigenual cortex, and neither were activated with non-emotion tasks. Thus, pain activity is coupled to fear in aMCC, while other MCC processing is not related to affect. Beyond midcingulate duality, this is the first report of a very dense layer Va for areas p24' and 23 and the features of transitional area 23d. The MCC dichotomy suggests that two circuits differentially regulate the two cingulate motor areas, and involvement of aMCC in pain and fear make it selectively vulnerable to chronic pain and stress syndromes.
What are the brain mechanisms allowing a stimulus to enter our awareness? Some theories suggest that this process engages resources overlapping with those required for action control, but experimental support for these ideas is still required. Here, we investigated whether the human frontal eye field (FEF), an area known to control eye movements, is involved in visual awareness. Volunteers participated in a backward masking task in which they were able to detect a target in a small proportion of trials. We observed that a single pulse of transcranial magnetic stimulation applied over the FEF shortly before the target's onset facilitated visual sensitivity; subjects were able to detect an otherwise subliminal object. These results show that modulating the neuronal activity of the FEF can enhance visual detection, thereby yielding new insights into the neural basis of visual awareness.
Assessment of sensory function serves as a sensitive measure for predicting the functional outcome following spinal cord injury in patients. However, little is known about loss and recovery of sensory function in rodent spinal cord injury models as most tests of sensory functions rely on behaviour and thus motor function. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate cortical and thalamic BOLD-signal changes in response to limb stimulation following mild or moderate thoracic spinal cord weight drop injury in Sprague-Dawley rats. While there was recovery of close to normal hindlimb motor function as determined by open field locomotor testing following both degrees of injury, recovery of hindlimb sensory function as determined by fMRI and hot plate testing was only seen following mild injury and not following moderate injury. Thus, moderate injury can lead to near normal hindlimb motor function in animals with major sensory deficits. Recovered fMRI signals following mild injury had a partly altered cortical distribution engaging also ipsilateral somatosensory cortex and the cingulate gyrus. Importantly, thoracic spinal cord injury also affected sensory representation of the upper nonaffected limbs. Thus, cortical and thalamic activation in response to forelimb stimulation was significantly increased 16 weeks after spinal cord injury compared to control animals. We conclude that both forelimb and hindlimb cortical sensory representation is altered following thoracic spinal cord injury. Furthermore tests of sensory function that are independent of motor behaviour are needed in rodent spinal cord injury research.
The hippocampal formation communicates with the neocortex mainly through the adjacent entorhinal cortex. Neurons projecting to the hippocampal formation are found in the superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex and are largely segregated from the neurons receiving hippocampal output, which are located in deep entorhinal layers. We studied the communication between deep and superficial entorhinal layers in the anaesthetized rat using field potential recordings, current source density analysis and single unit measurements. We found that subiculum stimulation was able to excite entorhinal neurons in deep layers. This response was followed by current sinks in superficial layers. Both responses were subject to frequency dependent facilitation, but not depression. Selective blockade of deep layer responses also abolished subsequent superficial layer responses. This clearly demonstrates a functional deep-to-superficial layer communication in the entorhinal cortex, which can be triggered by hippocampal output. This pathway may provide a means by which processed hippocampal output is integrated or compared with new incoming information in superficial entorhinal layers, and it constitutes an important link in the process of re-entrance of activity in the hippocampal-entorhinal network, which may be important for consolidation of memories or retaining information for short periods.
Non-rod, non-cone ocular photoreceptors have been shown to mediate a range of irradiance detection tasks. The strongest candidates for these receptors are melanopsin-positive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). To provide a more complete understanding of these receptors in vivo, we have utilized a mouse that lacks rod and cone photoreceptors (rd/rd cl) and compared these animals to congenic wild-types. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry, we address the following. (1) Is Fos expression within these RGCs driven by an input from the rods/cones or is it the product of the intrinsic photosensitivity of these neurons? We demonstrate that most Fos expression across the entire retina is due to the rods/cones, but in the absence of these photoreceptors, light will induce Fos within melanopsin RGCs. (2) Could the reported age-related decline in circadian photosensitivity of rodents be linked to changes in the population of melanopsin RGCs? We show that old mice experience an approximately 40% reduction in melanopsin RGCs. (3) Does the loss of inner retinal neurons affect the responses of melanopsin RGCs? Aged (approximately 700 days) rd/rd cl mice lose most of their inner retina but retain the retinal ganglion cell layer. In these mice, the proportion of melanopsin RGCs that express Fos in response to light is significantly reduced. Collectively, our data suggest that melanopsin RGCs form a heterogeneous population of neurons, and that most of the light-induced c-fos expression within these cells is associated with the endogenous photosensitivity of these neurons.
We examined the effect of galanin (10(-15) - 10(-7) M) on dispersed, mainly small-sized dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in adult rats using whole-cell patch-clamp. Galanin and AR-M1896, a selective galanin type 2 receptor (GalR2) agonist, both significantly increased the number of action potentials in response to current pulses in 77% of the neurons, indicating an increase in excitability. Galanin also caused a rise in input resistance, decreased the holding current for -60 mV and depolarized the resting potential. In addition, Ca(2+) currents elicited by voltage steps were significantly increased by both galanin and AR-M1896 in nearly 70% of the cells. This enhancement was observed in 30% of the neurons in the presence of nimodipine or omega-conotoxin, but in each case approximately 60% less than without blocking either N- or L-type Ca(2+) channels, indicating modulation of both types of Ca(2+) channels. The percentage of small- and medium-sized neurons expressing GalR2 mRNA in DRGs in situ was similar to that showing increased excitability and Ca(2+) current after galanin application, i.e. approximately 70-80% of the neurons. The findings suggest that GalR2 has a role in controlling both the excitability, probably by inhibition of GIRK or leak K(+) channels, and Ca(2+) entry in a large population of presumably nociceptive neurons. The combination of the two effects, which possibly arise from separate biochemical pathways, would increase excitability and enhance intracellular Ca(2+) signalling which would enhance sensory transmission. These mechanisms involving GalR2 receptors may underlie the pronociceptive effects of galanin described in the literature.
5-HT is a potent modulator of locomotor activity in vertebrates. In the lamprey, 5-HT dramatically slows fictive swimming. At the neuronal level it reduces the postspike slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP), which is due to apamin-sensitive Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels (KCa). Indirect evidence in early experiments suggested that the sAHP reduction results from a direct action of 5-HT on KCa channels rather than an effect on the Ca(2+) entry during the action potential. In view of the characterization of different subtypes of Ca(2+) channels with very different properties, we now reinvestigate if there is a selective action of 5-HT on a Ca(2+) channel subtype in dissociated spinal neurons in culture. 5-HT reduced Ca(2+) currents from high voltage activated channels. N-type, but not L-type, Ca(2+) channel blockers abolished this 5-HT-induced reduction. It was also confirmed that 5-HT depresses Ca(2+) currents in neurons, including motoneurons, in the intact spinal cord. 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, also inhibited Ca(2+) currents in dissociated neurons. After incubation in pertussis toxin, to block Gi/o proteins, 5-HT did not reduce Ca(2+) currents, further indicating that the effect is caused by an activation of 5-HT1A receptors. As N-type, but not L-type, Ca(2+) channels are known to mediate the activation of KCa channels and presynaptic transmitter release at lamprey synapses, the effects of 5-HT reported here can contribute to a reduction in both actions.

The discovery of endogenous opioids has markedly influenced the research on the biology of drug dependence. Evidence has been presented that these brain substances are self-administered by laboratory animals. This finding, among others, has led to the hypothesis that endogenous opioids are involved in reinforcing habits, including dependence on drugs of abuse. The course of drug dependence is presented as a continuum from no drug use via controlled use to an actual dependence on the drug. Specific brain opioid systems belonging to four conceptualized brain circuits are described to be involved during the different phases of the drug dependence continuum. More recent research to delineate the role of endogenous opioid systems in drug dependence has focussed on genetic research in humans and animals. Among others, the findings obtained from studies of opioid receptor and opioid peptide precursor knockout mice provided further support for a role of endogenous opioid systems in drug dependence, in agreement with previous pharmacological studies.


