The significance of cyclooxygenases (COXs), the rate-limiting enzymes that convert arachidonic acid (AA) to prostaglandins (PGs) in the brain, is unclear, although they have been implicated in inflammatory responses and in some neurological disorders such as epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease. Recent evidence that COX-2, which is expressed in postsynaptic dendritic spines, regulates PGE2 signaling in activity-dependent long-term synaptic plasticity at hippocampal perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses, suggests an important role of the COX-2-generated PGE2 in synaptic signaling. However, little is known of how endogenous PGE2 regulates neuronal signaling. Here we showed that endogenous PGE2 selectively regulates fundamental membrane and synaptic properties in the hippocampus. Somatic and dendritic membrane excitability was significantly reduced when endogenous PGE2 was eliminated with a selective COX-2 inhibitor in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in slices. Exogenous application of PGE2 produced significant increases in frequency of firing, excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) amplitude, and temporal summation in slices treated with the COX-2 inhibitor. The PGE2-induced increase in membrane excitability seemed to result from its inhibition of the potassium currents, which in turn, boosted dendritic Ca2+ influx during dendritic-depolarizing current injections. In addition, the PGE2-induced enhancement of EPSPs was blocked by eliminating both PKA and PKC activities. These findings indicate that endogenous PGE2 dynamically regulates membrane excitability, synaptic transmission, and plasticity and that the PGE2-induced synaptic modulation is mediated via cAMP-PKA and PKC pathways in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons.
We have previously shown that motor areas are engaged when subjects experience illusory limb movements elicited by tendon vibration. However, traditionally cytoarchitectonic area 2 is held responsible for kinesthesia. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging and cytoarchitectural mapping to examine whether area 2 is engaged in kinesthesia, whether it is engaged bilaterally because area 2 in non-human primates has strong callosal connections, which other areas are active members of the network for kinesthesia, and if there is a dominance for the right hemisphere in kinesthesia as has been suggested. Ten right-handed blindfolded healthy subjects participated. The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscles of the right or left hand was vibrated at 80 Hz, which elicited illusory palmar flexion in an immobile hand (illusion). As control we applied identical stimuli to the skin over the processus styloideus ulnae, which did not elicit any illusions (vibration). We found robust activations in cortical motor areas [areas 4a, 4p, 6; dorsal premotor cortex (PMD) and bilateral supplementary motor area (SMA)] and ipsilateral cerebellum during kinesthetic illusions (illusion-vibration). The illusions also activated contralateral area 2 and right area 2 was active in common irrespective of illusions of right or left hand. Right areas 44, 45, anterior part of intraparietal region (IP1) and caudo-lateral part of parietal opercular region (OP1), cortex rostral to PMD, anterior insula and superior temporal gyrus were also activated in common during illusions of right or left hand. These right-sided areas were significantly more activated than the corresponding areas in the left hemisphere. The present data, together with our previous results, suggest that human kinesthesia is associated with a network of active brain areas that consists of motor areas, cerebellum, and the right fronto-parietal areas including high-order somatosensory areas. Furthermore, our results provide evidence for a right hemisphere dominance for perception of limb movement.
Low doses of cannabinoids applied intrathecally attenuate capsaicin-evoked heat and mechanical hyperalgesia via CB1 receptors. Although cannabinoids produce antinociception, in part, by attenuating responses of nociceptive neurons in the spinal cord, few studies have examined the effect of cannabinoids on sensitization of spinal neurons. We therefore investigated whether a cannabinoid receptor agonist, CP 55,940, attenuated excitation and sensitization of spinal nociceptive neurons produced by intraplantar injection of 0.1% capsaicin (10 microl). In rats, wide-dynamic-range (WDR) and high-threshold (HT) neurons were classified according to responses evoked by mechanical stimuli of varying intensity. CP 55,940 (10 microg in 50 microl) or vehicle was applied directly to the spinal cord and responses to mechanical (von Frey monofilament) and heat stimuli were recorded 10 min after drug treatment. CP 55,940 alone did not alter responses to mechanical stimuli; however the enhanced responses to mechanical stimuli after injection of capsaicin into the receptive field were dose dependently attenuated in both HT and WDR neurons. Vehicle-treated neurons increased their response to 300.6 +/- 52.1% of baseline after capsaicin, whereas CP 55,940-treated neurons responded at 153.0 +/- 27.1% of baseline. The effects of CP 55,940 on sensitization to heat were less pronounced; however, CP 55,940 attenuated the capsaicin-evoked decrease in heat threshold in HT neurons. The attenuation by CP 55,940 of sensitization to mechanical stimuli was blocked by pretreatment of the spinal cord with the CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A. These studies demonstrate that cannabinoid application to the spinal cord prevents central sensitization.
Recent studies suggest that fast-spiking (FS) interneurons of the monkey dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) exhibit task-related firing during working-memory tasks. To gain further understanding of the functional role of FS neurons in monkey DLPFC, we described the in vitro electrophysiological properties of FS interneurons and their synaptic connections with pyramidal cells in layers 2/3 of areas 9 and 46. Extracellular spike duration was found to distinguish FS cells from non-FS interneuron subtypes. However, a substantial overlap in extracellular spike duration between these populations would make classification of individual interneurons difficult. FS neurons could be divided into two main morphological groups, chandelier and basket neurons, with very similar electrophysiological properties but significantly different horizontal spread of the axonal arborization. In paired cell recordings, unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) elicited by FS neurons in pyramidal cells had rapid time course, small amplitude at resting membrane potential, and were mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Repetitive FS neuron stimulation, partially mimicking the sustained firing of interneurons in vivo, produced short-term depression of the unitary IPSPs, present at connections made by both basket and chandelier neurons and due at least in part to presynaptic mechanisms. These results suggest that FS neurons and their synaptic connections with pyramidal cells have homogeneous physiological properties. Thus different functional roles of basket and chandelier neurons in the DLPFC in vivo must arise from the distinct properties of the interneuronal axonal arborization or from a different functional pattern of excitatory and inhibitory connections with other components of the DLPFC neuronal network.
The most medial of the deep cerebellar nuclei, the fastigial nucleus (FN), receives sensory vestibular information and direct inhibition from the cerebellar vermis. We investigated the signal processing in the primate FN by recording single-unit activities during translational motion, rotational motion, and eye movements. Firing rate modulation during horizontal plane translation in the absence of eye movements was observed in all non-eye-movement-sensitive cells and 26% of the pursuit eye-movement-sensitive neurons in the caudal FN. Many non-eye-movement-sensitive cells recorded in the rostral FN of three fascicularis monkeys exhibited convergence of signals from both the otolith organs and the semicircular canals. At low frequencies of translation, the majority of these rostral FN cells changed their firing rates in phase with head velocity rather than linear acceleration. As frequency increased, FN vestibular neurons exhibited a wide range of response dynamics with most cells being characterized by increasing phase leads as a function of frequency. Unlike cells in the vestibular nuclei, none of the rostral FN cells responded to rotational motion alone, without simultaneously exhibiting sensitivity to translational motion. Modulation during earth-horizontal axis rotation was observed in more than half (77%) of the neurons, although with smaller gains than during translation. In contrast, only 47% of the cells changed their firing rates during earth-vertical axis rotations in the absence of a dynamic linear acceleration stimulus. These response properties suggest that the rostral FN represents a main processing center of otolith-driven information for inertial motion detection and spatial orientation.
Multiple factors simultaneously affect the spiking activity of individual neurons. Determining the effects and relative importance of these factors is a challenging problem in neurophysiology. We propose a statistical framework based on the point process likelihood function to relate a neuron's spiking probability to three typical covariates: the neuron's own spiking history, concurrent ensemble activity, and extrinsic covariates such as stimuli or behavior. The framework uses parametric models of the conditional intensity function to define a neuron's spiking probability in terms of the covariates. The discrete time likelihood function for point processes is used to carry out model fitting and model analysis. We show that, by modeling the logarithm of the conditional intensity function as a linear combination of functions of the covariates, the discrete time point process likelihood function is readily analyzed in the generalized linear model (GLM) framework. We illustrate our approach for both GLM and non-GLM likelihood functions using simulated data and multivariate single-unit activity data simultaneously recorded from the motor cortex of a monkey performing a visuomotor pursuit-tracking task. The point process framework provides a flexible, computationally efficient approach for maximum likelihood estimation, goodness-of-fit assessment, residual analysis, model selection, and neural decoding. The framework thus allows for the formulation and analysis of point process models of neural spiking activity that readily capture the simultaneous effects of multiple covariates and enables the assessment of their relative importance.
In many central pattern generators, pairs of neurons maintain an approximately fixed phase despite large changes in the frequency. The mechanisms underlying phase maintenance are not clear. Previous theoretical work suggested that inhibitory synapses that show short-term depression could play a critical role in this respect. In this work we examine how the interaction between synaptic depression and the kinetics of a transient potassium (A-like) current could be advantageous for phase constancy in a rhythmic network. To demonstrate the mechanism in the context of a realistic central pattern generator, we constructed a detailed model of the crustacean pyloric circuit. The frequency of the rhythm was modified by changing the level of a ligand-activated current in one of the pyloric neurons. We examined how the time difference of firing activities between two selected neurons in this circuit is affected by synaptic depression, A-current, and a combination of the two. We tuned the parameters of the model such that with synaptic depression alone, or A-current alone, phase was not maintained between these two neurons. However, when these two components came together, they acted synergistically to maintain the phase across a wide range of cycle periods. This suggests that synaptic depression may be necessary to allow an A-current to delay a postsynaptic neuron in a frequency-dependent manner, such that phase invariance is ensured.
Psychoneuroimmunology (PNI) provides a distinct perspective regarding the interrelatedness of the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. PNI explicates the possible means by which behavior and emotion can influence immune function. Moreover, PNI explains the means by which the immune system affects the nervous system and affects psychological response. The interactions among these systems are mediated at the molecular level by cytokines and hormones produced by cells of not just the immune but also the nervous and endocrine systems. These cytokines and hormones affect endocrine and neuronal processes that, in turn, affect mood, emotions, personal perception, as well as the immune response. Analysis of the effect of cytokines and hormones at the molecular, cellular, and peripheral level is under intense investigation. Such analysis will lead to a better understanding of the connections among the psychological, neurological, and immunological systems. This understanding will provide for a holistic perspective upon which better health care can be provided, discomfort minimized, and disease prevented. The use of such a perspective in neuroscience nursing investigation can elicit novel approaches to care.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) produces a rapid and excessive elevation in extracellular glutamate associated with excitotoxicity and secondary brain pathology. The peptide neurotransmitter Nacetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) suppresses glutamate transmission through selective activation of presynaptic Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 3 (mGluR3). Thus, inhibition of NAAG peptidase activity and the prolong presence of synaptic NAAG were hypothesized to have significant potential for cellular protection following TBI. In the present study, a novel NAAG peptidase inhibitor, ZJ-43, was used in four different doses (0, 50, 100, or 150 mg/kg). Each dose was repeatedly administered i.p. (n=5/group) by multiple injections at three times (0 time, 8 h, 16 h) after moderate lateral fluid percussion TBI in the rat. An additional group was co-administered ZJ-43 (150 mg/kg) and the Group II mGluR antagonist, LY341495 (1 mg/kg), which was predicted to abolish any protective effects of ZJ-43. Rats were euthanized at 24 h after TBI, and brains were processed with a selective marker for degenerating neurons (Fluoro-Jade B) and a marker for astrocytes (GFAP). Ipsilateral neuronal degeneration and bilateral astrocyte loss in the CA2/3 regions of the hippocampus were quantified using stereological techniques. Compared with vehicle, ZJ-43 significantly reduced the number of the ipsilateral degenerating neurons (p&lt;0.01) with the greatest neuroprotection at the 50 mg/kg dose. Moreover, LY341495 successfully abolished the protective effects of ZJ-43. 50 mg/kg of ZJ-43 also significantly reduced the ipsilateral astrocyte loss (p&lt;0.05). We conclude that the NAAG peptidase inhibitor ZJ-43 is a potential novel strategy to reduce both neuronal and astrocyte damage associated with the glutamate excitotoxicity after TBI.
The Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale is the most widely used open field test and has been accepted as a valid way to assess locomotor function after spinal cord contusion injury in the rat. A limitation within the BBB locomotor rating scale is the correct assessment of forelimb (FL)-hindlimb (HL) coordination. This limitation can have major implications for the final assessment of locomotor function. In the present study, we show an objective method to assess coordination based on the regularity index (RI), achieved through the use of the CatWalk method. The RI grades the degree of coordination as the result of the number of normal step sequence patterns multiplied by four and divided by the total amount of paw placements. Using the RI, single walkway crossings can be objectively analyzed on coordination. Integration of the CatWalk based coordination into the BBB scale indicates that objective analysis of coordination results in reliable and more sensitive assessment of locomotor function. This new method has been tested successfully in determination of positive effects of enriched housing on functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI).
There is convincing in vitro evidence that the muscular form of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), the neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), and the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) bind rabies virus and/or facilitate rabies virus entry into cells. Other components of the cell membrane, such as gangliosides, may also participate in the entry of rabies virus. However, little is known of the role of these molecules in vivo. This review proposes a speculative model that accounts for the role of these different molecules in entry and trafficking of rabies virus into the nervous system.

Burning Mouth Syndrome (BMS) presents high rates of comorbid Axis I disorders while no controlled studies have addressed the question of Axis II comorbidities. The aim of the present study was to examine DSM-IV (APA, 1994) Axis II comorbidity in BMS patients and to control for the specificity of this association. Seventy BMS patients were compared to a nonpsychiatric population sample and to patients with other Somatoform Disorders for the presence of personality disorders (assessed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Personality Disorders [SCID-II; First, Gibbon, Spitzer, &amp; Williams, 1997). Prevalence rates were compared using the Pearson's chi square test. At least one personality disorder (PD) was found in 85.7%, 24.3%, and 88.6% of subjects in the three groups, respectively. When examining PD subgroups, significant differences emerged even between the BMS and the somatoform disorder group, with BMS patients showing more Cluster A and fewer Cluster B PDs. Our results suggest that BMS is associated with a specific pattern of Axis II comorbidity.
gamma-Secretase inhibitors are one promising approach to the development of a therapeutic for Alzheimer's disease (AD). gamma-Secretase inhibitors reduce brain beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), which is believed to be a major contributor in the etiology of AD. Transgenic mice overexpressing the human beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) are valuable models to examine the dynamics of Abeta changes with gamma-secretase inhibitors in plaque-free and plaque-bearing animals. BMS-299897 2-[(1R)-1-[[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfony](2,5-difluorophenyl)amino]ethyl]-5-fluorobenzenepropanoic acid, a gamma-secretase inhibitor, showed dose- and time dependent reductions of Abeta in brain, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and plasma in young transgenic mice, with a significant correlation between brain and CSF Abeta levels. Because CSF and brain interstitial fluid are distinct compartments in composition and location, this correlation could not be assumed. In contrast, aged transgenic mice with large accumulations of Abeta in plaques showed reductions in CSF Abeta in the absence of measurable changes in plaque Abeta in the brain after up to 2 weeks of treatment. Hence, CSF Abeta levels were a valuable measure of gamma-secretase activity in the central nervous system in either the presence or absence of plaques. Transgenic mice were also used to examine potential side effects due to Notch inhibition. BMS-299897 was 15-fold more effective at preventing the cleavage of APP than of Notch in vitro. No changes in the maturation of CD8(+) thymocytes or of intestinal goblet cells were observed in mice treated with BMS-299897, showing that it is possible for gamma-secretase inhibitors to reduce brain Abeta without causing Notch-mediated toxicity.
We identified the ON-OFF direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs) in the mouse retina and characterized their physiological, morphological and pharmacological properties. These cells showed transient responses to the onset and termination of a stationary flashing spot, and strong directional selectivity to a moving rectangle. Application of various pharmacological reagents demonstrated that the ON-OFF DSGCs in the mouse retina utilize a similar array of transmitters and receptors to compute motion direction to their counterparts in the rabbit retina. Voltage clamp recording showed that ON-OFF DSGCs in the mouse retina receive a larger inhibitory input when the stimulus is moving in the null direction and a larger excitatory input when the stimulus is moving in the preferred direction. Finally, intracellular infusion of neurobiotin revealed a bistratified dendritic field with recursive dendrites forming loop-like structures, previously classified as RG(D2) by morphology. Overall, the ON-OFF DSGCs in the mouse retina exhibit almost identical properties to their counterparts in the rabbit retina, indicating that the mechanisms for computing motion direction are conserved from mouse to rabbit, and probably also to higher mammals. This first detailed characterization of ON-OFF DSGCs in the mouse retina provides fundamental information for further study of maturation and regulation of the neuronal circuitry underlying computation of direction.
Population activity in cortico-basal ganglia circuits is synchronized at different frequencies according to brain state. However, the structures that are likely to drive the synchronization of activity in these circuits remain unclear. Furthermore, it is not known whether the direction of transmission of activity is fixed or dependent on brain state. We have used the directed transfer function (DTF) to investigate the direction in which coherent activity is effectively driven in cortico-basal ganglia circuits. Local field potentials (LFPs) were simultaneously recorded in the subthalamic nucleus (STN), globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), together with the ipsilateral frontal electrocorticogram (ECoG) of anaesthetized rats. Directional analysis was performed on recordings made during robust cortical slow-wave activity (SWA) and &quot;global activation&quot;. During SWA, there was coherence at approximately 1 Hz between ECoG and basal ganglia LFPs, with much of the coherent activity directed from cortex to basal ganglia. There were similar coherent activities at approximately 1 Hz within the basal ganglia, with more activity directed from SNr to GP and STN, and from STN to GP rather than vice versa. During global activation, peaks in coherent activity were seen at higher frequencies (15-60 Hz), with most coherence also directed from cortex to basal ganglia. Within the basal ganglia, however, coherence was predominantly directed from GP to STN and SNr. Together, these results highlight a lead role for the cortex in activity relationships with the basal ganglia, and further suggest that the effective direction of coupling between basal ganglia nuclei is dynamically organized according to brain state, with activity relationships involving the GP displaying the greatest capacity to change.


Previous studies of respiratory syncytial virus have shown that the 44-nucleotide (nt) leader (Le) region is sufficient to initiate RNA replication, producing antigenome RNA, and that the Le and adjoining gene start (GS) signal of the first gene are sufficient to initiate transcription, producing mRNA. A cis-acting element necessary for both transcription and replication was mapped within the first 11 nt at the 3' end of Le. In the present study the remainder of the Le region was mapped to identify sequences important for transcription and replication. A series of minigenomes with mutant Le sequences was generated, and their ability to direct transcription and replication was determined by Northern blot analysis, which examined full-length antigenome and mRNA, and by primer extension analysis, which examined antigenome and mRNA initiation. With regard to transcription, nt 36 to 43, located immediately upstream of the GS signal, were found to be necessary for optimal levels of mRNA synthesis, although the GS signal in conjunction with the 3'-terminal region of Le was sufficient to direct accurate mRNA synthesis initiation. With regard to replication, the first 15 nt of Le were found to be sufficient to direct initiation of antigenome synthesis, but nt 16 to 34 were required in addition for efficient encapsidation and production of full-length antigenome. Analysis of transcripts produced from di- and tricistronic minigenomes indicated that a significant proportion of abortive replicases continue RNA synthesis to the end of the first gene and then continue in a transcription mode along the remainder of the genome.
Recently developed antiviral strategies based upon RNA interference (RNAi), which harnesses an innate cellular system for the targeted down-regulation of gene expression, appear highly promising and offer alternative approaches to conventional highly active antiretroviral therapy or efforts to develop an AIDS vaccine. However, RNAi is faced with several challenges that must be overcome to fully realize its promise. Specifically, it degrades target RNA in a highly sequence-specific manner and is thus susceptible to viral mutational escape, and there are also challenges in delivery systems to induce RNAi. To aid in the development of anti-human immunodeficiency virus (anti-HIV) RNAi therapies, we have developed a novel stochastic computational model that simulates in molecular-level detail the propagation of an HIV infection in cells expressing RNAi. The model provides quantitative predictions on how targeting multiple locations in the HIV genome, while keeping the overall RNAi strength constant, significantly improves efficacy. Furthermore, it demonstrates that delivery systems must be highly efficient to preclude leaving reservoirs of unprotected cells where the virus can propagate, mutate, and eventually overwhelm the entire system. It also predicts how therapeutic success depends upon a relationship between RNAi strength and delivery efficiency and uniformity. Finally, targeting an essential viral element, in this case the HIV TAR region, can be highly successful if the RNAi target sequence is correctly selected. In addition to providing specific predictions for how to optimize a clinical therapy, this system may also serve as a future tool for investigating more fundamental questions of viral evolution.

Simultaneous recording of electroencephalogram (EEG) and functional MRI (fMRI) or MR spectroscopy (MRS) can provide further insight into our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of neurologic disorders. Current technology for simultaneous EEG and MRI recording is limited by extensive postacquisition processing of the data. Real-time display of artifact-free EEG recording during fMRI/MRS studies is essential in studies that involve epilepsy to ensure that they address specific EEG features such as epileptic spikes or seizures. By optimizing the EEG recording equipment to maximize the common mode rejection ratio of its amplifiers, a unique EEG system was designed and tested that allowed real-time display of the artifact-free EEG during fMRI/MRS in an animal model of epilepsy. Spike recordings were optimized by suppression of the background EEG activity using fast-acting and easily controlled inhalational anesthesia. Artifact suppression efficiency of 70-100% was achieved following direct subtraction of referentially recorded filtered EEG tracings from active electrodes, which were located in close proximity to each other (over homologous occipital cortices) and a reference electrode. Two independent postacquisition processing tools, independent component analysis and direct subtraction of unfiltered digital EEG data in MATLAB, were used to verify the accuracy of real-time EEG display.
Microarrays, a recent development, have provided a revolutionary platform for the study of gene expression, regulation and function. Thus, it has tremendous potential in the study of biological processes in health and disease. Notable examples include the identification of regulatory genes in the cell cycle mechanism, and disease causing genes in malignancies and certain neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, microarray-based studies have provided the necessary impetus for biomedical experiments, particularly following the sequencing of the human genome. However, it must be emphasized that microarrays are not the sole purview of biologists, but represent the amalgamation of the efforts of biomedical scientists, technologists and statisticians. This is particularly considering the challenges in the manufacture of microarrays and supporting equipment, and the meaningful analyses of the tremendous volume of data generated by these experiments. In this article, the principles and technological concerns regarding microarrays and microarray-based experiments, the steps involved in obtaining and the rationale of analyses of data derived from these experiments is reviewed. Further, some aspects of microarray-based experimentation, such as experimental design, and data handling and interpretation are discussed. However, as with all novel methods there is still scope for improvement. The relative merits and demerits of microarrays and analysis of microarray based data are reviewed, along with current issues of concern and future possibilities. Thus, the overall aim of this article is to highlight some of the past and potential future uses of microarray-based experiments and present a broad overview of this rapidly growing technology.
Surgical treatment of skull base pathologies remains one of the most challenging tasks to neurosurgeons. Advances in neuroimaging as well as the evolution of modern techniques and neurosurgical equipment have paved the way for a more precise diagnosis, a better selection of the surgical approach and have prompted the adaptation of minimally invasive concepts to different aspects of modern neurosurgical practice. The trans-eyebrow mini orbitozygomatic pterional approach is a tailored approach that provides multiple avenues to the target, minimizing retraction of the brain and affords better exposure of the pathology. It was performed on 16 patients with frontobasal or suprasellar tumors. The post-operative clinical outcome was excellent with smooth and fast recovery as well as satisfactory cosmetic results. It should be considered as part of the armamentarium to manage skull base lesions when indicated and not to replace other well recognized skull base approaches.
Members of the heat-shock protein (HSP)40 regulate the protein folding activity of HSP70 proteins and help the functional specialization of this molecular chaperone system in various types of cellular events. We have recently identified Hsp40 as a component of flagellar axoneme in the ascidian Ciona intestinalis, suggesting a correlation between Hsp40 related chaperone system and flagellar function. In this study, we have found that Ciona 37-kDa Hsp40 is extracted from KCl-treated axonemes with 0.5 M KI solution and comigrates with radial spoke protein (RSP)3 along with several proteins as a complex through gel filtration and ion exchange columns. Peptide mass fingerprinting with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time of flight/mass spectrometry revealed that other proteins in the complex include a homolog of sea urchin spokehead protein (homolog of RSP4/6), a membrane occupation and recognition nexus repeat protein with sequence similarity with meichroacidin, and a functionally unknown 33-kDa protein. A spoke head protein, LRR37, is not included in the complex, suggesting that the complex constructs the stalk of radial spoke. Immunoelectron microscopy indicates that Hsp40 is localized in the distal portion of spoke stalk, possibly at the junction between spoke head and the stalk.
Homer proteins mediate molecular rearrangements leading to changes in spine morphology. This points to a role of Homer in learning and memory. Homer 1c features both the ligand binding domain and a coiled-coiled domain for self-multimerization. Homer 1a lacks the coiled-coiled domain. Here, we report a new isoform which we termed 1g, lacking the Homer ligand binding domain. We dissected the functional roles of the individual Homer 1 domains, encoded by Homer 1a, 1c, and 1g, in vivo. Recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated overexpression of these forms in the hippocampus of adult rats has opposing effects on learning behavior. Increased levels of Homer 1a impaired hippocampal-dependent memory, while Homer 1g and 1c slightly enhanced memory performance. Homer 1g induced anxiety. Moreover, AAV-Homer 1a animals showed attenuation of electrographic seizures in a model of status epilepticus. These results suggest that Homer 1 proteins play an active role in behavioral plasticity.
During neuromuscular development, &quot;stop signals&quot; present on the target myotube inhibit motor axon growth. Mice lacking either the neuronal form of agrin or the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) lose stop signal activity, suggesting that they are part of such signals or induce them in myotubes. To test whether MuSK complexes form stop signals in the absence of myotube signaling, we cultured ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons with nonmuscle cells expressing cell-surface MuSK. Expression of MuSK had no effect on neuronal adhesion. MuSK expression, however, inhibited neurite outgrowth from CG neurons, but not retinal ganglion cell neurons. The neurite-inhibitory effect could be completely reversed by an antibody to the MuSK extracellular domain, and partially reversed by an antibody to agrin, suggesting that inhibition is mediated by a complex of these proteins. Thus, an agrin/MuSK complex may form part of a motor neuron stop signal involved in &quot;reverse signaling&quot; to the motor neuron.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) and Schwann cells provide a cellular environment that promotes axonal outgrowth in several models of CNS injury. However, they exhibit different properties when in contact with astrocytes. Schwann cells, but not OECs, induce characteristics that typify hypertrophy in astrocytes and exhibit a poor capacity to migrate within astrocyte-rich areas, making them less favourable for transplant-mediated repair. N-cadherin has been implicated in the adhesion of Schwann cells to astrocytes. Despite indistinguishable expression of N-cadherin, Schwann cells adhered more strongly to an astrocyte monolayer and migrated more slowly on astrocytes when compared to OECs. We have examined the role of N-cadherin in mediating these cellular interactions using RNA interference and found differing effects. In Schwann cells, suppression of N-cadherin reduced heterotypic and homotypic adhesion and they gained adhesion properties more akin to OECs. In contrast, suppression of N-cadherin in OECs had no effect. These findings imply that N-cadherin is differentially regulated in OECs and Schwann cells.
Rap1 is a small GTP-binding protein that has been implicated in intracellular signaling and cytoskeletal control. Here, we show that Rap1 is expressed in rat cortical neurons and plays a critical role in dendritic development. Inhibition of Rap1 signaling either by expressing dominant negative mutant of Rap1 or Rap1GAP in cortical neurons reduced dendritic complexity. In contrast, expression of a constitutively active mutant of Rap1 (Rap1V12) induced dendritic growth and branching. Membrane depolarization, which induces dendritic growth via calcium influx, led to a rapid activation of Rap1 via cAMP and cGMP signaling. A CREB-dependent mechanism is involved in depolarization-induced dendritic growth in cortical neurons. Rap1 function contributed to depolarization induced CREB activation, and inhibition of CREB suppressed dendritic growth induced by Rap1V12. These observations identify Rap1 as a key mediator of calcium regulation of CREB-dependent transcription and dendritic development.
Using proteomics, we investigated the temporal expression profiles of proteins in rat sciatic nerve after experimental crush. Extracts of sciatic nerves collected at 5, 10, and 35 days after injury were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and quantitative image analysis. Of the approximately 1,500 protein spots resolved on each gel, 121 showed significant regulation during at least one time point. Using cluster analysis, these proteins were grouped into two expression profiles of down-regulation and four of up-regulation. These profiles mainly reflected differences in cellular origins in addition to different functional roles. Mass spectrometric analysis identified 82 proteins pertaining to several functional classes, i.e. acute-phase proteins, antioxidant proteins, and proteins involved in protein synthesis/maturation/degradation, cytoskeletal (re)organization, and in lipid metabolism. Several proteins not previously implicated in nerve regeneration were identified, e.g. translationally controlled tumor protein, annexin A9/31, vitamin D-binding protein, alpha-crystallin B, alpha-synuclein, dimethylargininases, and reticulocalbin. Real-time PCR analysis of selected genes showed which were expressed in the nerve versus the dorsal root ganglion neurons. In conclusion, this study highlights the complexity and temporal aspect of the molecular process underlying nerve regeneration and points to the importance of glial and inflammatory determinants.
Methylation of N3-adenine represents a novel pharmacological strategy for the treatment of resistant tumors. However, little is known about the biochemical pathways involved in cell death induced by N3-methyladenine. In the present study, we show that MeOSO(2) (CH(2))(2)-lexitropsin (Me-Lex), a compound generating almost exclusively N3-methyladenine (&gt;99%), provoked a burst of poly(ADP-ribosylation) and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential in leukemia cells. These events were followed by a marked decrease in nuclear poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) expression and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity. Moreover, DNA damage generated by N3-methyladenine induced a marked decrease in telomerase in the cytosol that was accompanied by a transient up-regulation of activity in the nucleus, as a consequence of nuclear translocation of telomerase in response to genotoxic damage. PARP-1 inhibition blocked ADP-ribose polymer formation, preserved mitochondrial membrane integrity, and counteracted the reduction of NF-kappaB activity, thus preventing the appearance of necrosis. On the other hand, because PARP-1 is a component of the base excision repair (BER), the combination of Me-Lex + PARP-1 inhibitor triggered apoptosis as a result of disruption of BER process. In conclusion, the present study provides new insight into the cellular response to N3-adenine-selective methylating agents that can be exploited for the treatment of tumors unresponsive to classical wide-spectrum methylating agents. Moreover, the results underline the central and paradoxical role of PARP-1 in cell death induced by N3-methyladenine: effector of necrosis and coordinator of methylpurine repair.
Adenosine A(2A) and dopamine D(2) receptors have been shown previously to form heteromeric complexes and interact at the level of agonist binding, G protein coupling, and trafficking. Because dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors show a high degree of sequence homology, A(2A) and D(3) receptors may also interact in a similar manner. The present studies with confocal microscopy showed that A(2A)-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and D(3)-green fluorescent protein 2 (GFP2) receptors colocalize in the plasma membrane. Furthermore, fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis demonstrated that A(2A)-YFP and D(3)-GFP2 receptors give a positive FRET efficiency and are thereby likely to exist as heteromeric A(2A)/D(3) receptor complexes. Saturation experiments with [(3)H]dopamine demonstrated that the A(2A) receptor agonist 4-[2-[[6-amino-9(N-ethyl-beta-d-ribofuranuronaminoamidosyl)-9H-purin-2-yl]amino]ethyl]benzenepropanoic acid (CGS-21680) reduced the affinity of the high-affinity agonist binding state of the D(3) receptor for [(3)H]dopamine. The A(2A) and D(2A) receptors seem to interact also at the level of G protein coupling, because the adenosine A(2A) receptor agonist CGS-21680 fully counteracted the D(3) receptor-mediated inhibition of a forskolin-mediated increase in cAMP levels. Taken together, when coexpressed in the same neuron, A(2A) and D(3) receptors seem to form A(2A)/D(3) heteromeric receptor complexes in which A(2A) receptors antagonistically modulate both the affinity and the signaling of the D(3) receptors. D(3) receptor is one of the therapeutic targets for treatment of schizophrenia, and therefore, the A(2A)/D(3) receptor interactions could provide an alternative antischizophrenic treatment.
Regulated energy homeostasis is fundamental for maintaining life. Unfortunately, this critical process is affected in a high number of mentally ill patients. Eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa are prevalent in modern societies. Impaired appetite and weight loss are common in patients with depression. In addition, the use of neuroleptics frequently produces obesity and diabetes mellitus. However, the neural mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of these behavioral and metabolic conditions are largely unknown. In this review, we first concentrate on the established brain machinery of food intake and body weight, especially on the melanocortin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) systems as illustration. These systems play a critical role in receiving and processing critical peripheral metabolic cues such as leptin and ghrelin. It is also notable that both systems modulate emotion and motivated behavior as well. Secondly, we discuss the significance and potential promise of multidisciplinary molecular and neuroanatomic techniques that will likely increase the understanding of brain circuitries coordinating energy homeostasis and emotion. Finally, we introduce several lines of evidence suggesting a link between the melanocortin/NPY systems and several neurotransmitter systems on which many of the psychotropic agents exert their influence.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has opened a new window to the brain. Measuring hippocampal volume with MRI has provided important information about several neuropsychiatric disorders. We reviewed the literature and selected all English-language, human subject, data-driven papers on hippocampal volumetry, yielding a database of 423 records. Smaller hippocampal volumes have been reported in epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, dementia, mild cognitive impairment, the aged, traumatic brain injury, cardiac arrest, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Cushing's disease, herpes simplex encephalitis, Turner's syndrome, Down's syndrome, survivors of low birth weight, schizophrenia, major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, chronic alcoholism, borderline personality disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and antisocial personality disorder. Significantly larger hippocampal volumes have been correlated with autism and children with fragile X syndrome. Preservation of hippocampal volume has been reported in congenital hyperplasia, children with fetal alcohol syndrome, anorexia nervosa, attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, and panic disorder. Possible mechanisms of hippocampal volume loss in neuropsychiatric disorders are discussed.
The advance of neuroimaging techniques has resulted in a burgeoning of studies reporting abnormalities in brain structure and function in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders. Measurement of hippocampal volume has developed as a useful tool in the study of neuropsychiatric disorders. We reviewed the literature and selected all English-language, human subject, data-driven papers on hippocampal volumetry, yielding a database of 423 records. From this database, the methodology of all original manual tracing protocols were studied. These protocols differed in a number of important factors for accurate hippocampal volume determination including magnetic field strength, the number of slices assessed and the thickness of slices, hippocampal orientation correction, volumetric correction, software used, inter-rater reliability, and anatomical boundaries of the hippocampus. The findings are discussed in relation to optimizing determination of hippocampal volume.
Visual hallucinations (VH) in Parkinson's disease (PD) are a chronic complication in 30 to 60% of treated patients and have a multifaceted phenomenology. Flickering, faultive impressions, and illusionary misperceptions precede the core syndrome of stereotyped, colorful images. The patient variably recognizes these images as hallucinations, being rarely irritated or frightened and more often amused as a bystander. Although studies on VH in PD focus on several research domains, no comprehensive, unified theory has been developed to study their pathophysiology. We have adapted Hobson's work on the states of consciousness and propose a model integrating seemingly disparate data on VH. We suggest that VH should be considered as a dysregulation of the gating and filtering of external perception and internal image production. Contributive elements and anatomical links for the model include poor primary vision, reduced activation of primary visual cortex, aberrant activation of associative visual and frontal cortex, lack of suppression or spontaneous emergence of internally generated imagery through the ponto-geniculo-occipital system, intrusion of rapid eye movement dreaming imagery into wakefulness, errative changes of the brainstem filtering capacities through fluctuating vigilance, and medication-related overactivation of mesolimbic systems. Different etiologies likely produce different phenomenologies and the prognosis may not be uniform. This new conceptual framework permits an anatomical view of VH and suggests new, testable hypotheses regarding their pathophysiology and therapy.
The global total number of neocortical neurons was estimated in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD; mean age, 74.8 years; range, 68-83) and compared to 12 comparison subjects (mean age, 75.8 years; range, 70 - 84). The total mean neocortical neuron number in the patients with PD was 18.6 x 10(9) with a coefficient of variation (CV = SD/mean) of 0.18, which was not statistically significantly different from that of the controls (18.8 x 10(9); CV = 0.16; P = 0.90). In contrast to some studies reporting neocortical atrophy this was not confirmed in our study, where the mean volume of neocortex was the same in the two groups (P = 0.59). No difference was found in the volume of white matter, central gray structures, archicortex, or the ventricular system between the two groups. Most patients with PD develop cognitive disturbances with time, and this study cannot exclude that local neuron loss in specific subpopulations of neocortical neurons or cell loss in small but essential neocortical subregions may be part of the structural defects of PD.
The presence of late-onset neurological symptoms in male carriers of premutation expansions of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene has been described recently. One of the clinical symptoms in this fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is parkinsonism. To test the possible association between expanded FMR1 alleles and Parkinson's disease (PD), we determined the size of the FMR1 CGG repeat in 414 male cases of clinically diagnosed parkinsonism, the majority of whom had PD. None of our patients had expanded FMR1 repeats within the premutation range (55-200 CGG repeats). Five patients (1.2%) carry intermediate-size alleles (41-54 CGG repeats). Expansions within the FMR1 gene are not associated with PD in our study.
Neuroferritinopathy is a recently recognized autosomal dominant disorder that results in abnormal aggregates of iron and ferritin in the brain due to a mutation in the ferritin light chain gene on chromosome 19q13.3. We present the clinical details of a patient with adult-onset generalized dystonia associated with this mutation. Neuroferritinopathy appears to be a rare disorder; hence, there is a need to report new cases to further our understanding of the clinical phenotype, diagnostic challenges, the course of the condition and imaging characteristics.
We analyzed predictive and reactive grip force behavior in 15 patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) and 15 sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects. Nine patients were without medication; six patients were on medication. In a first experiment, participants lifted and held instrumented objects of different weight. In a second experiment, participants performed vertical point-to-point and continuous arm movements at different frequencies with a hand-held object. In a third experiment, preparatory and reactive grip force responses to sudden load perturbations were analyzed when a weight was dropped into a hand-held cup either by the subject or unexpectedly by the experimenter. Compared to the healthy subjects, GTS patients had increased grip forces relative to the load force in all tasks. Despite this finding, they adjusted the grip force to changes in load force (due to either a change in the mass lifted or accelerating the mass during continuous movements) in the same way as healthy subjects. The temporal coupling between grip and load force profiles was also similar in patients and healthy controls, and they displayed normal anticipation of impact forces when they dropped a weight into a hand-held cup. We found no significant effect of medication on the performance of GTS patients, regardless of the task performed. These results are consistent with deficient sensory-motor processing in Gilles de la Tourette syndrome.

The dendrites of motoneurons are not, as once thought, passive conduits for synaptic inputs. Instead they have voltage-dependent channels that provide the capacity to generate a very strong persistent inward current (PIC). The amplitude of the PIC is proportional to the level of neuromodulatory input from the brainstem, which is mediated primarily by the monoamines serotonin and norepinephrine. During normal motor behavior, monoaminergic drive is likely to be moderately strong and the dendritic PIC generates many of the characteristic features of motor unit firing patterns. Most of the PIC activates at or below recruitment threshold and thus motor unit firing patterns exhibit a linear increase just above recruitment. The dendritic PIC allows motor unit derecruitment to occur at a lower input level than recruitment, thus providing sustained tonic firing with little or no synaptic input, especially in low-threshold units. However the dendritic PIC can be readily deactivated by synaptic inhibition. The overall amplification due to the dendritic PIC and other effects of monoamines on motoneurons greatly increases the input-output gain of the motor pool. Thus the brainstem neuromodulatory input provides a mechanism by which the excitability of motoneurons can be varied for different motor behaviors. This control system is lost in spinal cord injury but PICs nonetheless recover near-normal amplitudes in the months following the initial injury. The relationship of these findings to the cause of the spasticity syndrome developing after spinal cord injury is discussed.
We report a patient with late-onset celiac disease and neurological manifestations including myopathy, polyneuropathy, and ataxia. Laboratory investigations showed anti-gliadin antibodies and severe vitamin E deficiency. Muscle biopsy revealed inflammatory infiltrates and rimmed vacuoles, similar to those found in inclusion-body myositis. A gluten-free diet and vitamin E supplementation reversed both the clinical neurological manifestations and the abnormalities in the muscle biopsy. Anti-gliadin antibodies were no longer present. This case illustrates the spectrum of neurological complications of celiac disease and documents the occurrence of reversible pathology resembling inclusion-body myopathy in the muscle.
The mechanosensitive cation channel (MscCa) transduces membrane stretch into cation (Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+) and Mg(2+)) flux across the cell membrane, and is implicated in cell-volume regulation, cell locomotion, muscle dystrophy and cardiac arrhythmias. However, the membrane protein(s) that form the MscCa in vertebrates remain unknown. Here, we use an identification strategy that is based on detergent solubilization of frog oocyte membrane proteins, followed by liposome reconstitution and evaluation by patch-clamp. The oocyte was chosen because it expresses the prototypical MscCa (&gt;or=10(7)MscCa/oocyte) that is preserved in cytoskeleton-deficient membrane vesicles. We identified a membrane-protein fraction that reconstituted high MscCa activity and showed an abundance of a protein that had a relative molecular mass of 80,000 (M(r) 80K). This protein was identified, by immunological techniques, as the canonical transient receptor potential channel 1 (TRPC1). Heterologous expression of the human TRPC1 resulted in a &gt;1,000% increase in MscCa patch density, whereas injection of a TRPC1-specific antisense RNA abolished endogenous MscCa activity. Transfection of human TRPC1 into CHO-K1 cells also significantly increased MscCa expression. These observations indicate that TRPC1 is a component of the vertebrate MscCa, which is gated by tension developed in the lipid bilayer, as is the case in various prokaryotic mechanosensitive (Ms) channels.

Synaptic actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are 'gated' by cyclic AMP (cAMP), but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here we report that cAMP regulates BDNF function in mature hippocampal neurons by modulating the signaling and trafficking of its receptor TrkB. cAMP gated the TrkB tyrosine kinase with three characteristic features: BDNF-induced TrkB phosphorylation was attenuated by inhibitors of cAMP signaling, it was potentiated by cAMP analogs, and activation of the cAMP pathway alone had no effect. In addition, cAMP facilitated trafficking of TrkB to dendritic spines, possibly by promoting its interaction with synaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95. Norepinephrinergic and dopaminergic agonists, which elevate intracellular cAMP concentration, also enhanced TrkB phosphorylation and its translocation to spines. cAMP gated long-term modulation by BDNF of spine density, but not the number of primary dendrites. These results reveal a specific role of cAMP in controlling BDNF actions in the brain, and provide new insights into the molecular mechanism underlying cAMP gating.
Using a rat model of craving and relapse, we have previously found time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine seeking over the first months of withdrawal from cocaine, suggesting that drug craving incubates over time. Here, we explored the role of the amygdala extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway in this incubation. Cocaine seeking induced by exposure to cocaine cues was substantially higher after 30 withdrawal days than after 1 withdrawal day. Exposure to these cues increased ERK phosphorylation in the central, but not the basolateral, amygdala after 30 d, but not 1 d, of withdrawal. After 30 d of withdrawal from cocaine, inhibition of central, but not basolateral, amygdala ERK phosphorylation decreased cocaine seeking. After 1 d of withdrawal, stimulation of central amygdala ERK phosphorylation increased cocaine seeking. Results suggest that the incubation of cocaine craving is mediated by time-dependent increases in the responsiveness of the central amygdala ERK pathway to cocaine cues.
A key question in understanding visual awareness is whether any single cortical area is indispensable. In a transcranial magnetic stimulation experiment, we show that observers' awareness of activity in extrastriate area V5 depends on the amount of activity in striate cortex (V1). From the timing and pattern of effects, we infer that back-projections from extrastriate cortex influence information content in V1, but it is V1 that determines whether that information reaches awareness.
An active process in the inner ear expends energy to enhance the sensitivity and frequency selectivity of hearing. Two mechanisms have been proposed to underlie this process in the mammalian cochlea: receptor potential-based electromotility and Ca(2+)-driven active hair-bundle motility. To link the phenomenology of the cochlear amplifier with these cellular mechanisms, we developed an in vitro cochlear preparation from Meriones unguiculatus that affords optical access to the sensory epithelium while mimicking its in vivo environment. Acoustic and electrical stimulation elicited microphonic potentials and electrically evoked hair-bundle movement, demonstrating intact forward and reverse mechanotransduction. The mechanical responses of hair bundles from inner hair cells revealed a characteristic resonance and a compressive nonlinearity diagnostic of the active process. Blocking transduction with amiloride abolished nonlinear amplification, whereas eliminating all but the Ca(2+) component of the transduction current did not. These results suggest that the Ca(2+) current drives the cochlear active process, and they support the hypothesis that active hair-bundle motility underlies cochlear amplification.
Anxiety and stress disorders are the most commonly occurring of all mental illnesses, and current treatments are less than satisfactory. So, the discovery of novel approaches to treat anxiety disorders remains an important area of neuroscience research. Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system, and G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors function to regulate excitability via pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. Various mGlu receptor subtypes, including group I (mGlu(1) and mGlu(5)), group II (mGlu(2) and mGlu(3)), and group III (mGlu(4), mGlu(7) and mGlu(8)) receptors, specifically modulate excitability within crucial brain structures involved in anxiety states. In addition, agonists for group II (mGlu(2/3)) receptors and antagonists for group I (in particular mGlu(5)) receptors have shown activity in animal and/or human conditions of fear, anxiety or stress. These studies indicate that metabotropic glutamate receptors are interesting new targets to treat anxiety disorders in humans.
Regulated exocytosis is a process in which the membranes of cytoplasmic organelles fuse with the plasma membrane in response to stimulation. In many cases (secretory exocytoses), the process functions to secrete specific products that are segregated in the organelle lumen (for example, neurotransmitters, hormones and enzymes) to the extracellular space. In other cases ('non-secretory exocytoses'), it functions to transfer the organelle membrane and its components to the cell surface. Here, the general properties of non-secretory exocytoses are discussed.
The wide dissemination and expanding applications of functional MRI have not escaped the attention of the media or discussion in the wider public arena. From the bench to the bedside, this technology has introduced substantial ethical challenges. Are the boundaries of what it can and cannot achieve being communicated to the public? Are its limitations understood? And given the complexities that are inherent to neuroscience, are current avenues for communication adequate?
That speech and language are innate capacities of the human brain has long been widely accepted, but only recently has an entry point into the genetic basis of these remarkable faculties been found. The discovery of a mutation in FOXP2 in a family with a speech and language disorder has enabled neuroscientists to trace the neural expression of this gene during embryological development, track the effects of this gene mutation on brain structure and function, and so begin to decipher that part of our neural inheritance that culminates in articulate speech.
Discoveries concerning the molecular mechanisms of cell differentiation and development have dictated the definition of a new sub-discipline of genetics known as epigenetics. Epigenetics refers to a set of self-perpetuating, post-translational modifications of DNA and nuclear proteins that produce lasting alterations in chromatin structure as a direct consequence, and lasting alterations in patterns of gene expression as an indirect consequence. The area of epigenetics is a burgeoning subfield of genetics in which there is considerable enthusiasm driving new discoveries. Neurobiologists have only recently begun to investigate the possible roles of epigenetic mechanisms in behaviour, physiology and neuropathology. Strikingly, the relevant data from the few extant neurobiology-related studies have already indicated a theme - epigenetic mechanisms probably have an important role in synaptic plasticity and memory formation.
Homocysteine (Hcy) is harmful to neurons and blood vessels, including the cerebral microvasculature. It is possible that such effects contribute to the cascade of events that leads to cognitive decline, dementia, and depression in later life. Hcy is produced during the metabolism of the essential amino-acid methionine, which also involves a methyl group transfer derived from folate and choline metabolism. Its plasma level can be influenced by factors such as age, vitamin deficiency, renal function, and a common mutation in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene, where cytosine is replaced by thymidine (C--&gt;T) at nucleotide position 677. Subjects with the TT genotype have higher homocysteine levels and may be particularly prone to experiencing depression as a result of high plasma Hcy and dysfunction of methylation metabolic pathways critical to the synthesis of noradrenaline and serotonin. We designed the present study to investigate whether older women with the TT genotype would have higher depression and lower cognitive scores than women with CT and CC genotypes. A total of 240 community-dwelling women aged 70 years or over volunteered to take part in the study - 29 carried the TT genotype, 113 the CT and 98 the CC genotype. The Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) score for subjects with the TT genotype was statistically similar to the other groups (P = 0.609). Plasma Hcy showed a modest and significant correlation with BDI scores (r = 0.21) that was independent from age, B12 and folate levels. There was no association between beck anxiety inventory (BAI) scores and MTHFR genotype or homocysteine levels. The cognitive assessment of participants included measures of verbal memory, memory for faces, verbal fluency, visuo-spatial abilities and the cognitive section of the Cambridge Examination For Mental Disorders Of The Elderly (CAMCOG)-MTHFR genotype had no clear association with cognitive scores. These results indicate that, in isolation, the MTHFR C677T gene variation does not play an important role in the modulation of mood and cognitive performance in later life.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. However, its associated cell death mechanism remains unknown. 1-Methyl-4-phenil-pyridinium (MPP+) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) cause dopaminergic neuronal cell death. Both are widely used to model PD. We investigated the role of a vesicle-transport-related protein, RA410/Sly1, in SH-SY5Y cells to clarify the mechanism of cellular adaptation to MPP+ and 6-OHDA-induced stress. Antisense RA410/Sly1 transformants treated with these toxins displayed reduced viability in comparison with viability of wild-type or RA410/Sly1 sense transformants. Electron microscopy analysis indicated that the ER in MPP+-treated antisense RA410/Sly1 transformants was rapidly disrupted in comparison to wild-type or sense RNA transformants. Cell death induced by MPP+ and 6-OHDA was suppressed in RA410/Sly1 sense transformants through suppression of caspase-2, -3 and -9 activation. These results suggest that RA410/Sly1 plays an important cytoprotective role in MPP+ and 6-OHDA-induced cellular perturbation.
A young patient with a severe and isolated memory disorder, meeting the criteria for MCI, was followed for a period of 8 years. His overall functional level remained stable with a CDR-score at 0.5 until the last year when it dropped to 1.0. Neuropsychological testing showed severe memory deficits but otherwise normal cognitive functions. Only minimal progression was measured; however, the last testing showed impaired abstraction and executive functioning as well as discrete problems generating names of objects and people. Neuroimaging, with MRI and SPECT, was consistent with a progressive degenerative disorder, and cerebrospinal fluid levels of beta-amyloid 1-42, tau protein, and phosphorylated tau protein were characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We argue that this is a case of prodromal AD, which illustrates an extreme version of the normal course with respect to slow progression of the disease and severity of amnesia early in the course.

Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells transfected with either familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-typical G93A mutant or wild-type copper/zinc superoxide dismutase were compared to untransfected cells in term of glutamate transport. Vmax of glutamate uptake was reduced in mutant cells, with no change in Km. No difference in EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 glutamate transporter mRNAs and immunoreactive proteins was found, suggesting that one or more transporters are functionally inactivated, possibly due to increased oxidative stress induced by the G93A mutation. Mutant cells showed a marked sensitivity to oxidants, resulting in a more pronounced reduction of glutamate uptake. Short-term antioxidant treatment did not reverse the impairment of glutamate uptake in G93A cells. Interestlingly, N-acetylcysteine was partially effective in preventing glutamate uptake reduction due to exogenous oxidative insults. Since the inhibition of the EAAT2 transporter subtype had no effect on glutamate re-uptake in this model, our study suggests an impaired function of the EAAT1/3 transporter subtypes, possibly due to oxidative inactivation, in the presence of mutant copper/zinc superoxide dismutase. Therefore, this model might prove to be a valuable tool to study the effects of mutant copper/zinc superoxide dismutase associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis on glutamate transport in neuronal cells, without the specific contribution of glial cells. These findings might lead to the identification of new therapeutic strategies aimed at preventing the damage associated with ALS.
Intracellular pH in pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells was manipulated by 'acid loading' the cells and the effect of such a change on radioactive zinc uptake was studied. It was found that zinc uptake was stimulated in cells loaded with protons without causing any measurable change in the intracellular pH. To confirm our assumption that the proton flux due to zinc entry is too small to be measured, we calculated the pH change that one would expect because of zinc influx. The intrinsic buffer capacity of PC12 cells was determined to be 8.03 mM/pH unit and was used in these calculations. It was found that at the five-minute incubation, zinc uptake occurring under our experimental conditions could cause a pH change of 0.000277 pH units per minute (assuming a 1:2 zinc:proton stoichiometry). This study adds a new dimension towards understanding the role played by intracellular pH in causing zinc entry into cells.
Nutrient drink tests have been proposed as a surrogate for measurement of gastric accommodation. To study the relationship of maximum tolerated volume (MTV) during nutrient drink test and gastric volumes measured by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in healthy controls and functional dyspepsia (FD) patients. We reviewed data from 85 healthy controls and 35 FD residents of south-eastern Minnesota. All underwent standardized nutrient drink and SPECT studies between August 2000 and June 2003. To test for associations between nutrient drink test and SPECT gastric volumes, we used multiple linear regression and partial regression analyses, assigning age, gender, dyspepsia status and postprandial symptoms as covariates in the model. In the combined group (healthy and FD), MTV was weakly associated with fasting gastric volume (r = 0.43, P = 0.0001) and with volume response to feeding (r = 0.25, P = 0.006). In the FD group, associations were similar (fasting r = 0.53, P = 0.001; postmeal r = 0.32, P = 0.06). After accounting for covariates, MTV only explained 13 and 3% of variations in fasting and postprandial volumes measured by SPECT. MTV during the nutrient drink test does not accurately reflect gastric volume measurements by SPECT in healthy controls and a sample of people in the community with FD.
Inflammation of the bowel causes structural and functional changes to the enteric nervous system (ENS). While morphological alterations to the ENS are evident in some inflammatory conditions, it appears that relatively subtle modifications to the neurophysiology of enteric microcircuits may play a role in gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction. These include changes to the excitability and synaptic properties of enteric neurones. The response of the ENS to inflammation varies according to the site and type of inflammation, with the functional consequences depending on the nature of the inflammatory stimulus. It has become clear that inflammation at one site can produce changes that occur at remotes sites in the GI tract. Immunohistochemical data from patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and animal models indicate that inflammation alters the neurochemical content of some functional classes of enteric neurones. A growing body of evidence supports an active role for enteric glia in neuronal and neuroimmune communication in the GI tract, particularly during inflammation. In conclusion, plasticity of the ENS is a feature of intestinal inflammation. Elucidation of the mechanisms whereby inflammation alters enteric neural control of GI functions may lead to novel treatments for IBD.
Human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) polymorphisms occur in different ethnic populations and may result in differences in nAChR ion channel properties. We have identified four nAChR beta 4 subunit (beta4) nucleotide variants: 392C--&gt;T, 526C--&gt;T, 538A--&gt;G, and 1519A--&gt;G. Their corresponding amino acid substitutions are: Thr to Ile at codon 91 (T91I), Arg to Trp at codon 136 (R136W), Ser to Gly at codon 140 (S140G), and Met to Val at codon 467 (M467V), respectively. The nAChR ion channel properties of these variants were studied and compared with the more-common (wild-type) allele as wild-types. The nAChRs (alpha4beta4 channels) were expressed heterologously in Xenopus oocytes and studied using the two-electrode voltage clamp technique to reveal functional differences between the wild-type and the variants. The receptors containing the R136W and M467V mutations (or variants) had a higher sensitivity to acetylcholine and lower EC50 than the wild-type. The T91I mutation had lower sensitivity to acetylcholine and the EC50 was larger than in wild-type nAChRs. The S140G mutation had a dose-response relationship that was similar to the wild-type. The T91I, R136W, and M467V mutations (or variants) also showed a slightly greater degree of steady-state desensitization than the wild-type in response to a 30-min exposure to one tenth of their EC50. The present results demonstrate that human beta4 nAChR DNA polymorphisms result in functional changes, and suggest that certain individuals with those variants may be more or less sensitive to cholinergic drugs or to dysfunctions associated with nicotinic cholinergic systems.
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD) and its allelic disorder, spastic paraplegia type 2 (SPG2), are among the best-characterized dysmyelinating leukodystrophies of the central nervous system (CNS). Both PMD and SPG2 are caused by mutations in the proteolipid protein 1 (PLP1) gene, which encodes a major component of CNS myelin proteins. Distinct types of mutations, including point mutations and genomic duplications and deletions, have been identified as causes of PMD/SPG2 that act through different molecular mechanisms. Studies of various PLP1 mutants in humans and animal models have shed light on the genomic, molecular, and cellular pathogeneses of PMD/SPG2. Recent discoveries include complex mutational mechanisms and associated disease phenotypes, novel cellular pathways that lead to the degeneration of oligodendrocytes, and genomic architectural features that result in unique chromosomal rearrangements. Here, I review the previous and current knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of PMD/SPG2 and delineate future directions for PMD/SPG2 studies.
Rather than specifying spatial relations with a closed-class set of prepositions, American Sign Language (ASL) encodes spatial relations using space itself via classifier constructions. In these constructions, handshape morphemes specify object type, and the position of the hands in signing space schematically represents the spatial relation between objects. A [15O]water PET study was conducted to investigate the neural regions engaged during the production of English prepositions and ASL locative classifier constructions in hearing subjects with deaf parents (ASL-English bilinguals). Ten subjects viewed line drawings depicting a spatial relation between two objects and were asked to produce either an ASL locative classifier construction or an English preposition that described the spatial relation. The comparison task was to name the figure object (colored red) in either ASL or in English. Describing spatial relations in either ASL or English engaged parietal cortex bilaterally. However, an interaction analysis revealed that right superior parietal cortex was engaged to a greater extent for ASL than for English. We propose that right parietal cortex is involved in the visual-motoric transformation required for ASL. The production of both English prepositions and ASL nouns engaged Broca's area to a greater extent than ASL classifier constructions. We suggest that Broca's area is not engaged because these constructions do not involve retrieval of the name of an object or the name of a spatial relation. Finally, under the same task conditions, only left parietal activation was observed for monolingual English speakers producing spatial prepositions (H. Damasio et al., 2001, NeuroImage, 13). We conclude that the right hemisphere activation observed for ASL-English bilinguals was due to their life-long experience with spatial language in ASL.
To what extent do we share feelings with others? Neuroimaging investigations of the neural mechanisms involved in the perception of pain in others may cast light on one basic component of human empathy, the interpersonal sharing of affect. In this fMRI study, participants were shown a series of still photographs of hands and feet in situations that are likely to cause pain, and a matched set of control photographs without any painful events. They were asked to assess on-line the level of pain experienced by the person in the photographs. The results demonstrated that perceiving and assessing painful situations in others was associated with significant bilateral changes in activity in several regions notably, the anterior cingulate, the anterior insula, the cerebellum, and to a lesser extent the thalamus. These regions are known to play a significant role in pain processing. Finally, the activity in the anterior cingulate was strongly correlated with the participants' ratings of the others' pain, suggesting that the activity of this brain region is modulated according to subjects' reactivity to the pain of others. Our findings suggest that there is a partial cerebral commonality between perceiving pain in another individual and experiencing it oneself. This study adds to our understanding of the neurological mechanisms implicated in intersubjectivity and human empathy.
The James-Lange theory of emotion proposes that automatically generated bodily reactions not only color subjective emotional experience of stimuli, but also necessitate a mechanism by which these bodily reactions are differentially generated to reflect stimulus quality. To examine this putative mechanism, we simultaneously measured brain activity and heart rate to identify regions where neural activity predicted the magnitude of heart rate responses to emotional facial expressions. Using a forewarned reaction time task, we showed that orienting heart rate acceleration to emotional face stimuli was modulated as a function of the emotion depicted. The magnitude of evoked heart rate increase, both across the stimulus set and within each emotion category, was predicted by level of activity within a matrix of interconnected brain regions, including amygdala, insula, anterior cingulate, and brainstem. We suggest that these regions provide a substrate for translating visual perception of emotional facial expression into differential cardiac responses and thereby represent an interface for selective generation of visceral reactions that contribute to the embodied component of emotional reaction.

The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), glutamate, and glycine on the developmental axons of the neonatal rat spinal cord were investigated. Isolated dorsal column preparations from postnatal day (PN) 0 to 14 Long-Evans hooded rats (n = 119) were used in vitro. Compound action potentials (CAPs) were recorded from the cuneate and gracile fasciculi with a glass micropipette electrode. NMDA (100 microM) significantly increased CAP amplitude in PN 0-6 cords by 21.5 +/- 9.2% (mean +/- standard error of the mean, p &lt; 0.001, n = 8) and in PN 7-14 cords by 6.7 +/- 6.6% (p &lt; 0.001, n = 10). NMDA (10 microM) significantly increased the CAP amplitude by 6.3 +/- 2.9% in PN 0-6 cords (p &lt; 0.01, n = 10). The increase of CAP amplitude induced by NMDA (100 microM) in PN 0-6 cords was significantly greater than that in PN 7-14 cords (p &lt; 0.005). Glutamate (100 microM) significantly increased the CAP amplitude by 8.8 +/- 8.1% in PN 0-6 cords (p &lt; 0.001, n = 29) and 6.7 +/- 7.5% in PN 7-14 cords (p &lt; 0.01, n = 14), and glutamate (10 microM) significantly increased by 6.3 +/- 2.9% in PN 0-6 cords (p &lt; 0.01, n = 21). The amplitudes induced by glutamate (100 microM or 10 microM) did not significantly differ between PN 0-6 and PN 7-14 cords. Application of glycine (100 microM) did not significantly alter CAP amplitudes induced by NMDA (100 microM or 10 microM) and glutamate (100 microM or 10 microM). D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (NMDA receptor antagonist) blocked the effects of NMDA and glutamate. These results suggest that NMDA receptor is present on afferent dorsal column axons and may modulate axonal excitability, especially during the 1st week after birth.

Mutations of the GNE gene are responsible for autosomal recessive hereditary inclusion-body myopathy (HIBM). In this study we searched for the presence of any significant abnormality of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG), a highly glycosylated component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, in 5 HIBM patients which were previously clinically and genetically characterized. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot analysis showed that alpha-DG extracted from muscle biopsies was normally expressed and displayed its typical molecular mass. Immunoblot analysis on the wheat germ lectin-enriched glycoprotein fraction of muscles and primary myotubes showed a reduced amount of alpha-DG in 4 out of 5 HIBM patients, compared to normal and other diseased muscles. However, such altered lectin-binding behaviour, possibly reflecting a partial hyposialylation of alpha-DG, did not affect the laminin binding properties of alpha-DG. Therefore, the subtle changes within the alpha-DG glycosylation pattern, detected in HIBM muscles, likely do not play a key pathogenic role in this disorder.
The neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha7 (nAChR alpha7) may be involved in cognitive deficits in Schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. A fast pharmacological characterization of homomeric alpha7 receptors is mostly hampered by their low functional expression levels in heterologous expression systems. In the present study expression of homomeric nAChR alpha7 was achieved in GH3 rat pituitary cells. Alpha7 subunits were heterologously expressed as components of [125I]-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin binding nAChRs (Bmax: 1.2 pmol/mg protein). Function of the expressed alpha7 ion channels was assessed by patch-clamp recording and calcium imaging. While acetylcholine-induced currents desensitized within much less than 1 s, calcium-sensitive fluorescence transients peaked after 5-10 s and returned to background levels within 30 s only. The fluorescence signal was blocked by isradipine and removal of extracellular sodium indicated that in these cells opening of rapidly desensitizing alpha7 nAChR triggers calcium influx via voltage-gated, DHP-sensitive calcium channels. In this cellular system, agonists revealed the following rank order of potency: epibatidine&gt;anatoxin A&gt;AAR17779&gt;ABT-594&gt;DMPP&gt;nicotine&gt;GTS-21&gt;cytisine&gt;ABT-418&gt;acetylcholine&gt;choline&gt;ABT-089. All of the signals were inhibited by the alpha7 antagonists alpha-bungarotoxin (pIC50: 7.4) and methyllycaconitine (pIC50: 7.8). Further, marketed antidepressants showed antagonistic activity with the following rank order of potency: fluoxetine&gt;imipramine&gt;paroxetine&gt;sertraline. These data illustrate that coupling to voltage-gated calcium channels allows a rapid and reliable functional examination of nAChR alpha7.
Anxiety disorders may result from an overexpression of aversive memories. Evidence suggests that the hippocampal cholinergic system could be the point of convergence of anxiety and memory. We propose that clinically effective anxiolytics may exert their effect by interfering with this integration mechanism. To assess anxiety and aversive memory, we used the shock-probe burying test. A reduction in anxiety in this test is indicated by decreased burying, whereas impaired cognition is reflected by an increased number of probe-contacts and/or reduced retention latency. Both an aversive stimulus and the memory of that stimulus significantly increased hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) levels (Experiment 1). In fact, the memory of the event seemed to be more important than the event itself since the aversive memory induced a greater increase in hippocampal ACh. Injections (i.p.) of fluoxetine (Prozac) reduced burying behavior, while not affecting probe contacts or retention latency (Experiment 2). Although injections of fluoxetine did not affect basal hippocampal ACh efflux (Experiment 3), fluoxetine abolished the increase in ACh induced by the aversive stimulus and the memory of that stimulus (Experiment 4), emphasizing the significance of aversive memories in anxiety disorders. These actions may be mediated by a decrease in the event-related enhancement in cholinergic neurotransmission through M1 cholinergic receptors (Experiment 5). Therefore, anxiety disorders may stem from an unopposed formation of aversive memories and clinically effective anxiolytics hinder the association between emotional and cognitive processing. This reduces the emotional impact of aversive memories, thereby opposing consequent anxiety.
The co-use of cocaine and heroin is relatively common, with a growing clinical and preclinical literature dedicated to investigating the factors underlying the phenomenon. Specifically, several studies have compared the reinforcing effects of the coadministration of cocaine and heroin, referred to commonly as 'speedball', to either drug alone. The present study assessed whether addition of heroin to a wide range of cocaine doses produces reinforcing effects greater than cocaine alone using both a progressive ratio (PR) schedule and a choice procedure. Patterns of coadministration of cocaine and heroin offered simultaneously were also assessed using double-lumen cannulas. Under the PR schedule, speedball combinations across a range of doses (0.38-3.0 mg/kg/inf cocaine+1.5-48 microg/kg/inf heroin) did not support higher break points than cocaine alone. When cocaine and heroin were made available concurrently (ie on two separate levers), rats self-administered cocaine exclusively. Using a choice procedure, however, a preference was demonstrated for some speedball combinations (eg 0.18 mg/kg/inf cocaine+50 microg/kg/inf heroin; 0.38 mg/kg/inf cocaine+50 microg/kg/inf heroin) over cocaine alone (0.75 mg/kg/inf). So while results obtained using the PR schedule do not support the hypothesis that speedball combinations are more reinforcing than cocaine alone, data from the choice procedure do support this hypothesis. These apparently discrepant results demonstrate that these models are measuring different aspects of drug reinforcement, and suggest that choice procedures in rats provide a useful tool to study speedball self-administration.
Magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has revealed the disruption of brain white matter microstructure in normal aging and alcoholism undetectable with conventional structural MR imaging. The metrics of DTI can be useful in establishing the nature of the observed microstructural aberrations. Abnormally low fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of diffusion orientation and coherence, may result from increased intracellular or extracellular fluid, which would be reflected in complementary high apparent diffusion coefficients (bulk mean diffusivity) and low FA, or from disorganization of fiber structure, which would be reflected in low FA but with a lack of the inverse FA and diffusivity relationship. To test these competing possibilities, we examined 15 alcoholic men and 31 control men with DTI to quantify diffusivity in the genu and splenium of the corpus callosum and centrum semiovale. In addition to the previously observed FA deficits in all the three brain regions, the alcoholics had abnormally high white matter diffusivity values in the genu and centrum. Further, inverse correlations between FA and diffusivity were significant in the genu (r=-0.52, p&lt;0.05) and centrum (r=-0.92, p=0.0001). Multiple regression analyses examining diffusivity and age as predictors of FA identified diffusivity as a significant unique contributor to FA in both regions. These results suggest that decreased orientational coherence of brain white matter in alcoholism is attributable, at least in part, to the accumulation of intracellular and extracellular fluid in excess of that occurring in aging, and that the differential influence of these fluid compartments can vary across brain regions.
The present study tested the hypothesis that separate neural substrates mediate cocaine relapse elicited by drug-associated contextual stimuli vs explicit conditioned stimuli (CSs) and cocaine. Specifically, we investigated the involvement of the dorsal hippocampus (DH), basolateral amygdala (BLA), and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) in contextual reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior and the involvement of the DH in explicit CS- and cocaine-induced reinstatement. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine in a distinct context or in the presence of CSs paired explicitly with cocaine infusions. Responding of context-trained rats was then extinguished in the previously cocaine-paired or an alternate context, whereas responding of explicit CS-trained rats was extinguished in the absence of the CSs. Subsequently, the target brain regions or anatomical control regions were functionally inactivated using tetrodotoxin (0 or 5 ng/side), and cocaine-seeking behavior (ie, nonreinforced responses) was assessed in the cocaine-paired context, in the alternate context, in the presence of the explicit CSs, or following cocaine priming (10 mg/kg, i.p.). DH inactivation abolished contextual, but failed to alter explicit CS- or cocaine-induced, reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. BLA or dmPFC inactivation also abolished contextual reinstatement. Conversely, inactivation of the control brain regions failed to alter contextual reinstatement. In conclusion, the DH, BLA, and dmPFC play critical roles in contextual reinstatement. Previous findings suggest that the BLA is critical for explicit CS-induced, but not cocaine-primed, reinstatement and the dmPFC is critical for both explicit CS-induced and cocaine-primed reinstatement. Thus, distinct but partially overlapping neural substrates mediate context-induced, explicit CS-induced, and cocaine-primed reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior.
Although mu-opioid receptors have been extensively investigated for their role in drug reinforcement, little is known about the contribution of these receptors to the acute and sensitized locomotor response to cocaine. In this study mu-opioid receptor involvement in acute cocaine-induced locomotor activity and in the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization was evaluated using mu-opioid receptor knockout mice and chronic naltrexone (NTX) pretreatment as models. In addition, co-administration of the specific mu-opioid receptor antagonist CTOP with repeated saline or cocaine injections was used to establish the involvement of mu-opioid receptors in sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. The acute locomotor response to cocaine (3, 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg i.p.) of mu-opioid receptor knockout or chronic NTX pretreated mice was not different from the cocaine response of their respective controls. With respect to cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization, induced by daily injections of 20 mg/kg cocaine for 11 subsequent days, mu-opioid receptor knockout mice developed behavioral sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine (challenge 10 mg/kg i.p.) comparable to wild-type littermates and the mu-opioid receptor antagonist CTOP did not affect cocaine-induced sensitization either. However, mice that were pretreated with NTX exhibited augmented cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization relative to placebo pretreated controls, which may be ascribed to increased delta-opioid receptor levels as has been described for chronic NTX pretreated mice. The present findings suggest that mu-opioid receptors are not required for the acute locomotor response to cocaine nor are they essential for the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization.
The intent of this article is to introduce the evolutionary concept of alternative strategies into the fields of psychiatry and clinical psychology. In behavioral ecology, the term alternative strategies refers to the presence of two or more discrete behavioral variants among adults of one sex and one population when those variants serve the same functional end. Often discrete behavioral variants are associated with specific morphological, physiological, and life-history characters. The concept of alternative strategies has been applied to human behavior to explain the origin of some behavioral syndromes that are currently classified as mental disorders or emotional dysfunctions. Antisocial personality could represent a high-risk strategy of social defection associated with resource acquisition and reproduction. Insecure attachment could represent an evolved psychological mechanism that used the quality of parental care received during childhood as a cue for optimizing adult reproductive strategies. Since a major contribution of evolutionary theory is the insight that individual differences are core biological features of any animal species, including Homo sapiens, the application of the concept of alternative strategies to psychiatry and clinical psychology can be a powerful antidote to the growing tendency to medicalize human diversity.
Previous studies have reported hyperactivation of catecholaminergic systems and elevated concentrations of corticotropin-releasing-hormone (CRH) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of child maltreatment victims or combat veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This study investigated the CSF concentrations of CRH and monoamine metabolites in rhesus macaque mothers that physically abused their infants and had themselves been abused as infants. Ten abusive mothers and 10 controls served as study subjects. All animals were sampled for CSF during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Focal observations of social and maternal behavior were also made. Abusive mothers had significantly higher CSF concentrations of CRH and 5-HIAA than controls. Across both subjects and controls, higher CRH, 5-HIAA and MHPG concentrations were associated with anti-social behavior patterns including a high frequency of maternal aggression, infant rejection, and a low frequency of contacts received from other individuals. These findings are consistent with those of previous primate and human studies and suggest that the neurobiological alterations associated with infant abuse may play an important role in the occurrence of maladaptive behavior in adulthood, including the perpetuation of infant abuse across generations.
Increased expression of N-Myc and expression of the high mobility group protein A1a (HMGA1a) were observed in the nuclei of SK-N-SH cells following exposure to hypoxia. These observations were accompanied by the appearance of additional high molecular weight bands, which were eliminated by pretreatment with alkaline phosphatase. Immunoprecipitation showed phosphorylation of serine, threonine and tyrosine residues of N-Myc in the nucleus. These results suggest that hypoxia-induced signals in SK-N-SH cells lead to persistent expression of HMGA1a, which may induce expression of the transcription factor N-Myc, and that phosphorylation at serine, threonine and tyrosine residues of N-Myc occurs at an early stage after stimulation. Such signal consolidation processes could play a role in neuronal survival after hypoxia in neurons.
High-frequency stimulation of lateral perforant path is accompanied by a heterosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) of medial perforant path synaptic responses in both the dentate gyrus and the CA3 region of the hippocampus. We reported previously that LTP induction at lateral perforant path-CA3 synapses is unaffected by NMDA antagonists. However, it is not known if heterosynaptic LTD that is observed in the CA3 region following lateral perforant path stimulation also is independent from NMDA receptors. We address this question in anesthetized adult rats using systemic administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CPP. Induction of lateral perforant path-CA3 LTP produced a sustained heterosynaptic depression of medial perforant path-CA3 responses. Systemic administration of CPP (10 mg/kg) was ineffective in blocking the induction of LTP at lateral perforant path-CA3 responses. However, heterosynaptic LTD of medial perforant path-CA3 responses was blocked completely by CPP. These data indicate that NMDA receptors are not required for the induction of lateral perforant path-CA3 LTP, but are involved in the induction of heterosynaptic LTD that accompanies lateral perforant path activity. The requirement for NMDA receptors for heterosynaptic LTD suggests one functional role of NMDA receptors at termination fields of the lateral perforant path.
We analyzed motile behavior of neuronal precursor cells in the intact olfactory bulbs (OBs) using transgenic mice expressing GFP under the control of T alpha 1 tubulin promoter. In the olfactory bulbs at the embryonic days 12.5-14.5, a large number of immature neurons expressed GFP in this transgenic line. Embryonic OBs were maintained in an organ culture system and the migratory behavior of GFP-positive cells was analyzed by time-lapse confocal microscopy. We observed rapid tangential movement of GFP-positive cells in the ventral olfactory bulb. In contrast to the typical bipolar morphology of translocating immature neurons within the developing cortex, the motile cells had neither leading nor trailing processes and changed their overall shape frequently. Comparison of the behavior of cells expressing GFP under the control of T alpha 1 tubulin or nestin promoter revealed that rapid motility was specific to cells in the neuronal lineage. The rapid movement was sensitive to an actin perturbing reagent and also dependent on the calcium influx through L-type calcium channels. These results indicate the presence of a specific form of precursor cell migration in the embryonic olfactory bulb.
Human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs) are currently believed to have important potential for clinical application and basic neuroscience research. In the present study, we have developed a new technique for expansion of human neural progenitor cells in vitro. We showed that the cultures of hNPCs in monolayer could keep the same features with that growing in neurospheres. These cells expressed the typical protein of neural progenitors, nestin, and could form neurons and astrocytes upon differentiation. Using this method, we achieved an exponential increase in cells number over a period of 240 days in vitro. We also confirmed these cells expressed the orphan nuclear receptor-related factor 1 (Nurr1). Furthermore, we acquired the GFP-expressing human neural progenitor cells using retroviral-mediated transgenic system. The results of present study indicate the feasibility of long-term in vitro expansion of human neural progenitor cells using the monolayer culture technique, which may be of value as vehicles for ex vivo gene transfer to the CNS and as a potential source for basic research of dopaminergic (DA) neurons development.
Cortical areas related to the information processing of binocular disparity-defined geometrical features of a surface, such as depth, orientation and shape are examined by functional magnetic resonance imaging while subjects discriminated these three types of geometrical feature in random dot stereograms. Results indicate that disparity-defined information of depth and that of orientation are processed in the parietal area. Furthermore, the visual system for 3D vision in the parietal area may be organized in a hierarchical manner and the posterior part of the right intraparietal sulcus may be involved in cognitive process of 3D vision. On the other hand, disparity-defined shape information seems to be processed in the occipital visual areas and the crucial involvement of human LOS for this process is suggested.
Folk psychology postulates a spatial unity of self and body, a &quot;real me&quot; that resides in one's body and is the subject of experience. The spatial unity of self and body has been challenged by various philosophical considerations but also by several phenomena, perhaps most notoriously the &quot;out-of-body experience&quot; (OBE) during which one's visuo-spatial perspective and one's self are experienced to have departed from their habitual position within one's body. Here the authors marshal evidence from neurology, cognitive neuroscience, and neuroimaging that suggests that OBEs are related to a failure to integrate multisensory information from one's own body at the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). It is argued that this multisensory disintegration at the TPJ leads to the disruption of several phenomenological and cognitive aspects of self-processing, causing illusory reduplication, illusory self-location, illusory perspective, and illusory agency that are experienced as an OBE.

Recent reports suggest that nicotine withdrawal symptoms are common among adolescents after a few weeks of intermittent tobacco use. No current model of nicotine dependence had predicted the rapid development of symptoms of dependence and withdrawal before the development of tolerance. We present a model that integrates neuroscience with clinical observations regarding how nicotine dependence develops, progresses, and resolves in humans. The central tenet of this sensitization-homeostasis model is that nicotine's dependence liability derives from its ability to stimulate neural pathways responsible for the suppression of craving. As a result of sensitization, the craving suppression produced by nicotine is magnified to superphysiological levels. The overinhibition of neurons responsible for craving initiates compensatory homeostatic measures that stimulate the craving pathways and result in craving when nicotine is absent. Separate homeostatic mechanisms are responsible for craving, withdrawal, and tolerance. The sensitization-homeostasis model is unique in its attribution of dependence to craving suppression, its attention to the temporal relationships among clinical features of nicotine dependence, and its extensive integration of clinical observations and basic science. It provides a framework for theory-based research.
Following subarachnoid haemorrhage the most significant complication is sustained cerebral vascular contraction (vasospasm), which may result in terminal brain damage from cerebral infarction. Despite this, the biochemical cause of vasospasm remains poorly understood. In this study, the global high-concentration metabolite composition of CSF has been correlated with patient outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage using multivariate statistics and 1H NMR spectroscopy. In total, 16 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) were compared with 16 control patients who required a procedure where CSF was obtained but did not have aSAH. Multivariate statistics readily distinguished the aSAH group from the heterogeneous control group, even when only those controls with blood contamination in the CSF were used. Using principal components analysis and orthogonal signal correction, vasospasm was correlated to the concentrations of lactate, glucose and glutamine. These pattern recognition models of the NMR data also predicted Glasgow Coma Score (54% within +/- 1 of the actual score on a scale of 1-15 for the whole patient group), Hunt and Hess SAH severity score (88% within +/- 1 of the actual score on a scale of 1-5 for the aSAH group) and cognitive outcome scores (78% within +/- 3 of the actual score on a 100% scale for the whole patient group). Thus, the approach allowed the prediction of outcome as well as confirming the presence of aSAH.
The aim of this large cross-sectional population-based study was to examine a possible positive or negative association between thyroid dysfunction and chronic musculoskeletal complaints (MSC). Between 1995 and 97, all 94,197 adults in Nord-Trndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in a health survey. A total of 64,787 (69%) responded to questions related to MSC, whereof thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) was measured in 34,960 individuals. These included a 5% random sample of women and men 20-40 years of age (n=2165), nearly all women above 40 (n=19,308), a random sample which included 50% of men older than 40 years (n=9983), and 3504 (97%) with self-reported thyroid dysfunction. Among the 64,787 participants, 30,158 (47%) who reported MSC continuously for at least 3 months during the past year where defined as having chronic MSC. Associations between thyroid dysfunction and chronic MSC were assessed in multivariate analyses, estimating prevalence odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). High TSH values were associated with lower prevalence of chronic MSC at ten anatomical sites among women with no history of thyroid dysfunction. Among these, chronic MSC was less likely (OR=0.6, 95% CI 0.4-0.8) if TSH &gt;or=10 mU/L than in women with normal TSH (0.2-4 mU/L). Chronic MSC was less likely among women with high TSH values. The mechanism is unclear and, theoretically, may reflect a fundamental gender-specific relationship between TSH and pain perception in the central nervous system.
The antinociceptive effects of the serotonin (5-HT)1A/7 receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) administered into the medial thalamus were evaluated. Pain behaviors organized at spinal (spinal motor reflexes, SMRs), medullary (vocalizations during shock, VDSs), and forebrain (vocalization after discharges, VADs) levels of the neuraxis were elicited by tailshock. Administration of 8-OH-DPAT (5, 10, and 20 microg/side) into nucleus parafascicularis (nPf) produced dose-dependent increases in VDS and VAD thresholds, but failed to elevate SMR threshold. The increase in VAD threshold was significantly greater than that of VDS threshold. Similar effects were observed with administration of 8-OH-DPAT (20 microg/side) into the rostral portion of the central lateral thalamic nucleus. The bilateral or unilateral administration of 8-OH-DPAT (20 microg) into other thalamic nuclei, or into sites dorsal to nPf, did not elevate vocalization thresholds. Increases in vocalization thresholds produced by nPf-administered 8-OH-DPAT were mediated by both 5-HT1A and 5-HT7 receptors. Intra-nPf administration of the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (0.05 or 0.5 microg/side), or the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB-269970 (1 or 2 microg/side), but not the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (10 microg/side), reversed 8-OH-DPAT induced elevations in vocalization thresholds. These results provide the first reported evidence of behavioral antinociception following the administration of a 5-HT agonist into the medial thalamus.

This article presents the executive summary of the presentations and discussions at the Workshop on Research in Neonatology sponsored by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and the American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Perinatal Pediatrics convened in January 2004. In this article, the scientific aspects are summarized, highlighting the current knowledge gaps and identifying research priorities with a focus on emerging technologies. In a separate article, issues concerning workforce needs and shortages and board-certification requirements are presented. Full-length articles on the presented topics will be published in the Journal of Perinatology.
Does a behavioral and anatomical division exist between spatial and object working memory? In this article, we explore this question by testing human participants in simple visual working memory tasks. We compared a condition in which there was no location change with conditions in which absolute location change and absolute plus relative location change were manipulated. The results showed that object memory was influenced by memory for relative but not for absolute location information. Furthermore, we demonstrated that relative space can be specified by a salient surrounding box or by distractor objects with no touching surfaces. Verbal memory was not influenced by any type of spatial information. Taken together, these results indicate that memory for &quot;where&quot; influences memory for &quot;what.&quot; We propose that there is an asymmetry in memory according to which object memory always contains location information.
Serotonin plays an important role in controlling food intake and regulating body weight. Thus, altered serotonergic function may be involved in the etiology of anorexia nervosa. To investigate this hypothesis, we examined whether activation of the serotonin system increases the severity of activity-based anorexia, an animal model of anorexia nervosa in which food-restricted rats are housed with access to running wheels. This paradigm promotes symptoms of anorexia nervosa, including hypophagia, hyperactivity, and weight loss. Food-restricted rats received injections of a serotonin agonist, fenfluramine, or saline 1.5 h prior to their daily 2-h period of food access. A third saline-injected group was pair-fed to the fenfluramine group. Drug treatment and food restriction were terminated following a 25% weight loss. During food restriction, each group developed symptoms of activity-based anorexia. Although similar reductions in food intake were observed in fenfluramine-treated and pair-fed rats, only fenfluramine-treated rats displayed an accelerated rate of weight loss, relative to saline-treated rats. Thus, some other nonanorexic aspect of fenfluramine, perhaps its influence on metabolism, must underlie the accelerated rate of weight loss in this group. Our results suggest that increased activation of the serotonin system exacerbates the weight loss associated with activity-based anorexia.
Both normal aging and age-related disease, such as Alzheimer's disease, have diverse effects on forebrain-dependent cognitive tasks as well as the underlying neurobiological substrates. The purpose of the current study was to investigate if age-related alterations in the function of the cholinergic system are associated with memory impairments in auditory-cued and contextual fear conditioning. Young (2-3 months) and aged (19-20 months) C57BL/6 mice were administered scopolamine (0.1, 0.3, 0.5, or 1.0 mg/kg), a muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg), a nicotinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, both scopolamine and mecamylamine (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively), or saline prior to training. Training consisted of two white-noise CS (85 dB, 30 s)-footshock US (0.57 mA, 2 s) presentations. Testing occurred 48 h post-training. Scopolamine administration impaired contextual and cued fear conditioning in young and aged mice, although the aged mice were less sensitive to disruption by scopolamine. Mecamylamine did not disrupt conditioned fear in the young or aged mice. Scopolamine and mecamylamine co-administration, at doses sub-threshold for disrupting fear conditioning with separate administration, disrupted contextual and auditory-cued fear conditioning in the young mice, indicating that in the young mice the muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic processes interact in the formation and maintenance of long-term memories for conditioned fear. Co-administration of both antagonists did not disrupt fear conditioning in the aged mice, indicating that age-related alterations in the cholinergic receptor subtypes may occur.
We study the amplification of information transfer in excitable systems. We show that excitable systems residing in a steady state near a bifurcation point to complex oscillatory behavior incorporate several frequencies that can be exploited for a resonant amplification of information transfer. In particular, for excitable neurons that reside in a steady state near a bifurcation point to elliptic bursting oscillations, we show that in addition to the resonant frequency of damped oscillations around the stable focus, another frequency exists that resonantly enhances large amplitude bursts and thus amplifies the information transfer in the system. This additional frequency cannot be found by the local stability analysis and has never been used for amplifying the information transfer in a system. The results obtained for elliptic bursting oscillations can be generalized also to other complex oscillators, such as parabolic or square-wave bursters. Additionally, the biological importance of presented results in the field of neuroscience is outlined.

Parsing a mental operation into components, characterizing the parallel or serial nature of this flow, and understanding what each process ultimately contributes to response time are fundamental questions in cognitive neuroscience. Here we show how a simple theoretical model leads to an extended set of predictions concerning the distribution of response time and its alteration by simultaneous performance of another task. The model provides a synthesis of psychological refractory period and random-walk models of response time. It merely assumes that a task consists of three consecutive stages-perception, decision based on noisy integration of evidence, and response-and that the perceptual and motor stages can operate simultaneously with stages of another task, while the central decision process constitutes a bottleneck. We designed a number-comparison task that provided a thorough test of the model by allowing independent variations in number notation, numerical distance, response complexity, and temporal asynchrony relative to an interfering probe task of tone discrimination. The results revealed a parsing of the comparison task in which each variable affects only one stage. Numerical distance affects the integration process, which is the only step that cannot proceed in parallel and has a major contribution to response time variability. The other stages, mapping the numeral to an internal quantity and executing the motor response, can be carried out in parallel with another task. Changing the duration of these processes has no significant effect on the variance.
The lateral line and its associated sensory nerves develop from cephalic epithelial thickenings called neurogenic placodes. In the zebrafish, the transcription factor neurogenin 1 is essential for the generation of the sensory ganglion from the placode, but is dispensable for the migration of the primordium and the initial development of neuromasts. We find that inactivation of the gene encoding neurogenin 1 leads to the development of over twice the normal number of neuromasts along the posterior lateral line of zebrafish larvae. Mutation of the gene encoding another transcription factor, sox10, has a similar effect. After a normal number of proneuromasts is initially deposited by the migrating primordia, interneuromast cells divide and differentiate to form the extra neuromasts. Our results indicate that the development of these intercalary neuromasts occurs principally because of the absence of neural crest-derived peripheral glia, which evidently inhibit the assembly of interneuromast cells into neuromasts.
NADH regulates the release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum by modulation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R), accounting for the augmented calcium release of hypoxic cells. We report selective binding of IP3R to GAPDH, whose activity leads to the local generation of NADH to regulate intracellular calcium signaling. This interaction requires cysteines 992 and 995 of IP3R and C150 of GAPDH. Addition of native GAPDH and NAD+ to WT IP3R stimulates calcium release, whereas no stimulation occurs with C992S/995S IP3R that cannot bind GAPDH. Thus, the IP3R/GAPDH interaction likely enables cellular energy dynamics to impact calcium signaling.
Apoptotic stimuli augment intracellular calcium concentration through inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) on endoplasmic reticulum calcium stores. We previously discovered an apoptotic cascade wherein cytochrome c binds to IP3R early in apoptosis, resulting in dysregulated calcium release. Here we show that cytochrome c binding to IP3R depends on a cluster of glutamic acid residues within the C terminus of the channel. A cell permeant peptide derived from this sequence displaces cytochrome c from IP3R and abrogates cell death induced by staurosporine treatment of HeLa cells and Fas ligand stimulation of Jurkat cells. Small-molecule inhibitors of cytochrome c/IP3R interactions may prove useful in treating disorders associated with inappropriate intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic signaling.
Opioids classically regulate the excitability of neurons by suppressing synaptic GABA release from inhibitory neurons. Here, we report a role for opioids in modulating excitatory synaptic transmission. By activating ubiquitously clustered mu-opioid receptor (MOR) in excitatory synapses, morphine caused collapse of preexisting dendritic spines and decreased synaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors. Meanwhile, the opioid antagonist naloxone increased the density of spines. Chronic treatment with morphine decreased the density of dendritic spines even in the presence of Tetrodotoxin, a sodium channel blocker, indicating that the morphine's effect was not caused by altered activity in neural network through suppression of GABA release. The effect of morphine on dendritic spines was absent in transgenic mice lacking MORs and was blocked by CTOP (D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-ThrNH2), a mu-receptor antagonist. These data together with others suggest that endogenous opioids and/or constitutive activity of MORs participate in maintaining normal morphology and function of spines, challenging the classical model of opioids. Abnormal alteration of spines may occur in drug addiction when opioid receptors are overactivated by exogenous opiates.
While investigating the reversible seasonal obesity of Siberian hamsters, direct sympathetic nervous system (SNS) postganglionic innervation of white adipose tissue (WAT) has been demonstrated using anterograde and retrograde tract tracers. The primary function of this innervation is lipid mobilization. The brain SNS outflow to WAT has been defined using the pseudorabies virus (PRV), a retrograde transneuronal tract tracer. These PRV-labelled SNS outflow neurons are extensively co-localized with melanocortin-4 receptor mRNA, which, combined with functional data, suggests their involvement in lipolysis. The SNS innervation of WAT also regulates fat cell number, as noradrenaline inhibits and WAT denervation stimulates fat cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo respectively. The sensory innervation of WAT has been demonstrated by retrograde tract tracing, electrophysiological recording and labelling of the sensory-associated neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide in WAT. Local injections of the sensory nerve neurotoxin capsaicin into WAT selectively destroy this innervation. Just as surgical removal of WAT pads triggers compensatory increases in lipid accretion by non-excised WAT depots, capsaicin-induced sensory denervation triggers increases in lipid accretion of non-capsaicin-injected WAT depots, suggesting that these nerves convey information about body fat levels to the brain. Finally, parasympathetic nervous system innervation of WAT has been suggested, but the recent finding of no WAT immunoreactivity for the possible parasympathetic marker vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) argues against this claim. Collectively, these data suggest several roles for efferent and afferent neural innervation of WAT in body fat regulation.
Growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) expression is critical for the proper establishment of neural circuitry, a process thought to be disrupted in schizophrenia. Previous work from our laboratory demonstrated decreased GAP-43 levels in post-mortem tissue from the entire hippocampal formation of affected individuals. In the present study, we used immunocytochemical techniques to localize alterations in GAP-43 protein to specific synapses. GAP-43 distribution was compared to that of synaptophysin, another synaptic protein known to be altered in schizophrenia. The levels and distribution of GAP-43 and synaptophysin proteins were measured in the dentate gyrus of subjects with schizophrenia and sex-, age-, and postmortem interval-matched normal controls and subjects with bipolar disorder. Tissue from subjects was provided by the Harvard Brain Tissue Resource Center. In control subjects, GAP-43 immunostaining was prominent in synaptic terminals in the inner molecular layer and hilar region. Subjects with schizophrenia had significant decreases in GAP-43 immunoreactivity in the hilus (p&lt;0.05, paired t-test) and inner molecular layer (p&lt;0.05, paired t-test) but not in the outer molecular layer. In the same tissues, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was significantly reduced in both the inner and outer molecular layers of the dentate gyrus (both p&lt;0.01 by paired t-test), but not in the hilus. In contrast to patients with schizophrenia, GAP-43 and synaptophysin levels in subjects with bipolar disorder did not differ from controls. Given the relationship of GAP-43 and synaptophysin with the development and plasticity of synaptic connections, the observed alterations in the hippocampus of patients with schizophrenia may be related to cognitive deficits associated with this illness.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced by the chorioid plexus in the ventricles. It surrounds the brain and bone marrow, and reflects several different disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). Proteomics has been used to analyze CSF in order to discover disease-associated proteins and to elucidate the basic molecular mechanisms that either cause, or result from, CNS disorders. However, some disease-associated proteins are of low-abundance and are difficult to detect. A low total-protein concentration, a high amount of albumin and immunoglobins, and a wide dynamic range (several orders of magnitude) of protein concentration cause several difficulties in the identification of low-abundance CSF proteins. In this study, advantage was taken of the range of different hydrophobic properties of CSF proteins, and a reversed-phase solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridge was used to prefractionate human lumbar CSF proteins into three separate fractions prior to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis resolution of the proteome. A portion of the high-abundance CSF proteins were removed from two (eluted with 35% and 50% acetonitrile) of the three fractions. Some trace CSF proteins were preferentially enriched in the two fractions, and many proteins were detected in the two-dimensional (2-D) gels of the two fractions. Among the novel proteins identified, sixty-two protein spots that represent forty-two proteins were characterized. Most of the proteins have not been annotated in any previous 2-D map of human CSF, and several have been implicated in CNS diseases. The prefractionation of CSF proteins with SPE, followed by proteomics analysis, provides a new method to explore low-abundance, disease-specific CSF proteins.
The present study aimed to compare the attitudes and psychopathology of eating disorders between Asian and Caucasian adolescent girls; and investigate the relationship between acculturation and the attitudes and psychopathology of eating disorders in subgroups of Asian girls. Two groups of non-clinical adolescent girls in Perth, Western Australia, were compared using a survey method. There were 17 Asian and 25 Caucasian adolescent girls, aged 14-17 drawn from private high schools in Perth who were screened using the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), the Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI-2), and an acculturation index. The psychopathology scores for eating disorders of the Asian group were significantly higher than that of the Caucasian group in terms of total EDI-2 score, Interpersonal Distrust, Maturity Fears, Impulse Regulation and Social Insecurity subscales. Eating attitudes measured by Dieting subscale of the EAT-26 was significantly different. Within the Asian group, the less acculturated girls had higher scores on the EAT-26 and the EDI-2 than the more acculturated. Less acculturated Asian girls appeared to have unhealthier attitudes and psychopathology toward eating.

I argue here that functional neuroimaging data--which I restrict to the haemodynamic techniques of fMRI and PET--can inform psychological theorizing, provided one assumes a &quot;systematic&quot; function-structure mapping in the brain. In this case, imaging data simply comprise another dependent variable, along with behavioural data, that can be used to test competing theories. In particular, I distinguish two types of inference: function-to-structure deduction and structure-to-function induction. With the former inference, a qualitatively different pattern of activity over the brain under two experimental conditions implies at least one different function associated with changes in the independent variable. With the second type of inference, activity of the same brain region(s) under two conditions implies a common function, possibly not predicted a priori. I illustrate these inferences with imaging studies of recognition memory, short-term memory, and repetition priming. I then consider in greater detail what is meant by a &quot;systematic&quot; function-structure mapping and argue that, particularly for structure-to-function induction, this entails a one-to-one mapping between functional and structural units, although the structural unit may be a network of interacting regions and care must be taken over the appropriate level of functional/structural abstraction. Nonetheless, the assumption of a systematic function-structure mapping is a &quot;working hypothesis&quot; that, in common with other scientific fields, cannot be proved on independent grounds and is probably best evaluated by the success of the enterprise as a whole. I also consider statistical issues such as the definition of a qualitative difference and methodological issues such as the relationship between imaging and behavioural data. I finish by reviewing various objections to neuroimaging, including neophrenology, functionalism, and equipotentiality, and by observing some criticisms of current practice in the imaging literature.
The role of molecular neuroimaging techniques is increasing in the understanding of pathophysiological mechanism of diseases. To date, positron emission tomography is the most powerful tool for the non-invasive study of biochemical and molecular processes in humans and animals in vivo. With the development in radiochemistry and tracer technology, a variety of endogenously expressed and exogenously introduced genes can be analyzed by PET. This opens up the exciting and rapidly field of molecular imaging, aiming at the non-invasive localisation of a biological process of interest in normal and diseased cells in animal models and humans in vivo. Besides its usefulness for basic research positron emission tomography has been proven to be superior to conventional diagnostic methods in several clinical indications. This is illustrated by detection of biological or anatomic changes that cannot be demonstrated by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, as well as even before symptoms are expressed. The present review summarizes the clinical use of positron emission tomography in neuroscience that has helped elucidate the pathophysiology of a number of diseases and has suggested strategies in the treatment of these patients. Special reference is given to the neurovascular, neurodegenerative and neurooncological disease.
Non-pathological angiogenesis in adults is rare and is largely thought to be restricted to wound healing and female reproductive cycles. Adult male rodents, however, display seasonal angiogenesis to support seasonal changes in reproductive tissue morphology. Non-tropical rodents use photoperiod (day length) to determine the time of year. During short days, the reproductive system undergoes involution and mating behaviours stop, adaptations which presumably allow energy resources to be shifted to processes necessary for winter survival. We compared the patterns of gene expression involved in angiogenesis in testes of white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) following 7, 14, 21 or 34 weeks of long or short day lengths. Short days decreased body mass, reproductive tract mass and seminiferous tubule diameter. Potential genes involved in seasonal angiogenesis were screened by hybridizing testicular RNA from each group to angiogenesis-specific microarrays. Genes that were &gt; or =6-fold different between long- and short-day testes (i.e. hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha(Hif1alpha), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (Serpine1), transforming growth factor beta receptor 3 (Tgfbetar3) and tumour necrosis factor (Tnf )) were sequenced and expression differences were compared throughout gonadal regression and recrudescence using quantitative RT-PCR. Our results suggest that short days trigger expression of Hif1alpha, Serpine1, and Tgfbetar3 to inhibit angiogenesis or promote apoptosis during testicular regression, and also trigger expression of Tnf to promote angiogenesis during testicular recrudescence.


To clarify the risk and associated genes of Alzheimer's disease by genome-wide screening, a Japanese study group was organized in 2000 under Yasuo Ihara, Tokyo University, supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Science Research on Priority Areas (C) -Advanced Brain Science Project from Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan. This is the first Japanese consortium study under permission of the ethical committees of the enrolled institutes based on the ethics guidelines for human genome/gene analysis research, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. In this project, 2,000 genome samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease, 2,000 control subjects, and 200 siblings affected with Alzheimer's disease are collected and analyzed. For this purpose, it is necessary to analyze samples from accurately diagnosed Alzheimer patients and controls using standard criteria for diagnosis and neuropsychological evaluation, which have been confirmed by an evidence-based studying a Japanese population. Here, we propose criteria for the diagnosis and clinical assessment of Alzheimer's disease. This proposal consists of a definition of Alzheimer's disease based on recent advances in research, diagnostic criteria based on DSM-IV, NINCDS-ADRDA and ICD-10, exclusion criteria for other dementia disorders, routine and detailed tests for neuropsychological and laboratory evaluations, criteria for neuroimaging and biomarkers, definitive diagnostic criteria and classification of clinical subtypes.
We report a 44-year-old woman with toxoplasma encephalitis that occurred during cyclosporine monotherapy for Behet disease. She had been treated with cyclosporine for 8 years. She experienced headache and, nausea, and then consciousness disturbance developed. Brain MRI showed high-signal intensity lesions on T1-weighted MRI with Gd-enhancement in the left temporoparietal lobe, right thalamus and right frontal and temporal lobes. The pathological examination of the biopsied brain specimens suggested toxoplasma encephalitis. She improved rapidly after the administration of antibiotics for toxoplasma gondii. Anti-toxoplasma specific protein antibodies were positive in the serum and CSF, supporting a diagnosis of acute toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasma encephalitis due to cyclosporine mono-therapy has not been reported yet. The measurement of anti-toxoplasma specific protein antibodies may be useful for the early, accurate diagnosis of toxoplasmosis.

Using a two-dimensional cell counting approach, a 1991 study in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACCx) detected a reduction in the density of nonpyramidal neurons in layers II-VI of schizophrenic subjects. Schizophrenics without superimposed mood disturbances showed a 16% decrease in layer II, while schizoaffectives showed a 30% decrease, suggesting that a decreased density of nonpyramidal neurons in layer II of ACCx might vary more strongly with affective disorder than with schizophrenia. Two follow-up studies from this laboratory, one a replication of that reported in 1991 and the other an analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive fibers, were undertaken in ACCx of normal controls and schizophrenics. These three data sets have been combined and a meta-analysis of the density of pyramidal, nonpyramidal and glial cells was performed to explore whether changes in the density of interneurons in ACCx may be a reliable finding in the major psychoses. Not all groups have reported this finding, but several had employed a different cell counting technique (i.e. three dimensional optical dissector), which could help to explain the discrepant findings in schizophrenia and affective disorder. The data from each of three different studies (now designated as studies A, B and C, respectively) have been internally normalized, combined into a single dataset and analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Tissue blocks from a subset of cases in study B (six controls, six schizophrenics and six bipolars) were embedded in celloidin and counted using an &quot;unbiased&quot; three dimensional counting method (study D). The data from studies A and B indicate that the density of nonpyramidal neurons in layer II of ACCx in the schizoaffective and bipolar samples was significantly decreased. In the schizophrenics, the nonpyramidal neurons were also decreased, but only by 15%. All three groups also showed a decrease of pyramidal neurons in layers IV, V and VI, but this difference was significant only in layer IV of the schizophrenics. When data from study C were added, the differences in pyramidal and nonpyramidal neurons were less striking. For study D, the pattern of findings are strikingly similar to those obtained in studies A, B and C, indicating that both 2D and 3D cell counting methodologies are capable of detecting the same differences. Taken together, these results indicate that the earlier finding of a decreased density of nonpyramidal neurons in ACCx of schizophrenics is consistent across non-overlapping subjects and/or methods in four separate studies, and is more pronounced in schizoaffective and bipolar subjects than in schizophrenics without superimposed mood disturbance.






The goal of this study was to describe the effects of using videoconferencing on participant enrollment, research measure administration and responses, study retention, and satisfaction. We recruited 400 patients from the Portland Veterans Affairs Primary Care Clinics for a randomized clinical trial of a care management intervention for depression. Patients recruited from distant clinic sites had the option of traveling to Portland, Oregon, for initial interviews or being interviewed using videoconferencing. Interviews included obtaining informed consent and administration of research measures. Remote participants were subsequently asked to complete a 12-item mail survey regarding the interview. There were no significant problems with the process of interviewing and obtaining informed consent by videoconferencing, as reported by patients and clinic staff. Twenty of the 31 participants interviewed by videoconferencing returned the satisfaction questionnaire. Participants indicated a high degree of satisfaction with these interviews, and expressed willingness to recommend videoconferencing to others. No differences were observed between the Patient Health Questionnaire depression scores of videoconferencing and in-person participants, and there was no significant difference in the 6-month rate of loss to follow-up in the randomized trial. Videoconferencing allows patients in rural and remote locations to participate in psychiatric research and expands sources of recruitment for research projects.
Forkhead box, class O (FoxO) transcription factors are inhibited by insulin-induced FoxO phosphorylation. Recently, acetylation of FoxO factors by calcium response element-binding (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) and/or p300 has been identified as a novel regulatory pathway, although the exact consequences of acetylation remain unclear. We propose that binding of CBP/p300 to FoxO factors is essential for FoxO-mediated transcription. CBP and p300 act as FoxO cofactors by weakening histone-DNA interactions. Acetylation of FoxO factors, however, attenuates FoxO-mediated transcriptional activity by disrupting the interaction between FoxO factors and target DNA. Therefore, acetylation shifts the function of FoxO from cell-cycle arrest and protection against oxidative stress towards cell death.
Tissue engineering approaches for expanding, differentiating and engrafting embryonic or adult stem cells have significant potential for tissue repair but harnessing endogenous stem cell populations offers numerous advantages over these approaches. There has been rapid basic biological progress in the identification of stem cell niches throughout the body and the molecular factors that regulate their function. These niches represent novel therapeutic targets and efforts to use them involve the familiar challenges of delivering molecular medicines in vivo. Here we review recent progress in the use of genes, proteins and small molecules for in situ stem cell control and manipulation, with a focus on using stem cells of the central nervous system for neuroregeneration.
Plexins are cell-surface receptors for the semaphorin family of neuronal guidance cues. Following semaphorin binding, the plexin cytoplasmic region initiates poorly understood signal-transduction events that lead to modifications of the cytoskeleton. Recent findings shed new light on the signalling network downstream of semaphorins and plexins by demonstrating that one of the plexins, plexin-B1, possesses an intrinsic GTPase-activating protein (GAP) activity towards R-Ras. Inactivation of R-Ras by the plexin-B1 GAP domains is required for plexin-B1-mediated effects on the cytoskeleton. These results indicate that plexins not only bind to but also regulate directly the activity of some of their downstream effectors.
The ability to remain focused on goal-relevant stimuli in the presence of potentially interfering distractors is crucial for any coherent cognitive function. However, simply instructing people to ignore goal-irrelevant stimuli is not sufficient for preventing their processing. Recent research reveals that distractor processing depends critically on the level and type of load involved in the processing of goal-relevant information. Whereas high perceptual load can eliminate distractor processing, high load on &quot;frontal&quot; cognitive control processes increases distractor processing. These findings provide a resolution to the long-standing early and late selection debate within a load theory of attention that accommodates behavioural and neuroimaging data within a framework that integrates attention research with executive function.
Specific language-impairment (SLI) is a disorder of language acquisition in children who otherwise appear to be normally developing. Controversy surrounds whether SLI results from impairment to a &quot;domain-specific&quot; system devoted to language itself or from some more &quot;domain-general&quot; system. I compare these two views of SLI, and focus on three components of grammar that are good candidates for domain-specificity: syntax, morphology and phonology. I argue that the disorder is heterogeneous, and that deficits of different subgroups potentially stem from different underlying causes. Interestingly, although poor sensory or non-verbal abilities often co-occur with SLI, there is no evidence that these impairments cause the grammatical deficits found in SLI. Moreover, evidence suggests that impairment in at least one subgroup is specific to grammar.
Neuroscientists continue to search for &quot;the&quot; neural correlate of consciousness (NCC). In this article, I argue that a framework in which there are at least two distinct NCCs is increasingly making more sense of empirical results than one in which there is a single NCC. I outline the distinction between phenomenal NCC and access NCC, and show how they can be distinguished by experimental approaches, in particular signal-detection theory approaches. Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience provide an empirical case for two different NCCs.

There have been two main approaches to feature detection in human and computer vision--based either on the luminance distribution and its spatial derivatives, or on the spatial distribution of local contrast energy. Thus, bars and edges might arise from peaks of luminance and luminance gradient respectively, or bars and edges might be found at peaks of local energy, where local phases are aligned across spatial frequency. This basic issue of definition is important because it guides more detailed models and interpretations of early vision. Which approach better describes the perceived positions of features in images? We used the class of 1-D images defined by Morrone and Burr in which the amplitude spectrum is that of a (partially blurred) square-wave and all Fourier components have a common phase. Observers used a cursor to mark where bars and edges were seen for different test phases (Experiment 1) or judged the spatial alignment of contours that had different phases (e.g. 0 degrees and 45 degrees ; Experiment 2). The feature positions defined by both tasks shifted systematically to the left or right according to the sign of the phase offset, increasing with the degree of blur. These shifts were well predicted by the location of luminance peaks (bars) and gradient peaks (edges), but not by energy peaks which (by design) predicted no shift at all. These results encourage models based on a Gaussian-derivative framework, but do not support the idea that human vision uses points of phase alignment to find local, first-order features. Nevertheless, we argue that both approaches are presently incomplete and a better understanding of early vision may combine insights from both.
Targets that are flashed during smooth pursuit are mislocalised in the direction of the pursuit. It has been suggested that a similar mislocalisation of moving targets could help to overcome processing delays when hitting moving objects. But are moving targets really mislocalised in the way that flashed ones are? To find out we asked people to indicate where targets that were visible for different periods of time had appeared. The targets appeared while the subjects' eyes were moving, and were either moving with the eyes or static. For flashed targets we found the usual systematic mislocalisation. For targets that moved with the eyes the mislocalisation was at least as large, irrespective of the presentation time. For static targets the mislocalisation decreased with increasing presentation time, so that by the time the presentations reached about 200 ms the targets were not mislocalised at all. A simple model that combines smooth retinal motion with information about the velocity of smooth pursuit could account for the measured tapping errors. These findings support the notion that the systematic mislocalisation of flashed targets is related to the way in which people intercept moving objects.
Most studies of texture processing are based on textures in which individual pixel statistics are varied and spatial correlations are absent (&quot;IID textures&quot;), or textures in which spatial correlation structure is varied and luminance, or first-order, statistics are held constant. Here we jointly examine simple pixel statistics and fourth-order spatial correlation structure along the continuum of &quot;even&quot; and &quot;odd&quot; isodipole textures of Julesz, Gilbert and Victor [Julesz, B., Gilbert, E.N., &amp; Victor, J.D. (1978). Biological Cybernetics, 31(3) 137-140], as well as their interactions. Absolute efficiency to detect either kind of statistical cue is low: approximately 0.05 for luminance statistics, and 0.004 for isodipole statistics. Above threshold, isodipole statistics must change by approximately four times the amount that pixel statistics must change to generate an equally salient texture. When pixel statistics and isodipole statistics are simultaneously varied, the two texture cues combine by probability summation and perceptual distances are approximately Euclidean. Superimposed on this picture are subtle foreground/background asymmetries that suggest properties of the visual mechanisms that are sensitive to these image statistics.
Recent advances in psychosocial research and neurosciences have provided new avenues for prevention of substance abuse at the individual and community level. A series of risk and protective factors affecting the likelihood of using and abusing substances have been identified. The scope of prevention has been broadened, allowing the prescription of different interventions for individuals according to their varying degrees of vulnerability to substance experimentation, continuous use and dependence. An increased awareness of comorbidity between mental and substance use disorders provides an arena for prevention within psychiatry and related disciplines. Emphasis on program evaluation has helped identify cost effective programs and policies. The integration of prevention within healthy life style policies and programs, including interventions at the school, family and community levels, is more likely to produce the desired outcomes.





Large amounts of refined sequence material in the form of predicted, curated and annotated genes and expressed sequences tags (ESTs) have recently been added to the NCBI databases. We matched the transcript-sequences of RefSeq, Ensembl and dbEST in an attempt to provide an updated overview of how many unique human genes can be found. The results indicate that there are about 25000 unique genes in the union of RefSeq and Ensembl with 12-18% and 8-13% of the genes in each set unique to the other set, respectively. About 20% of all genes had splice variants. There are a considerable number of ESTs (2200000) that do not match the identified genes and we used an in-house pipeline to identify 22 novel genes from Genscan predictions that have considerable EST coverage. The study provides an insight into the current status of human gene catalogues and shows that considerable refinement of methods and datasets is needed to come to a conclusive gene count.
Taste bud formation in channel catfish is first seen to occur in stage 39 embryos, when taste bud primordia (stage 1), consisting of three to five cells, including a single calretinin-positive cell, can be recognized within the oropharyngeal cavity and maxillary barbels. Within a short time (stage 40), stage 2 taste bud primordia are apparent and include two or three calretinin-positive cells. The number of calretinin-positive cells continues to increase (stage 3), and the primordia begin to erupt as mature taste buds (stage 4) by embryonic stage 48. This same pattern of taste bud development characterizes other regions of the head, with calretinin-positive cells first detected around the mouth and on the other barbels by stage 41 and on the rest of the head by stage 48. The development of trunk taste buds lags far behind that of the head, with the first calretinin-positive cells occurring on the lobes of the caudal fin by stage 48 and on the remaining fins by stage 50. Taste bud primordia on the trunk proper do not begin to appear until stage 53, when the larvae begin to feed, and these receptors begin to erupt only in 1-week-old larvae. Fibers of the facial nerve, which innervate all external taste buds, ramify within the ectoderm prior to the first appearance of taste bud primordia or their precursors.
In pancreatic beta-cells, inhibition of K(ATP)-channels plays a pivotal role in signal transduction of glucose-induced insulin release. However, the extreme sensitivity of K(ATP)-channels to its ligand ATP as found in inside-out patches is not directly compatible with modulation of these channels at physiological [ATP](i). We studied K(ATP)-channel sensitivity to ATP in beta-cells in dispersed culture and in fresh pancreatic tissue slices. Physiological [ATP](i) blocks more than 99% of K(ATP)-channels in cultured beta-cells, while only 90% in beta-cells in slices, indicating reduced sensitivity to ATP in the fresh slices. Applying cytosolic factors like ADP, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) or oleoyl-CoA did not restore the K(ATP)-channel sensitivity in cultured beta-cells. Our data suggest that interaction between SUR1 and Kir6.2 subunit of the K(ATP)-channel could be a factor in sensitivity modulation. Tissue slices are the first beta-cell preparation to study direct K(ATP)-channel modulation by physiological [ATP](i).
This study investigated the importance of vaginal stimulation on conditioned place preference by sexual behavior in female Syrian hamsters. Hormonally primed female hamsters given vaginal masks and topical lidocaine prior to conditioning sessions were no different in their place preference conditioning compared to female controls with no vaginal mask or lidocaine. Control females not provided a sexually active male did not show any preference for either compartment of the conditioning apparatus. These results suggest that stimuli, in addition to vaginal stimulation, are effective in producing a place preference during the mating experience in female hamsters.
Because of intrinsic differences between humans and mice, no single mouse model can represent all features of a complex human trait such as alcoholism. It is therefore necessary to develop partial models. One important feature is drinking to the point where blood ethanol concentration (BEC) reaches levels that have measurable affects on physiology and/or behavior (&gt;1.0 mg ethanol/ml blood). Most models currently in use examine relative oral self-administration from a bottle containing alcohol versus one containing water (two-bottle preference drinking), or oral operant self-administration. In these procedures, it is not clear when or if the animals drink to pharmacologically significant levels because the drinking is episodic and often occurs over a 24-h period. The aim of this study was to identify the optimal parameters and evaluate the reliability of a very simple procedure, taking advantage of a mouse genotype (C57BL/6J) that is known to drink large quantities of ethanol. We exchanged for the water bottle a solution containing ethanol in tap water for a limited period, early in the dark cycle, in the home cage. Mice regularly drank sufficient ethanol to achieve BEC&gt;1.0 mg ethanol/ml blood. The concentration of ethanol offered (10%, 20% or 30%) did not affect consumption in g ethanol/kg body weight. The highest average BEC ( approximately 1.6 mg/ml) occurred when the water-to-ethanol switch occurred 3 h into the dark cycle, and when the ethanol was offered for 4 rather than 2 h. Ethanol consumption was consistent within individual mice, and reliably predicted BEC after the period of ethanol access. C57BL/6J mice from three sources provided equivalent data, while DBA/2J mice drank much less than C57BL/6J in this test. We discuss advantages of the model for high-throughput screening assays where the goal is to find other genotypes of mice that drink excessively, or to screen drugs for their efficacy in blocking excessive drinking.
Transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been recently advanced. Tg2576 mice have been shown to develop progressive beta-amyloid (Abeta) neuritic plaques and exhibit impairment of cognitive function. The aim of this study was a better characterization of different aspects of spatial memory performance of transgenic mice, observed at a time when levels of soluble Abeta are elevated and Abeta neuritc plaques start to appear. A general elevation of basal locomotory activity in the home cage was found in Tg2576 mice, which also exhibited an impairment of spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze test. Tg2576 mice were not flexible upon changes in the schedule and failed to codify spatially the testing environment. Consistently, a deficit of spatial memory was also observed when mice were assessed for levels of reactivity to spatial change in the modified open-field test with objects. Compared to controls, Tg2576 mice also exhibited an increased number of explorative approaches to the different objects, and failed to discriminate the displacement of the object. Consistently with the hypothesis of increased disinhibition, a differential behavioural response to the plus-maze paradigm was exhibited by Tg2576 mice. Results clearly indicate that Tg2576 mice are characterized by a number of specific behavioral cognitive alterations, compatible with Alzheimer's disease (AD), which make them a suitable animal model for testing of novel anti-AD drugs.
The effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) on memory and fear reactivity in mice were studied. In the first experiment, MD subjects were submitted to a behavioral design allowing to study the relationship between memory and anxiety [Krazem A, Borde N, Beracochea D. Effects of diazepam and beta-CCM on working memory in mice: relationship with emotional reactivity. Pharmacol Biochem Behav 2001;68:235-44; Beracochea D, Krazem A, Jaffard R. Methyl beta carboline-3-carboxylate reverses the working memory deficits induced either by chronic alcohol consumption or mammillary body lesions in mice. Psychobiology 1995;23:52-8]. In a second experiment, MD-lesioned subjects were submitted to a GO/NOGO temporal alternation task involving two intertrial intervals (ITIs: 0 and 30 s). Lesioned subjects exhibited large bilateral mediodorsal thalamic lesions with small damage into the centromedial thalamic nucleus. In the first experiment, MD-lesioned animals performed normally a sequential alternation task involving fixed ITIs over seven successive trials (5 or 30 s); in contrast, MD-lesioned subjects exhibited deficits in the sequential task involving the same but mixed ITIs (30-5 s versus 5-30 s) the deficit being observed for the last trials of the series, regardless the ITIs used. MD lesions increased fear reactivity in an elevated-plus maze, and scores of anxiety were negatively correlated with performance in the mixed alternation schedule. The second experiment involving non spatial information extended results of the first experiment in showing that the deficit of MD-lesioned animals was not dependent on the ITIs separating trials. Overall, our data show that MD-lesioned subjects exhibit a cognitive impairment characterized by a difficulty to maintain an alternation rule in situations involving procedural variance, and this deficit could stem primarily from an increase of fear reactivity.
The causes of nigrostriatal neuron degeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD) are not known, but it has been suggested that exogenous or endogenous factors or neurotoxins may play a role. The degree of vulnerability to neurotoxins or other potential mediators of nigral dopamine cell death is thought to be important in understanding Parkinson's disease. In most animal models, the rate of terminal degeneration and corresponding functional impairment is too rapid to investigate effectively either cell vulnerability or the potential benefits of some neuroprotective treatments. In the present study, a new model of Parkinson's disease is described that might help in addressing the issue of nigral cell vulnerability and to evaluate interventions with clinical potential. 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was infused in escalating, intrastriatal doses over several weeks. Control animals received multiple infusions of vehicle at the same volume. Behavioral testing was carried out between each infusion, including forelimb-use and somatosensory function. A symptomatic threshold was established for each animal, indicating the amount of neurotoxin required to induce a stable deficit. Oral administration of L-DOPA (Sinemet) ameliorated limb-use asymmetries acutely. An immunocytochemical assay for tyrosine hydroxylase, a dopamine cell marker, revealed a partial loss of immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra. Animals that were co-administered methylphenidate (MPH), a dopamine transport inhibitor, along with the 6-OHDA were spared from the behavioral and neurochemical effects of 6-OHDA, despite receiving more than twice as much neurotoxin as controls. These data suggest that establishing a symptomatic threshold preclinically may help researchers evaluate potential treatments and model individual and group resistance to nigrostriatal insults.
Electrophysiological and computational studies suggest that nigro-striatal dopamine may play an important role in learning about sequences of environmentally important stimuli, particularly when this learning is based upon step-by-step associations between stimuli, such as in second-order conditioning. If so, one would predict that disruption of the midbrain dopamine system--such as occurs in Parkinson's disease--may lead to deficits on tasks that rely upon such learning processes. This hypothesis was tested using a &quot;chaining&quot; task, in which each additional link in a sequence of stimuli leading to reward is trained step-by-step, until a full sequence is learned. We further examined how medication (L-dopa) affects this type of learning. As predicted, we found that Parkinson's patients tested 'off' L-dopa performed as well as controls during the first phase of this task, when required to learn a simple stimulus-response association, but were impaired at learning the full sequence of stimuli. In contrast, we found that Parkinson's patients tested 'on' L-dopa performed better than those tested 'off', and no worse than controls, on all phases of the task. These findings suggest that the loss of dopamine that occurs in Parkinson's disease can lead to specific learning impairments that are predicted by electrophysiological and computational studies, and that enhancing dopamine levels with L-dopa alleviates this deficit. This last result raises questions regarding the mechanisms by which midbrain dopamine modulates learning in Parkinson's disease, and how L-dopa affects these processes.
Exposure to stressors such as footshock, tailshock, and immobilization have been shown to induce hypothalamic IL-1 production, while other stressors such as restraint, maternal separation, social isolation, and predator exposure have no effect on hypothalamic IL-1 levels. This disparity of findings has led to considerable controversy regarding the ability of stressors to induce hypothalamic IL-1 expression. Thus, the goal of the following experiments was to examine hypothalamic IL-1 responses in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats following exposure to a diverse set of stressors. Our data indicate that exposure to 2h of restraint in a Plexiglas tube, glucoprivic challenge induced by administration of 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG), or insulin-induced hypoglycemia all fail to alter hypothalamic IL-1 levels despite robust activation of the pituitary-adrenal response. However, when restraint was administered on an orbital shaker or in combination with insulin-induced hypoglycemia, robust increases in hypothalamic IL-1 were observed. No effects of glucoprivic (2-DG) challenge were observed when combined with restraint, indicating some specificity in the hypothalamic IL-1 response to stress. We also provide a preliminary validation of the ELISA detection method for IL-1, showing that (a) Western blot analyses confirmed strong immunopositive banding at the apparent molecular weight of both mature IL-1beta and the IL-1beta prohormone, and (b) footshock led to a two-fold increase in mRNA for IL-1 in the hypothalamus as detected by RT-PCR. These data provide novel insight into the characteristics of a stressor that may be necessary for the observation of stress-induced increases in hypothalamic IL-1.
We demonstrate that high power light-emitting diodes (LED's) exhibit low-frequency noise characteristics that are clearly superior to those of quartz tungsten halogen lamps, the non-coherent light source most commonly employed when freedom from intensity variation is critical. Their extreme stability over tens of seconds (combined with readily selectable wavelength) makes high power LED's ideal light sources for DC recording of optical changes, from living cells and tissues, that last more than a few hundred milliseconds. These optical signals (DeltaI/I(0)) may be intrinsic (light scattering, absorbance or fluorescence) or extrinsic (absorbance or fluorescence from probe molecules) and we show that changes as small as approximately 8 x 10(-5) can be recorded without signal averaging when LED's are used as monochromatic light sources. Here, rapid and slow changes in the intrinsic optical properties of mammalian peptidergic nerve terminals are used to illustrate the advantages of high power LED's compared to filament bulbs.
Traditionally, autoradiography of neuroreceptors is performed in vitro using tritiated ligands and low sensitivity X-ray film, requiring long exposure times. In vivo imaging of neuroreceptors using positron emission tomography (PET) suffers poor spatial resolution, but in vitro PET autoradiography is difficult with film due to the short half-life of the isotopes. Storage phosphor screens provide an extremely sensitive alternative to film. To demonstrate and validate quantitative in vitro phosphor imaging with PET and tritiated ligands, we treated rats chronically with the antidepressant desipramine, which results in decreased binding to serotonin 5-HT(2) receptors. Serotonin 5-HT(2) binding decreased significantly in all cortical regions examined as measured by both [(3)H]ketanserin and [(18)F]setoperone. The data from the two radioligands were not significantly different, and the distribution of the receptors was in agreement with previous reports. We also present data on the reusability of tritium-sensitive phosphor screens, and show that the use of simple corrections allows receptor binding data with PET ligands to be compared across different days. The results indicate that phosphor imaging is a valid, fast, and quantifiable technique for measuring neuroreceptor regulation, and that it provides an excellent tool to corroborate in vivo PET data in vitro at higher resolution.
The photothrombotic model for stroke was originally described as a focal cortical infarction resulting from occlusive thrombosis. However, subsequent studies have shown evidence for extravasation of water and proteins using ex vivo techniques. The aim of the present study was to determine the role of vascular leakage in the pathophysiology of photochemically induced infarction in vivo. At several times points after infarct induction, analysis of blood flow and vascular leakage was performed using intravital microscopy and fluorescent labelling of blood plasma. In the first hour following infarct induction, massive vascular leakage of the plasma label occurred inside the lesion core that was destined to become infarcted. Flow had stopped completely in this area at 4h after illumination. On the day following infarct induction substantial leakage was still present in the penumbral area, defined as the area immediately surrounding the lesion core where reduced flow velocities were observed. Thus, together with the formation of occlusive thrombi, vascular leakage is an important factor in the pathophysiology of photothrombotic stroke.
We have recorded and characterized the spinal cord evoked potentials (SCEPs) from the epidural space in the halothane-anesthetized rats. A group of 11 adult Wistar male rats was chronically implanted with two pairs of epidural electrodes. SCEPs were repeatedly elicited by applying electrical stimuli via bipolar U-shaped electrodes to the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord at C3-4 or Th11-12 levels, respectively. Responses were registered with the other pair of implanted electrodes, thus allowing us to monitor the descending (stimulation cervical/recording thoracic) and ascending SCEPs (stimulation thoracic/recording cervical). We studied the time-dependent changes of several SCEP parameters, among them the latency and amplitude of two major negative waves N1 and N2. During 4-weeks' survival, all major components of recordings remained stable and only minor changes in some parameters of the SCEPs were detected. We concluded that this technique enables repeated quantitative analysis of the conductivity of the spinal cord white matter in the rat. Our results indicate that SCEPs could be used in long-term experiments for monitoring progressive changes (degeneration/regeneration) in long projection tracts, primarily those occupying the dorsolateral quadrants of the spinal cord. These include projections that are of interest in spinal cord injury studies, i.e. ascending primary afferents, and important descending pathways including corticospinal, rubrospinal, reticulospinal, raphespinal and vestibulospinal tracts.
In this report, a method is presented for gaining direct access to cortical areas within the lateral fissure of primates for neuroanatomical tracer injections and electrode array implantation. Compared to areas on the surface of the brain, the anatomical and physiological properties of areas within the fissure are poorly understood. Typically, access to these areas is indirectly achieved by ablating or passing through intervening areas. To enable direct experimental access, a neurosurgical technique was developed in primates whereby the banks of the lateral fissure were retracted with sparing of the vascular network and intervening areas. In some animals, anatomical tracers were directly injected into target fields without contamination of other areas. In others, multichannel electrode arrays were implanted into target areas for chronic recording of neural activity. Since, these techniques could be adapted for exploration of areas within other sulci, the approach represents an important advance in efforts to elucidate the functional organization of the primate cerebral cortex.
Brain serotonin 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptors have been implicated in both normal and pathological behavior, and in the action of anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs. In this study, detailed description and verification of a new RT-PCR technique to quantify the number of copies of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNAs in the brain is presented. The number of copies of beta-actin and 5-HT(1A) or 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNAs in rat brain samples was evaluated with respect to the genomic DNA solution as the external exogenous standard. The expression of 5-HT receptors was calculated as the number of receptor mRNA copies per 100 copies of corresponding beta-actin mRNA. This presented technique is reliable, simple and can be easily set up in any neurobiological laboratory.
We previously described a reliable system to control the timing of multiple stimuli and to detect behavioral eyeblink responses in fMRI studies of learning in animals. Here, we report a significant advancement of the original system, which incorporates a fiber-optic probe in order to avoid the interference associated with the application of pulsed field gradients during MR imaging, particularly echo planar imaging. Eyeblink responses recorded with our fiber-optic probe and modified detection circuit demonstrate the ability of our new system to acquire behavioral data free of gradient-induced artifacts, thereby eliminating the need for low-pass filtering. This fiber optic-based system should be applicable to both animal and human imaging experiments.
We describe a relational database (RDB) structure suitable for trial-based experiments such as human psychophysics and neural recording studies in trained animals. An RDB is a collection of tables, each composed of columns. Some of the tables contain columns that reference specific columns of other tables. This referencing system links the tables to each other and makes it possible to extract any subset of the data with trivial commands. An equally important advantage of an RDB is that it imposes a consistent data format on applications that generate and analyze data. The result is a centralization and standardization of data storage that facilitates the pooling, cross-checking and re-analysis of data from various experiments. We present a robust RDB structure originally designed for neurophysiological data; however, it is abstract enough to accommodate data from a variety of trial-based experimental designs. Moreover, we demonstrated the advantages of this RDB structure and indicated its implementation in other laboratories.
Protoplasmic astrocytes in mammalian CNS tissues in vivo have a highly complex 3D morphology, but in dissociated cell cultures they often assume a flattened, fibroblast-like morphology bearing only a few, simple processes. By fluorescent labeling and confocal reconstruction we show that many astrocytes in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures exhibit a more native complex cytoarchitecture. Although astrocytes at the surface of slice cultures show a reactive form with several thick glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive processes, astrocytes situated in deeper portions of tissue slices retain a highly complex 3D morphology with many fine spine- or veil-like protrusions. Dozens of astrocytes can be labeled in single slice cultures by gene gun-mediated ballistic delivery of gold or tungsten particles carrying cDNAs (Biolistics), lipophilic dyes (DiOlistics), or fluorescent intracellular calcium indicators (Calistics). Expression of a membrane-targeted form of eGFP (Lck-GFP) is superior to soluble eGFP for resolving fine astrocytic processes. Time-lapse confocal imaging of Lck-GFP transfected astrocytes or &quot;calistically&quot; labeled astrocytes show structural remodeling and calcium transients, respectively. This approach provides an in vitro system for investigating the functional architecture, development and dynamic remodeling of astrocytes and their relationships to neurons and glia in live mammalian brain tissues.
Immunohistochemical localization of c-Fos immunoreactivity has been used successfully for over a decade to visualize patterns of neuronal activity in the brain and spinal cord. These experiments are extremely useful in identifying physiological or pharmacological activation of specific populations of neurons. Unfortunately, conventional c-Fos immunohistochemical protocols are very time and resource intensive. We have adapted and optimized established c-Fos immunohistochemistry (IHC) methodologies for use with fresh frozen brain tissue mounted directly onto slides. The resultant rapid protocols, which we refer to as &quot;Fast Fos&quot;, include applications for single- and double-labeling, utilizing either enzyme-substrate or fluorescent detection systems. These protocols provide increased assay throughput and reproducibility, which can be further enhanced by use of an automated slide stainer. Taken as a whole, the c-Fos IHC protocols described in this report provide a flexible system for the identification of neuronal activation that substantially reduces time and resource expenditure while increasing quality and reproducibility of data.
We demonstrate that cathode-ray-tube (CRT) monitors commonly used as stimulus generators in visual neuroscience produce signal artefacts. This arises from two factors, one being the finite time needed for the raster scan of the CRT to cross the receptive field being stimulated, and the other being the restraint imposed by the impulse response of the phosphor itself. Together these factors result in smearing or blurring that manifests as high frequency noise, distorting the desired signal applied by the investigator. Our analysis identifies those conditions that promote these artefacts and we describe methods for their minimisation. We suggest that a monitor frame rate &gt;/=100 Hz provides a reasonable trade-off between refresh and the generators of high frequency noise.
We examined the relationship of age-related losses of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) density to age-related deficits in episodic memory and executive functioning in a group of subjects (n = 12) ranging from 34 to 81 years of age. The radioligand [(11)C]beta-CIT-FE was used to determine DAT binding in caudate and putamen. Results showed clear age-related losses of striatal DAT binding from early to late adulthood, and a marked deterioration in episodic memory (word and figure recall, face recognition) and executive functioning (visual working memory, verbal fluency) with advancing age. Most importantly, the age-related cognitive deficits were mediated by reductions in DAT binding, whereas DAT binding added systematic cognitive variance after controlling for age. Further, interindividual differences in DAT binding were related to performance in a test of crystallized intelligence (the Information subtest from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised) that showed no reliable age variation. These results suggest that DAT binding is a powerful mediator of age-related cognitive changes as well as of cognitive functioning in general. The findings were discussed relative to the view that the frontostriatal network is critically involved in multiple cognitive functions.
Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been shown to cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. Few mutations in this gene have been identified. We investigated the frequency of a common heterozygous mutation, 2877510 g--&gt;A, which produces a glycine to serine aminoacid substitution at codon 2019 (Gly2019 ser), in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. We assessed 482 patients with the disorder, of whom 263 had pathologically confirmed disease, by direct sequencing for mutations in exon 41 of LRRK2. The mutation was present in eight (1.6%) patients. We have shown that a common single Mendelian mutation is implicated in sporadic Parkinson's disease. We suggest that testing for this mutation will be important in the management and genetic counselling of patients with Parkinson's disease.
Kcv, the first identified viral potassium channel encoded by the green algae Paramecium bursaria chlorella virus (PBCV-1), conducted K(+) selective currents when expressed in heterologous systems. This K(+) channel was proposed to be important for PBCV-1 infection and replication. In the present study, we identified and functionally characterized a novel K(+) channel Kesv, encoded by Ectocarpus siliculosus virus that infects filamentous marine brown algae. Kesv encodes a protein of 124 amino acids and is 21.8% identical and 37.1% homologous to Kcv. Membrane topology programs predicted that Kesv consists of three transmembrane domains. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, Kesv induced largely instantaneous, K(+) selective currents that were sensitive to block by Ba(2+) and amantadine. Thus, Kesv along with Kcv, constitutes an emerging family of viral potassium channels, which may play important roles in the life cycle of viruses.
In this issue of Cell, Yamamoto et al. (2005) describe a novel molecule, Shisa, which functions in the endoplastic reticulum (ER) to prevent maturation of Frizzled (Fz) serpentine receptors and fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). Shisa thus antagonizes Wnt and FGF signaling cell-autonomously, thereby promoting anterior patterning in Xenopus.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the accumulation of the protein alpha-synuclein into aggregates called Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. Parkinson's disease can be modeled in Drosophila where directed expression of alpha-synuclein induces compromise of dopaminergic neurons and the formation of Lewy body-like aggregates. The molecular chaperone Hsp70 protects cells from the deleterious effects of alpha-synuclein, indicating a potential therapeutic approach to enhance neuron survival in Parkinson's disease. We have now investigated the molecular mechanisms by which the drug geldanamycin protects neurons against alpha-synuclein toxicity. Our studies show that geldanamycin sensitizes the stress response within normal physiological parameters to enhance chaperone activation, offering protection against alpha-synuclein neurotoxicity. Further, geldanamycin uncouples neuronal toxicity from Lewy body and Lewy neurite formation such that dopaminergic neurons are protected from the effects of alpha-synuclein expression despite the continued presence of (and even increase in) inclusion pathology. These studies indicate that compounds that modulate the stress response are a promising approach to treat Parkinson's disease.
The brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients contain large numbers of amyloid plaques that are rich in fibrils composed of 40- and 42-residue amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. Several lines of evidence indicate that fibrillar Abeta and especially soluble Abeta aggregates are important in the etiology of AD. Recent reports also stress that amyloid aggregates are polymorphic and that a single polypeptide can fold into multiple amyloid conformations. Here we demonstrate that Abeta-(1-40) can form soluble aggregates with predominant beta-structures that differ in stability and morphology. One class of aggregates involved soluble Abeta protofibrils, prepared by vigorous overnight agitation of monomeric Abeta-(1-40) at low ionic strength. Dilution of these aggregation reactions induced disaggregation to monomers as measured by size exclusion chromatography. Protofibril concentrations monitored by thioflavin T fluorescence decreased in at least two kinetic phases, with initial disaggregation (rate constant approximately 1 h(-1)) followed by a much slower secondary phase. Incubation of the reactions without agitation resulted in less disaggregation at slower rates, indicating that the protofibrils became progressively more stable over time. In fact, protofibrils isolated by size exclusion chromatography were completely stable and gave no disaggregation. A second class of soluble Abeta aggregates was generated rapidly (&lt;10 min) in buffered 2% hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP). These aggregates showed increased thioflavin T fluorescence and were rich in beta-structure by circular dichroism. Electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy revealed initial globular clusters that progressed over several days to soluble fibrous aggregates. When diluted out of HFIP, these aggregates initially were very unstable and disaggregated completely within 2 min. However, their stability increased as they progressed to fibers. Relative to Abeta protofibrils, the HFIP-induced aggregates seeded elongation by Abeta monomer deposition very poorly. The techniques used to distinguish these two classes of soluble Abeta aggregates may be useful in characterizing Abeta aggregates formed in vivo.
BACKGROUND: Subventricular microglia (SVMs) are positioned at the interface of the cerebrospinal fluid and brain parenchyma and may play a role in periventricular inflammatory reactions. However, SVMs have not been previously investigated in detail due to the lack of a specific methodology for their study exclusive of deeper parenchymal microglia. METHODS: We have developed and characterized a novel model for the investigation of subventricular microglial reactions in mice using intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of high-dose rhodamine dyes. Dynamic studies using timelapse confocal microscopy in situ complemented the histopathological analysis. RESULTS: We demonstrate that high-dose ICV rhodamine dye injection resulted in selective uptake by the ependyma and ependymal death within hours. Phagocytosis of ependymal debris by activated SVMs was evident by 1d as demonstrated by the appearance of rhodamine-positive SVMs. In the absence of further manipulation, labelled SVMs remained in the subventricular space. However, these cells exhibited the ability to migrate several hundred microns into the parenchyma towards a deafferentation injury of the hippocampus. This &quot;infiltrative microgliosis&quot; was verified in situ using timelapse confocal microscopy. Finally, supporting the disease relevance of this event, the triad of ependymal cell death, SVM activation, and infiltrative microgliosis was recapitulated by a single ICV injection of HIV-1 tat protein. CONCLUSIONS: Subependymal microglia exhibit robust activation and migration in periventricular inflammatory responses. Further study of this population of microglia may provide insight into neurological diseases with tendencies to involve the ventricular system and periventricular tissues.
2-hydroxy-2-deoxyadenosine triphosphate (2-OH-dATP), generated by the oxidation of dATP, can be misincorporated by DNA polymerases opposite guanine in template DNA during DNA replication, thus causing spontaneous mutagenesis. We demonstrated that mouse MUTYH (mMUTYH) has a DNA glycosylase activity excising not only adenine opposite 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) but also 2-hydroxyadenine (2-OH-A) opposite guanine, using purified recombinant thioredoxin-mMUTYH fusion protein. mMUTYH formed a stable complex with duplex oligonucleotides containing an adenine:8-oxoG pair, but the binding of mMUTYH to oligonucleotides containing a 2-OH-A:guanine pair was barely detectable, thus suggesting that mMUTYH recognizes and interacts with these two substrates in a different manner which may reflect the difference in the base excision repair process for each substrate. Mutant mMUTYH with G365D amino acid substitution, corresponding to a G382D germline mutation of human MUTYH found in familial adenomatous polyposis patients, almost completely retained its DNA glycosylase activity excising adenine opposite 8-oxoG; however, it possessed 1.5% of the wild-type activity excising 2-OH-A opposite guanine. Our results imply that the reduced repair capacity of the mutant hMUTYH(G382D), which inefficiently excises 2-OH-A opposite guanine, results in an increased occurrence of somatic G:C to T:A transversion mutations in the APC gene as well as tumorigenesis in the colon.
Controversy surrounds the role of human medial frontal cortex in controlling actions. Although damage to this area leads to severe difficulties in spontaneously initiating actions, the precise mechanisms underlying such &quot;volitional&quot; deficits remain to be established. Previous studies have implicated the medial frontal cortex in conflict monitoring and the control of voluntary action, suggesting that these key processes are functionally related or share neural substrates. Here, we combine a novel behavioral paradigm with functional imaging of the oculomotor system to reveal, for the first time, a functional subdivision of the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) into anatomically distinct areas that respond exclusively to either volition or conflict. We also demonstrate that activity in the supplementary eye field (SEF) distinguishes between success and failure in changing voluntary action plans during conflict, suggesting a role for the SEF in implementing the resolution of conflicting actions. We propose a functional architecture of human medial frontal cortex that incorporates the generation of action plans and the resolution of conflict.
The medial surface of the brain's frontal lobe has been implicated both in the voluntary initiation of action and in monitoring actions in situations where several conflicting responses are possible. Recent work casts light on how these functions are parcelled out in the medial frontal cortex.
We used three-dimensional reconstruction from serial electron micrographs to investigate two structural changes that could underlie estrogen-induced disinhibition of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells: a decrease in the number of inhibitory inputs per neuron and/or a change in inhibitory boutons that could limit GABA release. We analyzed 373 boutons forming 510 inhibitory synapses in estrogen-treated and control animals. Our results show that estrogen specifically decreases the number of synaptic vesicles adjacent to the presynaptic membrane of inhibitory synapses without affecting the overall number of vesicles. We detected no difference in the density of inhibitory inputs. These findings provide a novel mechanism for the functional effects of estrogen on synaptic inhibition and represent the first in vivo evidence that the number of presynaptic vesicles available for release is a regulated property of synapses that affects synaptic physiology.
Large Ca2+ signals essential for cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell synapses are known to be induced when PF activation precedes climbing fiber (CF) activation by 50-200 ms, consistent with cerebellar learning theories. However, large Ca2+ signals and/or LTD can also be induced by massive PF stimulation alone or by photolysis of caged Ca2+ or inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). To understand the spike-timing detection mechanisms in cerebellar LTD, we developed a kinetic model of Ca2+ dynamics within a Purkinje dendritic spine. In our kinetic simulation, IP3 was first produced via the metabotropic pathway of PF inputs, and the Ca2+ influx in response to the CF input triggered regenerative Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release from the internal stores via the IP3 receptors activated by the increased IP3. The delay in IP3 increase caused by the PF metabotropic pathway generated the optimal PF-CF interval. The Ca2+ dynamics revealed a threshold for large Ca2+ release that decreased as IP3 increased, and it coherently explained the different forms of LTD. At 2.5 microM IP3, CF activation after PF activation was essential to reach the threshold for the regenerative Ca2+ release. At 10 microM IP3, the same as achieved experimentally by strong IP3 photolysis, the threshold was lower, and thus large Ca2+ release was generated even without CF stimulation. In contrast, the basal 0.1 microM IP3 level resulted in an extremely high Ca2+ threshold for regenerative Ca2+ release. Thus, the results demonstrated that Ca2+ dynamics can detect spike timing under physiological conditions, which supports cerebellar learning theories.
Drug-induced adaptations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) contribute to several core aspects of addictive behaviors, but the underlying neuronal processes remain essentially unknown. Here, we demonstrate that repeated in vivo exposure to cocaine persistently reduces the voltage-gated K+ current (VGKC) in PFC pyramidal neurons, resulting in enhanced membrane excitability. Analysis of dopamine D1-class receptor (D1R)-mediated modulation of VGKC indicates that, despite the absence of direct D1R stimulation, downstream D1 signaling (the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway) is increased during withdrawal from chronic cocaine treatment and plays a central role in the drug-induced membrane plasticity in PFC. This long-lasting, cocaine-induced plasticity of membrane excitability in PFC pyramidal neurons may contribute to the impaired decision making and drug craving that characterize cocaine withdrawal.
The spinal network coordinating locomotion in the lamprey serves as a model system, in which it has been possible to elucidate connectivity and cellular mechanisms using the isolated spinal cord. Locomotor burst activity alternates between the left and right side of a segment through reciprocal inhibition. We have recently shown that the burst generation itself in a hemisegment does not require inhibitory mechanisms. The focus of this study is the intrinsic operation of this hemisegmental burst-generating component of the locomotor network. Brief electrical stimulation (0.3 s) of the hemicord evokes long-lasting bouts (&gt;2 min) of bursts (2-15 Hz) in the mid to high-frequency range of locomotion. Bout release is an all-or-none phenomenon requiring a threshold intensity of stimulation and glutamatergic transmission within a population of excitatory interneurons, with axons extending over several segments. The progressive activity-dependent decrease in burst frequency that takes place during a bout is followed by a slow recovery process lasting &gt;20 min. Intracellular recordings of single motoneurons, excitatory interneurons, and inhibitory interneurons show that locomotor bouts, in general, are accompanied by a marked depolarization. Membrane potential oscillations and spikes occur in phase with the ventral root (VR) bursts. Active motoneurons and interneurons fire one spike per VR burst, as also confirmed by axonal recordings. Thus, the reciprocal inhibition between opposite hemisegments in the intact cord not only ensures left-right alternation and lowers the locomotor frequency but also promotes a shift from single to multiple action potentials per cycle in network neurons.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons and MCH-1 receptors (MCH1r) densely populate mesolimbic dopaminergic brain regions such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The regulation of dopamine by MCH1r was suggested to be an important mechanism underlying the hyperactive phenotype of MCH1r knock-out (ko) mice. However, MCH1r modulation of monoamine neurotransmission has yet to be examined. We tested whether dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin function is dysregulated in MCH1r ko and wild-type (wt) mice. MCH1r ko mice exhibited robust hyperactivity in a novel or familiar environment and were super-sensitive to the locomotor activating effects of d-amphetamine and the D1 agonist 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benazepine HCl. The D2 agonist, quinpirole, decreased locomotion similarly in both ko and wt mice. Tissue contents of dopamine within the NAc and caudate-putamen were not significantly different in ko compared with wt mice. Basal and amphetamine-evoked NAc dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin efflux, as measured using in vivo microdialysis, were not significantly different between genotypes. In contrast, D1-like and D2-like receptor binding were significantly higher within the olfactory tubercle, ventral tegmental area, and NAc core and shell of ko mice. Norepinephrine transporter (NET) binding was significantly elevated within the NAc shell and globus pallidus of ko mice, whereas serotonin transporter binding was decreased in the NAc shell. Thus, deletion of MCH1r results in an upregulation of mesolimbic dopamine receptors and NET, indicating that MCH1r may negatively modulate mesolimbic monoamine function. MCH1r may be an important therapeutic target for neuropsychiatric disorders involving dysregulation of limbic monoamine systems.
Retinal ganglion cells adapt their responses to the amplitude of fluctuations around the mean light level, or the &quot;contrast.&quot; But, in mammalian retina, it is not known whether adaptation arises exclusively at the level of synaptic inputs or whether there is also adaptation in the process of ganglion cell spike generation. Here, we made intracellular recordings from guinea pig Y-type ganglion cells and quantified changes in contrast sensitivity (gain) using a linear-nonlinear analysis. This analysis allowed us to measure adaptation in the presence of nonlinearities, such as the spike threshold, and to compare adaptation in subthreshold and spiking responses. At high contrast (0.30), relative to low contrast (0.10), gain reduced to 0.82 +/- 0.016 (mean +/- SEM) for the subthreshold response and to 0.61 +/- 0.011 for the spiking response. Thus, there was an apparent reduction in gain between the subthreshold and spiking response of 0.74 +/- 0.013. Control experiments suggested that the above effects could not be explained by an artifact of the intracellular recording conditions: extracellular recordings showed a gain change of 0.58 +/- 0.022. For intracellular recordings, negative current reduced the spike output but did not affect the gain change in the subthreshold response: 0.80 +/- 0.051. Thus, adaptation in the subthreshold response did not require spike-dependent conductances. We conclude that the contrast-dependent gain change in the spiking response can be explained by both a synaptic mechanism, as reflected by responses in the subthreshold potential, and an intrinsic mechanism in the ganglion cell related to spike generation.
We have recently shown that CART peptides exhibit a diurnal rhythm in blood that is affected by food intake and glucocorticoids. In the present study, we extend our observations by demonstrating that CART peptides also exhibit a diurnal rhythm in several brain regions, notably the nucleus accumbens, hypothalamus and amygdala, but not in the midbrain. To examine whether the CART peptide rhythm was dependent on food intake, animals were food-deprived for 24 h. In regular-fed animals, CART peptide levels were lower in the morning compared to evening hours. However, this diurnal variation of CART peptide was not apparent in fasted animals, and CART peptide levels were reduced. The diurnal variation of CART mRNA in the nucleus accumbens paralleled the variation of CART peptide in this region. Similar to the peptide, the mRNA did not change in midbrain. These results show that CART peptide levels and gene expression undergo a diurnal variation in some brain regions, and the variation is altered by fasting. These findings suggest a variety of regulatory mechanisms for CART and additional considerations for CART's role in brain.
Peripheral nerve injury causes ectopic discharges of different firing patterns, which may play an important role in the development of neuropathic pain. The molecular mechanisms underlying the generation of ectopic discharges are still unclear. In the present study, by using in vivo teased fiber recording technique we examined the effect of ZD7288, a specific blocker of hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)), on the ectopic discharges in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons injured by spinal nerve ligation. We found that ectopic discharges of all three firing patterns (tonic, bursting and irregular) were dose- and time-dependently inhibited by local application of ZD7288. Interestingly, the extent of suppression was negatively related to frequency of firing prior to application of ZD7288. We also observed that ZD7288 could alter the firing patterns of the ectopic discharges. At 100 microM, tonic firing pattern was gradually transformed into bursting type whereas at 1 mM, it could be transformed to integer multiples firing. These results indicate that I(h) might play a role in the generation of various forms of ectopic discharges in the injured DRG neurons and may thus be a possible target for neuropathic pain treatment.
Burst firing and single spike activity play different roles in the modulation of local neuronal circuit activity and neurosecretion. In hypothalamic oxytocin (OT) neurons in vivo, burst firing is associated with pulsatile secretion of OT in the milk ejection reflex, and can be observed in slices from both immature and lactating rats in vitro. Whether OT neurons from male rats also possess burst firing capability is still an open question. To examine this possibility, whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made in supraoptic nucleus OT neurons in brain slices from male rats. In low Ca(2+) medium, the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist, phenylephrine evoked bursts that were highly similar to those from lactating rats in vivo and in vitro: explosive onset, short-duration, quickly reaching peak firing rate and displaying an exponential decay in returning to the pre-burst rate. During bursts, spike durations increased, and spike amplitudes decreased, while riding on an arc of depolarization around peak rate. In comparison to those from lactating rats in vitro, the rising phase of male bursts was more rapid, the decay phase was slower, and the rising phase of the spike after hyperpolarization was faster. No significant differences, however, were seen in burst characteristics that are most important in determining the amount of peptide release: burst amplitudes (the number of spikes in a burst), firing frequency within bursts or peak firing rate. Thus, we conclude that OT neurons in males are capable of burst firing highly similar to that seen in lactating rats.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor is the target of a structurally diverse group of sedative, hypnotic, and anesthetic drugs, including the volatile anesthetic isoflurane. Previous studies on the GABA(A) receptor have suggested the existence of a cavity located between transmembrane (TM) segments 2 and 3 in both alpha-1 and alpha-2 subunits, within which volatile anesthetics might bind. In this study, we have used site-directed mutagenesis to investigate the involvement of homologous residues of the GABA(A) alpha-3 subunit in allosteric modulation by isoflurane. Mutation of serine residue 294 within the TM2 to histidine or tyrosine increased the potency of GABA and decreased positive modulation by isoflurane. Mutation of alanine residue 315 within the TM3 to tryptophan increased the potency of GABA and abolished isoflurane modulation. The activity of the intravenous anesthetic propofol was unaltered from wild-type at these mutant receptors. These findings are consistent with the action of isoflurane on a critical site within the transmembrane domains of the receptor and suggest a degree of functional homology between the GABA(A) alpha-1, -2, and -3 subunits.

BACKGROUND: Nicotinic acetylcholine (Ach) receptors are ligand-gated pentameric ion channels whose main function is to transmit signals for the neurotransmitter Ach in peripheral and central nervous system. However, the alpha7 nicotinic receptor has been recently found in several non-neuronal cells and described as an important regulator of cellular function. Nicotine and ACh have been recently reported to inhibit tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production in human macrophages as well as in mouse microglial cultures. In the present study, we investigated whether the stimulation of alpha7 nicotinic receptor by the specific agonist nicotine could affect the functional state of activated microglia by promoting and/or inhibiting the release of other important pro-inflammatory and lipid mediator such as prostaglandin E2. METHODS: Expression of alpha7 nicotinic receptor in rat microglial cell was examined by RT-PCR, immunofluorescence staining and Western blot. The functional effects of alpha7 receptor activation were analyzed in resting or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated microglial cells pre-treated with nicotine. Culture media were assayed for the levels of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1beta, nitric oxide, interleukin-10 and prostaglandin E2. Total RNA was assayed by RT-PCR for the expression of COX-2 mRNA. RESULTS: Rat microglial cells express alpha7 nicotinic receptor, and its activation by nicotine dose-dependently reduces the LPS-induced release of TNF-alpha, but has little or no effect on nitric oxide, interleukin-10 and interleukin-1beta. By contrast, nicotine enhances the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and the synthesis of one of its major products, prostaglandin E2. CONCLUSIONS: Since prostaglandin E2 modulates several macrophage and lymphocyte functions, which are instrumental for inflammatory resolution, our study further supports the existence of a brain cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway mediated by alpha7 nicotinic receptor that could be potentially exploited for novel treatments of several neuropathologies in which local inflammation, sustained by activated microglia, plays a crucial role.
Humans can identify the colors of objects fairly consistently, despite considerable variations in the spectral composition of the illumination. It has been suggested that the correlation between luminance and color within a scene helps to disentangle the influences of illumination and reflectance, because the surfaces that reflect the light of the illuminant well will normally be bright. Because the reliability of the luminance-color correlation as an indicator of the chromaticity of the illuminant depends on the number of surfaces that are considered, we expected the correlation to be determined across large parts of the scene. To examine whether this is so, we compared different scenes with matched luminance and chromaticity, but in which the correlation between luminance and chromaticity was manipulated locally. Our results confirm that there is a bias in perceived color away from the chromaticity of bright surfaces. However, the results show that only the correlation within about 1 degree of the target is relevant. Thus, it is unlikely that the visual system uses the correlation between luminance and color to explicitly determine the chromaticity of the illuminant. Instead, this correlation is presumably implicitly considered in the way that the color contrast at borders is determined.
The relative frequency of depression in people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) (30 patients) compared with those with a history of relapse (106 patients) was determined. Three participants in the progressive group and 28 in the relapsing group had a lifetime history of major depression. The lifetime morbidity ratio for major depression in relapsing patients was 2.64 compared with that of PPMS.
To determine whether reduced striatal D2 receptor binding reported in patients with idiopathic torsion dystonia is associated with the genotype, the authors used PET and [11C]-raclopride to assess non-manifesting carriers of the DYT1 mutation. D2 receptor binding was reduced by approximately 15% in caudate and putamen (p &lt; 0.005). These results suggest that striatal D2 binding reductions are a trait feature of the DYT1 genotype.



Visual stimuli that entail the intersection of two or more straight lines elicit a variety of well known perceptual anomalies. Preeminent among these anomalies are the systematic overestimation of acute angles, the underestimation of obtuse angles, and the misperceptions of line orientation exemplified in the classical tilt, Zollner, and Hering illusions. Here we show that the probability distributions of the possible real-world sources of projected lines and angles derived from a range-image database of natural scenes accurately predict each of these perceptual peculiarities. These findings imply that the perception of angles and oriented lines is determined by the statistical relationship between geometrical stimuli and their physical sources in typical visual environments.
The Mller-Lyer effect, the apparent difference in the length of a line as the result of its adornment with arrowheads or arrow tails, is the best known and most controversial of the classical geometrical illusions. By sampling a range-image database of natural scenes, we show that the perceptual effects elicited by the Mller-Lyer stimulus and its major variants are correctly predicted by the probability distributions of the possible physical sources underlying the relevant retinal images. These results support the conclusion that the Mller-Lyer illusion is a manifestation of the probabilistic strategy of visual processing that has evolved to contend with the uncertain provenance of retinal stimuli.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) alleles are important genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD), with the epsilon4 allele increasing and the epsilon2 allele decreasing risk for developing AD. ApoE has been shown to influence brain amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) and amyloid burden, both in humans and in transgenic mice. Here we show that direct intracerebral administration of lentiviral vectors expressing the three common human apoE isoforms differentially alters hippocampal Abeta and amyloid burden in the PDAPP mouse model of AD. Expression of apoE4 in the absence of mouse apoE increases hippocampal Abeta(1-42) levels and amyloid burden. By contrast, expression of apoE2, even in the presence of mouse apoE, markedly reduces hippocampal Abeta burden. Our data demonstrate rapid apoE isoform-dependent effects on brain Abeta burden in a mouse model of AD. Gene delivery of apoE2 may prevent or reduce brain Abeta burden and the subsequent development of neuritic plaques.
Synchronous presentation of stimuli to the auditory and visual systems can modify the formation of a percept in either modality. For example, perception of auditory speech is improved when the speaker's facial articulatory movements are visible. Neural convergence onto multisensory sites exhibiting supra-additivity has been proposed as the principal mechanism for integration. Recent findings, however, have suggested that putative sensory-specific cortices are responsive to inputs presented through a different modality. Consequently, when and where audiovisual representations emerge remain unsettled. In combined psychophysical and electroencephalography experiments we show that visual speech speeds up the cortical processing of auditory signals early (within 100 ms of signal onset). The auditory-visual interaction is reflected as an articulator-specific temporal facilitation (as well as a nonspecific amplitude reduction). The latency facilitation systematically depends on the degree to which the visual signal predicts possible auditory targets. The observed auditory-visual data support the view that there exist abstract internal representations that constrain the analysis of subsequent speech inputs. This is evidence for the existence of an &quot;analysis-by-synthesis&quot; mechanism in auditory-visual speech perception.
Axon regeneration failure in the adult mammalian CNS is attributed in part to the inhibitory nature of CNS myelin. Three myelin-associated, structurally distinct proteins, Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein, and oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein, have been implicated in this inhibition. Neuronal Nogo receptor (NgR) binds to each of the three inhibitors and has been proposed to mediate their inhibitory signals by complexing with a signal-transducing coreceptor, the neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR). To assess the contribution of NgR to mediating myelin inhibitory signals and regeneration failure in vivo, we generated and characterized NgR-deficient mice. Nogo transcripts are up-regulated in NgR mutants, indicating that NgR regulates Nogo in vivo. However, neurite outgrowth from NgR-deficient postnatal dorsal root ganglion or cerebellar granule neurons is inhibited by myelin and by a Nogo-66 substrate to the same extent as is from wild-type neurons, whereas p75(NTR)-deficient neurons are less inhibited. The NgR ligand-binding domain promotes neurite outgrowth on Nogo-66, regardless of the genotype of the neurons, indicating that the NgR ligand-binding domain can act independent of NgR. Thus, NgR is not essential for mediating inhibitory signals from CNS myelin, at least in the neurons tested, whereas p75(NTR) plays a central role in this response. Neither NgR-nor p75(NTR)-deficient mice showed enhanced regeneration of corticospinal tract axons in comparison with wild-type controls after spinal dorsal hemisection. Our results thus fail to support a central role for NgR in axonal growth inhibition in vitro or in corticospinal tract regeneration block in vivo.
Foxo1, a member of the Fox0 subfamily of winged-helix forkhead transcription factors, is a target of insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signal transduction pathways that activate protein kinase B (PKB) in pancreatic beta cells. Foxo1 is a substrate for PKB, and its phosphorylation results in nuclear exclusion with concomitant alterations in gene expression that are important to cellular growth and differentiation. Because activation of PKB can require insulin receptor substrate proteins (IRS-1 and IRS-2) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), it is of interest to determine whether the activity of Foxo1 is also regulated by heterotrimeric G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) with IRS-1 or -2, PI3K, or PKB signaling potential. Indeed, studies of beta cells have demonstrated that activation of a GPCR for the blood glucose-lowering hormone GLP-1 leads to major alterations of IRS-2, PI3K, and PKB activity. By promoting nuclear exclusion of Foxo1 in a PKB-mediated manner, GLP-1 may up-regulate the expression of a homeodomain transcription factor (PDX-1) that serves as a master regulator of beta-cell growth and differentiation. This STKE Perspective summarizes signaling properties of GLP-1 that may explain its ability to increase beta-cell mass, to increase pancreatic insulin secretory capacity, and to lower levels of blood glucose in type 2 diabetic subjects.
The receptor tyrosine phosphatase PTPRO is involved in axon guidance, but its intracellular signaling mechanisms are unknown. Signals generated through PTPRO must involve interaction of the intracellular domain with substrates and/or signaling proteins. By screening for proteins interacting with PTPRO's intracellular domain, we have identified a new class of cytoplasmic protein. This novel protein, NPCD (Neuronal Pentraxin with Chromo Domain), has multiple cytoplasmic isoforms generated by alternative splicing that are selectively expressed in neurons. These cytoplasmic NPCD isoforms are composed of a neuronal pentraxin domain (formerly thought exclusively extracellular) linked to a chromo domain (formerly thought exclusively nuclear); this protein motif organization is unprecedented. NPCD isoforms are expressed in numerous regions of the central nervous system, where they are present in distinct subcellular arrangements in different brain regions. NPCD isoforms are mainly associated with the inner side of the plasma membrane in brain neurons and rat PC12 cells in vitro; they are present in cell bodies, processes, and growth cones. The biochemical complexity and neuronal expression pattern of NPCD, together with its interaction with PTPRO, suggests involvement in multiple neuronal processes.
The ionotropic purine receptors, P2X receptors, are composed of an assembly of multiple P2X subunits. At present, seven subunits have been cloned and named &quot;P2X1-7.&quot; We examined the precise distribution of mRNAs for these subunits in the rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) using riboprobes and characterized their expression among some neuronal subpopulations by ISHH and immunohistochemistry. P2X1 was not expressed by DRG neurons. P2X2 mRNA was preferentially expressed by neurofilament (NF)-200 negative small-sized neurons expressing Ret, but not TrkA or TrkC mRNAs. P2X3 mRNA was mainly expressed by NF-200-negative neurons. Most P2X3-positive neurons had Ret mRNA, and about a half of them coexpressed TrkA and TRPV1 mRNAs. P2X4 was the most ubiquitous subunit, evenly distributing among all examined neuronal subpopulations. P2X5 and P2X6 were expressed by about half of the neurons, and most of these neurons were NF-200-positive. P2X7 mRNA-expressing neurons were quite rare. We further examined the coexpression of all pairs of P2X2-P2X6 mRNAs in DRG neurons and found that: 1) P2X4 was always present in combination with the other subunits. 2) All TrkC neurons had three subunits, P2X4, P2X5, and P2X6, and made up 32% of the total neurons. 3) 12.5% of the total neurons had both P2X2 and P2X3. 4) 12.9% of the neurons had both P2X3 and P2X5. We determined the neuronal subpopulation-specific distribution of P2X subunits in the DRG. These findings suggest possible combinations of subunits of native P2X receptor in DRG neurons.

Retinal afferents to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) have been described in a number of species, including Mongolian gerbils, but functional correlates of this optic pathway are unknown at present. To determine whether temporally modulated photostimulation can affect c-Fos expression in the gerbil DRN, quantitative analysis of c-Fos-immunoreactive (c-Fos-ir) neurons was conducted following 60-min exposure to pulsed (2 Hz) photostimulation at selected times over the 12:12 h light/dark cycle. For comparison, c-Fos expression was also analyzed in the subnuclei of the lateral geniculate complex and in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). In the DRN, a substantial reduction was observed in the number of c-Fos immunoreactive (c-Fos-ir) neurons during the light period and early dark period in photostimulated vs. control animals. Similar results were obtained in the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) and ventral lateral geniculate (VLG). However, no significant changes were observed in the number of c-Fos-ir neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus or suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) following photostimulation, except for an increase in the middle of the dark period. These findings indicate that photic stimulation can lead to a suppression or down-regulation of c-Fos expression in the DRN that is probably mediated via the direct retinal pathway to the DRN in this species. The similarity between c-Fos expression profiles in the DRN and IGL/VGL suggest that efferent projections from the DRN may modulate c-Fos expression to visual stimulation in these subnuclei of the lateral geniculate complex.
Accumulating evidence indicates that calpains can reside in or translocate to the cell nucleus, but their functions in this compartment remain poorly understood. Dissociated cultures of cerebellar granule cells (GCs) demonstrate improved long-term survival when their growth medium is supplemented with depolarizing agents that stimulate Ca(2+) influx and activate calmodulin-dependent signaling cascades, notably 20 mm KCl. We previously observed Ca(2+)-dependent down-regulation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) type IV, which was attenuated by calpain inhibitors, in GCs supplemented with 20 mm KCl (Tremper-Wells, B., Mathur, A., Beaman-Hall, C. M., and Vallano, M. L. (2002) J. Neurochem. 81, 314-324). CaMKIV is highly enriched in the nucleus and thought to be critical for improved survival. Here, we demonstrate by immunolocalization/confocal microscopy and subcellular fractionation that the regulatory and catalytic subunits of m-calpain are enriched in GC nuclei, including GCs grown in medium containing 5 mm KCl. Calpain-mediated proteolysis of CaMKIV is selective, as several other nuclear and non-nuclear calpain substrates were not degraded under chronic depolarizing culture conditions. Depolarization and Ca(2+)-dependent down-regulation of CaMKIV were associated with significant alterations in other components of the Ca(2+)-CaMKIV signaling cascade: the ratio of phosphorylated to total cAMP response element-binding protein (a downstream CaMKIV substrate) was reduced by approximately 10-fold, and the amount of CaMK kinase (an upstream activator of CaMKIV) protein and mRNA was significantly reduced. We hypothesize that calpain-mediated CaMKIV proteolysis is an autoregulatory feedback response to sustained activation of a Ca(2+)-CaMKIV signaling pathway, resulting from growth of cultures in medium containing 25 mm KCl. This study establishes nuclear m-calpain as a regulator of CaMKIV and associated signaling molecules under conditions of sustained Ca(2+) influx.
Following spinal cord injury, there are numerous changes in gene expression that appear to contribute to either neurodegeneration or reparative processes. We utilized high density oligonucleotide microarrays to examine temporal gene profile changes after spinal cord injury in rats with the goal of identifying novel factors involved in neural plasticity. By comparing mRNA changes that were coordinately regulated over time with genes previously implicated in nerve regeneration or plasticity, we found a gene cluster whose members are involved in cell adhesion processes, synaptic plasticity, and/or cytoskeleton remodeling. This group, which included the small GTPase Rab13 and actin-binding protein Coronin 1b, showed significantly increased mRNA expression from 7-28 days after trauma. Overexpression in vitro using PC-12, neuroblastoma, and DRG neurons demonstrated that these genes enhance neurite outgrowth. Moreover, RNAi gene silencing for Coronin 1b or Rab13 in NGF-treated PC-12 cells markedly reduced neurite outgrowth. Coronin 1b and Rab13 proteins were expressed in cultured DRG neurons at the cortical cytoskeleton, and at growth cones along with the pro-plasticity/regeneration protein GAP-43. Finally, Coronin 1b and Rab13 were induced in the injured spinal cord, where they were also co-expressed with GAP-43 in neurons and axons. Modulation of these proteins may provide novel targets for facilitating restorative processes after spinal cord injury.




Voltage-gated sodium channels with &quot;resurgent&quot; kinetics are specialized for high-frequency firing. The alpha subunits interact with a blocking protein that binds open channels upon depolarization and unbinds upon repolarization, producing resurgent sodium current. By limiting classical inactivation, the cycle of block and unblock shortens refractory periods. To characterize the blocker in Purkinje neurons, we briefly exposed inside-out patches to substrate-specific proteases. Trypsin and chymotrypsin each removed resurgent current, consistent with established roles for positively charged and hydrophobic/aromatic groups in blocking sodium channels. In Purkinje cells, the only known sodium channel-associated subunit that has a cytoplasmic sequence with several positive charges and clustered hydrophobic/aromatic residues is beta4 (KKLITFILKKTREK; beta4(154-167)). After enzymatic removal of block, beta4(154-167) fully reconstituted resurgent current, whereas scrambled or point-mutated peptides were ineffective. In CA3 pyramidal neurons, which lack beta4 and endogenous block, beta4(154-167) generated resurgent current. Thus, beta4 may be the endogenous open-channel blocker responsible for resurgent kinetics.
Within the vertebrate nervous system, the presence of many different lineages of neurons and glia complicates the molecular characterization of single neuronal populations. In order to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying the specification and development of corticospinal motor neurons (CSMN), we purified CSMN at distinct stages of development in vivo and compared their gene expression to two other pure populations of cortical projection neurons: callosal projection neurons and corticotectal projection neurons. We found genes that are potentially instructive for CSMN development, as well as genes that are excluded from CSMN and are restricted to other populations of neurons, even within the same cortical layer. Loss-of-function experiments in null mutant mice for Ctip2 (also known as Bcl11b), one of the newly characterized genes, demonstrate that it plays a critical role in the development of CSMN axonal projections to the spinal cord in vivo, confirming that we identified central genetic determinants of the CSMN population.
It has been 30 years since the discovery that repeated electrical stimulation of neural pathways can lead to long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices. With its relevance to processes such as learning and memory, the technique has produced a vast literature on mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in animal models. To date, the most promising method for transferring these methods to humans is repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), a noninvasive method of stimulating neural pathways in the brain of conscious subjects through the intact scalp. However, effects on synaptic plasticity reported are often weak, highly variable between individuals, and rarely last longer than 30 min. Here we describe a very rapid method of conditioning the human motor cortex using rTMS that produces a controllable, consistent, long-lasting, and powerful effect on motor cortex physiology and behavior after an application period of only 20-190 s.
Odorant binding proteins (OBPs) are extracellular proteins localized to the chemosensory systems of most terrestrial species. OBPs are expressed by nonneuronal cells and secreted into the fluid bathing olfactory neuron dendrites. Several members have been shown to interact directly with odorants, but the significance of this is not clear. We show that the Drosophila OBP lush is completely devoid of evoked activity to the pheromone 11-cis vaccenyl acetate (VA), revealing that this binding protein is absolutely required for activation of pheromone-sensitive chemosensory neurons. lush mutants are also defective for pheromone-evoked behavior. Importantly, we identify a genetic interaction between lush and spontaneous activity in VA-sensitive neurons in the absence of pheromone. The defects in spontaneous activity and VA sensitivity are reversed by germline transformation with a lush transgene or by introducing recombinant LUSH protein into mutant sensilla. These studies directly link pheromone-induced behavior with OBP-dependent activation of a subset of olfactory neurons.
The power of microarrays in neuroscience has been challenged by the cellular heterogeneity and complexity of the central nervous system. In this issue of Neuron, Arlotta, Molyneaux, and colleagues have developed a technique combining retrograde labeling, flow cytometry, and microarrays to purify and molecularly characterize a specific population of neurons from the brain, focusing here on cortical projection neurons. We discuss these findings and the implications of this development for both systems and molecular neuroscience.
The present study was aimed at investigating the role of gastrin in startle, startle habituation and prepulse inhibition (PPI). There were no significant differences between gastrin knockout mice and their wildtype controls in any of these baseline parameters. The disruption of PPI by treatment with 5 mg/kg of amphetamine was absent in gastrin knockout mice. However, a higher dose of amphetamine disrupted PPI in both genotypes. Similarly, treatment with the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801, and the serotonin-1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-di-propylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) modulated PPI similarly in gastrin knockout mice and wildtype controls. These data suggest a role of gastrin in the brain in modulating dopamine release in areas involved in PPI.
Mammalian circadian rhythms are modulated by neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide contained in the projection from the intergeniculate leaflet to the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the circadian pacemaker. NPY resets the circadian clock during the subjective day, mediating non-photic inputs. Previous studies using receptor-selective agonists have indicated that this action of NPY is mediated by the Y2 receptor in hamsters. The present study determined if NPY applied to the suprachiasmatic nuclei in the mid-subjective day can phase-advance the rhythm of spontaneous firing rate of Y2-/- mice. We observed that NPY did reset the rhythm of control mice but did not significantly shift the phase of this rhythm in the Y2-/- mice. These results provide strong evidence for the role of the Y2 receptor mediating neuropeptide Y subjective day phase-advance shifts in mice.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) negatively modulates nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor expression and associated nociceptive phenotype in intact neurons, suggesting a beneficial role in treating aspects of neuropathic pain mediated by NGF. We report that NT-3 is effective at suppressing thermal hyperalgesia associated with chronic constriction injury (CCI); however, NT-3 does not alter the mechanical hypersensitivity that also develops with CCI. Thermal hyperalgesia is critically linked to expression and activation of the capsaicin receptor, transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1). Thus, its modulation by NT-3 after CCI was examined. CCI results in elevated TRPV1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels in predominantly small-to-medium neurons, with the percentage of neurons expressing TRPV1 remaining unchanged at approximately 56%. Attenuation of thermal hyperalgesia mediated by NT-3 correlates with decreased TRPV1 expression such that only approximately 26% of neurons ipsilateral to CCI expressed detectable TRPV1 mRNA. NT-3 effected a decrease in expression of the activated component of the signaling pathway linked to regulation of TRPV1 expression, phospho-p38 MAPK (Ji et al., 2002), in neurons ipsilateral to CCI. Exogenous NT-3 could both prevent the onset of thermal hyperalgesia and reverse established thermal hyperalgesia and elevated TRPV1 expression 1 week after CCI. Continuous infusion is required for suppression of both thermal hyperalgesia and TRPV1 expression, because removal of NT-3 resulted in a prompt reestablishment of the hyperalgesic state and corresponding CCI-associated TRPV1 phenotype. In conclusion, although NGF drives inflammation-associated thermal hyperalgesia via its regulation of TRPV1 expression, NT-3 is now identified as a potent negative modulator of this state.
Understanding the biological relevance of reexpression of developmental molecules in pathological conditions is crucial for the development of new therapies. In this study, we report the increased expression of stathmin, a developmentally regulated tubulin-binding protein, in the brains of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). In physiological conditions, stathmin immunoreactivity was observed in polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule-positive migratory progenitors in the subventricular zone, and its expression progressively decreased as the cells matured into oligodendrocytes (OLs). In MS patients, however, stathmin levels were elevated in 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase-positive OLs, in 10 of 10 bioptic samples analyzed. Increased levels of stathmin were confirmed by Western blot analysis of normal-appearing white matter samples from MS brains. In addition, using mass spectrometry, stathmin was identified as the main component of a specific myelin protein fraction consistently increased in MS preparations compared with controls. To test the biological relevance of increased stathmin levels, primary OL progenitors were transfected using a myc-tagged stathmin cDNA and were allowed to differentiate. Consistent with a distinct role played by this molecule in cells of the OL lineage at different developmental stages, transient transfection in progenitors favored the bipolar migratory phenotype but did not affect survival. However, sustained stathmin levels in differentiating OLs, because of overexpression, resulted in enhanced apoptotic susceptibility. We conclude that stathmin expression in demyelinating disorders could have a dual role. On one hand, by favoring the migratory phenotype of progenitors, it may promote myelin repair. On the other hand, stathmin in mature OLs may indicate cell stress and possibly affect survival.
Neuroinflammation is associated with a variety of neurological and pathological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), and is reliably detected by the presence of activated microglia. In early AD, the highest degree of activated microglia is observed in brain regions involved in learning and memory. To investigate whether neuroinflammation alters the pattern of rapid de novo gene expression associated with learning and memory, we studied the expression of the activity-induced immediate early gene Arc in the hippocampus of rats with experimental neuroinflammation. Rats were chronically infused with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (0.25 mug/h) into the fourth ventricle for 28 d. On day 29, the rats explored twice a novel environment for 5 min, separated by 45 or 90 min. In the dentate gyrus and CA3 regions of LPS-infused rats, Arc and OX-6 (specific for major histocompatibility complex class II antigens) immunolabeling and Arc fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed both activated microglia (OX-6 immunoreactivity) and elevated exploration-induced Arc expression compared with control-infused rats. In contrast, in the CA1 of LPS-infused rats, where there was no OX-6 immunostaining, exploration-induced Arc mRNA and protein remained similar in both LPS- and control-infused rats. LPS-induced neuroinflammation did not affect basal levels of Arc expression. Behaviorally induced Arc expression was altered only within the regions showing activated microglia (OX-6 immunoreactivity), suggesting that neuroinflammation may alter the coupling of neural activity with macromolecular synthesis implicated in learning and plasticity. This activity-related alteration in Arc expression induced by neuroinflammation may contribute to the cognitive deficits found in diseases associated with inflammation, such as AD.
Exposure to sound of sufficient duration and level causes permanent damage to the peripheral auditory system, which results in the reorganization of the cortical tonotopic map. The changes are such that neurons with pre-exposure tuning to frequencies in the hearing loss range now become tuned to frequencies near the near-normal lower boundary of the hearing loss range, which thus becomes over represented. However, cats exposed to a traumatizing noise and immediately thereafter placed for a few weeks in an enriched acoustic environment presented a much-restricted hearing loss compared with similarly exposed cats that were placed for the same time in a quiet environment. The enriched environment spectrally matched the expected hearing loss range and was approximately 40 dB above the level of the expected hearing loss. The hearing loss in the quiet environment-reared cats ranged from 6 to 32 kHz with the largest loss (on average, 40 dB) ranging from 24 to 32 kHz. In contrast, the hearing loss in the enriched-environment cats was restricted to 6-8 kHz at a level of, on average, 35 dB and with 16-32 kHz having normal thresholds. Despite the remaining hearing loss for the enriched-environment cats in the 6-8 kHz range, plastic tonotopic map changes in primary auditory cortex could no longer be demonstrated, suggesting that the enriched acoustic environment prevents this reorganization. This finding has implications for the treatment of hearing disorders, such as tinnitus, that have been linked to cortical tonotopic map reorganization.
In studies of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis there is an increasing focus on mechanisms of intracellular amyloid-beta (Abeta) generation and toxicity. Here we investigated the inhibitory potential of the 42 amino acid Abeta peptide (Abeta1-42) on activity of electron transport chain enzyme complexes in human mitochondria. We found that synthetic Abeta1-42 specifically inhibited the terminal complex cytochrome c oxidase (COX) in a dose-dependent manner that was dependent on the presence of Cu2+ and specific &quot;aging&quot; of the Abeta1-42 solution. Maximal COX inhibition occurred when using Abeta1-42 solutions aged for 3-6 h at 30 degrees C. The level of Abeta1-42-mediated COX inhibition increased with aging time up to approximately 6 h and then declined progressively with continued aging to 48 h. Photo-induced cross-linking of unmodified proteins followed by SDS-PAGE analysis revealed dimeric Abeta as the only Abeta species to provide significant temporal correlation with the observed COX inhibition. Analysis of brain and liver from an Alzheimer's model mouse (Tg2576) revealed abundant Abeta immunoreactivity within the brain mitochondria fraction. Our data indicate that endogenous Abeta is associated with brain mitochondria and that Abeta1-42, possibly in its dimeric conformation, is a potent inhibitor of COX, but only when in the presence of Cu2+. We conclude that Cu2+-dependent Abeta-mediated inhibition of COX may be an important contributor to the neurodegeneration process in Alzheimer's disease.
Studies in fetuses and in prematurely born infants show that auditory discriminative skills are present prior to birth. The magnetic fields generated by the fetal brain activity pass the maternal tissues and, despite their weakness, can be detected externally using MEG. Recent studies on the auditory evoked magnetic responses show that the fetal brain responds to sound onset. In contrast, higher-level auditory skills, such as those involving discriminative and memory functions, were not so far studied in fetuses with MEG. Here we show that fetal responses related to discriminating sounds can be recorded, implicating that the auditory change-detection system is functional. These results open new views to developmental neuroscience by enabling one to determine the sensory capabilities as well as the extent and accuracy of the short-term memory system of the fetus, and, further, to follow the development of these crucial processes.
Environmental enrichment enhances learning and memory in both rodents and man. We examined the effect of active manipulation of a novel object (toy) on cognitive performance and acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in the hippocampus of rats. Animals exposed to the toy showed a significant increase in hippocampal ACh efflux provided that they actively manipulated the object. Similarly, a single 1 h introduction of the novel object (toy) immediately after a training session in a radial arm maze significantly improved memory only if the animals actively manipulated the object. The data suggest that environmental enrichment during a critical period (consolidation) is sufficient to improve learning and memory. This effect is likely mediated through an enhancement of hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission.
Neuropoietic cytokines are known to play crucial roles in neuronal development. Among them, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) has been implicated in various processes of neuronal development, such as neuronal differentiation, survival and neurogenesis. Moreover, LIF is highly expressed in regions of the central nervous system where adult neurogenesis occurs. LIF was tested for its efficacy in promoting postnatal neurogenesis using LIF-null mice and dissociated cultures of early postnatal rat olfactory sensory neurons. Our results indicate that LIF promoted proliferation of olfactory sensory neuron precursors both in vivo and in vitro. In addition, LIF did not affect proliferation of non-neuronal cells. LIF may therefore be useful when developing stem cell therapy to replace damaged olfactory sensory neurons as well as a therapeutic agent to treat some anosmic symptoms.
Humans and other primates demonstrate an exquisite ability to precisely shape their hand when reaching out to grasp an object. Here we used a recently developed transcranial magnetic stimulation paradigm to examine how information about an object's geometric properties is transformed into specific motor programs. Pairs of transcranial magnetic stimulation pulses were delivered at precise intervals to detect changes in the excitability of cortico-cortical inputs to motor cortex when subjects prepared to grasp different objects. We show that at least 600 ms before movement, there is an enhancement in the excitability of these inputs to the corticospinal neurons projecting from motor cortex to the specific muscles that will be used for the grasp. These changes were object- and muscle-specific, and the degree of modulation in the inputs was correlated with the pattern of muscular activity used later by individual subjects to grasp the objects. In a number of control experiments, we demonstrated that no change in excitability was observed during object presentation alone, under conditions in which subjects imagined grasping the object, or before movements involving the same muscles but without an object. This finding demonstrates a cortico-cortical mechanism subserving the transformation from the geometrical properties of an object to the outputs from motor cortex before grasp that is specific for object-driven movements.
The animation illustrates one model for &quot;kiss-and-run&quot; or fast-track release of neurotransmitter through a calcium-triggered transient pore formed between the synaptic vesicle and plasma membrane. The vesicles remain attached to the plasma membrane throughout the cycle. The animation illustrates a role for SNARE proteins and dynamin in the formation and closure of the pore. The animation would be useful in both neurobiology courses, but also any cell biology course that explores calcium-regulated secretion events.
The animation illustrates the recruitment, calcium-triggered exocytosis, and clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles. The animation shows not only the proteins involved in synaptic vesicle fusion and recycling, but also changes in the lipid composition that are important for targeting of proteins to sites of membrane internalization. The animation would be useful in both neurobiology courses, but also any cell biology course that explores clathrin-mediated endocytic and calcium-regulated secretion events.
A new series of gamma-secretase inhibitors was developed from an in-house screening hit based on a benzobicyclo[4.2.1]nonane core. Lead optimisation studies led to the development of a series of potent inhibitors and in vivo efficacy was demonstrated.
Cell lineage studies provide an important foundation for experimental analysis in many systems. Drosophila neural precursors (neuroblasts) sequentially generate ganglion mother cells (GMCs), which generate neurons and/or glia, but the birth order, or cell lineage, of each neuroblast is poorly understood. The best-characterized neuroblast is NB7-3, in which GMC-1 makes the EW1 serotonergic interneuron and GW motoneuron; GMC-2 makes the EW2 serotonergic interneuron and a programmed cell death; and GMC-3 gives rise to the EW3 interneuron. However, the end of this lineage has not been determined. Here, we use positively marked genetic clones, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, mutations that affect Notch signaling, and antibody markers to further define the end of the cell lineage of NB7-3. We provide evidence that GMC-3 directly differentiates into EW3 and that the sibling neuroblast undergoes programmed cell death. Our results confirm and extend previous work on the early portion of the NB7-3 lineage (Novotny et al. [2002] Development 129:1027-1036; Lundell et al. [ 2003] Development 130:4109-4121).
In previous work, we have demonstrated that cell proliferation in the adult hippocampal formation is regulated by estrogen under both natural and experimental conditions. To determine the extent to which this regulation is affected by the dose or schedule of hormone treatment, or progesterone administration, we examined the impact of different acute and chronic ovarian hormone replacement regimens on cell production using the S-phase marker bromodeoxyuridine. Additionally, we investigated the long-term impact of surgical ovarian hormone depletion on the capacity of estrogen to stimulate cell proliferation and the production of new cells that express either TuJ1 (a marker of neuronal phenotype) or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; a marker of astroglial phenotype). Acute treatment with a moderate, but not a low or a high, dose of estrogen rapidly increased cell proliferation in ovariectomized (OVX) animals, an effect that was reversed by the administration of progesterone. In contrast, OVX animals that were chronically replaced with either estrogen alone (continuous or cyclic) or estrogen plus progesterone (cyclic) did not exhibit an estrogen-induced increase in cell proliferation 3 weeks following the onset of hormone replacement. In animals that were subjected to a prolonged absence of ovarian hormones, acute treatment with the moderate dose of estrogen failed to stimulate cell proliferation, and a decrease in the number of new cells expressing a neuronal phenotype was evident. Collectively, these results indicate that a prolonged reduction in ovarian hormones results in 1) a diminished responsiveness to estrogen over time in this system and 2) a decrease in neuron production that is unlikely to be reversible by standard regimens of hormone replacement.
Glucose- and caffeine-containing energy drinks are said to influence the cognitive and cellular function within the brain. In this study, we have used the size of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) produced in response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex as an index of corticospinal excitability after ingestion of Lucozade and control drinks of glucose-containing or caffeine-containing carbonated water or carbonated water alone. With local ethical approval and informed consent, 10 healthy volunteers took part; surface electromyographic (EMG) recordings were taken from the thenar muscles of the dominant hand. In each assessment, 15 TMS stimuli were delivered over the motor cortex at an intensity of 1.1 T. Six subjects ingested a 380-ml bottle of carbonated Lucozade drink containing 68 g of glucose and 46 mg caffeine. Four subjects took part in three control trials drinking: (A) carbonated water with caffeine, (B) carbonated water with glucose and (C) carbonated water alone. Assessments were made before and at 30-min intervals after each drink. Mean fasting blood glucose concentrations and mean areas of MEPs rose after the Lucozade, remaining elevated for 90 min. Similar rises in MEP areas were seen in trials after drinking carbonated water with caffeine or with glucose, but not after drinking carbonated water alone. No change was seen in the M-wave evoked by electrical stimulation of the ulnar nerve. We conclude that Lucozade can affect the size of MEPs to activation of the motor cortex with fixed-intensity TMS. The underlying mechanism is likely to relate to the combined effects of caffeine and glucose on the brain.
Members of the Sage family, such as Salvia officinalis and Salvia lavandulaefolia, have a long history of use as memory-enhancing agents coupled with cholinergic properties that may potentially be relevant to the amelioration of the cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease. The current study utilised a placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced, crossover design in order to comprehensively assess any mood and cognition modulation by S. lavandulaefolia. Twenty-four participants received single doses of placebo, 25 microl and 50 microl of a standardised essential oil of S. lavandulaefolia in an order dictated by a Latin square. Doses were separated by a 7-day washout period. Cognitive performance was assessed prior to the day's treatment and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h thereafter using the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerised test battery. Subjective mood ratings were measured using Bond-Lader visual analogue scales. The primary outcome measures were scores on the five cognitive factors that can be derived by factor analysis of the task outcomes from the CDR battery. The results showed that administration of S. lavandulaefolia resulted in a consistent improvement for both the 25- and 50-microl dose on the 'Speed of Memory' factor. There was also an improvement on the 'Secondary Memory' factor for the 25-microl dose. Mood was consistently enhanced, with increases in self-rated 'alertness', 'calmness' and 'contentedness' following the 50-microl dose and elevated 'calmness' following 25 microl. These results represent further evidence that Salvia is capable of acute modulation of mood and cognition in healthy young adults. The data also suggest that previous reports of memory enhancement by Salvia may be due to more efficient retrieval of target material.


The procedure for the fabrication of a detector termed NACAD, nanofabricated carbon-based detector, is described. I characterized the mechanical properties of this detector using atomic force and scanning electron microscopy techniques. This detector exhibits a smooth surface (rms 2-4 nm) and easy access for atomic force microscopy tips, necessary features for biological studies of secretory granules and vesicles, which store transmitters and release them via exocytosis. The NACAD does not impair the elastic properties of granular matrixes deposited onto a detector, as they show their typical Young's moduli and ion exchanger properties; divalent histamine shrinks them, while monovalent sodium causes their swelling. Additionally, the NACADs' electrochemical properties allowed amperometric measurements of serotonin released from intact secretory granules isolated from mast cells, after removal of their granular membranes using a mild detergent treatment. Thus, this detector will aid future studies of single secretory granules and vesicles and their insoluble matrixes.

Recent studies suggested that the cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus is not crucial for spatial learning, but it might be important for other forms of learning. This study assessed the effects of partial immunotoxic cholinergic lesions in the medial septum and concurrent scopolamine challenge in a complex learning task, the Hebb-Williams maze. Long-Evans rats were given intraseptal injections of 192 IgG-saporin (SAPO). Rats injected with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) served as controls. Starting 25 days after surgery, behavioural performance was assessed in the Hebb-Williams maze test without prior or after injection of scopolamine (0.17 or 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). In SAPO rats, histochemical analysis showed a 40-45% decrease in the density of hippocampal AChE staining. The number of ChAT-positive cell bodies in the medial septum was also significantly decreased (-56%) and there was a non-significant reduction of the number of parvalbumine-positive neurons. The behavioural results demonstrated that the lesions induced small but significant learning deficits. At 0.17 mg/kg, scopolamine produced more impairments in SAPO rats than in PBS-injected rats, suggesting an additive effect between the partial lesion and the drug. These observations indicate that the Hebb-Williams test may be more sensitive to alterations of septohippocampal cholinergic function, than radial- or water-maze tasks. They also show that subtle learning deficits can be detected after partial lesions of the cholinergic septohippocampal pathways. Finally, the data from the scopolamine challenge are in keeping with clinical results showing higher sensitivity to muscarinic blockade in aged subjects in whom weaker cholinergic functions can be presumed.
The neuroendocrine mechanism underlying seasonal changes in gonadal activity of the jerboa, a desert hibernating rodent adapted to harsh climatic conditions, are poorly understood. We investigated the role of the pineal gland and melatonin in the photoperiodic control of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Intact and pinealectomized male jerboas were subjected to short photoperiod, while others were kept under long photoperiod and injected daily with melatonin or vehicle. Testes activity was monitored by evaluating the testes volume during 10 weeks. GnRH immunoreactivity was investigated quantitatively with image analysis. Following melatonin administration, the hormone peaked in plasma after 30 min, with return to control levels 2.5 h later. Exposure to short photoperiod and melatonin resulted in marked increase in the number of GnRH-containing cells in the preoptic area and mediobasal hypothalamus, whereas GnRH immunoreactivity of fibers and terminals in the median eminence decreased under these conditions. The findings indicate that in the jerboa short photoperiod induces testicular regression by prolonging the duration of melatonin as an endocrine signal. This mechanism probably involves inhibition of GnRH release in the median eminence, with consequent accumulation of GnRH in perikarya of the preoptic area and mediobasal hypothalamus. Interestingly, GnRH cells of the median eminence did not appear to be influenced by the photoperiod and pineal melatonin, whereas their number was increased by exogenous melatonin. The latter data suggest for the first time the involvement of an extrapineal melatonin, whose origin remains to be identified, in the modulation of the GnRH regulatory system in rodents.
Previous work has established that dendritic spines, sites of excitatory input in CNS neurons, can be highly dynamic, in later development as well as in mature brain. Although spine motility has been proposed to facilitate the formation of new synaptic contacts, we have reported that spines continue to be dynamic even if they bear synaptic contacts. An outstanding question related to this finding is whether the presynaptic terminals that contact dendritic spines are as dynamic as their postsynaptic targets. Using multiphoton time-lapse microscopy of GFP-labeled Purkinje cells and DiI-labeled granule cell parallel fiber afferents in cerebellar slices, we monitored the dynamic behavior of both presynaptic terminals and postsynaptic dendritic spines in the same preparation. We report that while spines are dynamic, the presynaptic terminals they contact are quite stable. We confirmed the relatively low levels of presynaptic terminal motility by imaging parallel fibers in vivo. Finally, spine motility can occur when a functional presynaptic terminal is apposed to it. These analyses further call into question the function of spine motility, and to what extent the synapse breaks or maintains its contact during the movement of the spine.
Neurons share many features in common but are distinguished by expression of phenotypic characteristics that define their specific function, location, or connectivity. One aspect of neuronal fate determination that has been extensively studied is that of neurotransmitter choice. The generation of diversity of neuronal subtypes within the developing nervous system involves integration of extrinsic and intrinsic instructive cues resulting in the expression of a core set of regulatory molecules. This review focuses on mechanisms of growth and transcription factor regulation in the generation of peripheral neural crest-derived neurons. Although the specification and differentiation of noradrenergic neurons are the focus, I have tried to integrate these into a larger picture providing a general roadmap for development of autonomic neurons. There is a core of DNA binding proteins required for the development of sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enteric neurons, including Phox2 and MASH1, whose specificity is regulated by the recruitment of additional transcriptional regulators in a subtype-specific manner. For noradrenergic neurons, the basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein HAND2 (dHAND) appears to serve this function. The studies reviewed here support the notion that neurotransmitter identity is closely linked to other aspects of neurogenesis and reveal a molecular mechanism to coordinate expression of pan-neuronal genes with cell type-specific genes.
Highly oxidized protein aggregates accumulating in the brain during neurodegenerative diseases are often surrounded by microglia. Most of the microglial cells surrounding these plaques are activated and release a high amount of oxidizing species. In order to develop their toxic effects numerous oxidizing species need iron. To prevent this iron-dependent oxidation an iron-sequestering apparatus exists, including the major iron storage protein ferritin. Microglial cells damage their own protein pool during activation and it is still unknown whether microglial cells are able to maintain their iron-sequestering function during oxidative stress. Therefore, we explored the microglial cell line RAW to test the maintenance of ferritin under oxidizing conditions. Our investigations revealed a half-life of both ferritin chains of 3-3.5 h and a reduced half-life due to oxidation. This was due to the removal of oxidized ferritin by the proteasomal system. Ferritin de novo synthesis was also severely affected by oxidation. This results in a decreased ferritin pool due to acute oxidative stress. These data let us conclude that microglial cells do not increase their ferritin amount after oxidative stress and an increase in the iron storage capacity in these cells after treatment might be achieved only by a high iron saturation of the existing ferritin molecules.
Remyelination is a critical step for recovery of function after demyelination and defines the ability to generate new myelin. This repair process is dependent on the presence of resident oligodendrocyte progenitors (OLPs) that have been shown to remyelinate axons after demyelination. We have previously shown that the levels of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip-1 modulate the number of neonatal cortical OLPs. We now asked whether this cell cycle molecule plays also a role in regulating the number of adult OLP in the spinal cord after demyelination induced by lysolecithin injection. The proliferative response of OLP in the spinal cord of injected wild-type (wt) and p27Kip-1 null mice was evaluated 3 days after lesion. In vivo labeling with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to identify cells in S phase. Double immunofluorescence for the OLP marker NG2, and for BrdU was used to count the number of proliferating progenitors. Consistent with a role of p27Kip-1 in regulating the number of adult OLP in the injured spinal cord, a larger number of proliferating OLPs was observed in p27Kip-1null mice compared with wild-type controls. These cells were able to differentiate as assessed by the presence of MBP+ cells in the spinal cord 14 days after injury. We conclude that the cellular levels of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip-1 modulate the repair response of OLPs to injury in the adult spinal cord.
Loss of axons is a major contributor to nonremitting deficits in the inflammatory demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Based on biophysical studies showing that activity of axonal sodium channels can trigger axonal degeneration, recent studies have tested sodium channel-blocking drugs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, and have demonstrated a protective effect on axons. However, it is possible that, in addition to a direct effect on axons, sodium channel blockers may also interfere with inflammatory mechanisms. We therefore examined the novel hypothesis that sodium channels contribute to activation of microglia and macrophages in EAE and acute MS lesions. In this study, we demonstrate a robust increase of sodium channel Nav1.6 expression in activated microglia and macrophages in EAE and MS. We further demonstrate that treatment with the sodium channel blocker phenytoin ameliorates the inflammatory cell infiltrate in EAE by 75%. Supporting a role for sodium channels in microglial activation, we show that tetrodotoxin, a specific sodium channel blocker, reduces the phagocytic function of activated rat microglia by 40%. To further confirm a role of Nav1.6 in microglial activation, we examined the phagocytic capacity of microglia from med mice, which lack Nav1.6 channels, and show a 65% reduction in phagocytic capacity compared with microglia from wildtype mice. Our findings indicate that sodium channels are important for activation and phagocytosis of microglia and macrophages in EAE and MS and suggest that, in addition to a direct neuroprotective effect on axons, sodium channel blockade may ameliorate neuroinflammatory disorders via anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
Neurite elongation and branching are key cellular events during brain development as they underlie the formation of a properly wired neuronal network. Here we report that the receptor tyrosine kinases Ror1 and Ror2 modulate the growth of neurites as well as their branching pattern in hippocampal neurons. Upon Ror1 or Ror2 suppression using antisense oligonucleotides or RNA interference (RNAi), neurons extended shorter and less branched minor processes when compared to those in control cells. In addition, Ror-depleted cells elongated longer, albeit less branched, axons than seen in control cells. Conversely, Ror overexpression both in non-neuronal cells and in hippocampal neurons resulted in the enhanced extension of short and highly branched processes. These phenotypes were accompanied by changes in the microtubule-associated proteins MAP1B and MAP2. Taken together, these results support a novel role for Ror receptors as modulators of neurite extension in central neurons.
Historic medicinal practice has defined Cat's Claw, also known as Una de Gato or Uncaria tomentosa, as an effective treatment for several health disorders including chronic inflammation, gastrointestinal dysfunction such as ulcers, tumors and infections. The efficacy of Cat's Claw was originally believed, as early as the 1960s, to be due to the presence of oxindole alkaloids. However, more recently water-soluble Cat's Claw extracts were shown not to contain significant amounts of alkaloids (&lt;0.05%), and yet still were shown to be very efficacious. Here we characterize the active ingredients of a water-soluble Cat's Claw extract called C-Med-100 as inhibiting cell growth without cell death thus providing enhanced opportunities for DNA repair, and the consequences thereof, such as immune stimulation, anti-inflammation and cancer prevention. The active ingredients were chemically defined as quinic acid esters and could also be shown to be bioactive in vivo as quinic acid.
To investigate effects of a 16.8-Mb region on rat chromosome 4q42-43 on encephalomyelitis, we performed a high-resolution mapping using a 10th generation advanced intercross line between the susceptible DA strain and the MHC identical but resistant PVG.1AV1 strain. Clinical signs of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) developed in 29% of 772 F(10) rats. Three regions controlling disease, Eae20, Eae21, and Eae22, were mapped using 15 microsatellite markers spanning 16.8 Mb. Eae20 was a major genetic determinant within the region whereas Eae21 modified disease severity. Eae22 was identified as an epistatic region because it only displayed an effect together with Piebald Virol Glaxo (PVG) alleles on Eae20. Disease down-regulation by PVG alleles in the telomeric part of Eae20 was also demonstrated in DA rats made congenic for a approximately 1.44-Mb chromosomal region from PVG. As the region containing Eae20-Eae22 also regulates arthritis, together with the fact that the syntenic mouse 6F(2)-F(3) region regulates experimental lupus and diabetes, and the syntenic human 12p13.31-13.2 region regulates multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis, the present data point to genes that control several inflammatory diseases. The pairscan analyses of interaction, which here identified Eae22, are novel in the encephalomyelitis field and of importance in the design of further studies of this region in other diseases and species. The limited number of genes identified in Eae20, Eae21, and Eae22 enables focused examination of their relevance in mechanistic animal studies and screening of their association to human diseases.
Involvement of the brain by neurotropic, dematiaceous fungi namely Cladosporium bantianum is extremely rare. The disease is very resistant to treatment and prone for frequent relapses despite treatment with amphotericin B and flucytosine, the drugs of choice for the infection. Surgery is often required for resection of the fungal granuloma. Isolation of the fungus from the tissue specimens and its culture, showing dark colored fungal colonies clinches the diagnosis. Animal inoculation studies can provide insights to the portal of entry of the organism. We hereby report a case of fungal granuloma of the brain due to C. bantianum, which responded favorably to intensive antifungal treatment alone, with relevant review of literature.
We investigated the relationship between somatic and autonomic neuropathy in 40 chronic alcoholics. Electromyographic and neurographic studies of upper and lower limbs and a battery of six cardiovascular reflex tests were carried out. A score for somatic or autonomic neuropathy was calculated. All parameters were investigated for possible relationship with total life dose (TLD) of alcohol intake. Somatic neuropathy was detected in 25 patients (62.5%) and autonomic neuropathy in 13 patients (32.5%). Nineteen patients (47.5%) presented only a somatic neuropathy, six patients (15%) had only an autonomic neuropathy, and seven (17.5%) had a combined somatic and autonomic neuropathy. TLD was significantly higher in the group of patients with combined neuropathy than in the group with isolated somatic neuropathy. There was no significant correlation between laboratory parameters of somatic and autonomic neuropathy. Our findings do not support the existence of a parallel involvement of peripheral somatic and autonomic cardiovascular nerve fibers in chronic alcoholism.
Steroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis is a well-recognized complication of autoimmune thyroid disease. However, the characterization of the histopathological features of steroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis are limited to six cases. Reported pathological features include vasculitis involving venules and arterioles, lymphocytic perivascular cuffs and microglial activation. We report a case of SREAT with biopsy proven (on two occasions) primary CNS demyelination and radiological evidence of steroid responsiveness, identifying primary CNS demyelination as a complication of autoimmune thyroid disease.
The vital roles played by NMDA receptors in CNS physiology depend critically on powerful voltage-dependent channel block by external Mg(2+) (Mg(2+)(o)). NMDA receptor channel block by Mg(2+)(o) depends on receptor subunit composition: NR1/2A receptors (receptors composed of NR1 and NR2A subunits) and NR1/2B receptors are more strongly inhibited by Mg(2+)(o) than are NR1/2C or NR1/2D receptors. We investigated the effects of Mg(2+)(o) on single-channel and whole-cell currents recorded from recombinant NR1/2D and NR1/2A receptors expressed in HEK293 and 293T cells. The main conclusions are as follows: (1) Voltage-dependent inhibition by Mg(2+)(o) of whole-cell NR1/2D receptor responses was at least 4-fold weaker than inhibition of NR1/2A receptor responses at all voltages tested. (2) Channel block by Mg(2+)(o) reduced the duration of NR1/2D receptor single-channel openings; this reduction was used to estimate the apparent blocking rate of Mg(2+)(o) (k(+,app)). The k(+,app) for NR1/2D receptors was similar to but moderately slower than the k(+,app) obtained from cortical NMDA receptors composed of NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits at all voltages tested. (3) Mg(2+)(o) blocking events induced an additional component in the closed-duration distribution; this component was used to estimate the apparent unblocking rate of Mg(2+)(o) (k(-,app)). The k(-,app) for NR1/2D receptors was much faster than the k(-,app) for cortical receptors at all voltages tested. The voltage-dependence of the k(-,app) of NR1/2D and cortical receptors differed in a manner that suggested that Mg(2+)(o) may permeate NR1/2D receptors more easily than cortical receptors. (4) Mg(2+)(o) inhibits NR1/2D receptors less effectively than cortical receptors chiefly because Mg(2+)(o) unbinds much more rapidly from NR1/2D receptors.
Musicians exchange non-verbal cues as messages when they play together. This is particularly true in music with a sketchy outline. Jazz musicians receive and interpret the cues when performance parts from a regular pattern of rhythm, suggesting that they enjoy a highly developed sensitivity to subtle deviations of rhythm. We demonstrate that pre-attentive brain responses recorded with magnetoencephalography to rhythmic incongruence are left-lateralized in expert jazz musicians and right-lateralized in musically inept non-musicians. The left-lateralization of the pre-attentive responses suggests functional adaptation of the brain to a task of communication, which is much like that of language.
Facial expressions of emotion elicit increased activity in the human amygdala. Such increases are particularly evident for expressions that convey potential threat to the observer, and arise even when the face is masked from awareness. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine whether the amygdala responds differentially to threatening (fearful) versus nonthreatening (happy) facial expressions depending on whether the face is attended or actively ignored. In separate runs, participants were cued to attend to a face or a house within semitransparent, spatially overlaid composite pairs, presented either side of fixation, and were required to perform a demanding same/different judgment. We found significant attentional modulation of activity in category-specific 'face' (fusiform gyrus) and 'place' (parahippocampal gyrus) regions, with activity in each area increasing selectively when its preferred stimulus was attended versus ignored. In contrast, activity in the amygdala differed according to the valence of the facial expression and the category of the attended stimulus. For happy faces, activity in the amygdala was greater in the attend-face than in the attend-house condition, whereas for fearful faces, activity was greater in the attend-house than in the attend-face condition. We conclude that differential amygdala responses to fearful versus happy facial expressions are tuned by mechanisms of attention and that the amygdala gives preference to potentially threatening stimuli under conditions of inattention.
We describe a Bayesian estimation and inference procedure for fMRI time series based on the use of General Linear Models (GLMs). Importantly, we use a spatial prior on regression coefficients which embodies our prior knowledge that evoked responses are spatially contiguous and locally homogeneous. Further, using a computationally efficient Variational Bayes framework, we are able to let the data determine the optimal amount of smoothing. We assume an arbitrary order Auto-Regressive (AR) model for the errors. Our model generalizes earlier work on voxel-wise estimation of GLM-AR models and inference in GLMs using Posterior Probability Maps (PPMs). Results are shown on simulated data and on data from an event-related fMRI experiment.
We describe here a new way of obtaining maps of connectivity in the human brain based on interregional correlations of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal during natural viewing conditions. We propose that anatomical connections are reflected in BOLD signal correlations during natural brain dynamics. This may provide a powerful approach to chart connectivity, more so than that based on the 'resting state' of the human brain, and it may complement diffusion tensor imaging. Our approach relies on natural brain dynamics and is therefore experimentally unbiased and independent of hypothesis-driven, specialized stimuli. It has the advantage that natural viewing leads to considerably stronger cortical activity than rest, thus facilitating detection of weaker connections. To validate our technique, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to record BOLD signal while volunteers freely viewed a movie that was interrupted by resting periods. We used independent component analysis (ICA) to segregate cortical areas before characterizing the dynamics of their BOLD signal during free viewing and rest. Natural viewing and rest each revealed highly specific correlation maps, which reflected known anatomical connections. Examples are homologous regions in visual and auditory cortices in the two hemispheres and the language network consisting of Wernicke's area, Broca's area, and a premotor region. Correlations between regions known to be directly connected were always substantially higher than between nonconnected regions. Furthermore, compared to rest, natural viewing specifically increased correlations between anatomically connected regions while it decreased correlations between nonconnected regions. Our findings therefore demonstrate that natural viewing conditions lead to particularly specific interregional correlations and thus provide a powerful environment to reveal anatomical connectivity in vivo.
The authors reviewed the basic facts about infections that complicate chemotherapy, and found that a difference exists between those that are medically treated, for which several standard protocols have been adopted, and infections amenable to surgical treatment, such as spinal epidural abscess, which are managed according to the experience at individual institutions. The authors believe that patients with leukemia who manifest a spinal epidural abscess should always be surgically treated when the infection occurs between the induction and remission phases, whereas medical treatment options can be considered for spinal epidural abscesses occurring at the end of the chemotherapy course.
In order to examine, whether the lobeline-induced cough is a true reflex or a voluntary effort to get rid of its irritating sensations in the upper respiratory tract, we systematically studied the cough response to lobeline, of subjects who were unable to make conscious discriminations i.e. were either comatose (n=4) or anaesthetized (n=5). 8 microg/kg lobeline injected into the right atrium of one and 29 microg/kg intravenously (i.v.) into another evenly and spontaneously breathing comatose subject produced a cough after 4s and 12s, respectively. Cough was repeatable and showed a dose response relationship i.e., its latency decreasing and its duration/intensity increasing with the dose. In a third subject, capable only of weak spontaneous respiration, a relatively high dose injected into the right atrium (44 microg/kg) generated a pronounced cough-like respiratory movement superimposed on the artificial ventilation and also during the apnoea after disconnecting the pump. No respiratory response was evoked in a fourth subject who had no evidence of brainstem reflexes. In five normals, cough was elicited with a mean dose of 35+/-5 microg/kg i.v. (latency 14+/-2 s; duration 10+/-3 s). After thiopental anaesthesia, injecting 41+/-7 microg/kg produced a cough within 13+/-2 s that lasted for 12+/-2 s. It may be noted that neither the later dose nor the latency or duration of cough that it produced were significantly different from the pre anaesthesia values (P&gt;0.05). These two sets of results show unequivocally that the lobeline-induced cough is evoked reflexly; its magnitude in the conscious state could vary by subjective influences. We discuss the likelihood of its origin from juxtapulmonary capillary receptors.
This paper described that neural stem cells (hsNSCs) were isolated and expanded rapidly from human fetal striatum in adherent culture. The population was serum- and growth factor-dependent and expressed neural stem cell markers. They were capable of multi-differentiation into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. When plated in the dopaminergic neuron inducing medium, human striatum neural stem cells could differentiate into tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons. hsNSCs were morphologically homogeneous and possessed high proliferation ability. The population doubled every 44.28h and until now it has divided for more than 82 generations in vitro. Normal human diploid karyotype was unchanged throughout the in vitro culture period. Together, this study has exploited a method for continuous and rapid expansion of human neural stem cells as pure population, which maintained the capacity to generate almost fifty percent neurons. The availability of such cells may hold great interest for basic and applied neuroscience.
Axon-dendrite polarity is a cardinal feature of neuronal morphology essential for information flow. Here we report a differential distribution of GSK-3beta activity in the axon versus the dendrites. A constitutively active GSK-3beta mutant inhibited axon formation, whereas multiple axons formed from a single neuron when GSK-3beta activity was reduced by pharmacological inhibitors, a peptide inhibitor, or siRNAs. An active mechanism for maintaining neuronal polarity was revealed by the conversion of preexisting dendrites into axons upon GSK-3 inhibition. Biochemical and functional data show that the Akt kinase and the PTEN phosphatase are upstream of GSK-3beta in determining neuronal polarity. Our results demonstrate that there are active mechanisms for maintaining as well as establishing neuronal polarity, indicate that GSK-3beta relays signaling from Akt and PTEN to play critical roles in neuronal polarity, and suggest that application of GSK-3beta inhibitors can be a novel approach to promote generation of new axons after neural injuries.
Diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (InsP7) and bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate contain pyrophosphate bonds. InsP7 is formed from inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6) by a family of three inositol hexakisphosphate kinases (InsP6K). In this study we establish one of the InsP6Ks, InsP6K2, as a physiologic mediator of cell death. Overexpression of wild-type InsP6K2 augments the cytotoxic actions of multiple cell stressors in diverse cell lines, whereas transfection with a dominant negative InsP6K2 decreases cell death. During cell death, InsP6 kinase activity is enhanced, and intracellular InsP7 level is augmented. Deletion of InsP6K2 but not the other forms of InsP6K diminishes cell death, suggesting that InsP6K2 is the major InsP6 kinase involved in cell death. Cytotoxicity is associated with a translocation of InsP6K2 from nuclei to mitochondria, whereas the intracellular localization of the other isoforms of the enzyme does not change. The present study provides compelling evidence that endogenous InsP6K2, by generating InsP7, provides physiologic regulation of the apoptotic process.
C2 domains are primarily found in signal transduction proteins such as protein kinase C, which generally contain a single C2 domain, and in membrane trafficking proteins such as synaptotagmins, which generally contain multiple C2 domains. In both classes of proteins, C2 domains usually regulate the respective protein's function by forming Ca(2+)-dependent or Ca(2+)-independent phospholipid complexes. We now describe MCTPs (multiple C2 domain and transmembrane region proteins), a novel family of evolutionarily conserved C2 domain proteins with unusual Ca(2+)-dependent properties. MCTPs are composed of a variable N-terminal sequence, three C2 domains, two transmembrane regions, and a short C-terminal sequence. The invertebrate organisms Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster express a single MCTP gene, whereas vertebrates express two MCTP genes (MCTP1 and MCTP2) whose primary transcripts are extensively alternatively spliced. Most of the MCTP sequences, in particular the C2 domains, are highly conserved. All MCTP C2 domains except for the second C2 domain of MCTP2 include a perfect Ca2+/phospholipid-binding consensus sequence. To determine whether the C2 domains of MCTPs actually function as Ca2+/phospholipid-binding modules, we analyzed their Ca2+ and phospholipid binding properties. Surprisingly, we found that none of the three MCTP1 C2 domains interacted with negatively charged or neutral phospholipids in the presence or absence of Ca2+. However, Ca2+ titrations monitored via intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence revealed that all three C2 domains bound Ca2+ in the absence of phospholipids with a high apparent affinity (EC50 of approximately 1.3-2.3 microM). Our data thus reveal that MCTPs are evolutionarily conserved C2 domain proteins that are unusual in that the C2 domains are anchored in the membrane by two closely spaced transmembrane regions and represent Ca(2+)-binding but not phospholipid-binding modules.
Both the transcription factor c-Jun and the c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) have been associated with neuronal loss in several death paradigms. JNK are key regulators of c-Jun and a common accepted model has been that JNKs mediate neuronal death through modulation of c-Jun activation. In the present study, we examined whether JNK2 and -3 (JNK members most associated with neuronal loss) deficiency can rescue neuronal loss caused by facial and sciatic nerve axotomy in the neonate in vivo. JNK2, JNK3, and JNK2/3 double-deficient neurons displayed significantly less death in the facial nerves of the CNS when compared with controls. JNK2 and JNK2/3 double-deficient animals also showed reduced c-Jun phosphorylation and induction following axotomy, consistent with the model that JNK acts to regulate death by activating c-Jun. Of significance, however, protection of facial nerves in JNK3-deficient animals was not accompanied by reduction in c-Jun activation. These results suggest that JNKs can mediate death independently of c-Jun. Importantly, the lack of correlation between JNK3 deficiency and c-Jun induction was not universal. In a sciatic axotomy model of neuronal injury in the neonate, death of DRG neurons was also reduced by JNK3 deficiency. However, in this case, c-Jun activation was also eliminated.
Prions cause transmissible and fatal diseases that are associated with spongiform degeneration, astrogliosis, and loss of axon terminals in the brains. To determine the expression of proteins involved in neurosecretion and synaptic functions after prion infection, gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal cell line subclone (GT1-1) was infected with the RML scrapie strain and analyzed by Western blotting, real time PCR, and immunohistochemistry. As revealed by Western blotting of lysates exposed to different temperatures, the levels of complexed SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A, and synaptophysin were decreased in scrapie-infected GT1-1 cells (ScGT1-1), whereas the level of monomeric forms of these proteins was increased and correlated to the level of scrapie prion protein (PrPSc). However, when complex formation was prevented by prolonged heating of samples in SDS, the levels of monomeric SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A and synaptophysin in ScGT1-1 cells were decreased in comparison to GT1-1 cells. The reduced level of SNAP-25 was observed as early as 32 days postinfection. Increased mRNA levels of both splice variants SNAP-25a and -b in ScGT1-1 cells were seen. No difference in the morphology, neuritic outgrowth or distribution of SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A, or synaptophysin could be observed in ScGT1-1 cells. Treatment with quinacrine or pentosan polysulfate cleared the PrPSc from the ScGT1-1 cell cultures, and the increase in levels of monomeric SNAP-25 and synaptophysin was reversible. These results indicate that a scrapie infection can cause changes in the expression of proteins involved in neuronal secretion, which may be of pathogenetic relevance for the axon terminal changes seen in prion-infected brains.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid, type A (GABAA), receptor ion channel is lined by the second membrane-spanning (M2) segments from each of five homologous subunits that assemble to form the receptor. Gating presumably involves movement of the M2 segments. We assayed protein mobility near the M2 segment extracellular ends by measuring the ability of engineered cysteines to form disulfide bonds and high affinity Zn(2+)-binding sites. Disulfide bonds formed in alpha1beta1E270Cgamma2 but not in alpha1N275Cbeta1gamma2 or alpha1beta1gamma2K285C. Diazepam potentiation and Zn2+ inhibition demonstrated that expressed receptors contained a gamma subunit. Therefore, the disulfide bond in alpha1beta1E270Cgamma2 formed between non-adjacent subunits. In the homologous acetylcholine receptor 4-A resolution structure, the distance between alpha carbon atoms of 20' aligned positions in non-adjacent subunits is approximately 19 A. Because disulfide trapping involves covalent bond formation, it indicates the extent of movement but does not provide an indication of the energetics of protein deformation. Pairs of cysteines can form high affinity Zn(2+)-binding sites whose affinity depends on the energetics of forming a bidentate-binding site. The Zn2+ inhibition IC50 for alpha1beta1E270Cgamma2 was 34 nm. In contrast, it was greater than 100 microM in alpha1N275Cbeta1gamma2 and alpha1beta1gamma2K285C receptors. The high Zn2+ affinity in alpha1beta1E270Cgamma2 implies that this region in the beta subunit has a high protein mobility with a low energy barrier to translational motions that bring the positions into close proximity. The differential mobility of the extracellular ends of the beta and alpha M2 segments may have important implications for GABA-induced conformational changes during channel gating.
The development of a patterned vasculature is essential for normal organogenesis. We found that signaling by semaphorin 3E (Sema3E) and its receptor plexin-D1 controls endothelial cell positioning and the patterning of the developing vasculature in the mouse. Sema3E is highly expressed in developing somites, where it acts as a repulsive cue for plexin-D1-expressing endothelial cells of adjacent intersomitic vessels. Sema3E-plexin-D1 signaling did not require neuropilins, which were previously presumed to be obligate Sema3 coreceptors. Moreover, genetic ablation of Sema3E or plexin-D1 but not neuropilin-mediated Sema3 signaling disrupted vascular patterning. These findings reveal an unexpected semaphorin signaling pathway and define a mechanism for controlling vascular patterning.
H(3) receptor antagonists based on a 2-aminoethylbenzofuran skeleton have been discovered, which are potent in vitro at human and rat H(3) receptors, with K(i) values of 0.1-5.8 nM. Analogues were discovered with potent (0.01-1 mg/kg) cognition and attention enhancing properties in animal models. One compound in particular, 4-(2-[2-(2(R)-methylpyrrolidin-1-yl)ethyl]benzofuran-5-yl)benzonitrile (ABT-239), combined potent and selective H(3) receptor antagonism and excellent pharmacokinetic and metabolic properties across species, with full efficacy in two behavioral models: a five-trial inhibitory avoidance acquisition model in rat pups at 0.1 mg/kg and a social recognition memory model in adult rats at 0.01 mg/kg. Furthermore, this compound did not stimulate locomotor activity and showed high selectivity for the induction of behavioral efficacy versus central nervous system based side effects. The potency and selectivity of this compound and of analogues from this class support the potential of H(3) receptor antagonists for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction.

Neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the thalamus produce spikes that can be classified as burst spikes and tonic spikes. Although burst spikes are generally associated with states of sleep and drowsiness, bursts may also play an important role in sensory processing. This study explores the stimulus properties that evoke burst and tonic spikes and examines the reliability of LGN neurons to produce visually driven bursts. Using reverse-correlation techniques, we show that the receptive fields of burst spikes are similar to, but significantly different from, the receptive fields of tonic spikes. Compared with tonic spikes, burst spikes (1) occur with a shorter latency between stimulus and response, (2) have a greater dependence on stimuli with transitions from suppressive to preferred states, and (3) prefer stimuli that provide increased drive to the receptive field center and even greater increased drive to the receptive field surround. These differences are not attributable to the long interspike interval that precedes burst spikes, because tonic spikes with similar preceding interspike intervals also differ from burst spikes in both the spatial and temporal domains. Finally, measures of reliability are significantly greater for burst spikes than for tonic spikes with similar preceding interspike intervals. These results demonstrate that thalamic bursts contribute to sensory processing and can reliably provide the cortex with information that is similar to, but distinct from, that of tonic spikes.
Both the acquisition and extinction of conditioned fear appear to require the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Because these two forms of learning have opposing effects on the expression of conditioned fear, we hypothesized that they may modulate GABAergic tone differentially within the BLA. Previously, we reported that gene expression for the GABA(A) receptor clustering protein gephyrin was significantly downregulated in the BLA after fear acquisition (Ressler et al., 2002). Here we demonstrate an analogous decrease in BLA gephyrin protein levels, together with a decrease in the surface expression of GABA(A) receptors in the BLA after fear acquisition, as evidenced by decreased binding of H3-flunitrazepam. In marked contrast, gephyrin mRNA and protein levels in the BLA significantly increased after extinction training, as did H3-flunitrazepam binding. These results implicate the protein gephyrin in both fear acquisition and extinction and suggest that the modulation of gephyrin and GABA(A) receptor expression in the BLA may play a role in the experience-dependent plasticity underlying both of these types of learning. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that physiologically relevant, dynamic alterations of GABAergic synapses occur during the consolidation phase of BLA-dependent learning and may interact with previously described alterations in glutamatergic transmission to initiate and stabilize memory formation in vivo.
In cerebellar Purkinje neurons, the reliability of propagation of high-frequency simple spikes and spikelets of complex spikes is likely to regulate inhibition of Purkinje target neurons. To test the extent to which a one-to-one correspondence exists between somatic and axonal spikes, we made dual somatic and axonal recordings from Purkinje neurons in mouse cerebellar slices. Somatic action potentials were recorded with a whole-cell pipette, and the corresponding axonal signals were recorded extracellularly with a loose-patch pipette. Propagation of spontaneous and evoked simple spikes was highly reliable. At somatic firing rates of approximately 200 spikes/sec, &lt;10% of spikes failed to propagate, with failures becoming more frequent only at maximal somatic firing rates (approximately 260 spikes/sec). Complex spikes were elicited by climbing fiber stimulation, and their somatic waveforms were modulated by tonic current injection, as well as by paired stimulation to depress the underlying EPSCs. Across conditions, the mean number of propagating action potentials remained just above two spikes per climbing fiber stimulation, but the instantaneous frequency of the propagating spikes changed, from approximately 375 Hz during somatic hyperpolarizations that silenced spontaneous firing to approximately 150 Hz during spontaneous activity. The probability of propagation of individual spikelets could be described quantitatively as a saturating function of spikelet amplitude, rate of rise, or preceding interspike interval. The results suggest that ion channels of Purkinje axons are adapted to produce extremely short refractory periods and that brief bursts of forward-propagating action potentials generated by complex spikes may contribute transiently to inhibition of postsynaptic neurons.
The addition of morphine at 1 mum induced morphological changes of cultured microglia such that they changed from having globular or bipolar rod-like shapes to being flat and lamellipodial, with membrane ruffling at the edge, which was stained with phalloidin. The membrane ruffling was clearly colocalized with Rac. Morphine also induced chemotaxis in Boyden chamber analysis at concentrations of 1 mum or more in microglia and the microglial cell line EOC 2. All of these changes were abolishable by naloxone, antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for mu-opioid receptor (MOR), pertussis toxin (PTx), and wortmannin, but not genistein or 1,10-phenanthroline. The addition of morphine to microglia stimulated the gene expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as early as the 1 hr point, and this lasted for &gt;12 hr. Morphine induced BDNF gene expression and ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) phosphorylation, and these were abolishable by naloxone, wortmannin, PD98059, genistein, and 1,10-phenanthroline. The addition of conditioned medium derived from the culture of morphine-treated microglia also increased the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. All of these findings suggest that morphine induces significant changes in both morphology and gene expression at relatively high concentrations, but the underlying signaling pathways downstream of MOR and G(i/o) appear to be different from each other. Phosphoinositide 3-kinase gamma activation and Rac activation are involved in chemotaxis, whereas indirect pathways through ERK1/2 phosphorylation induced by unknown growth factors generated through an MOR-mediated metalloprotease activation are linked to the enhanced BDNF gene expression.
We investigated how the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 mediates neurite outgrowth through L1-L1 homophilic interactions. Wild-type L1 and L1 with mutations in the cytoplasmic domain (CD) were introduced into L1 knock-out neurons, and transfected neurons were grown on an L1 substrate. Neurite length and branching were compared between wild-type L1 and L1CD mutations. Surprisingly, the L1CD is not required for L1-mediated neurite outgrowth but plays a critical role in neurite branching, through both the juxtamembrane region and the RSLE region. We demonstrate that both regions serve as ezrin-moesin-radixin-binding sites. A truncation mutant that deletes 110 of 114 amino acids of the L1CD still supports neurite outgrowth on an L1 substrate, suggesting that a coreceptor binds to L1 in cis and mediates neurite outgrowth and that L1-ankyrin interactions are not essential for neurite initiation or outgrowth. These data are consistent with a model in which L1 can influence L1-mediated neurite outgrowth and branching through both the L1CD and a coreceptor.
The mechanism of axonal injury in inflammatory brain diseases is still unclear. Increased microglial production of nitric oxide (NO) is a common early sign in neuroinflammatory diseases. We found by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy that synaptophysin tagged with enhanced green fluorescence protein (synaptophysin-EGFP) moves anterogradely in axons of cultured neurons. Activated microglia focally inhibited the axonal movement of synaptophysin-EGFP in a NO synthase-dependent manner. Direct application of a NO donor to neurons resulted in inhibition of axonal transport of synaptophysin-EGFP and synaptotagmin I tagged with EGFP, mediated via phosphorylation of c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK). Thus, overt production of reactive NO by activated microglia blocks the axonal transport of synaptic vesicle precursors via phosphorylation of JNK and could cause axonal and synaptic dysfunction.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extracellular deposits of fibrillar beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the brain, a fulminant microglial-mediated inflammatory reaction, and neuronal death. The use of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) is associated with a reduced risk of AD, which has been attributed to the cholesterol-lowering actions of these drugs. Statins have been reported recently to have anti-inflammatory actions in addition to their classic lipid-lowering effects. We report that statins robustly inhibited the Abeta-stimulated expression of interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase and the production of nitric oxide by microglia and monocytes. Statin treatment also blocked the rac1-dependent activation of NADPH oxidase and superoxide production. The anti-inflammatory actions of the statins were attributable to their ability to reduce the levels of isoprenyl intermediates in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. The effect of statins could not be reversed by exogenous cholesterol supplementation, indicating that the anti-inflammatory actions are distinct from their cholesterol-lowering actions. The addition of the isoprenyl precursors, mevalonic acid, and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGpp) attenuated the statin-mediated downregulation of inflammatory markers. Prevention of protein isoprenylation by the GGpp transferase inhibitor (GGTI-286) or inhibition of Rho-family function with Clostridium difficile Toxin A blocked the inflammatory response similar to the effect of statin treatment. We argue that the statin-mediated decrease in AD risk arises from their pleiotropic actions, effecting a reduction in neuronal Abeta production and microglia-directed inflammation.
Accumulation of aggregated amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies indicate that the 40- to 42-residue Abeta peptide in solution will undergo self-assembly leading to the transient appearance of soluble protofibrils and ultimately to insoluble fibrils. The Abeta peptide is amphiphilic and accumulates preferentially at a hydrophilic/hydrophobic interface. Solid surfaces and air-water interfaces have been shown previously to promote Abeta aggregation, but detailed characterization of these aggregates has not been presented. In this study Abeta(1-40) introduced to aqueous buffer in a two-phase system with chloroform aggregated 1-2 orders of magnitude more rapidly than Abeta in the buffer alone. The interface-induced aggregates were released into the aqueous phase and persisted for 24-72 h before settling as a visible precipitate at the interface. Thioflavin T fluorescence and circular dichroism analyses confirmed that the Abeta aggregates had a beta-sheet secondary structure. However, these aggregates were far less stable than Abeta(1-40) protofibrils prepared in buffer alone and disaggregated completely within 3 min on dilution. Atomic force microscopy revealed that the aggregates consisted of small globules 4-5 nm in height and long flexible fibers composed of these globules aligned roughly along a longitudinal axis, a morphology distinct from that of Abeta protofibrils prepared in buffer alone. The relative instability of the fibers was supported by fiber interruptions apparently introduced by brief washing of the AFM grids. To our knowledge, unstable aggregates of Abeta with beta-sheet structure and fibrous morphology have not been reported previously. Our results provide the clearest evidence yet that the intrinsic beta-sheet structure of an in vitro Abeta aggregate depends on the aggregation conditions and is reflected in the stability of the aggregate and the morphology observed by atomic force microscopy. Resolution of these structural differences at the molecular level may provide important clues to the further understanding of amyloid formation in vivo.
Protocadherins, a subgroup of the cadherin superfamily of calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules, are considered to play important roles in the developing embryo particularly in the central nervous system. The Protocadherin 8 (Pcdh8) gene comprises three coding exons in both human and mouse, and the exon junctions are precisely conserved between these two species. Alternative splicing of Pcdh8 RNA leads to the formation of two isoforms that differ in the length of the cytoplasmic domains. We have investigated the expression of these short and long variants of Pcdh8 during early mouse development by RT/PCR and in situ hybridization. We found that both isoforms were predominantly expressed in the nervous system, and that their expression patterns appeared to be developmentally regulated. However, the short variant had a broader pattern of expression than the long variant and was found in some non-neuronal tissues, such as paraxial mesoderm, developing somites, and in limb interdigital mesenchyme where massive programmed cell death occurs. The differential expression of two alternative cytoplasmic domain variants suggests that Pcdh8 may regulate cell adhesion in a variety of developmental processes, and that this may involve different intracellular interactions.
Saccades occur several times each second in normal human vision. The visual image moves across the retina at high velocity during a saccade, yet no blurring of the visual scene is perceived . Active suppression of visual input may account for this perceptual continuity, but the neural mechanisms underlying such saccadic suppression remain unclear. We used functional MRI to specifically examine responses in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1) during saccades. Activity in both V1 and LGN was strongly modulated by saccades. Furthermore, this modulation depended on whether visual stimulation was present or absent. In complete darkness, saccades led to reliable signal increases in V1 and LGN, whereas in the presence of visual stimulation, saccades led to suppression of visually evoked responses. These findings represent unequivocal evidence for saccadic suppression in human LGN and retinotopically defined V1 and are consistent with the earliest site of saccadic suppression lying at or before V1.

The electrical excitability of cortical neurons changes significantly during normal ageing. A recent study found that targeted deletion of a gene encoding a potassium channel-modifier subunit can restore to aged mice, not only normal neuronal firing, but also normal learning and synaptic plasticity.


Parkin disease is usually autosomal recessive; however, two studies have shown that asymptomatic heterozygotes have nigrostriatal dysfunction and even manifest subtle extrapyramidal signs. The authors used 18F-dopa PET to study 13 asymptomatic parkin heterozygotes and found a significant reduction of (18)F-dopa uptake in caudate, putamen, ventral, and dorsal midbrain compared with control subjects. Four had subtle extrapyramidal signs. Parkin heterozygosity is a risk factor for nigrostriatal dysfunction and in some may contribute to late-onset Parkinson disease.
The authors report a patient with Alzheimer disease (AD) without encephalitis who was immunized with AN-1792 (an adjuvanted formulation of Abeta-42). There were no amyloid plaques in the frontal cortex and abundant Abeta-immunoreactive macrophages, but tangles and amyloid angiopathy were present. The white matter appeared normal and minimal lymphocytic infiltration in the leptomeninges was observed. This case illustrates the effects of an Abeta-based immunization on AD pathogenesis in the absence of overt meningoencephalitis and leukoencephalopathy.
Neurology as a specialty was established at the close of the 19th century, especially in England, France, Germany, and the United States. It was not uncommon for US physicians to seek postgraduate training in those three Western European countries. However, Russian clinical investigators and scientists, who contributed to neurology and the neurosciences, rarely had their papers cited in Western medical publications. The medical careers of the well-known writer-physician Anton P. Chekhov and his contemporary G.I. Rossolimo, an academic neurologist at the University of Moscow, illustrate their contributions within the constraints of their autocratic society. Their work led to a better understanding of the complexities of human behavior, Chekhov through his enduring writings, and Rossolimo as a founder of neuropsychology and child neurology.
We studied the effect of treatment with the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor ligands buspirone, 8-hydroxy-di-propyl-aminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT), and (8-[2-(2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-2-yl-methylamino)ethyl]-8-azaspiro[4,5]decane-7,9-dione methyl sulphonate (MDL73,005EF) on blood pressure and heart rate increases to open field stress. We compared Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHR), Fawn-Hooded (FH) rats, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats instrumented with radio-telemetry probes. Buspirone treatment reduced the blood pressure increase in SHR, FH rats, and WKY rats and heart rate increase in FH rats and WKY rats. 8-OH-DPAT treatment reduced the blood pressure increase in FH rats and WKY rats, but had no effect in SHR and enhanced the pressor response in SD rats. This treatment reduced the heart rate increase in FH rats and WKY rats only. Similarly, MDL73,005EF treatment reduced the blood pressure increase in FH rats and WKY rats, but had no effect in SHR and enhanced this response in SD rats. Little effect of this treatment was seen on heart rate changes. For comparison, diazepam treatment abolished the pressor response in SD rats and reduced it in FH rats and WKY rats, but not SHR. Differential effects of the treatments were also seen between strains for locomotor activity in the open field, although behavioural changes could not explain the effects of the drugs on cardiovascular responses. These data suggest that 5-HT1A receptors are involved in cardiovascular stress responses; however, the extent of this involvement differs between rat strains and the drugs used. These results could be important for our understanding of possible anxiolytic properties of antipsychotic drugs with affinity for the 5-HT1A receptor.
A tract tracing study was performed to examine the localization of the facial nucleus in the brain stem of the pond turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans. Neurobiotin and the fluorescent tracers alexa fluor 488 and 594 were used to retrogradely label neurons of the abducens or facial nerves. The results showed that the facial nucleus has two subnuclei, a medial group and a lateral group. Measurements of cell size revealed no significant differences between these populations. Double labeling studies showed that the medial cell group of the facial nucleus lies between the principal and accessory abducens nuclei in the pons, whereas the lateral group lies adjacent to the accessory abducens nucleus. The facial nucleus of pond turtles largely overlaps the rostrocaudal extent of the accessory abducens nucleus, but extends well beyond it into the medulla. These data elucidate the position and distribution of the facial nucleus in the brain stem of pond turtles and contribute to the body of comparative neuroanatomical literature on the distribution of the cranial nerve nuclei of reptiles.
Polo like kinases (Plks) are key regulators of the cell cycle, but little is known about their functions in postmitotic cells such as neurons. Recent findings indicate that Plk2 and Plk3 are dynamically regulated in neurons by synaptic activity at the mRNA and protein levels. In COS cells, Plk2 and Plk3 interact with spine-associated Rap guanosine triphosphatase-activating protein (SPAR), a regulator of actin dynamics and dendritic spine morphology, leading to its degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Induction of Plk2 in hippocampal neurons eliminates SPAR protein, depletes a core postsynaptic scaffolding molecule (PSD-95), and causes loss of mature dendritic spines and synapses. These findings implicate neuronal Plks as mediators of activity-dependent change in molecular composition and morphology of synapses. Induction of Plks might provide a homeostatic mechanism for global dampening of synaptic strength following heightened neuronal activity ('synaptic scaling'). Synapse-specific actions of induced Plks are also possible, particularly in light of the discovery of phosphoserine/threonine peptide motifs as binding targets of the polo box domain, which could allow for 'priming' phosphorylation by upstream kinases that could 'tag' Plk substrates only in specific synapses.

The inner mitochondrial membrane is famously impermeable to solutes not provided with a specific carrier. When this impermeability is lost, either in a developmental context or under stress, the consequences for the cell can be far-reaching. Permeabilization of isolated mitochondria, studied since the early days of the field, is often discussed as if it were a biochemically well-defined phenomenon, occurring by a unique mechanism. On the contrary, evidence has been accumulating that it may be the common outcome of several distinct processes, involving different proteins or protein complexes, depending on circumstances. A clear definition of this putative variety is a prerequisite for an understanding of mitochondrial permeabilization within cells, of its roles in the life of organisms, and of the possibilities for pharmacological intervention.
Release of Ca(2+) from intracellular Ca(2+) stores (ICS) is involved in age-related changes in the induction of long-term potentiation. However, the role of this Ca(2+) source for the increased susceptibility to long-term depression (LTD) with advanced age is unknown. Extracellular excitatory postsynaptic field potentials were recorded from CA3-CA1 synaptic contacts from hippocampal slices obtained from young (5-8 months) and aged (22-24 months) male Fischer 344 rats. Blockade of Ca(2+)-release from ICS by cyclopiazonic acid, thapsigargin, or ryanodine blocked LTD induction in aged rats. Impaired LTD was not simply due to a loss of a Ca(2+) source. The idea that ICS may play prominent role in regulating synaptic modifiability through regulation of cell excitability and the timing of pre and postsynaptic activity is discussed.
In this study, the effect of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) on cisplatin (CDDP)-induced neuropathy was evaluated. Mice were treated with CDDP, 2 mg/kg i.p. twice a week nine times. During the last week some of the mice were also injected with LIF, 2 mug/kg s.c. every other day for a total of four injections. Development of neuropathy was evaluated with changes in tail flick latency and sensory nerve conduction velocity (NCV). At the end of the treatment period dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were microscopically examined. Some of the DRGs were explanted into extracellular matrix, covered with culture medium and incubated for 3 days. During and at the end of the incubation, cellular migration and axonal outgrowth from the DRGs were quantified. LIF proved effective in reversing the increase in tail flick latency (p&lt;0.05) and improving the reduction in NCV induced by CDDP. CDDP led to smaller nuclear and somatic size in neurons, while with LIF, the latter was restored to control values (p&lt;0.01). No apoptotic nucleus was observed among DRG neurons while very few and moderate numbers detected among satellite and Schwann cells, respectively. With LIF, none of the cells had apoptosis. CDDP caused a decrease in the number of migrating cells and in the length of outgrowing axons while LIF treatment restored both capacities (p&lt;0.05) In conclusion, in CDDP-induced neuropathy, LIF was found to be effective in correcting some functional and morphological deteriorations related with major involvement of Schwann cells.





Recent surveys suggest that positive outcomes in the pharmacotherapy of alcoholism may be obtained through drug combinations. The present study evaluated the effect of the combination of the opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone, with the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, on the acquisition of alcohol drinking behavior in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Rats were treated with either saline, 0.5 mg/kg naltrexone, 1mg/kg baclofen, or 0.5 mg/kg naltrexone plus 1mg/kg baclofen once a day for 10 days. Alcohol was offered immediately after the first drug injection under the 2-bottle regimen. Alcohol intake in saline-treated rats rose to 5-6 g/kg/day within a few days, indicative of a rapid acquisition of alcohol drinking behavior. Neither naltrexone nor baclofen, when given alone, affected alcohol drinking behavior. In contrast, the drug combination resulted in a significant reduction in daily alcohol intake and retardation in the acquisition of alcohol drinking behavior. These results suggest that combination of naltrexone plus baclofen may result in a synergistic reduction in alcohol intake in sP rats. These results are discussed in terms of naltrexone and baclofen exerting a concomitant and reciprocally potentiating inhibitory action on alcohol-induced activation of mesolimbic dopamine transmission.
Phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) subunits emerges as a mechanism by which transcriptional activity of nuclear NF-kappa B complexes is regulated in an inhibitor kappa B-independent fashion. As the main transactivator, the p65 subunit of NF-kappa B has an outstanding position in the hierarchy of NF-kappa B proteins. p65 is a multiply phosphorylated protein with phosphorylation sites in the C-terminal transactivation domain and the N-terminal Rel homology domain (RHD). In this study, we describe two previously non-reported phospho-acceptor sites within the p65 RHD. We show that differential phosphorylation of serine residues within the RHD modulates transcriptional activity in a cis-acting element and promoter-specific context, thus leading to a phosphorylation state-dependent gene expression profile. RelA(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts reconstituted with wild-type p65 or p65 phosphorylation-deficient mutants showed a distinctive expression profile of synthetic kappa B-dependent reporters as well as endogenous genes. Hypophosphorylated p65 did not display cis-acting element-specific changes in DNA binding or dimerization behavior. This study shows for the first time that site-specific phosphorylation can target a transcription factor to a particular subset of genes.
The conversion of the normal cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into the abnormal scrapie isoform (PrP(Sc)) is a key feature of prion diseases. The pathogenic mechanisms and the subcellular sites of the conversion are complex and not completely understood. In particular, little is known on the role of the early compartment of the secretory pathway in the processing of PrP(C) and in the pathogenesis of prion diseases. In order to interfere with the intracellular traffic of endogenous PrP(C) we have generated two anti-prion single chain antibody fragments (scFv) directed against different epitopes, each fragment tagged either with a secretory leader or with the ER retention signal KDEL. The stable expression of these constructs in PC12 cells allowed us to study their specific effects on the synthesis, maturation, and processing of endogenous PrP(C) and on PrP(Sc) formation. We found that ER-targeted anti-prion scFvs retain PrP(C) in the ER and inhibit its translocation to the cell surface. Retention in the ER strongly affects the maturation and glycosylation state of PrP(C), with the appearance of a new aberrant endo-H sensitive glycosylated species. Interestingly, ER-trapped PrP(C) acquires detergent insolubility and proteinase K resistance. Furthermore, we show that ER-targeted anti-prion antibodies prevent PrP(Sc) accumulation in nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells, providing a new tool to study the molecular pathology of prion diseases.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by an expansion of exonic CAG triplet repeats in the gene encoding the huntingtin protein (Htt), however, the means by which neurodegeneration occurs remains obscure. There is evidence that mutant Htt interacts with transcription factors leading to reduced histone acetylation. We report that administration of the histone deacetylase inhibitor phenylbutyrate after onset of symptoms in a transgenic mouse model of HD significantly extends survival and attenuates both gross brain and neuronal atrophy. Administration of phenylbutyrate increased brain histone acetylation and decreased histone methylation levels as assessed by both immunocytochemistry and Western blots. Phenylbutyrate increased mRNA for components of the ubiquitin-proteosomal pathway and down-regulated caspases implicated in apoptotic cell death, and active caspase 3 immunoreactivity in the striatum. These results show that administration of phenylbutyrate, at doses that are well tolerated in man, exerts significant neuroprotective effects in a transgenic mouse model of HD, and therefore represents a very promising therapeutic approach for HD.
Processing of NF-kappa B2 precursor protein p100 to generate p52 is tightly regulated. However, this proteolytic event could be actively induced by the NF-kappa B-inducing kinase and the human T-cell leukemia virus-encoded oncoprotein Tax or be constitutively turned on due to the loss of the C-terminal portion of p100. Whereas NF-kappa B-inducing kinase-mediated p100 processing requires beta-transducin repeat-containing protein, constitutive processing of p100 is independent of this protein. On the other hand, Tax-induced processing of p100 appears to be both beta-transducin repeat-containing protein-dependent and -independent. We show here that, besides the C-terminal sequences, multiple functional regions, including the two alpha-helices, dimerization domain, nuclear localization sequence, and glycine-rich region, located in the N terminus of p100, also play important roles in both constitutive and inducible processing, suggesting a common mechanism for p100 processing. We further demonstrate that with the help of the C-terminal death domain and I kappa B kinase alpha-targeting serines, the C-terminal ankyrin-repeat domain of p100 strongly interacts with its N-terminal dimerization domain and nuclear localization sequence, thereby bringing the C- and N-terminal sequences together to form a three-dimensional domain. This presumptive domain is not only responsible for suppression of constitutive processing but also required for inducible processing of p100. Taken together, these studies highlight the mechanism by which the different sequences within p100 work in concert to regulate its processing and shed light on the mechanisms of how p100 processing is tightly and delicately controlled.
The classical approach to investigating brain contributions to behavior has been to localize function to a region. In clinical investigations, however, injury is frequently multifocal, raising the question of how individual brain regions contribute to a resulting behavioral syndrome. For example, middle cerebral artery (MCA) ischemia in humans can concurrently damage a number of cortical and subcortical areas and the same areas are damaged in rat models of MCA stroke. In the rat, MCA occlusion produces severe motor deficits, but the cortical area of damage is the lateral neocortex, sparing motor cortex. This anatomical finding raises the question of whether the rat lateral neocortex contributes to MCA-related motor impairments, a question that was investigated in the present study. Rats received unilateral neocortical lesions via electrocoagulation of the MCA and were compared to rats with standard motor cortex lesions produced by devascaulrization of the overlaying blood vessels. The MCA group was as impaired as the motor cortex group in skilled reaching movements as assessed by quantitative measures of the contralateral-to-lesion forelimb in a single pellet task and in a tray-reaching task. Although there was improvement in success scores over a 2-week period in both groups, the groups were characterized by distinctive and enduring qualitative impairments. The motor cortex deficit was exemplified by use of trunk musculature and head movements to assist the reaching limb while the MCA impairment included sensory abnormalities. The results are discussed in relation to the contribution of lateral frontal cortex injury to MCA stroke sensorimotor syndromes.
Repeated stress is an important risk factor for the development of depression. However, the mechanism by which stress influences depression is largely unknown, in part due to the fact that few animal models of repeated stress produce robust changes in depression-like behavior. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the effect of repeated corticosterone (CORT) injections and repeated restraint stress on anxiety and depression-like behavior in male rats. Rats received CORT injections (40 mg/kg, s.c.), vehicle injections, restraint stress (6 h/day), or handling once per day for 21 consecutive days prior to the behavioral testing. The rats were then tested for changes in fearful/anxious behavior in the open-field and social interaction tests and for depression-like behavior in the forced swim test. The repeated CORT injections had no significant effect on activity levels or anxiety in the open-field or social interaction tests. However, they did increase depression-like behaviors in the forced swim test. Repeated restraint stress had no significant effect on anxiety or depression-like behavior on any of the behavioral tests. These results suggest that repeated CORT injections warrant further investigation as an animal model to study the role of stress in depression.
The auditory brainstem response reflects neural encoding of the acoustic characteristic of a speech syllable with remarkable precision. Some children with learning impairments demonstrate abnormalities in this preconscious measure of neural encoding especially in background noise. This study investigated whether auditory training targeted to remediate perceptually-based learning problems would alter the neural brainstem encoding of the acoustic sound structure of speech in such children. Nine subjects, clinically diagnosed with a language-based learning problem (e.g., dyslexia), worked with auditory perceptual training software. Prior to beginning and within three months after completing the training program, brainstem responses to the syllable /da/ were recorded in quiet and background noise. Subjects underwent additional auditory neurophysiological, perceptual, and cognitive testing. Ten control subjects, who did not participate in any remediation program, underwent the same battery of tests at time intervals equivalent to the trained subjects. Transient and sustained (frequency-following response) components of the brainstem response were evaluated. The primary pathway afferent volley -- neural events occurring earlier than 11 ms after stimulus onset -- did not demonstrate plasticity. However, quiet-to-noise inter-response correlations of the sustained response ( approximately 11-50 ms) increased significantly in the trained children, reflecting improved stimulus encoding precision, whereas control subjects did not exhibit this change. Thus, auditory training can alter the preconscious neural encoding of complex sounds by improving neural synchrony in the auditory brainstem. Additionally, several measures of brainstem response timing were related to changes in cortical physiology, as well as perceptual, academic, and cognitive measures from pre- to post-training.
The present study evaluated the effect of galanthamine, a selective competitive cholinesterase inhibitor, on histological and functional outcome after experimental stroke in rats. Cholinesterase inhibitors are commonly used as cognitive enhancers for dementia in aged people, including those who may sustain ischemic attacks. Young adult (5 months) and aged (24 months) rats were treated with saline or galanthamine at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg (i.p., once a day). Drug treatment started 4 days before focal cortical photothrombosis (Rose Bengal, 20 mg/kg) and continued for 21 days thereafter. Sensorimotor recovery was assessed by a new beam-walking test and spatial learning by the Morris water-maze over a 3-week follow-up period. Infarct volumes were measured from nitroblue tetrazolium-stained sections at the end of follow-up. Infarct volumes in the cortex were similar in ischemic controls and ischemic rats treated with galanthamine. In the beam-walking test, there was a transient impairment forelimb function and a permanent impairment in hindlimb after cortical infarct both in young adult and aged rats. Galanthamine treatment did not affect the sensorimotor recovery rate. Analysis of water-maze data did not reveal significant differences in length of path, escape latency, or swim speed between sham-operated, ischemic controls and ischemic rats treated with galanthamine. In conclusion, present findings suggest that the aging brain has considerable plastic capacity to maintain functioning after focal cerebral insults restricted to the motor cortex. Galanthamine is not beneficial with respect to the histological or functional outcome in rats subjected to cortical photothrombosis.
The dopamine (DA) precursor, L-DOPA (500 microg), was injected into living crickets, which were ingested (one each) by adult male Anolis carolinensis. This method of delivery elevated plasma L-DOPA and DA concentrations by approximately 1000-fold. In contrast, plasma epinephrine (Epi) and norepinephrine (NE) were not influenced by L-DOPA treatment, although they were elevated following the consumption of the cricket. Lizards that ingested L-DOPA treated crickets had elevated L-DOPA in all brain regions measured, with DA and/or DOPAC also increased significantly in most brain regions studied. Despite increased DA levels in the striatum and nucleus accumbens as a response to L-DOPA, the treatment had no influence on general motor activity. Central serotonin, NE, and Epi systems were not affected in any brain region by oral L-DOPA treatment. In addition, aggression was inhibited by this dose of L-DOPA, even though there was no effect on serotonergic systems. This is surprising because controlling aggressive behavior is usually considered the province of serotonergic activity. Aggression was measured before and after treatment, and while saline-treated lizards retained the full vigor of aggressive activity, those fed a cricket injected with L-DOPA were only one-third as aggressive after treatment. As L-DOPA treatment did not affect general motor activity, the effect appears to be directly associated with aggression. This is supported by the observation that L-DOPA treatment delayed latency to eyespot darkening, which predicts the latency to aggression.
Hamsters repeatedly exposed to cocaine during adolescence display high levels of offensive aggression compared to saline-treated littermates. The escalated offensive phenotype observed in adolescent cocaine-treated animals is modulated by serotonin (5-HT) signaling and can be suppressed by inhibiting 5-HT type 3 receptors, suggesting that these receptors might play an important role in the aggression-stimulating effects of adolescent cocaine exposure. The current study examined this hypothesis and extended earlier studies investigating the relationship between 5HT(3) receptor neural signaling and the offensive response patterns of aggressive, adolescent cocaine-treated animals compared to non-aggressive, saline-treated littermates. Adolescent cocaine-treated hamsters and saline-treated littermates were tested for offensive aggression after the administration of either the 5-HT(3) antagonist 3-tropanylindole-3-carboxylate methiodide (tropisetron) or the 5-HT(3) agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide hydrochloride (mCPBG). Tropisetron significantly reduced the high levels of offensive responding observed in adolescent cocaine-treated animals, whereas treatment with the 5-HT(3) receptor agonist mCPBG failed to affect the escalated offensive response. Conversely, tropisetron failed to affect very low, baseline levels of aggressive responding seen in adolescent saline-treated animals, while 5-HT(3) receptor activation via mCPBG triggered highly escalated levels of offensive aggression in these animals. Together, these data support a stimulatory role for 5-HT(3) neural signaling in offensive aggression.
Context-dependent behavioural sensitization to nicotine develops faster and is more robust than context-independent sensitization. However, some findings suggest that behavioural sensitization develops irrespective of context. In this study an attempt was made to dissociate the development of context-dependent nicotine sensitization from the onset of nicotine-conditioned locomotor stimulation. Seven days of daily nicotine administration (0.6 mg/kg, s.c.) paired with exposure to locomotor activity boxes produced stable and consistent behavioural sensitization, at which time no nicotine-induced conditioned locomotor stimulation could be demonstrated. However, after an additional two days of nicotine treatment, i.e. on day 9, nicotine-conditioned behavioural stimulation was observed. Our findings suggest that behavioural sensitization to nicotine appears to reach a plateau before induction of nicotine-conditioned locomotor stimulation.
We have identified factors that control precise motor timing by studying learning in smooth pursuit eye movements. Monkeys tracked a target that moved horizontally for a fixed time interval before changing direction through the addition of a vertical component of motion. After repeated presentations of the same target trajectory, infrequent probe trials of purely horizontal target motion evoked a vertical eye movement around the time when the change in target direction would have occurred. The pursuit system timed the vertical eye movement by keeping track of the duration of horizontal target motion and by measuring the distance the target traveled before changing direction, but not by learning the position in space where the target changed direction. We conclude that high temporal precision in motor output relies on multiple signals whose contributions to timing vary according to task requirements.
Endocannabinoids act as retrograde signals to modulate synaptic transmission. Little is known, however, about their significance in integrated network activity underlying motor behavior. We have examined the physiological effects of endocannabinoids in a neuronal network underlying locomotor behavior using the isolated lamprey spinal cord. Our results show that endocannabinoids are released during locomotor activity and participate in setting the baseline burst rate. They are released in response to mGluR1 activation and act as retrograde messengers. This conditional release of endocannabinoids can transform motoneurons and crossing interneurons into modulatory neurons by enabling them to regulate their inhibitory synaptic inputs and thus contribute to the modulation of the locomotor burst frequency. These results provide evidence that endocannabinoid retrograde signaling occurs within the locomotor network and contributes to motor pattern generation and regulation in the spinal cord.
The activity-dependent removal of AMPA receptors from synapses underlies long-term depression in hippocampal excitatory synapses. In this study, we have investigated the role of the small GTPase Rab5 during this process. We propose that Rab5 is a critical link between the signaling cascades triggered by LTD induction and the machinery that executes the activity-dependent removal of AMPA receptors. We have found that Rab5 activation drives the specific internalization of synaptic AMPA receptors in a clathrin-dependent manner and that this activity is required for LTD. Interestingly, Rab5 does not participate in the constitutive cycling of AMPA receptors. Rab5 is able to remove both GluR1 and GluR2 AMPA receptor subunits, leading to GluR1 dephosphorylation. Importantly, NMDA receptor-dependent LTD induction produces a rapid and transient increase of active (GTP bound) Rab5. We propose a model in which synaptic activity leads to Rab5 activation, which in turn drives the removal of AMPA receptors from synapses.
Working memory tasks have been associated with the appearance of elevated single unit activity (SUA) in primate studies, and oscillatory activity in the EEG or the local field potential (LFP) in humans. The study by Lee et al. in this issue of Neuron provides novel insights regarding the relationship between SUA and LFP rhythmicity in V4 during working memory tasks.
While oligodendrocyte precursors have previously been localized to the ventral midline, two papers in this issue of Neuron (Cai et al. and Vallstedt et al.) provide compelling evidence for a second dorsal origin of oligodendrocyte precursors in the spinal cord and hindbrain. These cells share expression of the PDGFalpha receptor and Olig2 with their ventral counterparts but differ in the requirement for Nkx6 and hedgehog signaling.
Monoamine oxidase A gene promoter (MAOA-uVNTR) and catechol-O-methyltransferase V158M (COMT-V158M) gene functional polymorphisms are reported to be associated with impulsive-aggression, but a biological intermediate effect remains to be determined. This study assessed the association of these polymorphisms with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolites as endophenotypes. Ninety-eight Caucasian psychiatric subjects were assessed for Axis I and II diagnosis. Subjects were genotyped for the functional polymorphisms, MAOA-uVNTR and COMT-V158M. CSF was obtained by lumbar puncture. Relationships of the two polymorphism to monoamine metabolites: HVA, 5-HIAA, and MHPG were examined. The higher-expressing MAOA-uVNTR genotype was associated with higher CSF-HVA levels in males only (n = 46) (195.80 pmol/ml, SD = 61.64 vs. 161.13, SD = 50.23, respectively; P = 0.042). No association was found with diagnosis. COMT-V158M had no association with CSF monoamine metabolites. The association of MAOA-uVNTR with dopaminergic activity in males is a preliminary finding that needs to be replicated in a larger sample of Caucasian males and relationships sought with clinical phenotypes. This article contains supplementary material, which may be viewed at the American Journal of Medical Genetics website at http://www.interscience.wiley.com/jpages/0148-7299:1/suppmat/index.html.
In the Fmr1 knockout mice, a model for fragile X mental retardation syndrome, the levels of regulator of G-protein signaling (Rgs) 4 but not Rgs2 mRNA were considerably reduced (65% from control) in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal CA1 region. The expression of Rgs4 was normal in animals lacking a related protein, FXR2P, indicating that the decrease in Rgs4 expression was specific for the absence of FMRP, and suggests a role for FMRP in G-protein signaling.
Postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) is an evolutionarily conserved synaptic adaptor protein that is known to bind many proteins including the NMDA receptor. This observation has implicated it in many NMDA receptor-dependent processes including spatial learning and synaptic plasticity. We have cloned and characterised the murine PSD-95 gene. In addition, we have identified two previously uncharacterised splice variants of the major murine PSD-95 transcript (PSD-95alpha): PSD-95alpha-2b results from an extension of exon 2 and PSD-95alpha-Delta18 from the temporal exclusion of exon 18. The presence of PSD-95alpha-2b sequences in other PSD-95 family members implicates this peptide stretch as functionally significant. Another potential transcript (PSD-95gamma) was also identified based on examination of EST databases. Immunoprecipitation assays demonstrate that proteins corresponding in size to PSD-95alpha-Delta18 and PSD-95gamma interact with the NMDA receptor, suggesting an important biological role for these isoforms. Finally, we have performed bioinformatics analyses of the PSD-95 mRNA untranslated regions, identifying multiple translational control elements that suggest protein production could be regulated post-transcriptionally. The variety of mRNA isoforms and regulatory elements identified provides for a high degree of diversity in the structure and function of PSD-95 proteins.
We have sought to understand the regulation of the expression pattern of aldolase C (Zebrin II) in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Normally, aldolase C is expressed in a series of sagittal stripes of Purkinje cells interrupted by stripes of little or no expression. Genomic aldolase C:LacZ fusion genes with 1.8 kb of sequence 5' to the transcription start site drive CNS expression of LacZ only in astrocytes and cells of the pia mater. If the 5' portion of the transgene is extended to a full 5.0 kb, expression is reliably observed in Purkinje cells, yet none of the astrocyte expression is lost. We broke the additional 3.0 kb into 1.0 kb fragments and tested each for Purkinje cell enhancer activity when appended to the original 1.8 kb construct. We show that the 886 bp region from nucleotide -2796 to -3682 (relative to the start of transcription) contains virtually all of the Purkinje cell enhancer activity. However, neither the full 5.0 kb nor the 886 bp region directed a striped expression pattern, as is seen for the endogenous gene. Taken together, our study localizes a Purkinje cell enhancer to a small 5' region of the aldolase C gene and illustrates that the element(s) responsible for the normal anatomically complex pattern of aldolase C expression are separate from those conferring cell-type specificity. The relationship of these findings to previous work in other laboratories is discussed.
Food restriction is associated with a number of endocrine disturbances. We validated the experimental conditions for several house-keeping genes and determined the effects of 12 day 50% food restriction on hypothalamic and pituitary transcription of genes involved in different neuroendocrine systems, using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A total of 7 nuclear receptors and 12 neuropeptides and peptide hormones were investigated in the dorsal and ventral hypothalamus and the pituitary gland in rats. In the hypothalamus, food restriction reduced mRNA levels of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), progesterone receptor, glucocorticoid receptor, thyroid hormone receptor alpha and beta, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), growth hormone-releasing factor (GHRF), corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), thyrotropin-releasing factor (TRF), somatostatin, and increased that of neuropeptide Y (NPY). In the pituitary, the treatment reduced growth hormone (GH), luteinizing hormone beta (LHbeta) and thyrotropin beta, but increased ERalpha mRNA levels. The study provides a map of how food restriction affects the regulation of a number of transcripts involved in neuroendocrine control.
Synaptic cell adhesion is central for synapse formation and function. Recently, the synaptic cell adhesion molecules neuroligin 1 (NL1) and SynCAM were shown to induce presynaptic differentiation in cocultured neurons when expressed in a non-neuronal cell. However, it is uncertain how similar the resulting artificial synapses are to regular synapses. Are these molecules isofunctional, or do all neuronal cell adhesion molecules nonspecifically activate synapse formation? To address these questions, we analyzed the properties of artificial synapses induced by NL1 and SynCAM, compared the actions of these molecules with those of other neuronal cell adhesion molecules, and examined the functional effects of NL1 and SynCAM overexpression in neurons. We found that only NL1 and SynCAM specifically induced presynaptic differentiation in cocultured neurons. The induced nerve terminals were capable of both spontaneous and evoked neurotransmitter release, suggesting that a full secretory apparatus was assembled. By all measures, SynCAM- and NL1-induced artificial synapses were identical. Overexpression in neurons demonstrated that only SynCAM, but not NL1, increased synaptic function in immature developing excitatory neurons after 8 d in vitro. Tests of chimeric molecules revealed that the dominant-positive effect of SynCAM on synaptic function in developing neurons was mediated by its intracellular cytoplasmic tail. Interestingly, morphological analysis of neurons overexpressing SynCAM or NL1 showed the opposite of the predictions from electrophysiological results. In this case, only NL1 increased the synapse number, suggesting a role for NL1 in morphological synapse induction. These results suggest that both NL1 and SynCAM act similarly and specifically in artificial synapse induction but that this process does not reflect a shared physiological function of these molecules.
Glutamatergic synapses are highly modifiable, suiting them for key roles in processes such as learning and memory. At crayfish glutamatergic neuromuscular junctions, hyperpolarization and cyclic nucleotide-activated (HCN) ion channels mediate hormonal modulation of glutamatergic synapses and a form activity-dependent long-term facilitation (LTF) of synaptic transmission. Here, we show that a new target for cAMP, exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac) or cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange protein, is involved in the hormonal enhancement of synaptic transmission by serotonin. Induction of LTF &quot;tags&quot; synapses, rendering them responsive to cAMP in an HCN-independent manner. Epac also mediates the enhancement of tagged synapses. Thus, the cAMP-dependent enhancement of transmission is mediated by two separate pathways, neither of which involves protein kinase A.
APH-1 (anterior pharynx defective) along with nicastrin and PEN-2 (presenilin enhancer) are essential components of the presenilin (PS)-dependent gamma-secretase complex. There exist three murine Aph-1 alleles termed Aph-1a, Aph-1b, and Aph-1c that encode four distinct APH-1 isoforms: APH-1aL and APH-1aS derived from differential splicing of Aph-1a, APH-1b, and APH-1c. To determine the contributions of mammalian APH-1 homologs in formation of functional gamma-secretase complexes, we generated Aph-1a-/- mice and derived immortalized fibroblasts from these embryos. Compared with littermate controls, the development of Aph-1a-/- embryos was dramatically retarded by embryonic day 9.5 and exhibited patterning defects that resemble, but are not identical to, those of Notch1, nicastrin, or PS null embryos. Moreover, in immortalized Aph-1a-/- fibroblasts, the levels of nicastrin, PS fragments, and PEN-2 were dramatically decreased. Consequently, deletion of Aph-1a resulted in significant reduction in levels of high-molecular-weight gamma-secretase complex and secretion of beta-amyloid (Abeta). Importantly, complementation analysis revealed that all mammalian APH-1 isoforms were capable of restoring the levels of nicastrin, PS, and PEN-2, as well as Abeta secretion in Aph-1a-/- cells. Together, our findings establish that APH-1a is the major mammalian APH-1 homolog present in PS-dependent gamma-secretase complexes during embryogenesis and support the view that mammalian APH-1 isoforms define a set of distinct functional gamma-secretase complexes.
The serotonin transporter (SERT) is regulated by various signaling mechanisms that may operate to maintain appropriate levels of synaptic serotonin (5-HT). We demonstrate that one of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), p38 MAPK, regulates SERT. Treatment of rat midbrain synaptosomes with p38 MAPK-specific inhibitors, PD169316 [4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-1H-imidazole] or SB203580 [4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-1H-imidazole], reduced 5-HT uptake. An additive SERT inhibition by PD169316 and beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (beta-PMA) indicated the involvement of a protein kinase C (PKC)-independent MAPK pathway. Kinetic studies indicated a significant decrease in the transport capacity (V(max)) after PD169316 treatment of synaptosomes. Biotinylation studies showed reduced SERT proteins in the plasma membrane of synaptosomes after p38 MAPK inhibition and PKC activation. Phosphorylation studies using synaptosomes revealed decreased SERT phosphorylation by PD169316 but increased phosphorylation by beta-PMA. d-Amphetamine enhanced SERT basal phosphorylation and PD169316 blocked this effect. SERT interaction with protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit and syntaxin 1A decreased after PD169316 or beta-PMA treatment of synaptosomes. In synaptosomes, PKC activation but not p38 MAPK inhibition resulted in SERT redistribution from cholesterolrich lipid raft fractions to nonlipid raft fractions. The presence of phospho-p38 MAPK in synaptosomes and human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells suggested the presence of constitutively active p38 MAPK in these preparations. Cotransfection of HEK-293 cells with SERT and a constitutively active form of MAP kinase kinase 3b(E) [MKK3b(E)] increased 5-HT transport, and RNA interference targeted to p38 MAPK inhibited 5-HT uptake, confirming the involvement of active p38 MAPK in SERT expression. Although PD169316 inhibited SERT insertion to the plasma membrane, beta-PMA increased SERT internalization in HEK-293 cells. Together, these results indicate a distinct role of p38 MAPK in SERT regulation.
The influence of neuronal activity on cortical axon branching was studied by imaging axons of layer 2/3 neurons in organotypic slice cultures of rat visual cortex. Upper layer neurons labeled by electroporation of plasmid encoding yellow fluorescent protein were observed by confocal microscopy. Time-lapse observation of single-labeled axons showed that axons started to branch after 8-10 d in vitro. Over the succeeding 7-10 d, branch complexity gradually increased by both growth and retraction of branches, resulting in axon arbors that morphologically resembled those observed in 2- to 3-week-old animals. Electrophysiological recordings of neuronal activity in the upper layers, made using multielectrode dishes, showed that the frequency of spontaneous firing increased dramatically approximately 10 d in vitro and remained elevated at later stages. To examine the involvement of spontaneous firing and synaptic activity in branch formation, various blockers were applied to the culture medium. Cultures were silenced by TTX or by a combination of APV and DNQX but exhibited a homeostatic recovery of spontaneous activity over several days in the presence of blockers of either NMDA-type or non-NMDA-type glutamate receptors alone. Axonal branching was suppressed by TTX and AMPA receptor blockade but not by NMDA receptor blockade. We conclude that cortical axon branching is highly dynamic and that neural activity regulates the early developmental branching of upper layer cortical neurons through the activation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors.

Olanzapine and clozapine produce robust increases in hippocampal acetylcholine release during acetylcholinesterase inhibition, while other antipsychotics, including thioridazine, have only small effects. Since thioridazine binds with similar high affinities to muscarinic receptors as olanzapine and clozapine, muscarinic autoreceptor blockade was ruled out as a primary mechanism [Neuropsychopharmacology 26 (2002) 583]. This study compared in vitro binding affinities and functional activities of olanzapine, clozapine, thioridazine, ziprasidone, risperidone, chlorpromazine and scopolamine at muscarinic M2 receptors with their in vivo potencies to increase acetylcholine release in the rat hippocampus. We found that scopolamine, olanzapine and clozapine, but also high doses of thioridazine and chlorpromazine, markedly increase acetylcholine release. The reduced in vivo potencies of thioridazine and chlorpromazine are consistent with their significantly weaker functional antagonist activity at human muscarinic M2 receptors, while thioridazine's reduced binding affinity for rat muscarinic M2 receptors and lower brain exposure, may further contribute to its weak in vivo potency compared to olanzapine. The excellent correlation between in vitro antagonist activities of antipsychotics at muscarinic M2 receptors and their in vivo potencies to increase acetylcholine release, suggests that olanzapine, clozapine, as well as thioridazine and chlorpromazine, increase acetylcholine release via blockade of terminal muscarinic M2 autoreceptors.

Transgenic Tg(PG14) mice express a mutant prion protein containing 14 octapeptide repeats, whose human homologue is associated with an inherited prion dementia. These mice develop a progressive neurological disorder characterized by ataxia and cerebellar atrophy, with massive apoptotic degeneration of granule neurons. Bax, a proapoptotic gene of the Bcl-2 family, plays a key role in regulating cell death in the nervous system. To analyze the role of Bax in the Tg(PG14) phenotype, we crossed Tg(PG14) mice with Bax(-/-) mice to obtain Tg(PG14)/Bax(-/-) offspring. Bax deletion effectively rescued cerebellar granule neurons from apoptosis, implying that these cells die via a Bax-dependent process. Surprisingly, however, the age at which symptoms began and the duration of the clinical phase of the illness were not altered in Tg(PG14)/Bax(-/-) mice. In addition, Bax deletion failed to prevent shrinkage of the molecular layer of the cerebellum and loss of synaptophysin-positive synaptic endings. Our analysis indicates that synaptic loss makes a critical contribution to the Tg(PG14) phenotype. These results provide insights into the pathogenesis of prion diseases and have important implications for the treatment of these disorders.
A strategy employing a combination of peptide nucleic acid (PNA) probes, an optically amplifying conjugated polymer (CP), and S1 nuclease enzyme is capable of detecting SNPs in a simple, rapid, and sensitive manner. The recognition is accomplished by sequence-specific hybridization between the uncharged, fluorescein-labeled PNA probe and the DNA sequence of interest. After subsequent treatment with S1 nuclease, the cationic water soluble CP electrostatically associates with the remaining anionic PNA/DNA complex, leading to sensitized emission of the labeled PNA probe via FRET from the CP. The generation of fluorescent signal is controlled by strand-specific electrostatic interactions and is governed by the complementarity of the probe/target pair. To assess the method, we compared the ability of the sensor system to detect normal, wild-type human DNA sequences, and those sequences containing a single base mutation. Specifically, we examined a PNA probe complementary to a region of the gene encoding the microtubule associated protein tau. The probe sequence covers a known point mutation implicated in a dominant neurodegenerative dementia known as frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), which has clinical and molecular similarities to Alzheimer's disease. By using an appropriate PNA probe, the conjugated polymer poly[(9,9-bis(6'-N,N,N-trimethylammoniumhexylbromide)fluorene)-co-phenylene] and S1 nuclease, unambiguous FRET signaling is achieved for the wild-type DNA and not the mutant sequence harboring the SNP. Distance relationships in the CP/PNA assay are also discussed to highlight constraints and demonstrate improvements within the system.
Interest in the microtubule-associated protein tau stems from its critical roles in neural development and maintenance, as well as its role in Alzheimer's, FTDP-17 and related neurodegenerative diseases. Under normal circumstances, tau performs its functions by binding to microtubules and powerfully regulating their stability and growing and shortening dynamics. On the other hand, genetic analyses have established a clear cause-and-effect relationship between tau dysfunction/mis-regulation and neuronal cell death and dementia in FTDP-17, but the molecular basis of tau's destructive action(s) remains poorly understood. One attractive model suggests that the intracellular accumulation of abnormal tau aggregates causes cell death, i.e., a gain-of-toxic function model. Here, we describe the evidence and arguments for an alternative loss-of-function model in which tau-mediated neuronal cell death is caused by the inability of affected cells to properly regulate their microtubule dynamic due to mis-regulation by tau. In support of this model, our recent data demonstrate that missense FTDP-17 mutations that alter amino acid residues near tau's microtubule binding region strikingly modify the ability of tau to modulate microtubule dynamics. Additional recent data from our labs support the notion that the same dysfunction occurs in the FTDP-17 regulatory mutations that alter tau RNA splicing patterns. Our model posits that the dynamics of microtubules in neuronal cells must be tightly regulated to enable them to carry out their diverse functions, and that microtubules that are either over-stabilized or under-stabilized, that is, outside an acceptable window of dynamic activity, lead to neurodegeneration. An especially attractive aspect of this model is that it readily accommodates both the structural and regulatory classes of FTDP-17 mutations.
Intracellular assembly of microtubule-associated protein tau into filamentous inclusions is central to Alzheimer's disease and related disorders collectively known as tauopathies. Although tau mutations, posttranslational modifications and degradations have been the focus of investigations, the mechanism of tau fibrillogenesis in vivo still remains elusive. Different strategies have been undertaken to generate animal and cellular models for tauopathies. Some are used to study the molecular events leading to the assembly and accumulation of tau filaments, and others to identify potential therapeutic agents that are capable of impeding tauopathy. This review highlights the latest developments in new models and how their utility improves our understanding of the sequence of events leading to human tauopathy.
The abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau protein is one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease and other tauopathies; as yet the exact role of various tau kinases in this pathology is not fully understood. Here, we show that injection of isoproterenol, an activator of cAMP-dependent kinase (PKA), into rat hippocampus bilaterally results in the activation of PKA, calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II and cyclin-dependent kinase-5, inhibition of protein phosphatase-2A, hyperphosphorylation of tau at several Alzheimer-like epitopes and a disturbance of spatial memory retention 48 h after the drug injection. These findings suggest the involvement of PKA and PKA-mediated signaling pathway in the Alzheimer-like tau hyperphosphorylation and memory impairment.
Tau exon 10 (E10) splicing is a crucial event in its developmental change of tau isoform and tauopathy. To investigate the splicing mechanism, we isolated and compared mouse tau genomic sequence with human sequence. We identified a new element in mouse intron 10 (I10) to suppress E10 splicing, which was located just after the stem-loop region previously proposed in human sequence and found to potentially form another stem-loop. Human I10 with a mutation (+29G to A) causing a decreased E10 splicing was also predicted to form similar double stem-loop, suggesting that this element is universally involved in regulation of E10 splicing.
Localized regions of increased cellular proliferation within the ventricular zone (VZ) of juvenile male songbirds may contain progenitor cells that give rise to song-control neurons and, thereby, contribute to the construction of brain areas important for song learning. The purpose of this study was to examine levels of cell division throughout the telencephalic VZ of juvenile birds. A single pulse of [(3)H]thymidine was administered to 30-day male and female zebra finches, and the birds were killed 2 hours later. The VZ was divided into segments throughout the entire anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral neuraxes, and levels of thymidine labeling were measured within each subdivision. By subdividing the VZ into segments, we were able to construct a &quot;map&quot; of proliferation throughout the telencephalic VZ, thereby allowing us to compare levels of mitotic activity within corresponding locations of the VZ between males and females. Our map revealed two major findings: (1) proliferation in both juvenile males and females was spatially differentiated throughout the VZ, suggesting that mitotic activity is differentially regulated across the neuraxis; (2) sex differences in proliferation were present in 30-day-old birds, but were highly restricted. The most robust sexual dimorphism occurred within the ventral aspect of the VZ at rostral levels of the song-control nucleus Area X, with males demonstrating an increased number of dividing cells compared with females. This result raises the possibility that Area X neurons in males are derived from committed progenitors within the adjacent VZ in close proximity to this nucleus.
Clathrin-coated vesicles mediate a variety of endocytosis pathways in cells, including endocytic events at synapses. AP180 and clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid leukemia protein (CALM) are clathrin accessory proteins that promote the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles. Both proteins bind to membrane lipids through their epsin N-terminal homology domains and interact with clathrin and related protein components through their carboxyl-terminal peptide motifs. We examine their neuronal expression and synaptic distribution. We show that both proteins are detected in synapses but demonstrate different distribution patterns. AP180 is located predominantly in presynaptic profiles, whereas CALM is found nonselectively in pre- and postsynaptic profiles and also in perisynaptic processes. These observations reveal an unexpected relationship between AP180 and the presumed non-neuronal homologue CALM. We propose that both AP180 and CALM function as endocytic accessory proteins at synapses, but each may regulate distinct clathrin pathways.
The alpha7 subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) has been implicated as a potential site of action for two neurotoxins, ethanol and the Alzheimer's disease related peptide, beta-amyloid. Here, we utilized primary neuronal cultures of cerebral cortex from alpha7 nAChR null mutant mice to examine the role of this receptor in modulating the neurotoxic properties of subchronic, &quot;binge&quot; ethanol and beta-amyloid. Knockout of the alpha7 nAChR gene selectively enhanced ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in a gene dosage-related fashion. Susceptibility of cultures to beta-amyloid induced toxicity, however, was unaffected by alpha7 nAChR gene null mutation. Further, beta-amyloid did not inhibit the binding of the highly alpha7-selective radioligand, [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin. On the other hand, in studies in Xenopus oocytes ethanol efficaciously inhibited alpha7 nAChR function. These data suggest that alpha7 nAChRs modulate the neurotoxic effects of binge ethanol, but not the neurotoxicity produced by beta-amyloid. It is hypothesized that inhibition of alpha7 nAChRs by ethanol provides partial protection against the neurotoxic properties of subchronic ethanol.
On the basis of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2), 20 male students were separated in low (LP) versus high (HP) subjects with psychopathic tendencies. Pictures from the Ekman and Friesen series were used in an event-related potentials study to investigate the neurophysiological correlates of the emotional deficit described in psychopathy. Subjects were confronted with a visual oddball design, in which they had to detect, as quickly as possible, deviant happy, sad or fearful faces amongst a train of standard stimuli (neutral faces). Behavioral results suggest that LP subjects are more efficient in the detection of emotional deviant faces. This emotional deficit was neurophysiologically indexed, in HP subjects, by a decreased N300 component, which is supposed to be particularly sensitive to affective features of stimuli rather than to physical characteristics. Moreover, independently of the nature of the deviant faces, the P3a component shows an earlier latency in the HP group as compared to the LP group, whereas the reversed pattern was shown for the P3b component. Implications of these results were discussed.
The purpose of this longitudinal study was to examine a cohort of secondary school pupils, aged 16-19 years (47 females and 18 males) with a 1-year prevalence of hand dermatosis. The study deals with the pupils' history of atopy, self-reported symptoms, exacerbating factors, protection habits, choice of education programme, self-rated health and impact on everyday life. The results showed that 61.5% of the pupils had a history of atopic dermatitis; 78% did not use protective gloves. Females reported use of corticosteroids more often than males. In all, 60% had not been given information at school about future occupational risks, when choosing education. The cohort changed education programme significantly more often than pupils reporting not having hand dermatosis. However, the cohort estimated their health as being as good as that of adolescents in the general population. The neglect of risks in choosing a future profession may cause not only suffering for the individual, but also costs for society.
The discovery of electroencephalography (EEG) in 1929 by the German psychiatrist Hans Berger was a historical breakthrough providing a new neurologic and psychiatric diagnostic tool at the time, especially considering the lack of all those now available in daily practice (EP, CT, MRI, DSA, etc.) whithout which the making of neurologic diagnosis and planning neurosurgical operative procedures would now be unconceivable. There are no recent reports on the topic in the Croatian medical literature. The methods used in the study included search through previous reports, bibliographic notes, Internet sources, and analysis of continuous scientific attempts made through centuries to discover the real nature and meaning of electrical activity. Galvani's accidental discovery of &quot;biological electricity&quot; led to Volta's discovery of the battery (voltaic pile). Using it, Rolando was the first to stimulate cerebral surface. Thus, enabling Fritsch and Hitzig and Ferrier to develop the idea of cerebral localization (Jackson, Gowers, Gotch and Horsley). It was understandable that brain electrical stimulation produces contralateral motor response, but it was unknown whether there was a spontaneous (intrinsic) brain electrical current that could be recorded. Caton was the first to report on the &quot;current in the brain gray substances onto open brain. Based on Caton's discovery and of those of Beck, Danilevsky, Prawdicz-Neminsky and others, Berger made the first EEG (electrocorticogram) recording on July 6, 1924, during a neurosurgical operation on a 17-year-old boy, performed by the neurosurgeon Nikolai Guleke. He reported on the topic in 1929, using the terms alpha and beta waves. The &quot;spike and waves&quot; (Spitzenwellen) were described shortly thereafter by the American group of EEG pioneers (H. and P. Davies, F. and E. Gibbs, Lenox and Jasper), although Berger had also observed them but considered them artifacts. The discovery of electroencephalography was a milestone for the advancement of neuroscience and of neurologic and neurosurgical everyday practice, especially for patients with seizures. The real nature of the disease and its management (anticonvulsants, excision of brain scars, tumors, etc.) were unkonown at that time. Berger's persistent, hardworking and steady personal style overcame all technical and other obstacles during the experiments. Unfortunately, he gained neither acceptance nor recognition, among his fellow contemporaries from abroad. Political turmoils at the dawn of World War II, in the country of Nazi's ideology and finally the outbreak of war, along with the complete ban of any further work on EEG after his forced retirement, led him to an uneasy professional and personal end. In the era when lumbar puncture, pneumoencephalography and ventriculography were the only diagnostic tools to detect and localize &quot;sick sites&quot; in the brain, EEG revolutionized daily neurologic and neurosurgic procedures, and bridged a time period of about 40 years (1930-1970) until the advent of computer tomography. Nowadays its importance is not as great as it was before, but it still has its place in the diagnostic work-up of seizures, brain tumors, degenerative brain changes, and other diseases.
Despite the enormous growth in the number of facts and regularities observed in neuroscience, the current state of the field does not allow their integration in coherent theoretical frameworks. Neuroinformatics is a new research field devoted to development of neuroscience data bases together with computational models and analytical tools for sharing, integration and analysis of experimental data and the advancement of theories of nervous system function. From 1996 the OECD countries promote fostering neuroinformatics by eliminating the barriers that prevent cooperation and by providing incentives to potential participants. This activity was formulated in the Report on Neuroinformatics from The Global Science Forum Neuroinformatics Working Group of the OECD (2002) as well as in several printed publications by the Neuroinformatics group (Amari et al. 2002, Eckersley et al. 2003). This article summarizes the ideas presented in the Report and stresses the importance of analytical and modeling approach to functional neurophysiology.


We assessed the behavioral response to acute hypergravity exposure in lactating mother mice, Mus musculus of the outbred CD-1 strain. Primiparous or terziparous dams were exposed with their litters to a centrifugal force equivalent to 2G hypergravity for 1 h daily from postnatal day 2 (P2) to P9. We made detailed behavioral observations before, during and after the rotation on selected days to identify elements of the maternal behavioral repertoire vulnerable to 2G challenge. Licking and nest building were reduced during rotation while mothers sniffed and snouted their pups more. Nursing and total time in physical contact with pups were relatively stable. The effects of rotation were most pronounced on P2, dams appearing to habituate to the treatment with repeated exposure. Dam parity had a limited effect on the behavioral response to rotation, primiparous mothers tending to spend longer nursing their pups during the rotation and showing a greater tendency to lick and nest-build in post-rotation. Differences between parity groups diminished over days. Body weight was decreased in rotated primiparous dams and their pups gained less weight than stationary controls. Ultrasonic vocalization (USV) rates recorded on P2, P5 and P9 seemed to indicate delayed behavioral development in rotated pups.
Findings with young adult humans and animal models suggest that nicotine may serve both neuroprotective and cognition enhancing roles in old animals. A pair of experiments was conducted to examine drug-induced modification of the cholinergic nicotinic receptor subtype on rates of learning by young and aged rats. In experiment I males (4-7 months or 20-25 months old) were administered nicotine (0.0, 0.3 or 0.7 mg/kg injected s.c. daily) and tested in both a T-maze non-spatial discrimination paradigm and a hole board spatial task. Nicotine failed to improve acquisition by young animals on either task. Nicotine also failed to improve non-spatial learning by old animals. However, both dosages of nicotine improved performance by the old males in the spatial paradigm. In experiment II, a 5-choice serial discrimination paradigm designed to better evaluate visual attention and spatial working memory in aging was used. Groups of old male rats were administered nicotine or mecamylamine (2 or 8 mg/kg), an antagonist of the nicotinic cholinergic receptor. Results were that the 0.3 mg nicotine group learned the task fastest and achieved the highest learning asymptote. Both learning rates and final levels of performance were worst in the 8 mg mecamylamine group. However, the 2 mg mecamylamine rats were the equals of the control group and both reached a higher asymptote than the 0.7 mg nicotine group. These data suggest that healthy old animals can accrue benefits from nicotinic activation but that the benefits are complex, being limited to certain dosages and to specific cognitive skills.
We examined the behavior of three inbred mouse strains (129/SvPasIco, C57BL/6J, and DBA/2J) exposed to an object soaked with the chemical component of the aversive scent (toluquinone odor) emitted by a myriapod species (Ommatoiulus sabulosus) in the presence of a predator. Subjects were exposed to the odor for three consecutive days. Behavioral responses to the toluquinone odor were characterized both by an approach phase of risk assessment and by a repeated series of approach-avoid episodes. Results indicate that toluquinone exposure reduced completely, and in a strain independent fashion, selected behaviors such as crouching, catching and eating object. Other responses were strain-dependent: the DBA (DBA/2J) strain displayed defensive burying at high levels, C57 (C57BL/6J) mice performed high levels of withdrawal while the 129/Sv (129/SvPasIco) strain showed also high levels of stretch attend posture. Compared to other tasks, this test is ethological, simple, cheap and is not affected by strain differences in appetitive-sensory responses, as shown by some strain-independent responses. These features make this task as a good complement to any exploration-anxiety test battery.
The heterogeneity of the initial insult and subsequent pathophysiology has made both the study of human head injury and design of randomised controlled trials exceptionally difficult. The combination of multimodality bedside monitoring and functional brain imaging positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance (MR), incorporated within a Neurosciences Critical Care Unit, provides the resource required to study critically ill patients after brain injury from initial ictus through recovery from coma and rehabilitation to final outcome. Methods to define cerebral ischemia in the context of altered cerebral oxidative metabolism have been developed, traditional therapies for intracranial hypertension re-evaluated and bedside monitors cross-validated. New modelling and analytical approaches have been developed.
Cerebral ischemia is one of the most important causes of secondary insults following acute brain injury. While intracranial pressure monitoring in the intensive care unit constitutes the cornerstone of neurocritical care monitoring, it does not reflect the state of oxygenation of the injured brain. The holy grail of neuromonitoring is a modality that would reflect accurately real time the status of oxygenation in the tissue of interest, is robust, artefact free and that which provides information that can be used for therapeutic interventions and to improve outcome. Such a device could conceivably be used to augment the sensitivity of current multi-modality monitoring systems in the neurocritical management of brain injured patients. This article examines the availability of data in the literature to support clinical use of local tissue oxygen probes in intensive care.
The monitoring of craniospinal compliance is uncommonly used clinically despite it's value. The Spiegelberg compliance monitor calculates intracranial compliance (C = deltaV/deltaP) from a moving average of small ICP perturbations (deltaP) resulting from a sequence of up to 200 pulses of added volume (deltaV = 0.1 ml, total V = 0.2 ml) made into a double lumen intraventricular balloon catheter. The objective of this study was thus to determine the effectiveness of the decompressive craniectomy done on the worst brain site with regard to compliance (Cl), pressure volume index (PVI), jugular oximetry (SjVo2), autoregulation abnormalties, brain tissue oxygen (TiO2) and cerebral blood flow (CBF). This is a prospective cohort study of 17 patients who were enrolled after consent and approval of the ethics committee between the beginning of the year 2001 and end of the year 2002. For pre and post assessment on compliance and PVI, all 12 patients who survived were reported to become normal after decompressive craniectomy. There is no significant association between pre and post craniectomy assessment in jugular oxymetry (p &gt; 0.05), autoregulation (p &gt; 0.05), intracranial brain oxymetry (p = 0.125) and cerebral blood flow (p = 0.375). Compliance and PVI improved dramatically in all alive patients who received decompressive craniectomy. Compliance and PVI monitoring may be crucial in improving the outcome of severe head injured patients after decompressive craniectomy.
The aim of this study is to clarify biophysics of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) based on non-invasive intracranial compliance measurement using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patients with NPH after subarachnoid hemorrhage (NPH group, n = 5), brain atrophy or asymptomatic ventricular dilation (VD group, n = 5), and healthy volunteers (control group, n = 12) were included in this study. Net blood flow (bilateral internal carotid and vertebral arteries, and jugular veins) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow in subarachnoid space at the C2 level of cervical vertebra were measured using phase-contrast cine MRI. CSF pressure gradient and intracranial volume changes during a cardiac cycle were calculated based on Alperin's method. Compliance index (Ci = delta V/delta P) was obtained from the maximum pressure gradient and volume changes. Pressure volume response (PVR) was measured in the NPH group during a shunt operation. Ci in the NPH group was the lowest among the three studies groups. No difference was found between the control and VD groups. There was a linear correlation between Ci and PVR. In conclusion, intracranial compliance can be determined by cine MRI non-invasively. It is well known that NPH has relatively low intracranial compliance, this non-invasive method can be used for the diagnosis of NPH.
The Spiegelberg Compliance Device (Spiegelberg KG, Hamburg, Germany) has been available for the automated measurement and calculation of minute by minute intracranial compliance. Widespread practical use has been somewhat limited by the instability of values: especially at low intracranial pressures. We looked at two aspects of a methodology in an attempt to increase the value of the Spiegelberg device in the clinical setting. Firstly, we discussed the difference in representing measured values as elastance (dp/dv) instead of compliance (dv/dp); and secondly we proposed the use of an averaging algorithm called the Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (ewma), which could be applied as a flexible method to follow trends and rapid changes in the elastance (or compliance). Clinical data from sixteen patients were gathered and statistical analysis was focused on three particular aspects, the coefficient of variation which indicates the variability of data values, the correlation between the elastance (or compliance) time series and the underlying ICP signal and the percentage of outliers greater than 2.5 standard deviations from the mean. Our results showed that expressing elastance (dp/dv) instead of compliance (dv/dp) yielded fewer outliers and had a better correlation to ICP, and the ewma method had a better correlation to ICP than the Spiegelberg method.



Following traumatic brain injury, as a consequence of ionic disturbances and neurochemical cascades, glucose metabolism is affected. [18F]-2-Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) Positron Emission Tomography (FDG-PET) provides a measure of global and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc), but only during the time of the scan. Microdialysis monitors energy metabolites over extended time periods, but only in a small focal volume of the brain. Our objective in this study is to assess the association of parameters derived from these techniques when applied to patients with traumatic brain injury. Eleven sedated, ventilated patients receiving intracranial pressure monitoring and managed using Addenbrooke's Neurosciences Critical Care Unit protocols were monitored. Dialysate values for glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and glutamate, and the lactate to glucose (L/G), lactate to pyruvate (L/P) and pyruvate to glucose (P/G) ratios were determined and correlated with rCMRglc. FDG-PET scans were performed within 24 hours (five patients), or between 1 and 4 days (two patients) or after 4 days (six patients). Two patients were rescanned 4 and 7 days after their initial scan. A 20 mm region of interest (ROI) was defined on co-registered CT scan on two contiguous slices around the microdialysis catheter. Mean (+/-sd) for rCMRglc was 19.1 +/- 5.5 micromol/100 g/min, and the corresponding microdialysis values were: glucose 1.4 +/- 1.4 mmol/ L; lactate 5.3 +/- 3.6 mmol/L; pyruvate 164.1 +/- 142.3 micromol/L; glutamate 15.0 +/- 14.7 micromol/L; L/G 11.0 +/- 16.0; L/P 27.3 +/- 7.9 and P/G 381 +/- 660. There were significant relations between rCMRglc and dialysate lactate (r = 0.58, P = 0.04); pyruvate (r = 0.57, P = 0.04), L/G (r = 0.55, P = 0.05), and the P/G (r = 0.56, P = 0.05) but not between rCMRglc and dialysate glucose, L/P or glutamate in this data set. The results suggest that increases in glucose utilization as assessed by FDG-PET in these patients albeit in mainly healthy tissue are associated with increases in dialysate lactate, pyruvate, L/G and the P/G ratio perhaps indicating a general rise in metabolism rather than a shift towards non-oxidative metabolism. Further observations are required with regions of interest (microdialysis catheters positioned) adjacent to mass lesions notably contusions.


Progress in the understanding of the pathophysiologic process and management of brain injury provides a unique challenge to the young investigator. Currently, there are teams both in the laboratory and clinical settings which may or may not interact as a result of the depth and breadth of the problems before them. For example, laboratory teams may be focused on cellular or molecular mechanisms of injury while the clinical investigator is attempting to deal with refractory ICP and it's treatment. It is clear that many aspects of biological research must indeed be approached using molecular techniques of neuroscience and much has been learned. However, the translational aspect of this effort may be elusive as it is unclear at present how these molecular techniques translate into the intensive care unit and the patient. For many, the research paths taken in the laboratory and ICU will always remain independent. For those who desire a more direct pathway to treatment, the &quot;bench to bedside&quot; approach is one which is more likely to yield results. Several examples will be given to strengthen the notion that we must not abandon the translational aspect of research but to embrace the process if we are to further improve outcome from brain injury.
My work in Neurotraumatology was initiated in 1961, when I as a neuropsychologist got a position in a neurosurgical University department. The tasks were to evaluate the mental state of patients, give advices to family members regarding the mental and social prognosis of the patients and to support nurses in the initial care of the patients. Initially the methods that were made use of were tests developed by the German neurologist Kurt Goldstein and traditional psychometric tests, but it was not until the theories of A. R. Luria and his investigation method were applied that a true position as a member of the treatment team was secured. Reading Luria's book &quot;Higher Cortical Functions in Man&quot; made me aware of his theories. The skill to perform the investigation was acquired during visits to Luria's laboratory at the Bourdenko Neurosurgical Institute in Moscow in the nineteen-seventies. Text and material to &quot;Luria's Neuropsychological Investigation&quot; was published in 1974. The early work was further stimulated by the development in the neurosciences regarding brain plasticity and brain repair and experiences from visits to rehabilitation centres in the US, Yehuda Ben-Yishay's center at New York Medical School, George Prigatano's centre at the time in Oklahoma, and Lance Trexler's center at Community Hospital, Indianapolis led in 1985 to the establishment of the first post acute rehabilitation center in Europe: the Center for Rehabilitation of Brain Injury (CRBI) at the University of Copenhagen, DK. The main program was a holistic day program, six hours a day for four months in accordance with the university semesters, and an eigth months follow-up. Groups of 15 persons started together, collaborating in smaller groups. The present director of the CRBI is neuropsychologist Frank Humle. A thorough follow-up of the patients' state and improvement through the course of treatment towards social integration, including getting back to work was performed, and studies have indicated that successful integration of the traumatized patient is possible, provided that an early intensive care is succeeded by a comprehensive, individualized post-acute rehabilitation program, of which follow-up is a part, all within the frame of multidisciplinary collaboration.

Twenty-one cases of a vegetative state (VS) and 5 cases of a minimally conscious state (MCS) caused by various kinds of brain damage were evaluated neurologically and electrophysiologically at 3 months after brain injury. These cases were treated by deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy, and followed up for over 10 years. The mesencephalic reticular formation was selected as a target in 2 cases of VS, and the CM-pf complex was selected as a target in the other 19 cases of VS and 5 cases of MCS. Eight of the 21 patients emerged from the VS, and became able to obey verbal commands. However, they remained in a bedridden state except for 1 case. Four of the 5 MCS patients emerged from the bedridden state, and were able to enjoy their life in their own home. DBS therapy may be useful for allowing patients to emerge from the VS, if the candidates are selected according to appropriate neurophysiological criteria. Also, a special neurorehabilitation system may be necessary for emergence from the bedridden state in the treatment of VS patients. Further, DBS therapy is useful in MCS patients to achieve consistent discernible behavioral evidence of consciousness, and emergence from the bedridden state.



Chemical and biological agents have been used as weapons of mass destruction for a long time and presents as a serious threat to mankind. They have been used in many great wars and terrorist attacks with devastating results. The knowledge about these weapons of mass destruction is crucial to health care providers. Early recognition of the clinical characteristics of poisoning as a result of these chemical and biological agents is important to initiate appropriate therapy and minimizing casualties. Neurophysiological investigations when integrated with clinical features are helpful in early identification of some of these agents, especially when serological confirmation is not rapidly available. In this review, we have focused on chemical and biological weapons, which affect the nervous system and the role of clinical neurophysiology in such conditions.
Phase III studies of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are specifically designed to satisfy strict regulatory criteria. As they are conducted in protocol-restricted patient populations over short treatment periods and employ fixed study designs and dosing schedules, they are not fully representative of 'real-life' clinical practice. Therefore, in order to provide an overall assessment of clinical performance, regulatory studies must be backed up by post-marketing clinical experience. Phase IV studies provide information on a drug's performance in a setting more closely representing real clinical practice, with broader patient populations and a more flexible approach to individual treatment. Prospective long-term studies allow the determination of efficacy and safety (and cost-effectiveness) over extended treatment periods; these studies and audit data provide a means of assessing idiosyncratic side effects, unusual interactions and the effects of an AED in rare patient groups. By complementing regulatory evidence with real-life clinical experience, a comprehensive assessment of the risks and benefits of an AED can be made.
Modern neuropathologic methods and molecular biology have lead to increased understanding of neurodegenerative disorders and biologically based classifications of these disorders. The purpose of this review is to discuss neuropathologic methods that are useful in the characterization of neurodegenerative disorders, with emphasis on disorders of late life that present with dementia or movement disorders. A diagnostic algorithm is suggested for neuropathologic evaluation of neurodegenerative disorders. The importance of clinical information is emphasized in arriving at the most precise and meaningful neuropathologic diagnosis.

Grasping an object rather than pointing to it enhances processing of its orientation but not its color. Apparently, visual discrimination is selectively enhanced for a behaviorally relevant feature. In two experiments we investigated the limitations and targets of this bias. Specifically, in Experiment 1 we were interested to find out whether the effect is capacity demanding, therefore we manipulated the set-size of the display. The results indicated a clear cognitive processing capacity requirement, i.e. the magnitude of the effect decreased for a larger set size. Consequently, in Experiment 2, we investigated if the enhancement effect occurs only at the level of behaviorally relevant feature or at a level common to different features. Therefore we manipulated the discriminability of the behaviorally neutral feature (color). Again, results showed that this manipulation influenced the action enhancement of the behaviorally relevant feature. Particularly, the effect of the color manipulation on the action enhancement suggests that the action effect is more likely to bias the competition between different visual features rather than to enhance the processing of the relevant feature. We offer a theoretical account that integrates the action-intention effect within the biased competition model of visual selective attention.
Targeted gene delivery involves broadening viral tropism to infect previously nonpermissive cells, replacing viral tropism to infect a target cell exclusively, or stealthing the vector against nonspecific interactions with host cells and proteins. These approaches offer the potential advantages of enhanced therapeutic effects, reduced side effects, lowered dosages, and enhanced therapeutic economics. This review will discuss a variety of targeting strategies, both genetic and nongenetic, for re-engineering the tropism of two representative enveloped and nonenveloped viruses, murine retrovirus and adeno-associated virus. Basic advances in understanding the structural biology and virology of the parent viruses have aided rational design efforts to engineer novel properties into the viral attachment proteins. Furthermore, even in the absence of basic, mechanistic knowledge of viral function, high-throughput library and directed evolution approaches can yield significant improvements in vector function. These two complementary strategies offer the potential to gain enhanced molecular control over vector properties and overcome challenges in generating high titer, stealthy, retargeted vectors.
Repairing the damaged spinal cord has for a long time eluded neuroscientists. Few other achievements in neuroscience would have such a tremendous impact amongst the medical profession and the public. Despite numerous efforts, no patient has yet benefited from a regeneration therapy. Recent advances in the basic science of axon regeneration have opened new doors of hope towards prevention and cure of the devastating effects of spinal cord injury (SCI), and treatments that could encourage a partial repair of spinal injury are imminent. This article reviews the impact of SCI on patients, the current reparative strategies being explored and their potential clinical applications.
Progress has been made in the development of different types of nucleic acids such as DNA and siRNA with the potential to form the basis of new treatments for genetic and acquired disorders. The lack of suitable vectors for the delivery of nucleic acids, however, represents a major hurdle to their continued development and therapeutic application. Synthetic vectors based on polycations are promising vectors for gene delivery as they are relatively safe and can be modified by the incorporation of ligands for targeting to specific cell types. However, the levels of gene expression mediated by synthetic vectors are low compared to viral vectors. The aim of this chapter is to give an overview of the main barriers that have been identified as limiting gene transfer using polycation-based synthetic vectors. The chapter is divided into two sections to focus on both extracellular and intracellular barriers. We describe novel strategies that are being used to develop increasingly sophisticated vectors in an attempt to overcome these barriers. For instance, we describe approaches to prolong the plasma circulation of polyplexes by the incorporation onto their surface of hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) and poly[N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide] (pHPMA). In addition, strategies to improve transfer of nucleic acids from the outside of the cell to the nucleus are described to overcome barriers such as escape from endocytic vesicles and translocation across the nuclear membrane. Furthermore, we highlight new types of vectors based on reducible polycations that are triggered by the intracellular environment to facilitate efficient cytoplasmic release of nucleic acids.
Progress has been made in the development of different types of nucleic acids such as DNA and siRNA with the potential to form the basis of new treatments for genetic and acquired disorders. The lack of suitable vectors for the delivery of nucleic acids, however, represents a major hurdle to their continued development and therapeutic application. Synthetic vectors based on polycations are promising vectors for gene delivery as they are relatively safe and can be modified by the incorporation of ligands for targeting to specific cell types. However, the levels of gene expression mediated by synthetic vectors are low compared to viral vectors. The aim of this chapter is to give an overview of the main barriers that have been identified as limiting gene transfer using polycation-based synthetic vectors. The chapter is divided into two sections to focus on both extracellular and intracellular barriers. We describe novel strategies that are being used to develop increasingly sophisticated vectors in an attempt to overcome these barriers. For instance, we describe approaches to prolong the plasma circulation of polyplexes by the incorporation onto their surface of hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) and poly[N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide] (pHPMA). In addition, strategies to improve transfer of nucleic acids from the outside of the cell to the nucleus are described to overcome barriers such as escape from endocytic vesicles and translocation across the nuclear membrane. Furthermore, we highlight new types of vectors based on reducible polycations that are triggered by the intracellular environment to facilitate efficient cytoplasmic release of nucleic acids.
Among psychiatric illnesses, genetically determined disorders usually have an early onset and a severe and complicated course. Gene-environmental interaction is of importance for aggressive impulsive behaviour. For example, alcoholism type II has a high family loading, a severe course, and is often associated with antisocial behaviour. In order to gain further understanding of aggressive and impulsive behaviour, genes determining serotonin metabolism, neurosteroids and carbohydrate metabolism should be of interest to investigate. Furthermore, modern brain-imaging studies will reveal the site of action of aggressiveness and impulsivity. Within brain regions of interest, biological studies will promote our knowledge of this deleterious behaviour.
We propose a sequential information maximization model as a general strategy for programming eye movements. The model reconstructs high-resolution visual information from a sequence of fixations, taking into account the fall-off in resolution from the fovea to the periphery. From this framework we get a simple rule for predicting fixation sequences: after each fixation, fixate next at the location that minimizes uncertainty (maximizes information) about the stimulus. By comparing our model performance to human eye movement data and to predictions from a saliency and random model, we demonstrate that our model is best at predicting fixation locations. Modeling additional biological constraints will improve the prediction of fixation sequences. Our results suggest that information maximization is a useful principle for programming eye movements.






The pathophysiology of PTS including idiopathic intracranial hypertension or 'BIH', remains controversial. The older literature frequently referred to pathology in the cerebral venous drainage but more modern imaging techniques (CT and early MR) failed to reveal gross venous pathology. The role of impaired cranial venous outflow has recently been re-examined in the light of new methods of investigation (advanced MR venography and direct microcatheter venography with manometry) and of treatment (venous sinus stenting). Venous sinus obstruction in PTS is a more common factor in the pathogenesis of the condition than previously recognised. Venous obstruction may be primary, that is, it is the underlying aetiological factor in PTS. Venous sinus obstruction may also be secondary to raised CSF pressure which may exacerbate problems with intracranial compliance and raised CSF pressure. Early experience with venous stenting suggests that it may be a helpful treatment for patients with PTS but more experience and longer follow-up is required to define the subgroups of patients for whom it is most appropriate.
1. Cortical spreading depression is a non-physiological global depolarisation of neurones and astrocytes that can be initiated with varying degrees of difficulty in the normally perfused cerebral cortex in the experimental laboratory. Induction is typically with electrical stimulation, needling of the cerebral cortex, or superfusion of isotonic or more concentrated potassium chloride solution. The phenomenon propagates across the cerebral cortex at a rate of 2-5 mm per minute, and is accompanied by marked but transient increases in cerebral blood flow, in local tissue oxygen tension, and most probably in metabolic rate. 2. Peri-infarct depolarisation is also a depolarisation event affecting neurones and glia, with an electrophysiological basis similar or identical to CSD, but occurring spontaneously in the ischaemic penumbra or boundary zone in focal cerebral cortical ischaemia. Most such events arise from the edge of the ischaemic core, and propagate throughout the penumbra, at a rate similar to that of cortical spreading depression. 3. Cortical spreading depression in the normally perfused cortex does not result in histological damage whereas peri-infarct depolarisations augment neuronal damage in the penumbra, and are believed by many authors to constitute an important, or the principal, mechanism by which electrophysiological penumbra progressively deteriorates, ultimately undergoing terminal depolarisation and thus recruitment into an expanded core lesion. 4. There is some experimental evidence to suggest that under some circumstances induction of episodes of cortical spreading depression can confer protection against subsequent ischaemic insults. 5. Although cortical spreading depression and peri-infarct depolarisations have been extensively studied in the experimental in vivo models, there is now clear evidence that depolarisations also occur and propagate in the human brain in areas surrounding a focus of traumatic contusion. 6. Whether such events in the injured human brain represent cortical spreading depression or peri-infarct depolarisation is unclear. However, invasive and probably non-invasive monitoring methods are available which may serve to distinguish which event has occurred. 7. Much further work will be needed to examine the relationship of depolarisation events in the injured brain with outcome from cerebral ischaemia or head injury, to examine the factors which influence the frequency of depolarisation events, and to determine which depolarisation events in the human brain augment the injury and should be prevented.
As organisms age, they suffer a progressive decline in cognitive function often referred to as age-related memory impairment (AMI). Currently, many advances have been made in elucidating pathways and mechanisms involved in the aging process. In addition, much is known about processes involved in memory formation. However, it is not yet clear how aging and memory interact such that memory declines upon age. Here, we review possible connections between the two processes and discuss how Drosophila may be used as a model organism to study this interaction.
Patients with malformations of cortical development and epilepsy may have a variety of abnormal brain findings, including abnormal gyral patterns, cortical thickening, decreased volume of white matter, and increased diffusion of white matter. The status of individual white matter fiber tracts, however, is unknown. We present a case of bilateral frontal schizencephaly and subcortical heterotopia and illustrate alterations of white matter fascicles by combined structural and functional diffusion tensor imaging at 3 T.
In the current study, we investigated the effect of the concurrent presentation of saccharin on the maintenance of alcohol-drinking behavior in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Rats were initially given access to alcohol [10% (volume/volume) in water] and water under the home cage, two-bottle, free-choice regimen, with unlimited access for 24 h/day for eight consecutive weeks. Next, a third bottle, containing saccharin [0%, 0.01%, 0.1%, 1%, or 3% (weight/volume) in water], was concomitantly offered for an additional 10 consecutive days. Intake of saccharin solution resulted as an inverted-U function of saccharin concentration, with the 0.1% saccharin solution being the highest accepted. Alcohol intake was a U function of saccharin concentration, being reduced by 65%-95% in the group of rats exposed to the 0.1% saccharin solution. These results indicate that (1) the concurrent presentation of highly palatable solutions of saccharin markedly reduced alcohol intake in alcohol-experienced sP rats and (2) the reducing effect of saccharin solutions on the alcohol intake in sP rats was positively related to their degree of acceptability. We hypothesized that saccharin solutions may have functioned as a reinforcer, partially substituting for alcohol reinforcement and rendering alcohol drinking less urgent.
In the current study, we investigated the effect of the concurrent presentation of saccharin on the acquisition of alcohol-drinking behavior in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Alcohol-naive rats were given access to saccharin [0%, 0.01%, 0.1%, 1%, or 3% (weight/volume) in water], alcohol [10% (volume/volume) in water], and water under the home cage, three-bottle, free-choice regimen, with unlimited access for 24 h/day for 10 consecutive days. Intake of saccharin solution resulted as an inverted-U function of saccharin concentration, reaching polydipsic-like values at the 0.1% concentration. In contrast, alcohol intake was a U function of saccharin concentration, being virtually suppressed in the groups of rats exposed to the highly accepted 0.1% and 1% concentrations of saccharin. These results indicate that (1) the concurrent presentation of highly palatable solutions of saccharin suppresses acquisition of alcohol-drinking behavior in sP rats and (2) the suppressive effect of saccharin solutions on the acquisition of alcohol-drinking behavior in sP rats was positively related to their degree of acceptability. We hypothesize that an immediate and continuous access to the highly palatable saccharin solution may have distracted the rat, preventing it from consuming the amounts of alcohol solution needed to disclose and experience the psychopharmacologic effects of alcohol on which alcohol-drinking behavior in sP rats is based.


All scientific studies published in journals in which research was performed on nonhuman primates in Sweden between 1979 and 2003 (N=1038) were identified and sampled according to species used, area of research, research class and geographic location. Results showed that nonhuman primates were used in various scientific disciplines and that the number of articles published peaked in the early 1990s. Macaca fascicularis and M. mulatta were the most commonly used species. During the sample period projects related to genetics, HIV, and neuroscience increased, whereas projects related to dentistry, ophthalmology and physiology seem to have disappeared.
The Brown Norway (BN) rat is reported to be resistant to the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and a number of mechanisms have been suggested to explain this resistance. In work reported here we provide evidence that such resistance in the BN rat can be accounted for, at least in part, by their ability to produce higher levels of nitric oxide (NO) than susceptible strains of rats. Spleen cells from the BN rat make significantly more NO following in vitro stimulation than do cells from the Lewis or PVG rat and following in vivo immunization using complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) the BN rat makes substantially more NO than either susceptible strain. If carbonyl iron is used as adjuvant in vivo there is no increase in NO levels in the BN rat and they are rendered highly susceptible to EAE. Immunizing with CFA simultaneously with neuroantigen and carbonyl iron drives up NO levels and the resistance is restored. EAE produced using carbonyl iron is characterized by extensive macrophage/microglia presence in the central nervous system lesions of the BN rat yet the cytokine profile in the lymph nodes does not differ from that in the EAE Lewis rats.

Ubiquitously expressed volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) are activated in response to cell swelling but may also show limited activity in nonswollen cells. VRACs are permeable to inorganic anions and small organic osmolytes, including the amino acids aspartate, glutamate, and taurine. Several recent reports have demonstrated that neurotransmitters or hormones, such as ATP and vasopressin, induce or strongly potentiate astrocytic whole cell Cl(-) currents and amino acid release, which are inhibited by VRAC blockers. In the present study, we explored the intracellular signaling mechanisms mediating the effects of ATP on d-[(3)H]aspartate release via the putative VRAC pathway in rat primary astrocyte cultures. Cells were exposed to moderate (5%) or substantial (30%) reductions in medium osmolarity. ATP strongly potentiated d-[(3)H]aspartate release in both moderately swollen and substantially swollen cells. These ATP effects were blocked (&gt;or=80% inhibition) by intracellular Ca(2+) chelation with BAPTA-AM, calmodulin inhibitors, or a combination of the inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC) and calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMK II). In contrast, control d-[(3)H]aspartate release activated by the substantial hyposmotic swelling showed little (&lt;or=25% inhibition) sensitivity to the same pharmacological agents. These data indicate that ATP regulates VRAC activity via two separate Ca(2+)-sensitive signaling cascades involving PKC and CaMK II and that cell swelling per se activates VRACs via a separate Ca(2+)/calmodulin-independent signaling mechanism. Ca(2+)-dependent organic osmolyte release via VRACs may contribute to the physiological functions of these channels in the brain, including astrocyte-to-neuron intercellular communication.
Carbon monoxide (CO) is increasingly recognized as a physiological messenger. CO is produced in the gastrointestinal tract with diverse functions, including regulation of gastrointestinal motility, interacting with nitric oxide (NO) to mediate neurotransmission. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of CO on the human intestinal L-type Ca(2+) channel expressed in HEK cells and in native cells using the patch-clamp technique. Extracellular solution contained 10 mM Ba(2+) as the charge carrier. Maximal peak Ba(2+) current (I(Ba)) was significantly increased by bath application of 0.2% CO to transfected HEK cells (18 +/- 3%). The NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine also increased I(Ba), and CO (0.2%) increased NO production in transfected HEK cells. The CO-induced increase in I(Ba) was blocked when cells were pretreated with 1H-[1,2,4]-oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (10 microM) or inhibitors of NO synthase (NOS). The PKA inhibitor KT-5720 (0.5 microM) and milrinone (3 microM), a phosphodiesterase (PDE) III inhibitor, blocked the effect of CO on I(Ba). Similar effects were seen in freshly dissociated human intestinal smooth muscle cells. The data suggest that exogenous CO can activate native and heterologously expressed intestinal L-type Ca(2+) channels through a pathway that involves activation of NOS, increased NO, and cGMP levels, but not PKG. Rather, the pathway appears to involve PKA, partly by reducing cAMP breakdown through inhibition of PDE III. CO-induced NO production may explain the apparent discrepancy between the low affinity of guanylyl cyclase for CO and the robust cGMP production evoked by CO.
Heart rate is a vital sign, whereas heart rate variability is an important quantitative measure of cardiovascular regulation by the autonomic nervous system. Although the design of algorithms to compute heart rate and assess heart rate variability is an active area of research, none of the approaches considers the natural point-process structure of human heartbeats, and none gives instantaneous estimates of heart rate variability. We model the stochastic structure of heartbeat intervals as a history-dependent inverse Gaussian process and derive from it an explicit probability density that gives new definitions of heart rate and heart rate variability: instantaneous R-R interval and heart rate standard deviations. We estimate the time-varying parameters of the inverse Gaussian model by local maximum likelihood and assess model goodness-of-fit by Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests based on the time-rescaling theorem. We illustrate our new definitions in an analysis of human heartbeat intervals from 10 healthy subjects undergoing a tilt-table experiment. Although several studies have identified deterministic, nonlinear dynamical features in human heartbeat intervals, our analysis shows that a highly accurate description of these series at rest and in extreme physiological conditions may be given by an elementary, physiologically based, stochastic model.
We studied cFos and FosB staining in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) and the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) in adult male rats after water deprivation (24 h, n = 11; 48 h, n = 12) and water deprivation with rehydration (22 h + water, n = 11; 46 h + water, n = 10). Control rats (n = 15) had water available ad libitum. Separate sets of serial sections from each brain were processed for immunocytochemistry using primary antibodies against either c-Fos or FosB protein. Plasma osmolality, vasopressin, hematocrit, and plasma proteins were measured in separate groups (n = 6-7). The number of c-Fos-positive cells in the SON was significantly increased after 24 and 48 h of water deprivation. In contrast, rehydrated groups were not different from control. Water deprivation significantly increased c-Fos staining in both the OVLT and the MnPO, but c-Fos staining was not altered by rehydration. FosB staining in the SON was significantly increased only by 48-h water deprivation, and this effect was significantly decreased by rehydration. In the MnPO and OVLT, FosB staining was significantly increased by water deprivation, and, like c-Fos staining, these increases were not affected by rehydration. Water deprivation significantly increased osmolality and hematocrit, as well as plasma protein and vasopressin concentrations. Plasma measurements from rehydrated rats were not different from control. We conclude that water deprivation and rehydration differentially affect c-Fos and FosB staining in a region-dependent manner.
In the Syrian hamster, winter seasonal inhibition of reproduction occurs in response to decreasing day length. This inhibitory response is modulated by nonphotic cues. In particular, access to a running wheel has been shown to produce incomplete gonadal regression. The present study sought to determine whether this occurs as a consequence of wheel effect on adaptation of the circadian system to short days or whether downstream physiological responses are involved. Short-day adaptation of the circadian clock, which is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, was tested by lengthening the photosensitive phase of the SCN (assayed by light-induced c-Fos expression in the SCN) as a parameter. We found that wheel-running activity does not inhibit the integration of the photoperiodic change by the SCN even if complete testicular regression is prevented. Moreover, this exercise was even capable of accelerating the lengthening of the photosensitive phase after the transfer to short day length. Thus, although wheel-running activity inhibits the short photoperiod-induced gonadal regression, it acts on the SCN to accelerate the integration of the photoperiodic change by the biological clock.


This paper reviews neuroscientific advances across the therapeutic disciplines and outlines new potential insights into understanding the biology of the psychotherapeutic processes. In a quest to understand the modus operandi of psychotherapy, the author reviews the evolution of the biology of psychotherapy. The mechanisms involved in learning processes, such as memory and priming, attachment, and long-term consequences of early life trauma, demonstrate how brain structures can be affected by environmental changes. Finally, the author proposes that verbal and non-verbal aspects of the psychotherapeutic process mediate their therapeutic effects through biological changes as they work on primitive emotional reflexes and stimulate mentalization processes.
Biological research today involves aggregating and analyzing large amounts of data from disparate sources. Tools such as the University of Washington's BioMediator system integrate heterogeneous data. Analytic packages such as the R environment have a rich set of tools to analyze biomedical research data. Our pilot project bridged data integration and analytics in a general way by successfully incorporating the BioMediator system into the R platform for specific analyses on neurophysiologic research data.
The BioMediator system developed at the University of Washington (UW) provides a theoretical and practical foundation for data integration across diverse biomedical research domains and various data types. In this paper we demonstrate the generalizability of its architecture through its application to the UW Human Brain Project (HBP) for understanding language organization in the brain. We first describe the system architecture and the characteristics of the four data sources developed by the UW HBP. Second we present the process of developing the application prototype for HBP neuroscience researchers posing queries across these semantically and syntactically heterogeneous neurophysiologic data sources. Then we discuss the benefits and potential limitations of the BioMediator system as a general data integration solution for different user groups in genomic and neuroscience research domains.
It is well established that perception is not a reliable copy of the external world, but only part of it composed by external stimuli, while the rest is constructed by the brain. This means, that the brain creates only the reality it is interested in for the survival of the organism. This means that Reality in capitals, the ontological reality, as philosophers call it, does not exist. Constructivism, the philosophical movement that is closest to the results of modern neuroscience, suggests that we do not construct reality objectively, but we subjectively invent it. Constructivism in reality is thus about deconstructing our confidence in the objectivity of the world that surrounds us.


The opportunities for utilizing swine biomedical models are immense, particularly in models that address lifestyle issues (nutrition, stress, alcohol, drugs of abuse, etc.). However, in order to fully capitalize upon the promise, there needs to be a more general recognition of these cofactors, such as nutrition, as key modulators of phenotype via genomic, epigenetic, and postgenomic mechanisms. Furthermore, increased interactions between nutrition scientists and clinical and fundamental researchers in other disciplines, including developmental biology, immunology, neuroscience, oncology, and cardiovascular and gastrointestinal physiology, are required. Closing discussions focused on the need for future conferences at more frequent intervals to support interactions between the various disciplines. This was especially critical because of the global distribution of investigators.

Motor dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease are considered to be primarily due to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Pharmacological therapies based on the principle of dopamine replacement are extremely valuable, but suffer from two main drawbacks: troubling side effects (e.g. dyskinesia) and loss of efficacy with disease progression. Transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons has emerged as a therapeutic alternative. Enthusiasm following the success of the initial open-label trials has been dampened by the negative outcome of double-blind placebo controlled trials. Additionally, the emergence of graft-related dyskinesia indicates that the experimental grafting procedure requires further refinement before it can be developed into a therapy. Shortage of embryonic donor tissue limits large-scale clinical transplantation trials. We review three of the most attractive tissue sources of dopaminergic neurons for cell replacement therapy: human embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue, embryonic and adult multipotent region-specific stem cells and embryonic stem cells. Recent developments in embryonic stem cell research and on their implications for a future transplantation therapy in Parkinson's disease are described. Finally, we discuss how human embryonic stem cells can be differentiated into dopaminergic neurons, and issues such as the numbers of dopaminergic neurons required for success and the risk for teratoma formation after implantation.
Intracytoplasmic aggregation of alpha-synuclein protein as Lewy bodies in the brainstem neurons is diagnostic for Parkinson's disease, whereas if this process also occurs in the cortical neurons, it is considered pathognomonic for dementia with Lewy bodies. However, the link between alpha-synuclein incorporation into inclusions, neuronal dysfunction, and clinical symptoms needs to be clarified. Another important issue of the pathogenetic puzzle is to understand where alpha-synuclein pathology begins and how it progresses in the brain. To study this, we collected all cases from autopsy material (N = 904) that had alpha-synuclein pathology in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, substantia nigra, and/or basal forebrain nuclei. In this way, our study has a unique design because the selection of material is entirely based on the presence of alpha-synuclein pathology regardless of clinical phenotype. Retrospective clinical assessment then showed that only 32 (30%) of 106 alpha-synuclein-positive cases were diagnosed with a neurodegenerative disorder. The distribution or load of alpha-synuclein pathology did not permit a dependable postmortem diagnosis of extrapyramidal symptoms or cognitive impairment. Some neurologically unimpaired cases had a reasonable burden of alpha-synuclein pathology in both brainstem and cortical areas, suggesting that alpha-synuclein-positive structures are not definite markers of neuronal dysfunction.

Individuals with schizophrenia experience a range of cognitive deficits and associated dysfunctions in the neural systems that support cognitive processes. This chapter reviews the literature on disturbances in working memory, executive control, and episodic memory in schizophrenia. Advances in basic cognitive neuroscience are described to help explain the cognitive neuroscience of schizophrenia. For working memory in schizophrenia, evidence is reviewed regarding deficits in the verbal (phonological loop) and nonverbal (visual-spatial scratch pad) buffer systems as well as in the central executive function. In the domain of episodic memory, evidence is reviewed for deficits in recollection versus familiarity processes in episodic memory. Also discussed are conceptual issues and potential confounds relevant to understanding the cognitive neuroscience of schizophrenia, including the role that cognitive deficits play in the developmental course of schizophrenia, relationships to specific symptom domains, behavioral performance confounds, and medication influences on behavioral performance and brain function.
One of the central questions in neuroscience is how particular tasks, or computations, are implemented by neural networks to generate behavior. The prevailing view has been that information processing in neural networks results primarily from the properties of synapses and the connectivity of neurons within the network, with the intrinsic excitability of single neurons playing a lesser role. As a consequence, the contribution of single neurons to computation in the brain has long been underestimated. Here we review recent work showing that neuronal dendrites exhibit a range of linear and nonlinear mechanisms that allow them to implement elementary computations. We discuss why these dendritic properties may be essential for the computations performed by the neuron and the network and provide theoretical and experimental examples to support this view.
A current challenge in neuroscience is to bridge the gaps between genes, proteins, neurons, neural circuits, and behavior in a single animal model. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has unique features that facilitate this synthesis. Its nervous system includes exactly 302 neurons, and their pattern of synaptic connectivity is known. With only five olfactory neurons, C. elegans can dynamically respond to dozens of attractive and repellent odors. Thermosensory neurons enable the nematode to remember its cultivation temperature and to track narrow isotherms. Polymodal sensory neurons detect a wide range of nociceptive cues and signal robust escape responses. Pairing of sensory stimuli leads to long-lived changes in behavior consistent with associative learning. Worms exhibit social behaviors and complex ultradian rhythms driven by Ca(2+) oscillators with clock-like properties. Genetic analysis has identified gene products required for nervous system function and elucidated the molecular and neural bases of behaviors.
The olfactory nervous system of insects and mammals exhibits many similarities, which suggests that the mechanisms for olfactory learning may be shared. Molecular genetic investigations of Drosophila learning have uncovered numerous genes whose gene products are essential for olfactory memory formation. Recent studies of the products of these genes have continued to expand the range of molecular processes known to underlie memory formation. Recent research has also broadened the neuroanatomical areas thought to mediate olfactory learning to include the antennal lobes in addition to a previously accepted and central role for the mushroom bodies. The roles for neurons extrinsic to the mushroom body neurons are becoming better defined. Finally, the genes identified to participate in Drosophila olfactory learning have conserved roles in mammalian organisms, highlighting the value of Drosophila for gene discovery.
Forty years since the initial discovery of neurogenesis in the postnatal rat hippocampus, investigators have now firmly established that active neurogenesis from neural progenitors continues throughout life in discrete regions of the central nervous systems (CNS) of all mammals, including humans. Significant progress has been made over the past few years in understanding the developmental process and regulation of adult neurogenesis, including proliferation, fate specification, neuronal maturation, targeting, and synaptic integration of the newborn neurons. The function of this evolutionarily conserved phenomenon, however, remains elusive in mammals. Adult neurogenesis represents a striking example of structural plasticity in the mature CNS environment. Advances in our understanding of adult neurogenesis will not only shed light on the basic principles of adult plasticity, but also may lead to strategies for cell replacement therapy after injury or degenerative neurological diseases.
The precise coordination of the many events in nervous system development is absolutely critical for the correct establishment of functional circuits. The postganglionic sympathetic neuron has been an amenable model for studying peripheral nervous system formation. Factors that control several developmental events, including multiple stages of axon extension, neuron survival and death, dendritogenesis, synaptogenesis, and establishment of functional diversity, have been identified in this neuron type. This knowledge allows us to integrate the various intricate processes involved in the formation of a functional sympathetic nervous system and thereby create a paradigm for understanding neuronal development in general.
The selective elimination of axons, dendrites, axon and dendrite branches, and synapses, without loss of the parent neurons, occurs during normal development of the nervous system as well as in response to injury or disease in the adult. The widespread developmental phenomena of exuberant axonal projections and synaptic connections require both small-scale and large-scale axon pruning to generate precise adult connectivity, and they provide a mechanism for neural plasticity in the developing and adult nervous system, as well as a mechanism to evolve differences between species in a projection system. Such pruning is also required to remove axonal connections damaged in the adult, to stabilize the affected neural circuits, and to initiate their repair. Pruning occurs through either retraction or degeneration. Here we review examples of these phenomena and consider potential cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie axon retraction and degeneration and how they might relate to each other in development and disease.
The size and frequency of meals are fundamental aspects of nutrition that can have profound effects on the health and longevity of laboratory animals. In humans, excessive energy intake is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and certain cancers and is a major cause of disability and death in industrialized countries. On the other hand, the influence of meal frequency on human health and longevity is unclear. Both caloric (energy) restriction (CR) and reduced meal frequency/intermittent fasting can suppress the development of various diseases and can increase life span in rodents by mechanisms involving reduced oxidative damage and increased stress resistance. Many of the beneficial effects of CR and fasting appear to be mediated by the nervous system. For example, intermittent fasting results in increased production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which increases the resistance of neurons in the brain to dysfunction and degeneration in animal models of neurodegenerative disorders; BDNF signaling may also mediate beneficial effects of intermittent fasting on glucose regulation and cardiovascular function. A better understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms by which meal size and frequency affect human health may lead to novel approaches for disease prevention and treatment.
This review focuses on the current status of biomarkers and/or approaches critical to assessing novel neuroscience targets with an emphasis on new paradigms and challenges in this field of research. The importance of biomarker data integration for psychotropic drug development is illustrated with examples for clinically used medications and investigational drugs. The question remains how to verify access to the brain. Early imaging studies including micro-PET can help to overcome this. However, in case of delayed tracer development or because of no feasible application of brain imaging effects of the molecule, using CSF as a matrix could fill this gap. Proteomic research using CSF will hopefully have a major impact on the development of treatments for psychiatric disorders.
The CLC family comprises a group of integral membrane proteins whose major action is to translocate chloride (Cl-) ions across the cell membranes. Recently, the structures of CLC orthologues from two bacterial species, Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli, were solved, providing the first framework for understanding the operating mechanisms of these molecules. However, most of the previous mechanistic understanding of CLC channels came from electrophysiological studies of a branch of the channel family, the muscle-type CLC channels in vertebrate species. These vertebrate CLC channels were predicted to contain two identical but independent pores, and this hypothesis was confirmed by the solved bacterial CLC structures. The opening and closing of the vertebrate CLC channels are also known to couple to the permeant ions via their binding sites in the ion-permeation pathway. The bacterial CLC structures can probably serve as a structural model to explain the gating-permeation coupling mechanism. However, the CLC-ec1 protein in E. coli was most recently shown to be a Cl- -H+ antiporter, but not an ion channel. The molecular basis to explain the difference between vertebrate and bacterial CLCs, especially the distinction between an ion channel and a transporter, remains a challenge in the structure/function studies for the CLC family.
Mammalian associative learning is organized into separate anatomically defined functional systems. We illustrate the organization of two of these systems, Pavlovian fear conditioning and Pavlovian eyeblink conditioning, by describing studies using mutant mice, brain stimulation and recording, brain lesions and direct pharmacological manipulations of specific brain regions. The amygdala serves as the neuroanatomical hub of the former, whereas the cerebellum is the hub of the latter. Pathways that carry information about signals for biologically important events arrive at these hubs by circuitry that depends on stimulus modality and complexity. Within the amygdala and cerebellum, neural plasticity occurs because of convergence of these stimuli and the biologically important information they predict. This neural plasticity is the physical basis of associative memory formation, and although the intracellular mechanisms of plasticity within these structures share some similarities, they differ significantly. The last Annual Review of Psychology article to specifically tackle the question of mammalian associative learning ( Lavond et al. 1993 ) persuasively argued that identifiable &quot;essential&quot; circuits encode memories formed during associative learning. The next dozen years saw breathtaking progress not only in detailing those essential circuits but also in identifying the essential processes occurring at the synapses (e.g., Bi &amp; Poo 2001, Martinez &amp; Derrick 1996 ) and within the neurons (e.g., Malinow &amp; Malenka 2002, Murthy &amp; De Camilli 2003 ) that make up those circuits. In this chapter, we describe the orientation that the neuroscience of learning has taken and review some of the progress made within that orientation.
The control and perception of body orientation and motion are subserved by multiple sensory and motor mechanisms ranging from relatively simple, peripheral mechanisms to complex ones involving the highest levels of cognitive function and sensory-motor integration. Vestibular contributions to body orientation and to spatial localization of auditory and visual stimuli have long been recognized. These contributions are reviewed here along with new insights relating to sensory-motor calibration of the body gained from space flight, parabolic flight, and artificial gravity environments. Recently recognized contributions of proprioceptive and somatosensory signals to the appreciation of body orientation and configuration are described. New techniques for stabilizing posture by means of haptic touch and for studying and modeling postural mechanisms are reviewed. Path integration, place cells, and head direction cells are described along with implications for using immersive virtual environments for training geographic spatial knowledge of real environments.
Inferences about brain function, using neuroimaging data, rest on models of how the data were caused. These models can be quite diverse, ranging from conceptual models of functional anatomy to nonlinear mathematical models of hemodynamics. However, they all have to be internally consistent because they model the same thing. This consistency encompasses many levels of description and places constraints on the statistical models, adopted for data analysis, and the experimental designs they embody. The aim of this review is to introduce the key models used in imaging neuroscience and how they relate to each other. We start with anatomical models of functional brain architectures, which motivate some of the fundaments of neuroimaging. We then turn to basic statistical models (e.g., the general linear model) used for making classical and Bayesian inferences about where neuronal responses are expressed. By incorporating biophysical constraints, these basic models can be finessed and, in a dynamic setting, rendered causal. This allows us to infer how interactions among brain regions are mediated.
The key issue in analyzing brain substrates of memory is the nature of memory traces, how memories are formed, stored, and retrieved in the brain. In order to analyze mechanisms of memory formation it is first necessary to find the loci of memory storage, the classic problem of localization. Various approaches to this issue are reviewed. A particular strategy is proposed that involves a number of different techniques (electrophysiological recording, lesions, electrical stimulation, pathway tracing) to identify the essential memory trace circuit for a given form of learning and memory. The methods of reversible inactivation can be used to localize the memory traces within this circuit. Using classical conditioning of eye blink and other discrete responses as a model system, the essential memory trace circuit is identified, the basic memory trace is localized (to the cerebellum), and putative higher-order memory traces are characterized in the hippocampus.

The aim of this study is to verify, after recovery, the presence of specific patterns of cognitive dysfunctions in Transient Global Amnesia (TGA). Fourteen patients with the diagnosis of TGA were submitted to a battery of neuropsychological tests and compared to a matched control group. We found significant qualitative and quantitative differences between TGA patients and controls in the California Verbal Learning Test (CLVT) and Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test. Our data support the presence of selective cognitive dysfunctions after the clinical recovery. Moreover, for Verbal Fluency, Digit Span Backward, and Number of Clusters in the CVLT short-term memory test, the relation resulted as positively related with the temporal interval from the TGA episode. Reduction of categorical learning, attention, and qualitative alterations of spatial strategy seem to postulate a planning defect due to a prefrontal impairment.


In societies with an increasing proportion of elderly active people it is valuable to gain knowledge about what elderly people actually do and want to do in relation to activity arenas in the public environment. The main aim of this study was to investigate elderly people's preferences and frequencies of visits to public facilities in a Swedish town center. A further aim was to gather information on elderly people's subjective perception of problematic and favorable environmental conditions in public environments. The study was conducted using a previously developed questionnaire, &quot;My visit preferences to the public environment&quot;. The sample comprised 39 persons aged 75-84 years, living in a defined geographic area. The results of this study provide an overview of the public facilities elderly people rate as important to visit. There are public facilities preferred by most elderly people but with varying frequencies of visits. The study also generated information about elderly people's subjective perceptions of problematic and favorable environmental conditions in public environments, demonstrating that more problems were perceived along walking routes in the public outdoor environment than in the public facilities per se. The results are indicative for community planning supporting elderly people's activities in the public environment, but the questionnaire used should be further validated.

Patients with Bipolar Disorder (BD) are at particularly high risk for both attempted and completed suicides. The period of highest risk for completed suicide is during the 2 years following discharge from a hospitalization. To date, pharmacological studies of suicidal behavior in BD have been quite limited. While strong evidence has been found regarding the anti-suicidal effects of lithium, evidence for such properties in other commonly prescribed medications for BD, including anticonvulsants, SSRIs and anti-psychotics, has been largely unexplored. Considering the high risk of suicidal acts in patients with BD, further research on the pharmacotherapy of suicidal behavior is crucial.
Recent years have seen the discovery of freely diffusing gaseous neurotransmitters, such as nitric oxide (NO), in biological nervous systems. A type of artificial neural network (ANN) inspired by such gaseous signaling, the GasNet, has previously been shown to be more evolvable than traditional ANNs when used as an artificial nervous system in an evolutionary robotics setting, where evolvability means consistent speed to very good solutions--here, appropriate sensorimotor behavior-generating systems. We present two new versions of the GasNet, which take further inspiration from the properties of neuronal gaseous signaling. The plexus model is inspired by the extraordinary NO-producing cortical plexus structure of neural fibers and the properties of the diffusing NO signal it generates. The receptor model is inspired by the mediating action of eurotransmitter receptors. Both models are shown to significantly further improve evolvability. We describe a series of analyses suggesting that the reasons for the increase in evolvability are related to the flexible loose coupling of distinct signaling mechanisms, one &quot;chemical&quot; and one &quot;electrical.&quot;
We survey developments in artificial neural networks, in behavior-based robotics, and in evolutionary algorithms that set the stage for evolutionary robotics (ER) in the 1990s. We examine the motivations for using ER as a scientific tool for studying minimal models of cognition, with the advantage of being capable of generating integrated sensorimotor systems with minimal (or controllable) prejudices. These systems must act as a whole in close coupling with their environments, which is an essential aspect of real cognition that is often either bypassed or modeled poorly in other disciplines. We demonstrate with three example studies: homeostasis under visual inversion, the origins of learning, and the ontogenetic acquisition of entrainment.
The simultaneous study of brain function at all levels of organization is difficult to undertake with current experimental tools. Present day electrophysiology only allows the recording of at most hundreds of neurons while an animal is performing a behavioral task. Because of this limitation and the sheer complexity of the nervous system, computational modeling has become essential in developing theories of brain function. Accordingly, our group has constructed a series of brain-based devices (BBDs), that is, physical devices with simulated nervous systems that guide behavior, to serve as a heuristic for testing theories of brain function. Unlike animal models, BBDs permit analysis of activity at all levels of the nervous system as the device behaves in its environment. Although the principal focus of developing BBDs has been to test theories of brain function, this type of modeling may also provide a basis for robotic design and practical applications.

In rats and mice, the ultrasonic vocalizations emitted by pups have been suggested to modulate maternal behavior. In the present study we show that the number of calls emitted by mouse pups can reflect maternal responsiveness. Maternal responsiveness towards pups was evaluated on postnatal day 8 using a three-compartment cage test where the mother, to reach the pups, had to cross the central part of the cage containing cues from a potentially infanticidal male. Maternal responsiveness was lower when alien rather than own pups were used as stimulus. Moreover, the administration of morphine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) a drug known to disrupt maternal behavior, resulted in an increase of the latency to reach the pups, as well. This behavioral and pharmacological validation supports the hypothesis that this measure can represent an index of maternal motivation. Therefore, we evaluated maternal responsiveness on day 8 postpartum and pups' ultrasound emission during isolation on day 4 and 8 of life, under conditions strongly affecting the amount of maternal behavior received by pups. C57BL/6 mothers scored higher in maternal responsiveness than BALB/c females, and their pups emitted fewer calls than BALB/c pups both on days 4 and 8. Mothers of handled pups scored higher than controls in maternal responsiveness. Handled pups showed a lower rate of calls on day 8, although they did not differ from controls on day 4. These results support our hypothesis that maternal responsiveness, that is mother promptness to respond to pups' needs, is one of the factors tuning the rate of ultrasonic emission of the offspring.
Ultrasonic calls used by rats during intraspecies communication have acoustic features, which can be selectively recognized by recipients, and possess a quantitative dimension reflecting the magnitude of the sender's response. This paper reviews basic principles of animal communication with particular attention to rat calls, and the features of ultrasonic calls, which could reflect such a quantitative aspect. Isolation calls of rat pups vary in frequency and duration and have changing sonographic structure over time. It is hypothesized that the quantitative &quot;message&quot; for the dam is encoded not only in the number of calls but also in frequency sweeps. The 22-kHz alarm calls of adults are characterized by a relatively constant sound frequency, marginal frequency modulation, and remarkable variability in call duration. It is hypothesized that quantitative aspect of these calls may be encoded in call length. Finally, the 50-kHz calls of adults, which are emitted in appetitive behavior are very short calls, with a relatively constant call duration, and a variable sound frequency. It is hypothesized that the peak frequency as well as the number of calls per time unit reflect the quantitative aspect in 50-kHz calls.
Adolescent and adult rats exhibit at least two distinct ultrasonic vocalizations that reflect distinct emotional states. Rats exhibit 22-kHz calls during social defeat, drug withdrawal, as well as in anticipation of aversive events. In contrast, 50-kHz calls are exhibited in high rates during play behavior, mating, as well as in anticipation of rewarding events. The neurochemistry of 22-kHz and 50-kHz calls closely matches that of negative and positive emotional systems in humans, respectively. The aim of this study was to replicate and further evaluate selective breeding for 50-kHz vocalization, in preparation for the analysis of the genetic underpinnings of the 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalization (USV). Isolate housed adolescent rats (23-26 days old) received experimenter administered tactile stimulation (dubbed &quot;tickling&quot;), which mimicked the rat rough-and-tumble play behavior. This stimulation has previously been shown to elicit high levels of 50-kHz USVs and to be highly rewarding in isolate-housed animals. Each tickling session consisted of 4 cycles of 15 seconds stimulation followed by 15 seconds no stimulation for a total of 2 min, and was repeated once per day across 4 successive days. Rats were then selected for either High or Low levels of sonographically verified 50-kHz USVs in response to the stimulation, and a randomly selected line served as a control (Random group). Animals emitted both 22-kHz and 50-kHz types of calls. After 5 generations, animals in the High Line exhibited significantly more 50-kHz and fewer 22-kHz USVs than animals in the Low Line. Animals selected for low levels of 50-kHz calls showed marginally more 22-kHz USVs then randomly selected animals but did not differ in the rate of 50-kHz calls. These results extend our previous findings that laboratory rats could be bred for differential rates of sonographically verified 50-kHz USVs.
We present a Chinese-speaking patient, SJ, who makes phonological errors across all tasks involving oral production. Detailed analyses of the errors across different tasks reveal that the patterns are very similar for reading, oral picture naming, and repetition tasks, which are also comparable to the error patterns of the phonological buffer deficit cases reported in the literature. The nature of the errors invites us to conclude that the patient's phonological output buffer is selectively impaired. Different from previously reported cases, SJ's deficits in oral production tasks are not accompanied by a similar impairment of writing performance. We argue that this dissociation is evidence that the phonological output buffer is not involved in writing Chinese words. Furthermore, the majority of SJ's errors occur at the onset of a syllable, indicating that the buffer has a structure that makes the onset more prone to impairment.
The present study investigated the potential effects of a standard 902 MHz global system for mobile communication (GSM) mobile phone on 10-14 years old children's cognitive function. A total of 32 children (16 boys, 16 girls) participated with their own and parental consent. The subjects were 10-14 years old (mean 12.1 years, SD 1.1). They performed a battery of cognitive tests twice in a counter-balanced order: once while exposed to an active mobile phone and once during exposure to an inactive phone. The tests were selected from those we used earlier with adults. The statistical analyses showed no significant differences between the mobile phone off and on conditions in reaction times and accuracy over all tests or in any single test. It was concluded that a standard mobile phone has no effect on children's cognitive function as measured by response speed and accuracy. The present results challenge some earlier findings suggesting that the electromagnetic field (EMF) created by an active mobile phone would facilitate cognitive functioning.


Iron is one of the trace elements playing a key role in the normal brain metabolism. An excess of free iron on the other hand is catalyzing the iron-mediated oxygen radical production. Such a condition might be a harmful event leading perhaps to serious tissue damage and degeneration. Therefore, during evolution a complex iron sequestering apparatus developed, minimizing the amount of redox-reactive free iron. However, this system might be severely disturbed under pathophysiological conditions including hypoxia or anoxia. Since little is known about the non-transferrin-mediated iron metabolism of the brain during anoxia/reoxygenation, we tested the ability of the microglial cell line RAW 264.7 to take up iron independently of transferrin under various oxygen concentrations. Microglial cells are thought to be the major player in the maintenance of the extracellular homeostasis in the brain. Therefore, we investigated the iron metabolism of microglial cells employing radiolabeled ferric chloride. We tested the uptake of iron under normoxic, anoxic and postanoxic conditions. Furthermore, the amount of ferritin was measured by immunoblotting. We were able to show that iron enters the microglial cell line in the absence of extracellular transferrin under normoxic, anoxic and postanoxic conditions. Interestingly, the amount of ferritin is decreasing in the early reoxygenation phase. Therefore, we concluded that microglia is able to contribute to the brain iron homeostasis under anoxic and postanoxic conditions.
Normal somatic cells have a finite replicative capacity. With each cell division, telomeres (the physical ends of linear chromosomes) progressively shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point the cells enter replicative senescence. Some cells maintain telomere length by the action of the telomerase enzyme. The bristlecone pine, Pinus longaeva, is the oldest known living eukaryotic organism, with the oldest on record turning 4770 years old in 2005. To determine what changes occur, if any, in telomere length and telomerase activity with age, and what roles, if any, telomere length and telomerase activity may play in contributing to the increased life-span and longevity of P. longaeva with age, as well as in other tree species of various life-spans, we undertook a detailed investigation of telomere length and telomerase activity in such trees. The results from this study support the hypothesis that both increased telomere length and telomerase activity may directly/indirectly contribute to the increased life-span and longevity evident in long-lived pine trees (2000-5000 year life-spans) compared to medium-lived (400-500 year life-span) and short-lived (100-200 year life-span) pine trees, as well as in P. longaeva with age.




Our aim was to study the inhibitory and facilitatory factors possibly accounting for the undetectable activity of the GnRH pulse generator in late fetal life in vitro and its awakening in early postnatal life. Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor antagonism using SR 95 531 did not cause any secretory pulse in fetal explants, whereas a significant stimulation of GnRH pulse frequency was obtained at 5 and 15 days. GnRH secretory response to repeated N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) stimulation showed progressive disappearance, indicating that the inhibitory autofeedback was operating. GnRH release caused by glutamine was respectively 9% and 20% of that evoked by glutamate in fetal and 5-day-old rats whereas both amino acids were equally active at 15 days. Explants obtained after cesarean section performed at onset of labor did not show any secretory pulse, while pulses could be observed with explants obtained 2 h after vaginal delivery. Incubation of fetal explants with oxytocin (10(-8) M) or prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) (10(-6) M) resulted in occurrence of GnRH secretory pulses. A facilitatory effect of the oxytocin was shown to persist on Days 1, 5, and 15 and inhibitory effects of an oxytocin receptor antagonist provided some evidence of endogenous oxytocin involvement. We conclude that, in the fetal rat hypothalamus, GnRH inhibitory autofeedback and GABAergic inputs do not account for the absence of pulsatile GnRH secretion in vitro. A low rate of glutamate biosynthesis from glutamine is a possibly limiting factor. Oxytocin and PGE2 can play a facilitatory role in the postpartal occurrence of pulsatile GnRH secretion.

Research on Alzheimer's disease (AD) focuses mainly on neuronal death and synaptic impairment induced by beta-Amyloid peptide (Abeta), events at least partially mediated by astrocyte and microglia activation. However, substantial white matter damage and its consequences on brain function warrant the study of oligodendrocytes participation in the pathogenesis and progression of AD. Here, we analyze reports on oligodendrocytes' compromise in AD and discuss some experimental data indicative of Abeta toxicity in culture. We observed that 1 microM of fibrilogenic Abeta peptide damages oligodendrocytes in vitro: while pro-inflammatory molecules (1 microg/ ml LPS + 1 ng/ml IFNgamma) or the presence of astrocytes reduced the Abeta-induced damage. This agrees with our previous results showing an astrocyte-mediated protective effect over Abeta-induced damage on hippocampal cells and modulation of the activation of microglial cells in culture. Oligodendrocytes protection by astrocytes could be, either by reduction of Abeta fibrilogenesis/deposition or prevention of oxidative damage. Likewise, the decrease of Abeta-induced damage by proinflammatory molecules could reflect the production of trophic factors by activated oligodendrocytes and/or a metabolic activation as observed during myelination. Considering the association of inflammation with neurodegenerative diseases. oligodendrocytes impairment in AD patients could potentiate cell damage under pathological conditions.
Neuroscience embraces a heterogeneous group of disciplines. A conceptual framework that allows a better articulation of these different theoretical and experimental perspectives is needed. A 'whole-animal approach is proposed as a theoretical and hermeneutic tool. To illustrate the potential of this point of view, an overview of the research that has been performed in the extinction of fear-conditioned responses from Pavlov to the present is discussed. This is an example of how a whole-animal-based approach may help to organize and integrate basic and clinical neuroscience research. Our proposal is in agreement with recent statements calling for more integrative approaches in biological and neuropsychiatric research.

The pharmacokinetics of L-838417, a GABAA receptor subtype selective benzodiazepine site agonist, were studied in rats and mice after single oral (p.o.), intraperitoneal (i.p.) and intravenous (i.v.) doses. In both species L-838417 was well absorbed following i.p. administration and whilst in rats p.o. bioavailability was good (41%), in mice it was negligible (&lt;1%), precluding this as a route of administration for mouse behavioural studies. Despite having a similar volume of distribution (ca 1.4 l/kg) in rats and mice, L-838417 was cleared at twice liver blood flow in mice (161 ml/min/kg) and moderately cleared in rats (24 ml/min/kg), potentially explaining the poor oral bioavailability in mice. Finally, as a pharmacodynamic readout the benzodiazepine binding site occupancy was determined in rats (0.3-3 mg/kg, p.o.) and mice (1-30 mg/kg, i.p.) using a [3H]Ro 15-1788 in vivo binding assay. Although the resulting dose-occupancy relationship for both species demonstrated a dose-dependent increase in receptor occupancy, appreciable variability was observed at low dose levels, potentially making interpretation of behavioural responses difficult. In contrast, a clear relationship between plasma and brain concentrations and receptor occupancy were determined suggesting the observed dose-occupancy variability is a consequence of the pharmacokinetic properties of L-838417. The plasma and brain concentrations required to occupy 50% of the benzodiazepine binding sites were similar in both rats (28 ng/ml and 33 ng/ml g, respectively) and mice (63 ng/ml and 53 ng/ml g, respectively), with a non-linear concentration response observed with increasing doses of L-838417. These studies demonstrate the importance of utilizing pharmacokinetic/receptor occupancy data when interpreting pharmacodynamic responses at a given dose.
FPL 64176 (FPL) is a nondihydropyridine compound that dramatically increases macroscopic inward current through L-type calcium channels and slows activation and deactivation. To understand the mechanism by which channel behavior is altered, we compared the effects of the drug on the kinetics and voltage dependence of ionic currents and gating currents. Currents from a homogeneous population of channels were obtained using cloned rabbit Ca(V)1.2 (alpha1C, cardiac L-type) channels stably expressed in baby hamster kidney cells together with beta1a and alpha2delta1 subunits. We found a striking dissociation between effects of FPL on ionic currents, which were modified strongly, and on gating currents, which were not detectably altered. Inward ionic currents were enhanced approximately 5-fold for a voltage step from -90 mV to +10 mV. Kinetics of activation and deactivation were slowed dramatically at most voltages. Curiously, however, at very hyperpolarized voltages (&lt; -250 mV), deactivation was actually faster in FPL than in control. Gating currents were measured using a variety of inorganic ions to block ionic current and also without blockers, by recording gating current at the reversal potential for ionic current (+50 mV). Despite the slowed kinetics of ionic currents, FPL had no discernible effect on the fundamental movements of gating charge that drive channel gating. Instead, FPL somehow affects the coupling of charge movement to opening and closing of the pore. An intriguing possibility is that the drug causes an inactivated state to become conducting without otherwise affecting gating transitions.
Two families of actin regulatory proteins are the tropomodulins and tropomyosins. Tropomodulin binds to tropomyosin (TM) and to the pointed end of actin filaments and &quot;caps&quot; the pointed end (i.e., inhibits its polymerization and depolymerization). Tropomodulin 1 has two distinct actin-capping regions: a folded C-terminal domain (residues 160-359), which does not bind to TM, and a conserved, N-terminal region, within residues 1-92 that binds TM and requires TM for capping activity. NMR and circular dichroism were used to determine the structure of a peptide containing residues 1-92 of tropomodulin (Tmod1(1-92)) and to define its TM binding site. Tmod1(1-92) is mainly disordered with only one helical region, residues 24-35. This helix forms part of the TM binding domain, residues 1-35, which become more ordered upon binding a peptide containing the N-terminus of an alpha-TM. Mutation of L27 to E or G in the Tmod helix reduces TM affinity. Residues 49-92 are required for capping but do not bind TM. Of these, residues 67-75 have the sequence of an amphipathic helix, but are not helical. Residues 55-62 and 76-92 display negative 1H-15N heteronuclear Overhauser enhancements showing they are flexible. The conformational dynamics of these residues may be important for actin capping activity.
Iterated ripple noise (IRN) is a broadband noise with temporal regularities, which can give rise to a perceptible pitch. Since the perceptual pitch to noise ratio of these stimuli can be altered without substantially altering their spectral content, they have been useful in exploring the role of temporal processing in pitch perception [Yost, W.A., 1996. Pitch strength of iterated rippled noise, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 100 (5), 3329-3335; Patterson, R.D., Handel, S.,Yost, W.A., Datta, A.J., 1996. The relative strength of the tone and noise components in iterated rippled noise, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 100 (5), 3286-3294]. A generalised IRN algorithm is presented, in which multiple time varying temporal correlations can be defined. The resulting time varying pitches are perceptually very salient. It is also possible to segregate and track multiple simultaneous time varying pitches in these stimuli. Temporal auditory models have previously been shown to account for the perception of IRNs with static delays [Patterson, R.D., Handel, S.,Yost, W.A., Datta, A.J., 1996. The relative strength of the tone and noise components in iterated rippled noise, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 100 (5), 3286-3294]. Here we show that some simple modifications to one such model [Meddis R., Hewitt, M.J., 1991. Virtual pitch and phase sensitivity of a computer model of the auditory periphery I. Pitch identification, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 89, 2866-2882] allow it to track moving correlations, and also improve its performance in response to static correlations.
A central problem in neural coding is to understand what are the features of the stimulus that are encoded by the neural activity. Assuming that neuronal coding is optimized for information transmission, we can use mutual information maximization for extracting the relevant features encoded in certain activity patterns. We show that this algorithm can be successfully applied to the study of different encoding strategies for location and direction of movement in hippocampal and lateral septal cells. Using this approach, we find that in lateral septum, a significant amount of information about location can be encoded in patterns that are not place-fields.
The present study demonstrates the application of the Unsupervised Spike Sorting algorithm (USS) to separation of multi-unit recordings and investigation of neuronal activity patterns in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). This nucleus is the main target for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in Parkinsonian patients. The USS comprises a fast unsupervised learning procedure and allows sorting of multiple single units, if any, out of a bioelectric signal. The algorithm was tested on a simulated signal with different levels of noise and with application of Time and Spatial Adaptation (TSA) algorithm for denoising. The results of the test showed a good quality of spike separation and allow its application to investigation of neuronal activity patterns in a medical application. One hundred twenty-four single channel multi-unit records from STN of 6 Parkinsonian patients were separated with USS into 492 single unit trains. Auto- and crosscorrellograms for each unit were analyzed in order to reveal oscillatory, bursting and synchronized activity patterns. We analyzed separately two brain hemispheres. For each hemisphere the percentage of units of each activity pattern were calculated. The results were compared for the first and the second operated hemispheres of each patient and in total.
Experimental and theoretical results seem to demand that the study of neural representations in the brain considers both the subthreshold and suprathreshold dynamic activity of the neural membrane potential, rather than be solely focussed on stimulus representation in trains of action potentials. In a dynamical systems formulation, the membrane potential can be regarded as the &quot;state&quot; of the neuron, evolving continuously over time and space, within an infinite dimensional space, in response to ever changing inputs. Formally, the state of the neuron, together with future inputs, is sufficient to fully determine the future behaviour of the neuron. In this paper, the characterisation of membrane potential activity is approached from a control theoretic viewpoint as a &quot;reachability&quot; problem, in which the effect of particular stimulus-evoked synaptic inputs is seen as driving the cell from some initial state of the neuron to a particular terminal state on a given manifold. It is shown that a fluctuating subthreshold membrane potential induced by synaptic background activity, and the cooperative interaction of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, may be important factors in allowing the cell to &quot;reach&quot; a maximal subset of all possible membrane potential states, through the action of its synaptic inputs.

Ligand interactions of a piscine bradykinin (BK) receptor expressed in vitro have been characterized for the first time by measuring inositol phosphate accumulation. The ligands were analogues of zebrafish BK with serial substitutions by D-amino acids or alanine. Substitutions at residues Arg(1), Gly(4), Ser(6), Pro(7), Leu(8) and Arg(9) caused greatly reduced potency and maximum response. The Pro(3) --&gt; Ala analogue had higher potency but lower maximum response. The peptide HOE140 was a weak partial agonist although it is an antagonist at the human B2 receptor and a potent agonist at chicken B2.Thus, cloned zebrafish BK receptor reveals a ligand-interaction profile that is distinct from mammalian B1 and B2 receptors and from the previously characterized BK receptor in trout stomach, but similar to the receptor in cod intestine. These results increase our understanding of the evolution of BK receptors and the functions of the kallikrein-kinin system.
We tested the hypothesis that the increased incidence of schizophrenia among Surinamese immigrants to The Netherlands could be explained by a similarly high incidence in Surinam. We conducted a 1-year first-contact incidence study in Surinam and compared the findings with data from a similar study conducted in The Netherlands using the same inclusion criteria and instruments. The risk of developing a schizophrenic disorder was 2.4 times higher (95% CI 1.3-4.2) in Surinamese immigrants than in residents of Surinam. The increased risk is probably due to environmental factors in The Netherlands.


There is considerable evidence that Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (TS) is due to frontal-striatal dysfunction. Here we determine whether adaptive cortical changes occur that might ameliorate the effects of this dysfunction. Specifically we test the hypothesis that increased interactions between selected cortical areas may help compensate through strengthened inhibition of inappropriate motor responses. To this end we recorded EEG in nine unmedicated patients with TS and nine age-matched healthy subjects during a variety of behavioural tasks related to motor inhibition. Functional connectivity between cortical areas was assessed by means of EEG coherence in the alpha frequency band (8-12 Hz). Elevated coherence was found between sensorimotor areas and the prefrontal and mesial frontal cortex during the acute voluntary suppression of tics. The same frontomesial network was overactive in TS patients compared with healthy subjects even when suppression of voluntary movement rather than tics was required during a Go-NoGo task. Behavioural performance in the Go-NoGo task was not different between patients and controls, confirming that the elevated frontomesial coherence in TS was likely to be adaptive rather than functionally disruptive. It is concluded that the gain in inhibitory frontomesial cortical networks is adaptively heightened in TS, and that the same network can also be engaged in the voluntary suppression of tics.
Patients with specific neurological, psychiatric or cardiovascular conditions are at enhanced risk of cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death. The neurogenic mechanisms are poorly understood. However, in many cases, stress may precipitate cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death in vulnerable patients, presumably via centrally driven autonomic nervous system responses. From a cardiological perspective, the likelihood of arrhythmia is strongly associated with abnormalities in electrical repolarization (recovery) of the heart muscle after each contraction. Inhomogeneous and asymmetric repolarization, reflected in ECG T-wave abnormalities, is associated with a greatly increased risk of arrhythmia, i.e. a proarrhythmic state. We therefore undertook a study to identify the brain mechanisms by which stress can induce cardiac arrhythmia through efferent autonomic drive. We recruited a typical group of 10 out-patients attending a cardiological clinic. We simultaneously measured brain activity, using H2(15)O PET, and the proarrhythmic state of the heart, using ECG, during mental and physical stress challenges and corresponding control conditions. Proarrhythmic changes in the heart were quantified from two ECG-derived measures of repolarization inhomogeneity and were related to changes in magnitude and lateralization of regional brain activity reflected in regional cerebral blood flow. Across the patient group, we observed a robust positive relationship between right-lateralized asymmetry in midbrain activity and proarrhythmic abnormalities of cardiac repolarization (apparent in two independent ECG measures) during stress. This association between stress-induced lateralization of midbrain activity and enhanced arrhythmic vulnerability provides empirical support for a putative mechanism for stress-induced sudden death, wherein lateralization of central autonomic drive during stress results in imbalanced activity in right and left cardiac sympathetic nerves. A right-left asymmetry in sympathetic drive across the surface of the heart disrupts the electrophysiological homogeneity of ventricular repolarization, predisposing to arrhythmia. Our findings highlight a proximal brain basis for stress-induced cardiac arrhythmic vulnerability.
All vertebrates have a similar series of rhombomeric hindbrain segments within which cranial nerve efferent nuclei are distributed in a similar rostrocaudal sequence. The registration between these two morphological patterns is reviewed here to highlight the conserved vs. variable aspects of hindbrain organization contributing to diversification of efferent sub-nuclei. Recent studies of segmental origins and migrations of branchiomotor, visceromotor and octavolateral efferent neurons revealed more segmental similarities than differences among vertebrates. Nonetheless, discrete variations exist in the origins of trigeminal, abducens and glossopharyngeal efferent nuclei. Segmental variation of the abducens nucleus remains the sole example of efferent neuronal homeosis during vertebrate hindbrain evolution. Comparison of cranial efferent segmental variations with surrounding intrinsic neurons will distinguish evolutionary changes in segment identity from lesser transformations in expression of unique neuronal types. The diversification of motoneuronal subgroups serving new muscles and functions appears to occur primarily by elaboration within and migration from already established segmental efferent pools rather than by de novo specification in different segmental locations. Identifying subtle variations in segment-specific neuronal phenotypes requires studies of cranial efferent organization within highly diverse groups such as teleosts and mammals.
Bimodal cells in the torus semicircularis of the toadfish respond to both directional acoustic stimuli and hydrodynamic stimuli. Our previous physiological work indicated that bimodal cells may be distributed throughout the torus semicircularis. In this study, neurobiotin was used to compare the distribution of auditory-only and bimodal sites and to assess the inputs to those sites. A brief neurobiotin injection with short survival time was used to document the recording location. In other fish, a longer injection and survival time was used at an auditory-only or a bimodal site to fill the axons of the medullary inputs. Auditory-only sites were located in the most dorsal and medial sites in nucleus centralis. Bimodal sites were identified within both nucleus centralis and nucleus ventrolateralis. The greatest number of retrogradely filled cell bodies was found in the descending octaval nucleus following injection at auditory-only recording sites in nucleus centralis. In contrast, retrogradely filled cell bodies were found in both the descending octaval nucleus and the lateral line nucleus medialis following injection at bimodal sites in nucleus centralis or nucleus ventrolateralis. Retrogradely filled cell bodies were located in the dorsal and ventral divisions of the secondary octaval population from injections at either bimodal or auditory-only sites. The secondary octaval population has been implicated in auditory processing based on previous studies of both auditory specialist and auditory generalist fishes; however, this study is the first to reveal the potential role of the secondary octaval population in directional hearing in a fish. Relatively large numbers of retrogradely filled cells around the lateral lemniscus at consistent locations in the medulla indicate that a perilemniscal cell group also might be a component of the directional hearing circuit.
Thalamocortical connections are a neuroanatomical feature shared among vertebrates, although the extent and organization of these connections vary among species. From an evolutionary standpoint, reptiles represent early stages of the pattern of connectivity between the thalamus and cortex, and elucidation of these pathways may help to reveal the biological significance of these projections. The present tract tracing study was performed to examine the organization of thalamocortical projections in the pond turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans. All experiments were carried out using in vitro brain preparations. Injections of neurobiotin into the medial cortex resulted in labeled neurons in the ipsilateral dorsomedial anterior nucleus of the thalamus, those in the dorsomedial cortex labeled neurons in the dorsolateral anterior nucleus, and injections into the dorsal cortex resulted in labeled neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus. Injections of neurobiotin into these thalamic nuclei confirmed the projections to the cortex. Finally, neurobiotin injections primarily into the medial cortex resulted in bilateral label of axons and terminals in the suprapeduncular nucleus of the hypothalamus. The results of the neurobiotin injections revealed a topographic pattern of thalamocortical connections such that medial cortical regions connect with medial thalamic nuclei and lateral cortical regions connect with lateral nuclei. These findings suggest that the presence of functionally segregated thalamocortical projections is a conserved feature of brain organization among amniotes. Moreover, this work describes a descending pathway linking cortical regions with the red nucleus via the hypothalamus thereby providing indirect cortical control of the reptilian rubrospinal system.
Animals coordinate their physiological state with external cues to appropriately time reproduction. These external cues exert effects through influences on the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons (GnRH), at the apex of the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis. In green treefrogs, mating calls are important regulators of reproductive behavior and physiology. Reception of mating calls causes an increase in androgen levels, and androgens promote the production of mating calls, demonstrating a mutual influence between the communication and endocrine systems. In order to investigate the central nervous system correlates of social regulation of the HPG axis in green treefrogs, we exposed males to a mating chorus or a control stimulus (tones), counted the resulting number of septo-preoptic GnRH-immunoreactive cells (GnRH-ir), and measured changes in plasma androgens. We found that reception of the mating chorus caused an increase in the number of GnRH-ir cells. As previously shown, we also found that the reception of the mating chorus resulted in higher androgen levels, suggesting that the higher GnRH-ir cell number represents increased GnRH production and release. We suggest that mating calls are an important supplementary cue that promotes GnRH production and release within the context of GnRH regulation by seasonal cues. Previous studies have proposed a neuroanatomical link between the anuran auditory system and GnRH neurons. Our results demonstrate a functional role for this proposed sensory-endocrine circuit, and show for the first time an influence of acoustic signals on GnRH neurons.
Chronic stress or noxious stimuli delay wound healing in humans and rodents. The effects of stress on wound healing appear to be mediated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and, in particular, increases in corticosteroids. As previously shown, positive social interaction faciltiates wound healing through suppression of corticosteroids. In the present study, we investigated the effects of pair-housing on wound healing and corticosteroid concentrations in three mouse species, the monogamous Peromyscus californicus, the facultative-monogamous Peromyscus eremicus, and the polygynous Peromyscus leucopus. Pair-housed P. californicus and P. eremicus had significantly smaller wounds than socially isolated cohorts. However, wound healing in P. leucopus was not affected by housing condition. P. californicus and P. eremicus mice that were pair-housed for 2 weeks, then separated from their partners 48h prior to wounding also had wounds comparable to socially isolated mice. The benefits of social housing diminished when P. californicus and P. eremicus pairs were prevented from interacting physically via a double screen barrier. Two hours of daily restraint did not affect basal corticosterone concentrations or wound healing in either P. californicus or P. eremicus. In contrast, restraint facilitated wound healing in P. leucopus. Taken together, these data suggest that social contact facilitates wound healing in two monogamous, but not a polygynous, mouse species.
Infectious challenge triggers a broad array of coordinated changes within the host organism, including alterations in sleep-wake behavior and body temperature. Pro-inflammatory cytokines orchestrate many of the behavioral, metabolic, and endocrine responses to immune challenge. Although interleukin (IL)-6 mediates several aspects of sickness behavior, a role for this cytokine as a mediator of alterations in sleep in response to immune challenge has not been established. We evaluated sleep-wake behavior and core body temperature of IL-6-deficient (IL-6 KO; B6.129S6-Il6tm1Kopf) mice and C57BL/6J control mice after intraperitoneal (IP) administration of 10 microg lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Because feedback mechanisms that regulate responses to immune challenge exhibit circadian rhythms, we evaluated responses to LPS administered at the beginning of both the light and dark portions of the light:dark cycle. LPS-induced increases in non-rapid eye movements sleep (NREMS) of both mouse strains, but this increase was less pronounced in IL-6 KO mice than in C57BL/6J mice. Strain differences in LPS-induced increases in NREMS were greatest after light-onset administration. During the 12 h light period, NREMS of C57BL/6J mice increased from 53.0+/-1.7% of recording time after vehicle to 65.4+/-1.4% of recording time after LPS. During this same time period, NREMS of IL-6 KO mice increased from 50.5+/-1.8% after vehicle to only 52.4+/-1.8% of recording time after LPS. REMS of both mouse strains was suppressed to the same extent after LPS, irrespective of timing of administration. LPS-induced fever in C57BL/6J mice, with peak magnitude of 1.4+/-0.3 degrees C and 1.8+/-0.2 degrees C after dark onset and light onset administration, respectively. In contrast, this dose of LPS-induced profound hypothermia in IL-6 KO mice, with nadirs of hypothermia reaching 4.9+/-1.0 degrees C after injection at dark onset and 2.2+/-0.5 degrees C after administration at light onset. These results indicate that IL-6 mediates some of the effects of LPS on NREMS and body temperature of mice, and that the magnitude and duration of these effects differ as a function of the time at which the challenge is given.
Interleukin (IL)-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) are involved in the regulation of non-rapid eye movements sleep (NREMS). Accumulating evidence suggests IL-6 modulates sleep under some pathophysiologic conditions. We used mice lacking a functional IL-6 gene to investigate further a potential role for IL-6 in the regulation of sleep. IL-6 knockout mice (B6.129S6-Il6tm1Kopf; n=10) and C57BL/6J mice (n=10) were purchased from the Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME). Twenty-four-hour baseline recordings were obtained from mice in the absence of any experimental manipulation. Mice were then subjected to 6-h sleep deprivation beginning at light onset. Recordings were obtained during the deprivation period and for 18 h thereafter. During baseline conditions there were no differences between mouse strains with respect to the duration, timing or intensity of NREMS. However, across the 24-h recording period IL-6 knockout mice spent approximately 30% more time in rapid eye movements sleep (REMS) than did C57BL/6J mice. Relative to C57BL/6J mice, core body temperatures of IL-6 knockout mice were higher during the light period of the light:dark cycle. Both strains responded to sleep deprivation by spending more time in NREMS and REMS. Although the total increase in the amount of NREMS after sleep deprivation was the same in both strains, IL-6 knockout mice took 6h longer to accumulate this additional sleep. Under the conditions of this study, IL-6 does not appear necessary for the full manifestation of NREMS, although this cytokine may influence the dynamics of responses to sleep deprivation. That mice lacking IL-6 spend more time in REMS suggests that interactions between IL-6 and REMS regulatory mechanisms may differ from those of IL-1 and/or TNF.
Xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are caused by a genetic defect of nucleotide excision repair mechanisms, showing cutaneous hypersensitivity to sunlight and progressive neurological disturbances. The cause of neurological abnormalities has yet to be clarified and fundamental treatments have never been established in both disorders. In order to investigate neurodegeneration of XPA and CS, we immunohistochemically examined deposition of oxidative stress-related materials of nucleotides and expression of two types of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the brains from autopsy cases of XPA and CS. Cases of XPA but not CS demonstrated nuclear deposition of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and cytoplasmic deposition of 8-hydroxyguanosine, being speculated as oxidative stress-related materials of DNA and RNA, respectively, in the globus pallidus. Four of five XPA cases exhibited reduced neuronal immunoreactivity for Cu/ZnSOD in the cerebral and cerebellar corteces in addition to the basal ganglia, and two XPA cases showed reduced immunoreactivity for MnSOD in the brain regions examined. In contrast, five CS cases demonstrated comparatively preserved immunoreactivity for Cu/ZnSOD and MnSOD. Both XPA and CS cases showed increased cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for Cu/ZnSOD and/or MnSOD in the microglial cells in the cerebral and cerebellar white matters. These findings suggest that oxidative damage to nucleotides and disturbed SOD expression can be involved in neurodegeneration in XPA but not CS.
In recent years the amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) has been increasingly referred to as the amyloid beta protein (Abeta) cascade hypothesis. This subtle rephrasing reflects the acknowledgment that there is debate within the field as to whether Abeta aggregates other than Abeta deposited as classic amyloid fibrils could trigger the pathological cascade that results in neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Despite this semantic shift, which highlights one enigmatic aspects of AD, the evidence supporting the Abeta hypothesis of AD is extensive. More importantly the Abeta hypothesis of AD has led and will continue to lead to the development of rationale therapeutic strategies that are likely to either prevent or treat this devastating disease. In this review, the evidence supporting the Abeta hypothesis and the recent advances in anti-Abeta therapy are discussed.
According to the prevailing amyloid cascade hypothesis, the onset and progression of a chronic neurodegenerative condition in Alzheimer disease (AD) is initiated by the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) accumulation in brain and consequent neuronal toxicity. Recent emphasis on co-morbidity of AD and cerebrovascular disease and the recognition that cerebrovascular dysregulation is an important feature of AD, has shed new light on neurovascular dysfunction as a possible contributor to cognitive decline and Alzheimer neurodegeneration. In the same time, this association has raised a question as to whether there is a causal relationship between cerebrovascular dysregulation and Abeta-initiated pathology, and whether influencing targets in the neurovasculature may prevent different forms of Abeta brain accumulation and/or lower pre-existing accumulates in a later stage of the disease. Pathogenic cascades which operate to dissociate normal transport exchanges between central and peripheral pools of Abeta, and decreased vascular competence leading to brain hypoperfusion and impaired Abeta clearance are discussed. We suggest that there is a link between neurovascular dysfunction and elevated brain Abeta which provides a new scenario for therapeutic interventions to control Alzheimer mental deterioration.
Teleost eyes grow throughout life by adding neurons and stretching extant tissue. New retinal neurons of all types are added at the ciliary margin and new rod photoreceptors are inserted throughout retina in the outer nuclear layer (ONL). New rod photoreceptors result from the division of progenitor cells located in the ONL amidst functioning rod photoreceptor cell nuclei, but it is not known how new rod addition is regulated. Previous experiments using an organotypic retinal slice preparation revealed that insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) up-regulates the division of the rod progenitor cells [Dev. Brain Res. 76 (1993) 183], but the site of IGF-1 action was unknown. Here, we show where in the retina IGF-1 is made, where IGF receptors are located, and we identify the role of IGF-1 in adult retinal rod neurogenesis with both gain-and loss-of-function experiments. We found that IGF-1 is expressed by cone photoreceptor cells and its abundance varies with a daily rhythm, being significantly higher at night. In vivo application of exogenous IGF-1 increases rod progenitor cell division, an effect that is greater at night than during the day. We also show that inhibiting the function of IGF receptors decreases proliferation of rod progenitor cells. Finally, we show that IGF receptors are located on rod progenitor cells as well as on cone and rod photoreceptors. Taken together, these data suggest that the rhythmic production and release of IGF-1 plays a role in regulating the insertion of new rod photoreceptors into the retina. The diurnal change in IGF-1 abundance and effects of exogenous IGF-1 are consistent with the previous demonstration that rod progenitor cell division is threefold greater at night than in the day [Brain Res. 673 (1995) 119; Brain Res. 712 (1996) 40]. We also show that the insertion of new rod photoreceptors at the central edge of the ciliary neurogenic zone very likely also depends on IGF-1 production by cone photoreceptors. We propose that addition of new rod photoreceptors into the functioning retina is regulated through a feedback mechanism mediated at least in part via the IGF-1 produced in the cone photoreceptors.
Genetically engineered mice have been generated to model a variety of neurological disorders. The chakragati (ckr) mouse is beginning to provide valuable insights into the structural brain changes underlying certain manifestations of schizophrenia. For instance, these mice show enlargement of the lateral ventricles, an abnormality frequently reported as a structural aberration in the schizophrenic brain. As neither the anatomical pattern nor the timing of this ventricular enlargement is known, we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques to non-invasively visualize the development of the ventricular system in 5-, 10- and 30-day-old ckr pups. High-resolution MR images obtained from these mutants showed a progressive enlargement of the lateral ventricles, starting at day 5 of postnatal life. These emerging deficits were associated with abnormalities in mid-saggital corpus callosum area and thickness, particularly in 30-day-old adolescent animals. At this time of development, aberrant behaviors that mimic certain symptoms of schizophrenia also appeared in ckr mice suggesting that structural changes in ventricular size predates the onset of psychotic-like behaviors. These results are viewed as further indication that pre- and peri-natal disturbances of the ventricular system and adjacent neural regions may be important pathogenic factors in schizophrenia. Application of MRI to the ckr mouse is relatively new but has great potential for clarifying the relationship between brain structure changes and genetically induced vulnerabilities to psychoses.
Distributed linear solutions are widely used in source localization to solve the ill-posed EEG/MEG inverse problem. In the classical approach based on dipole sources, these methods estimate the current densities at a great number of brain sites, typically at the nodes of a 3-D grid which discretizes the chosen solution space. The estimated current density distributions are displayed as brain electromagnetic tomography (BET) images. We have tested well known minimum norm solutions (MN, WMN, LORETA) and other linear inverse solutions [WROP, sLORETA, interference uniform, gain uniform, weight vector normalized (WVN), and a new solution named SLF (Standardized Lead Field)], using a MEG configuration (BTi Magnes 2500 WH with 148 axial magnetometers) and a realistic head model using BEM (Boundary Element Method). The solutions were compared in a noise-free condition and in the presence of noise using the classical dipole localization errors (DLE) together with a new figure of merit that we called max gain uniformity, which measures the capability of an inverse linear solution to show spots of activity with similar amplitudes on the brain electromagnetic tomographies when multiple dipole sources with similar moments are simultaneously active. Whereas some solutions (sLORETA, interference uniform and SLF) were capable of zero dipole localization errors in the noise-free case, none of them reached 100% of correct dipole localizations in the presence of a high level of Gaussian noise. The SLF solution, which has the advantage to be independent from any regularization parameter, presented the best results with the lowest max gain uniformities, with almost 100% of correct dipole localizations with 10% of noise and more than 90% of correct localizations with 30% of noise added to the data. Nevertheless, no solution was able to combine at the same time a correct localization of single sources and the capability to visualize multiple sources with comparable amplitudes on the brain electromagnetic tomographies.
Patients with epilepsy have a high prevalence of psychiatric comorbid disorders. Many comorbidities have a significant impact on the medical management and quality of life of these patients. The main psychiatric complications in epilepsy include depression, anxiety disorders, and psychosis. Depression in epilepsy is very common, particularly among patients with partial seizures of temporal lobe origin. Despite its high prevalence, depression and other psychiatric complications remain often unrecognized and untreated in patients with epilepsy, and differential diagnosis may be difficult.. Comorbidity of epilepsy may be due to a shared pathophysiological mechanism, however, coincidence or selection bias cannot always be excluded. In addition, genetic, psychosocial and iatrogenic factors may also contribute to the comorbidity. In this review, we discuss the clinical impact of main psychiatric comorbidities and demonstrate that treatment of epilepsy extends far beyond seizure control.
The availability of new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has expanded the spectrum of medical treatment options in epilepsy. However, the development of ten new compounds (vigabatrin, felbamate, gabapentin, lamotrigine, topiramate, tiagabine, oxcarbazepine, levetiracetam, zonisamide, and pregabalin) has not changed the basic principles of epilepsy treatment. The choice of an AED depends upon seizure type or seizure syndrome, efficacy, safety, tolerability, patient age and gender, concomitant medication, and comorbid conditions. In general, most of the newer AEDs are not necessarily more effective but usually better tolerated than the traditional agents mainly because of their favorable pharmacokinetic profiles and fewer drug interactions. Because treatment options have been widened with the introduction of these new compounds, drug therapy can now be tailored to the requirements of the individual patient. Nevertheless, significant safety and efficacy issues continue to exist and there is a strong need for the development of even better agents. This clinical review focuses on current aspects of drug therapy in epilepsy.



Over the past quarter-century, Canadian researchers, clinical practitioners, and policy specialists have made several notable contributions to the broad field of violence risk assessment and management. In part, these contributions have been fostered by major changes in law over this period; in part, they have been spurred by findings from large-scale Canadian prediction--outcome studies. This paper offers references for a range of Canadian-inspired assessment schemes designed to evaluate psychopathy and potential for violence against others.
With his experiments and findings J. Ev. Purkyne influenced 34 scientific disciplines; in some of them he is assumed to be their founder (embryophysiology, histology, pharmacological physiology, biophysics, comparative physiology). He was the pioneer in the field of neuroscience not only due to his neuroanatomical descriptions but namely due to his neurophysiological experiments. Beside the description of &quot;Purkyne cells&quot; and cells of other regions of the brain, Purkyne studied also the structure of neuronal processes and it is possible to attribute him the first description of dendrites. Existing material shows that Purkyne studied also the structure of hippocampus. Those and other papers prove that Purkyne recognised possible functional differences between various types of neurons and he speculated about their mutual relations. Only contemporary particularly detailed knowledge on the structure of hippocampal neuronal circuits, description of the mediator interaction and modulation together with the identification of neuroplastic processes in the hippocampus enable to accomplish the Purkyne's attempt to correlate the structure and function.
Pharmacological studies with drugs that activate or inhibit several protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes have identified the PKC family of serine-threonine kinases as important in the regulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor function. PKC modulates GABA(A) receptor surface density, chloride conductance and receptor sensitivity to positive allosteric modulators such as neurosteroids, ethanol, benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Recent studies using PKC isozyme-selective reagents and gene-targeted mice have begun to identify critical roles for three isozymes, PKCbetaII, PKCvarepsilon and PKCgamma, in various aspects of GABA(A) receptor regulation. Progress in this field touches upon therapeutic areas that are of great clinical importance such as anxiety and addiction. Increased understanding of how PKC regulates GABA(A) receptors and which PKC isozymes are involved holds promise for development of new treatments for diverse neuropsychiatric disorders.
The sensation commonly referred to as 'pain' has two components. The first is the sensory-discriminative component and provides information on location, modality and intensity of stimuli. The second is the affective-motivational component and refers to the emotional responses (fear, distress etc.) and the urge to respond evoked by the somatic sensation, and at the cortical level these two components appear to be located in different regions. The cortex probably influences pain by two different mechanisms. There is good evidence that the cortex can reduce pain by interrupting the transmission of noxious information from the spinal cord level by activating descending pain modulatory systems located in the brainstem. Less well established is the idea that modulation can also occur at the cortical level to change the affective-motivational aspects of nociception so that pain is perceived but looses its emotional and aversive component.
In sensory neurons heat is transduced by a subfamily of TRP channels sharing sequence homology with the capsaicin-sensitive vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (TRPV1), but differing in their thermal response thresholds. To identify a neuronal cell line endogenously expressing noxious heat-transducing ion channels, we examined F-11 cells, a hybridoma derived from rat dorsal root ganglia and mouse neuroblastoma. Using RT-PCR, transcripts homologous to TRPV2 and TRPV4, but not to TRPV1 or TRPV3, were found. We isolated a full-length cDNA of 2.4 kb coding for a 757-amino acid protein corresponding to mouse TRPV2, which was further characterized by immunocytochemistry and electrophysiology. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, we observed a heat-evoked increase in outward and inward currents with a threshold of 51.6 +/- 0.2 degrees C. The current-voltage relationship stimulated by a temperature of 52 degrees C was characterized by an outward rectification with a reversal potential close to -10 mV. Heat-evoked currents could be inhibited by ruthenium red. There was no activation by stimulation with capsaicin or 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate. Our results indicate that F-11 cells express functional noxious heat-sensitive TRPV2 channels. Thus, we propose that F-11 cells represent a valuable in vitro model to characterize the properties of TRPV2 in a native neuronal environment.
Ran is a nuclear Ras-like GTPase that is required for various nuclear events including the bi-directional transport of proteins and ribonucleoproteins through the nuclear pore complex, spindle formation, and reassembly of the nuclear envelope. One of the key regulators of Ran is RanGAP1, a Ran specific GTPase activating protein. The question of whether a mechanism exists for controlling nucleocytoplasmic transport through the regulation of RanGAP1 activity continues to be debated. Here we show that RanGAP1 is phosphorylated in vivo and in vitro. Serine-358 (358S) was identified as the major phosphorylation site, by MALDI-TOF-MS spectrometry. Site directed mutagenesis at this position abolished the phosphorylation. Experiments using purified recombinant kinase and specific inhibitors such as DRB and apigenin strongly suggest that casein kinase II (CK2) is the responsible kinase. Although the phosphorylation of 358S of RanGAP1 did not significantly alter its GAP activity, the phosphorylated wild type RanGAP1, but not a mutant harboring a mutation at the phosphorylation site 358S, efficiently formed a stable ternary complex with Ran and RanBP1 in vivo, suggesting that the 358S phosphorylation of RanGAP1 affects the Ran system.
The localization of mRNA in neuronal dendrites plays a role in both locally and temporally regulated protein synthesis, which is required for certain forms of synaptic plasticity. RNA granules constitute a dendritic mRNA transport machinery in neurons, which move along microtubules. RNA granules contain densely packed clusters of ribosomes, but lack some factors that are required for translation, suggesting that they are translationally incompetent. Recently some of the components of RNA granules have been identified, and their functions are in the process of being examined, in attempts to better understand the properties of RNA granules. Mammalian Staufen, a double-stranded RNA binding protein, is a component of RNA granules. Staufen is localized in the somatodendritic domain of neurons, and plays an important role in dendritic mRNA targeting. Recently, one of the mammalian homologs of Staufen, Staufen2 (Stau2), was shown to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. This finding suggests the possibility that Stau2 binds RNA in the nucleus and that this ribonucleoprotein particle is transported from the nucleus to RNA granules in the cytoplasm. A closer study of this process might provide a clue to the mechanism by which RNA granules are formed.
We have analyzed the distribution of neural crest-derived precursors and the expression of catecholaminergic and neuronal markers in developing adrenal tissue of chick embryos. Undifferentiated neural crest cells are found in presumptive adrenal regions from embryonic day 3 (E3) onward. An increasing proportion of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA indicates catecholaminergic differentiation of precursors not only in primary sympathetic ganglia, but also in presumptive adrenal regions. Whereas precursors and differentiating cells show mesenchymal distribution until E5, discrete adrenal anlagen form during E6. Even during E5, catecholaminergic cells with low or undetectable neurofilament M (NF-M) mRNA expression prevail in positions at which adrenal anlagen become distinct during E6. The predominance of TH-positive and NF-M-negative cells is maintained throughout embryogenesis in adrenal tissue. RNA encoding SCG10, a pan-neuronal marker like NF-M, is strongly expressed throughout adrenal anlagen during E6 but is found at reduced levels in chromaffin cells compared with neuronal cells at E15. Two additional neuronal markers, synaptotagmin 1 and neurexin 1, are expressed at low to undetectable levels in developing chromaffin cells throughout embryogenesis. The developmental regulation of neuronal markers shows at least three different patterns among the four mRNAs analyzed. Importantly, there is no generalized downregulation of neuronal markers in developing adrenal anlagen. Thus, our observations question the classical concept of chromaffin differentiation from a common sympathoadrenal progenitor expressing neuronal properties and suggest alternative models with changing instructive signals or separate progenitor populations for sympathetic neuronal and chromaffin endocrine cells.
Purinoceptor subtypes were localised to various tissue types present within the nasal cavity of the rat, using immunohistochemical methods. P2X3 receptor immunoreactivity was localised in the primary olfactory neurones located both in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organs (VNO) and also on subepithelial nerve fibres in the respiratory region. P2X5 receptor immunoreactivity was found in the squamous, respiratory and olfactory epithelial cells of the rat nasal mucosa. P2X7 receptor immunoreactivity was also expressed in epithelial cells and colocalised with caspase 9 (an apoptotic marker), suggesting an association with apoptosis and epithelial turnover. P2Y1 receptor immunoreactivity was found within the respiratory epithelium and submucosal glandular tissue. P2Y2 receptor immunoreactivity was localised to the mucus-secreting cells within the VNO. The possible functional roles of these receptors are discussed.
Around 80-95% of the immature dopaminergic neurons die when embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue is transplanted. Cell death occurs both during the preparation of donor tissue and after graft implantation, but the effect of combining successful neuroprotective treatments before and after transplantation has not been extensively investigated. We therefore treated embryonic rat mesencephalic tissue with a combination of the lipid peroxidation inhibitor tirilazad mesylate (3 microM) and the caspase inhibitor Ac.YVAD.cmk (500 microM) and transplanted the tissue into hemiparkinsonian rats kept hypothermic (32-33 degrees C) or normothermic (37 degrees C) during, and 90 min following, graft surgery. Suspension cell number did not differ between untreated or tirilazad/YVAD-treated preparations prior to transplantation. When graft survival was evaluated 6 weeks after implantation, both tirilazad/YVAD pretreatment and mild hypothermia increased the survival of transplanted dopaminergic neurons. Approximately 50-57% of the embryonic dopaminergic neurons survived the dissociation and grafting procedure in rats rendered hypothermic, but there was no significant additive effect on graft survival with a combined treatment. All groups of rats exhibited behavioral recovery in the amphetamine-induced rotation test. There was a significantly enhanced functional capacity of grafts placed in hypothermic as compared to normothermic rats. However, tirilazad/YVAD pretreated implants did not afford greater behavioral improvement than control-treated grafts. Our results suggest that neuroprotective treatments administered prior to and immediately after neural graft implantation may under certain conditions rescue, at least in part, the same subset of dopaminergic neurons. The study also emphasizes the importance of the immediate time after grafting for transplant survival, with relevance both for primary mesencephalic implants and stem cell grafts.
Transplantation of neural tissue has been explored as a potential therapy to replace dead or dying cells in the brain, such as after brain injury or neurodegenerative disease. However, survival of transplanted tissue is poor, especially when the transplant recipient is of advanced age. Recent studies have demonstrated improvement of neuronal deficits in aged animals given a diet supplemented with blueberry extract. The present study focuses on the survival of fetal hippocampal transplants to young (4 months) or middle-aged (16 months) animals with or without dietary supplementation with blueberry extract. Results indicate that fetal hippocampus transplanted to middle-aged host animals exhibits poor survival characterized by reduced growth and compromised tissue organization. However, when middle-aged animals were maintained on a diet supplemented with 2% blueberry extract, hippocampal graft growth was significantly improved and cellular organization of grafts was comparable to that seen in tissue grafted to young host animals. Thus, the data suggest that factor(s) in blueberries may have significant effects on development and organization of this important brain region.
The use of ex vivo gene therapy in the central nervous system has so far suffered from transgene downregulation. Condensation of the transgenic sequences has been proposed to be a mechanism involved in this silencing. In this study we inhibited either histone deacetylation or DNA methylation in neural progenitor cell lines, transduced with a lentiviral vector carrying green fluorescent protein (GFP), prior to grafting them into the rat striatum. The expression of GFP was significantly higher in grafts pretreated with either of the inhibitors. After 1 week in vivo we detected an 11-fold increase in the number of GFP-expressing cells due to the inhibition of DNA methylation in vitro with azadeoxycytidine and a ninefold increase when inhibiting histone deacetylation with trichostatin A. This suggests that a pretreatment paradigm could be used to increase efficacy of ex vivo delivery of a therapeutic protein locally in the brain.
Trophic factors have been found to play a significant role both in long-term survival processes and in more rapid and dynamic processes in the brain and spinal cord. However, little is known regarding the regulation of expression of growth factors, and how these proteins interact on a cell-to-cell basis. We have studied protein levels of one growth factor known to affect the noradrenergic innervation of the hippocampal formation, namely brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The purpose of the present study was to determine if appropriate innervation or contact between the LC noradrenergic neurons and their target, the hippocampus, affects expression of this growth factor in either brain region. Fetal brain stem tissue, containing the LC, and hippocampal formation were dissected from embryonic day 17 rat fetuses and transplanted together or alone into the anterior chamber of the eye of adult Fisher 344 rats. The tissue was grown together for 6 weeks, after which the animals were sacrificed and ELISAs for BDNF were undertaken. Transplantation to the anterior chamber of the eye increased the expression of BDNF in the hippocampal but not the brain stem tissue, compared with levels observed in fetal and adult rats in vivo. In addition, double grafting with hippocampal tissue more than tripled BDNF levels in brain stem grafts and doubled BDNF levels in the hippocampal portion of double grafts compared with hippocampal single grafts. Triple grafts containing basal forebrain, hippocampus, and brain stem LC tissue increased brain stem and hippocampal BDNF levels even further. Colchicine treatment of LC-hippocampal double grafts gave rise to a significant decrease in hippocampal BDNF levels to levels seen in single hippocampal grafts, while only a partial reduction of BDNF levels was seen in the brain stem portion of the same double grafts treated with colchicine. The findings suggest that an appropriate hippocampal innervation or contact with its target tissues is essential for regulation of BDNF expression in the brain stem, and that retrograde transport of BDNF can occur between double grafted fetal tissues in oculo.
Cognitive and emotional flexibility involve a coordinated interaction between working memory, attention, reward expectations, and the evaluation of rewards and punishers so that behaviour can be changed if necessary. We describe a model at the integrate-and-fire neuronal level of the synaptic and spiking mechanisms which can hold an expectation of a reward rule in working memory, and can reverse the reward rule if expected rewards are not obtained. An example of a reward rule is that stimulus 1 is currently associated with reward, and stimulus 2 with punishment. The attractor-based reward rule working memory incorporates a spike-frequency synaptic adaptation mechanism which supports the neural switching between rules by being shut down by a general inhibitory input produced by punishment, so that when the attractor starts up again is in the opposite state. The mechanism can implement one-trial reward reversal, which is a property of orbitofrontal cortex neurons. We show how this reward rule input can operate in a biased competition way to influence which one of two stimuli is currently associated with reward and which with punishment, and to map the stimuli correctly to the reward or punishment representations, providing a basis for action selection required to obtain the reinforcer.
The role of the prefrontal cortex remains controversial. Neuroimaging studies support modality-specific and process-specific functions related to working memory and attention. Its role may also be defined by changes in its influence over other brain regions including sensory and motor cortex. We used functional magnetic imaging (fMRI) to study the free selection of actions and colours. Control conditions used externally specified actions and colours. The prefrontal cortex was activated during free selection, regardless of modality, in contrast to modality-specific activations outside prefrontal cortex. Structural equation modelling (SEM) of fMRI data was used to test the hypothesis that although the same regions of prefrontal cortex may be active in tasks within different domains, there is task-dependent effective connectivity between prefrontal cortex and non-prefrontal cortex. The SEM included high-order interactions between modality, selection and regional activity. There was greater coupling between prefrontal cortex and motor cortex during free selection and action tasks, and between prefrontal cortex and visual cortex during free selection of colours. The results suggest that the functions of the prefrontal cortex may be defined not only by selection-specific rather than modality-specific processes, but also by changing patterns of effective connectivity from prefrontal cortex to motor and sensory cortices.
Ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMF) damage can lead to impaired decision-making. This has been studied most intensively with the Iowa gambling task (IGT), a card game that asks subjects to overcome an initial attraction to high-payoff decks as losses begin to accrue. VMF subjects choose from the high risk decks more often than controls, but the fundamental impairments driving poor performance on this complex task have yet to be established. There is also conflicting evidence regarding the role of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLF) in this task. The present study examined whether poor performance on the IGT was specific for VMF damage and whether fundamental impairments in reversal learning contributed to IGT performance. We found that both VMF and DLF damage leads to impaired IGT performance. The impairment of VMF subjects, but not of DLF subjects, seems to be largely explained by an underlying reversal learning deficit.
Dopamine-glutamate interactions may contribute to persistent electrical activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We tested whether a D1 modulation of NMDA function can result in persistent depolarization in vitro. D1-NMDA co-activation yielded depolarizing plateaus resembling in vivo up states in PFC pyramidal neurons recorded in slices from adult (PD 45-65), but not pre-pubertal (PD 29-38) rats. These plateaus required intracellular Ca2+, activation of L-type Ca2+ channels and protein kinase A. These events were eliminated by intracellular administration of the voltage-gated Na+ channel blocker QX-314 or by interrupting synaptic activity with bath application of tetrodotoxin or the AMPA antagonist CNQX, suggesting that they require both intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms. These recurrent depolarizations could constitute important elements in cortical information processing, allowing synaptic plasticity and memory functions. Acquiring these PFC D1-NMDA interactions after puberty may be a critical element for developing mature cognitive abilities.
For decennia the cerebellum has largely been excluded from scientific enquiry beyond motor function. However, the intimate afferent and efferent connections to the midbrain and limbic system provide for the neuroanatomical foundation of cerebellar involvement in emotion and emotional disorders. Moreover, an increasing body of empirical evidence indicates that the cerebellum may be involved in emotion regulation. Both functional and structural abnormalities of the cerebellum have been demonstrated in emotional disorders, including depression and schizophrenia. Research shows that the functional repertoire of the cerebellum is broader than previously thought and its involvement in emotion is noteworthy.
There is considerable evidence that the transition metal zinc plays an important role in mammalian neural development, physiology and pathology. The most compelling evidence for a synaptic role for zinc comes from hippocampal studies: zinc is concentrated in the synaptic vesicles of some glutamatergic neurons, zinc can be released during neural activity and zinc can modulate postsynaptic GABA and glutamate receptors. The possibility that zinc is involved in cerebellar synaptic transmission is supported by the expression of specific zinc transporters (ZnT, including the synaptic vesicle transporter ZnT-3) in the cerebellar cortex. Furthermore, some subtypes of neurotransmitter receptors, expressed by cerebellar neurones, are highly sensitive to low concentrations of exogenous zinc. However there appears to be little chelatable (synaptic) zinc in the cerebellum, deletion of the ZnT-3 gene has no effect on motor phenotype and there is currently no evidence that zinc is released from cerebellar neurones to have physiological actions. Thus it is possible that the different types of zinc transporter found in the cerebellum play a neuroprotective rather than a signalling role.
The cerebellum regulates execution of skilled movements through neural connections with the primary motor cortex. A main projection from the cerebellum to the primary motor cortex is a disynaptic excitatory pathway relayed at the ventral thalamus. This dentatothalamocortical pathway receives inhibitory inputs from Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex. These pathways (cerebellothalamocortical pathways) have been characterized extensively using cellular approaches in animals. Advances in non-invasive transcranial activation of neural structures using electrical and magnetic stimulation have allowed us to investigate these neural connections in humans. This review summarizes various studies of the cerebellothalamocortical pathway in humans using current transcranial electrical and magnetic stimulation techniques. We studied effects on motor cortical excitability elicited by electrical or magnetic stimulation over the cerebellum by recording surface electromyographic (EMG) responses from the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle. Magnetic stimuli were given with a round or figure eight coil (test stimulation) for primary motor cortical activation. For cerebellar stimulation, we gave high-voltage electrical stimuli or magnetic stimuli through a cone-shaped coil ipsilateral to the surface EMG recording (conditioning stimulation). We examined effects of interstimulus intervals (ISIs) with randomized condition-test paradigm, using a test stimulus given preceded by a conditioning stimulus by ISIs of several milliseconds. We demonstrated significant gain of EMG responses at an ISI of 3 ms (facilitatory effect) and reduced responses starting at 5 ms, which lasted 3-7 ms (inhibitory effect). We applied this method to patients with ataxia and showed that the inhibitory effect was only absent in patients with a lesion at cerebellar efferent pathways or dentatothalamocortical pathway. These results imply that this method activates the unilateral cerebellar structures. We confirmed facilitatory and inhibitory natures of cerebellothalamocortical pathways in humans. We can differentiate ataxia attributable to somewhere in the cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways from that caused by other pathways.
Autism is a debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder of early childhood with both genetic and environmental origins. Immune system dysregulation has been hypothesized to be involved in this disorder. We quantified levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and ss-actin in three areas of the brain, namely, area 9, area 40 and cerebellum, in age matched autistic and control postmortem specimen using SDS-PAGE and western blotting techniques. Significant elevations in levels of GFAP were observed in all three brain areas in autism. This report confirms a recent report showing microglial and astroglial activation in autism. Increased GFAP levels in autistic brains signify gliosis, reactive injury, and perturbed neuronal migration processes.
Spinocerebellar ataxia 25 (SCA25) is a rare form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia associated with a severe sensory neuropathy. Clinical variability ranges from incomplete penetrance at age 61 to a Friedreich ataxia-like syndrome. The responsible locus was mapped to chromosome 2p in a large region of 14 Mbases in a single French kindred.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 20 (SCA20) was reported in 2004 in a single Australian Anglo-Celtic pedigree. The phenotype is distinctive, with palatal tremor, and hypermetric saccades, and early dentate (but not pallidal) calcification in the absence of abnormalities of calcium metabolism. Dysarthria, rather than gait ataxia, was the initial symptom in most, and was typically conjoined with dysphonia, clinically resembling adductor spasmodic dysphonia. The onset of these speech abnormalities was abrupt in some cases. MRI scanning showed mild to moderate pancerebellar atrophy with dentate calcification, with olivary pseudohypertrophy in some cases, in the absence of other brainstem or cerebral changes. Nerve conduction studies were normal. Progression appeared to be slow. SCA20 is probably rare, as despite the distinctive phenotype, only this one pedigree has been described. The locus mapped to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 11 with a LOD score of 4.47, and its candidate region overlaps that of SCA5. It seems probable that these two SCAs may be separate genetic entities, on the basis of their divergent clinical features, but formal proof awaits discovery of one or both responsible genes.
Spinocerebellar ataxia 13 is a slowly progressive and relatively pure autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia with childhood onset and mental deficiency. The responsible gene has been assigned to a 5.2 Mbases interval on chromosome 19q in a single French family.
Evidence from randomized clinical trials indicates that systemic administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) is a highly effective treatment for acute ischemic stroke, provided that treatment is administered within the first 3 h after stroke onset. An absolute increase in favorable outcome of up to 13% has been reported, and a pooled analysis of six randomized trials has shown that, although the sooner rtPA is given the greater the benefit, efficacy is present up to 4.5 h after stroke onset. Despite of the spreading use of tPA in different countries and continents, there are still a number of burdens and failures in the optimal accomplishment of thrombolytic treatment. rtPA is used in less than 4% of patients, reperfusion and complete recovery is achieved in less than 50% of patients, and treatment is denied to many patients. However, important advances in clinical investigation suggest that new aims and hopes will be achieved in the near future. Ultrasound-enhanced systemic thrombolysis, the use of MRI for selecting acute stroke patients for IV or IA thrombolysis after 3 h, mechanical embolus disruption or removal in proximal artery occlusions, and the potential usefulness of new biomarkers of blood brain barrier disruption and hemorrhagic risk are promising strategies that may improve the risk/benefit ratio and increase the number of patients who will benefit from thrombolytic therapy.
Because it is the main determinant of clinical recovery, early reperfusion of the ischemic penumbra has become the mainstay of acute stroke therapy. Although early permanent recanalization can be associated with spectacular and complete recovery, some patients in fact exhibit delayed or incomplete recovery, even despite small infarcts on late structural imaging. This might result from tissue inflammation and selective neuronal death/damage, two probably inter-related cellular events well described in the animal literature, precluding full functional restoration in the salvaged penumbra. However, impact of these processes on recovery may be complex because of the interplay with ongoing plasticity and the possible promoting effect of inflammation on the latter. Preliminary results from imaging studies of inflammation and selective neuronal loss after middle cerebral artery territory stroke, using radioligands of the central benzodiazepine receptor and the activated microglia, respectively, reviewed here, suggest these phenomena also exist in man, although their relationship with acute-stage hypoperfusion and their impact on clinical recovery, if any, remain poorly understood. Furthermore, their inter-relationships in the salvaged penumbra have not been addressed. Better understanding of these potentially harmful processes might help to maximize benefits from thrombolysis, and could also have implications for patients who enjoy spontaneous recanalization.



Recovery of function following ischaemic stroke is a fascinating clinical observation. It comprises several modes, e.g. spectacular recovery in a matter of hours or days and gradual recovery over months or even years. That a non-functioning neural system can regain its function, even partially so, is challenging because of the obvious therapeutic implications. Until the mid-70s, however, dogmas largely prevailed which underpinned the then nihilistic approach to stroke patients. Proving these dogmas wrong has been a major achievement of modern stroke research. Thanks particularly to physiological imaging, key observations from the basic neurosciences have translated into the clinical realm in ways immediately understandable to the clinician, allowing the emergence of pathophysiology-based management.







Many risk factors for subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), such as hypertension and recent infection, have already been established. Chlamydia pneumoniae is a common respiratory pathogen that has been implicated as a potential risk factor for hypertension and atherosclerotic diseases. The purpose of the case-control study presented here was to examine the causative relationship between C. pneumoniae infection and SAH. Serum C. pneumoniae IgG and IgA antibodies were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 52 patients with SAH and in 104 healthy age-matched control subjects. Multivariate analysis revealed a significant association between SAH and both a strong seropositivity for IgG and/or IgA antibodies against C. pneumoniae (odds ratio, OR, 3.62; 95% confidence intervals, CI, 1.06-12.39; p = 0.040), which indicates the presence of acute C. pneumoniae infection, and hypertension (OR, 2.91; 95% CI, 1.42-5.96; p = 0.0035). These results provide evidence that infection with C. pneumoniae may be a risk factor for SAH from a ruptured intracranial aneurysm.
















A robust body of neurophysiologic research is reviewed on functional brain abnormalities associated with depression, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. A review of more recent research finds that pharmacologic treatment may not be as effective as previously believed. A more recent neuroscience technology, electroencephalographic (EEG) biofeedback (neurofeedback), seems to hold promise as a methodology for retraining abnormal brain wave patterns. It has been associated with minimal side effects and is less invasive than other methods for addressing biologic brain disorders. Literature is reviewed on the use of neurofeedback with anxiety disorders, including posttraumatic stress disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and with depression. Case examples are provided.
The field of neurofeedback training has proceeded largely without validation. In this article the authors review studies directed at validating sensory motor rhythm, beta and alpha-theta protocols for improving attention, memory, and music performance in healthy participants. Importantly, benefits were demonstrable with cognitive and neurophysiologic measures that were predicted on the basis of regression models of learning to enhance sensory motor rhythm and beta activity. The first evidence of operant control over the alpha-theta ratio is provided, together with remarkable improvements in artistic aspects of music performance equivalent to two class grades in conservatory students. These are initial steps in providing a much needed scientific basis to neurofeedback.
Steinert's disease (myotonic dystrophy type 1; MD) is caused by a CTG trinucleotide expansion on 19q13.3. Although the pathogenic mechanism underlying multisystem involvement in MD is still unclear, a role of oxidative stress in this disease has been suggested. We investigated 39 MD patients to assess the plasma concentration of advanced oxidation protein products (AOPPs) and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and related them to clinical severity scores. Plasma AOPP levels (p=0.021), total serum GGT activity (p=0.0005) and GGT activity associated with low-density lipoprotein (p=0.0021) were significantly higher in patients than in controls. There was significant correlation between serum GGT levels and AOPPs (r=0.5831; p=0.0022). A statistically significant increase in serum GGT with age was found in MD patients (p=0.0193). Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that higher AOPP levels were significantly associated with extra-muscular signs of the disease, i.e., cataracts and heart involvement (area under the curve+/-SE=0.908+/-0.083), but not with muscular involvement. The concomitant increment in GGT and AOPPs indicates a possible role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of MD type 1, while the association of increased AOPP levels with extra-muscular signs of the disease suggests that individual susceptibility to oxidative stress can modulate the extra-muscular phenotype of the disease.
A complex interaction of neural, vascular, and biomolecular activity results in normal erectile function. Two chambers in the penis, the corpus cavernosa, contain sinusoids, which fill with blood and expand to become rigid when smooth muscle is relaxed. Blood flow out of the penis is temporarily stopped (veno-occlusion) to maintain the erection. Neural control is complex but, in general, the sympathetic nervous system inhibits, and the parasympathetic system excites erectile function. The central nervous system can induce erections without peripheral stimuli, e.g. in nocturnal erections. In general, there are 5 recognized phases in erectile response: latent, tumescent, full erection, rigid erection, and detumescent. The key biochemical event in erectile function is an increase in levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate, which causes smooth-muscle relaxation and allows an erection to occur. This process is mediated by nitric oxide, produced by neurons and elsewhere, which acts as a gaseous messenger molecule.
Arguments exist as to the cause of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Some think that it is an example of symptom amplification indicative of functional or psychogenic illness, while our group thinks that some CFS patients may have brain dysfunction. To further pursue our encephalopathy hypothesis, we did spinal taps on 31 women and 13 men fulfilling the 1994 case definition for CFS and on 8 women and 5 men serving as healthy controls. Our outcome measures were white blood cell count, protein concentration in spinal fluid, and cytokines detectable in spinal fluid. We found that significantly more CFS patients had elevations in either protein levels or number of cells than healthy controls (30 versus 0%), and 13 CFS patients had protein levels and cell numbers that were higher than laboratory norms; patients with abnormal fluid had a lower rate of having comorbid depression than those with normal fluid. In addition, of the 11 cytokines detectable in spinal fluid, (i) levels of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor were lower in patients than controls, (ii) levels of interleukin-8 (IL-8) were higher in patients with sudden, influenza-like onset than in patients with gradual onset or in controls, and (iii) IL-10 levels were higher in the patients with abnormal spinal fluids than in those with normal fluid or controls. The results support two hypotheses: that some CFS patients have a neurological abnormality that may contribute to the clinical picture of the illness and that immune dysregulation within the central nervous system may be involved in this process.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a glycosylated, secreted phosphoprotein that functions both as a cell attachment and chemotactic factor. Elevated expression of OPN confers enhanced metastatic ability on transformed cells, suggesting that OPN may contribute to the malignant progression of tumors. Migration of mammary carcinoma cells is stimulated by OPN via interactions with integrins and CD44 cell surface receptors. We hypothesized that OPN modulates specific CD44 isoform expression to facilitate breast cancer cell migration. The 21NT tumorigenic human breast cancer cell line was examined for regulation of CD44 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels in response to an engineered increase in OPN expression under CMV promoter control. Significant up-regulation of CD44s isoform mRNA expression was observed, but no change in CD44v6, v8, v9 or v10 mRNA levels. While there were elevated levels of CD44s, v6 and v9 protein at the cell surface, at the level of total cellular protein only CD44s and v6 were markedly increased. This suggests that OPN can regulate CD44 expression at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional (both amount and localization of protein) levels. To validate the functional consequence of OPN regulation of CD44 expression, we demonstrate that OPN-mediated cell migration was reduced by exposure to a anti-pan CD44 antibody, and to anti-CD44v6 and anti-CD44v9 function-blocking antibodies. Our data provide evidence that in 21NT cells OPN enhances CD44s mRNA expression, increases cell surface expression of CD44 variant forms without a change in mRNA levels, and stimulates cell migration.
Clinical research is subject to increasing regulation by research ethics committees and research and development offices which are responding to social and political pressures, as well as to new legislation, both European and national, some of which is still being worked out. The resulting bureaucracy, expense and confusion are putting insuperable hurdles in the way of clinical research and clinical care is compromised. What research is still possible will only be done in large organisations and may even be seriously biased. The solutions are to inform and seek the help of the public and to forge alliances with patient groups. Patients have far more to lose than clinical researchers who, if clinically qualified, can more easily pursue a fulfilling career as clinicians rather than researchers.



Rosen and Davison [Rosen, G.M. and Davison, G.C. (2003). Psychology should list empirically supported principles of change (ESPs) and not credential trademarked therapies or other treatment packages. Behavior Modification, 27, 300-312] recommended that empirically supported principles be listed instead of empirically supported treatments because the latter approach enables the creation of putatively new therapies by adding functionally inert components to already listed effective treatments. This article attempts to facilitate inquiry into empirically supported principles by reviewing possible mechanisms responsible for the effectiveness of systematic desensitization and exposure therapy. These interventions were selected because they were among the first empirically supported treatments for which some attempt was made at explanation. Reciprocal inhibition, counterconditioning, habituation, extinction, two-factor model, cognitive changes including expectation, self-efficacy, cognitive restructuring, and informal network-based emotional processing explanations are considered. Logical problems and/or available empirical evidence attenuate or undercut these explanations. A connectionist learning-memory mechanism supported by findings from behavioral and neuroscience research is provided. It demonstrates the utility of preferring empirically supported principles over treatments. Problems and limitations of connectionist explanations are presented. This explanation warrants further consideration and should stimulate discussion concerning empirically supported principles.


Repinotan HCl (repinotan, BAYx3702), a highly selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist with a good record of safety was found to have pronounced neuroprotective effects in experimental models that mimic various aspects of brain injury. Repinotan caused strong, dose-dependent infarct reductions in permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion, transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, and traumatic brain injury paradigms. The specific 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 blocked these effects, indicating that the neuroprotective properties of repinotan are mediated through the 5-HT1A receptor. The proposed neuroprotective mechanisms of repinotan are thought to be the result of neuronal hyperpolarization via the activation of G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ channels upon binding to both pre- and post-synaptic 5-HT1A receptors. Hyperpolarization results in inhibition of neuron firing and reduction of glutamate release. These mechanisms, leading to protection of neurons against overexcitation, could explain the neuroprotective efficacy of repinotan per se, but not necessarily the efficacy by delayed administration. The therapeutic time window of repinotan appeared to be at least 5 h in in vivo animal models, but may be even longer at higher doses of the drug. Experimental studies indicate that repinotan affects various mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of brain injury. In addition to the direct effect of repinotan on neuronal hyperpolarization and suppression of glutamate release this compound affects the death-inhibiting protein Bcl-2, serotonergic glial growth factor S-100beta and Nerve Growth Factor. It also suppresses the activity of caspase-3 through MAPK and PKCalpha; this effect may contribute to its neuroprotective efficacy. The dose- and time-dependent neuroprotective efficacy of repinotan indicates that the drug is a promising candidate for prevention of secondary brain damage in brain-injured patients suffering from acute ischemic stroke. Unfortunately, however, the first, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial did not demonstrate the efficacy of repinotan in acute ischemic stroke.

The aim of this pilot study was to examine the effectiveness of an intensive form of cognitive behavioural group treatment practised routinely in a psychiatric clinic. A total of 27 outpatients with social phobia of long duration were assigned to a 41-hour treatment administered over 2 periods of 3.5 and 4.5 days, 1 week apart. Four groups, each comprising 6-8 patients, participated in the study. All except 1 patient (26/27) completed the treatment and 20 patients participated in all follow-up sessions after 3, 6 and 12 months. Treatment significantly reduced fear and avoidance of social interaction and performance, anticipatory anxiety and symptoms' influence on daily life. Follow-up assessments indicated maintained or increased improvement from post-test to 1 year and large sensitivity to treatment at both post-test and 1 year. Of the patients in the study, 85% were taking a prescribed drug, and 70% had taken medication for at least 1 year before they entered the treatment. At 1-year follow-up 52% had discontinued medication.
Recent neuroscientific research has developed the concept of the embodied agent as a scientifically viable approach to the psychological concept of the self. Both the awareness of one's own actions and awareness of one's own body are necessary conditions for the experience of selfhood. The relative contributions of efferent and afferent information in self-awareness are yet to be fully understood. We review experimental evidence that highlights the phenomenological and functional differences between the &quot;acting self&quot; and the &quot;sensory self.&quot; These differences may underlie the ubiquitous modulation of perception in voluntary action. We focus on three main research fields: somatosensory perception, time-awareness, and self-recognition. A series of experiments, designed so as to dissociate afferent from efferent information, are reviewed. As a whole the results suggest that intentional action functions as a general context for awareness, modulating the perception of one's own body. The &quot;acting self,&quot; owner of the efferent information, modulates the phenomenal experience of the &quot;sensory self&quot; because of the intrinsically agentic nature of voluntary movement. Finally, it is suggested that this sense of agency is efferent-driven, originating from pre-action processes.
Artificial neural networks constructed with &quot;locally tuned processing units&quot; and more generally referred to as &quot;radial basis function networks&quot; have been proposed by a number of workers. In this communication, I submit a conjecture, based on indirect experimental and direct computational evidence of the Hodgkin-Huxley model, that there may be biological neurons in nervous systems for which the rate function is locally tuned. If proved to be valid, this conjecture may simplify neurodynamic models of some functions of nervous systems.
Advanced array processing techniques are becoming an indispensable requirement for integrating the rapid developments in wireless high-density electronic interfaces to the central nervous system with computational neuroscience. This work aims at describing a systems approach for latency reduction in telemetry-linked brain machine interfaces to enable real-time transmission of high volumes of neural data. We show that the tradeoff between transmission bit rate and processing complexity requires a smart processing mechanism to strip the redundancy and extract the useful information early in the data stream. The results presented demonstrate that space-time processing offers tremendous savings in communication costs compared to on-chip spike detection followed by off-chip classification. They also demonstrate that the performance asymptotically approaches that of on-chip spike detection and sorting. Detailed performance evaluation is described.
Brain machine interface development typically falls into two arenas, invasive extracellular recording and non-invasive electroencephalogram recording methods. The relationship between action potentials and field potentials is not well understood, and investigation of interrelationships may improve design of neuroprosthetic control systems. Rats were trained on a motor learning task whereby they had to insert their noses into an aperture while simultaneously pressing down on levers with their forepaws; spikes, local field potentials (LFPs), and electrocorticograms (ECoGs) over the motor cortex were recorded and characterized. Preliminary results suggest that the LFP activity in lower cortical layers oscillates with the ECoG.
The concentration of extracellular neurotransmitters can be dynamically measured by in vivo microdialysis. This technique can apply to quantitatively evaluating the beneficial effects of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). In the present study, the protective effects of Puerarin (Pur) on cerebral injuries evoked by ischemia/reperfusion was supported by a decrease of extracellular amino acids, especially glutamate (Glu), which were monitored by microdialysis combined with HPLC throughout the experiments. It suggested that, in addition to being a versatile and practical method in neuroscience, the microdialysis technique would play an important role in assessing and screening the effects of TCM.
We present the design of an automatic electrode monitoring system for activated iridium oxide (AIROF) microelectrodes. It's a valuable piece of instrument in use in our laboratory to monitor the &quot;health&quot; of chronic implanted microelectrodes before neural stimulation or recording experiments. It is capable of automatically measuring electrode voltage and current of a large number of electrodes within minutes. It helped us identify some electrode degradation problems, which otherwise remained undetected would jeopardize the validity of neuroscience experiments that use these electrodes. So we strongly advocate the safe use of chronic microelectrodes by driving them within the water window and regularly monitoring their &quot;health&quot;.
Seizure prediction could change treatment of epilepsy, which has attracted substantial attention over the past two decades. Nonlinear EEG analysis techniques have made some successes at it, but linear analysis techniques being with the controversial results. We put forward a linear seizure predictor, which tracks the time evolution of the slow wave energy bigger than some preset threshold from scalp EEGs. The results from four generalized epileptic patients demonstrate that pre-seizure transition phases of several minutes can be identified clearly by our linear predictor, which could help us to a deeper understanding of the mechanism of seizure and open the possibility of clinical applications.
Automatic detection of region of interest (ROIs) in a complex image or video, such as an angiogram or endoscopic neurosurgery video, is a critical task in many medical image and video processing applications. In this paper, we present a new method that addresses several challenges in automatic detection of ROI of neurosurgical video for ROI coding which is used for neurophysiological intraoperative monitoring (IOM) system. This method is based on an object tracking technique with multivariate density estimation theory, combined with the shape information of the object. By defining the ROIs for neurosurgical video, this method produces a smooth and convex emphasis region within which surgical procedures are performed. A large bandwidth budget is assigned within the ROI to archive high-fidelity Internet transmission. Outside the ROI, a small bandwidth budget is allocated to efficiently utilize the bandwidth resource. We believe this method also can be used to image-guiduance surgery (IGS) systems to track the positions of surgical instruments in the physical space occupied by the patient after some improvement.
A novel neuron data model with a neuron domain specific query language is proposed in this paper. It is inspired by the project NeuronBank [14]. This data model is composed of five components: neuron data structure, constraints, operations, domain-specific query language (NeuroQL), and controlled vocabulary. It can capture and enforce more domain semantics than traditional data models, such as attributes of attributes and source information. It also enables users to model their special interests and constraints on any entity or its attribute in the data model. NeuroQL defines a list of queries in neuroscience terms, and can be easily extended.
Performing multi-joint arm movements in controllable dynamic environments during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) could provide important insights into the brain mechanisms involved in human motor control and related dysfunctions. In order to obtain useful data, these movements must be possible and comfortable for the subject within the narrow bore of the scanner and should not create any movement artifacts in the image. We found that commonly studied arm movements involving the shoulder create movement artifacts, and investigated alternative multijoint arm movements within a mock-up of an MR scanner. We selected movements involving the elbow and wrist joints, with an extension attached to the hand, and propose a dedicated kinematic structure using the MR compatible actuators we have previously developed.
The problem of the definition and evaluation of brain connectivity has become a central one in neuroscience during the latest years, as a way to understand the organization and interaction of cortical areas during the execution of cognitive or motor tasks. Among various methods established during the years, the Directed Transfer Function (DTF), the Partial Directed Coherence (PDC) and the direct DTF (dDTF) are frequency-domain approaches to this problem, all based on a multivariate autoregressive modeling of time series and on the concept of Granger causality. In this paper we propose the use of these methods on cortical signals estimated from high resolution EEG recordings, a non invasive method which exhibits a higher spatial resolution than conventional cerebral electromagnetic measures. The principle contribution of this work are the results of a simulation study, testing the capability of the three estimators to reconstruct a connectivity model imposed, with a particular eye on the capability to distinguish between direct and indirect causality. An application to high resolution EEG recordings during a foot movement is also presented.
The recording of EEG signals during fMRI scanning is now technically feasible and safe. However, artifacts relating to pulsatile blood flow (the ballistocardiogram) may still be prominently present in EEG data recorded in the MRI magnet. The application of Independent Component Analysis (ICA) in order to reduce these artifacts off-line was investigated in three different types of EEG, one normal Visually Evoked Potential (VEP), one normal ongoing EEG in a normal subject and the EEG of an epilepsy patient showing abnormal transients in the EEG. Results show that ICA is effective in reducing these pulsation artifacts, but that remaining signal quality may be affected.
Motor task experiments play an essential role in exploring the brain mechanisms of movement control, and visual force-feedback is an important factor in these motor experiments. In this paper, the authors proposed a visual forcefeedback system suitable for neuroscience experiment. With this system, the force output produced by participants can be detected and recorded in real time, while force output was visually displayed as a feedback cue to the participants simultaneously. Furthermore, this force feedback system is MRI compatible, and can be used both in fMRI and ERP experiments. The proposed system has been applied in handgrip tasks and finger movement experiments, which were designed to explore the relationship between force output and brain activation mode in normal subject and stroke patient. The results demonstrated that various force levels were well detected and visual feedback signals enabled the accomplishment of experiments with both fixed and variable target force levels.


The analysis of multichannel recordings such as electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) is important both for basic brain research and for medical diagnosis and treatment. Multivariate linear regressive analysis such as the AutoRegressive (MAR) modeling is an effective means to characterize, with high spatial, temporal, and frequency resolution, functional relations within multichannel neuronal data. Recent advances in MAR modeling show promise for the analysis and visualization of large-scale network interactions, especially in the ability to assess their causal relations. This article provides a detailed review of the advances in the development and application of causal influence measures for analyzing neurosignal within the framework of the MAR spectral analysis. First, we outline mathematical formulations of the MAR model and its related estimation procedures, with emphasis on the development of causal influence measures for analyzing brain circuits. Second, we address the technical issues on the practical applications of the causal measures to the neurobiological data. Of particular interest is the recent development of adapting the MAR to analyze neural spike train data. Third, we present a variety of applications ranging from basic neuroscience research to clinical applications as well as functional neuroimaging. We finally conclude with a brief summary and discuss future research development in this field.
In 2006, Braun proposed a new model of hemispheric specialization of energy management by the brain, which he termed the &quot;psychic tonus&quot; model of hemispheric specialization. The term &quot;psychic tonus&quot; is deliberately general. It invites further investigation designed to incorporate various behavioral and cognitive modalities. At present, any cognitive operation or behavior likely to require energy expenditure, such as cardiovascular or metabolic, is considered to be at one extreme while any cognitive operation or behavior likely to reduce energy expenditure is considered to be at the other extreme. The model states that the left hemisphere of the brain is specialized to increase psychic tonus and the right to decrease it. The model predicts that the tonus of auditory representation ought to also manifest these hemispheric specializations in the temporal lobes. Specifically, it was predicted that pathological positive auditory tonus (auditory hallucination) ought to be associated more frequently with right temporal lobe lesions. Our analysis of a large number of previously published cases of patients with unilateral lesions supports the prediction.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been associated with aggregation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) and cell death in the brain. Using various models, such as the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and the mouse Mus musculus, investigators have attempted to imitate the pathology process of AD for better understanding of the cellular mechanisms and for possible therapeutic intervention. Among many in vitro and in vivo models of AD, transgenic C. elegans expressing human Abeta has shown its own advantages. The transgenic C. elegans model have been used in studying AD due to its short life span, facility to maintain, ability to develop muscle-associated deposits reactive to amyloid-specific dyes and the concomitant progressive paralysis phenotype. Moreover, the transgenic C. elegans exhibits increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protein carbonyls, similar to those observed in AD patients, supporting the current theory on Abeta-induced oxidative stress and subsequent neurodegeneration in AD. DNA microarray assays of the worm demonstrated several stress-related genes being upregulated, particularly two genes homologous to human alphaB-crystallin and tumor necrosis factor-related protein, which were also upregulated in postmortem AD brain. Studies in our laboratory along with others suggest that the transgenic C. elegans model is a suitable in vivo model to relate Abeta-expression with its toxicity, which may underlie AD pathology. It may also be used as a tool for pharmacological evaluation of novel therapeutic agents.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) is widely considered as the molecular target of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). However, due to the harmful side effect frequently observed following chronic use, the development of new anti-inflammatory agents is the matter of many studies. Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) are a family of nuclear proteins mediating the action of a number of cytokines. Among them, STAT1 plays a critical role in the signal transduction pathway of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and growth hormone. STAT1 cascade is one major signalling pathway converting the IFN-gamma signal into gene expression, such as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), COX, vascular cell adhesion molecules (VCAM) and intercellular cell adhesion molecules (ICAM), critically involved in different pathologies correlated to the inflammatory process. This review focuses the attention on an alternative approach to the development of novel drugs based on inhibition of STAT1 pathway. In this context, a growing interest has been focused on natural compounds. We have recently reported a several data indicating that green tea extract (GTE), St. John's Wort extract and epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) exhibit a specific and strong anti-STAT1 activity which is independent of their acclaimed strong anti-oxidant activity. More recently, GTE has been shown to protect heart damage from ischaemia/reperfusion in rats, suggesting that the protective effect of green tea might be correlated to its anti-STAT1 activity. The present review is aimed at providing data that STAT1 may potentially be claimed as a new molecular target of an anti-inflammatory treatment and that among natural compounds there are a number of anti-STAT1 substances.
The vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) is responsible for the uptake of the excitatory amino acid, L-glutamate, into synaptic vesicles. VGLUT activity is coupled to an electrochemical gradient driven by a vacuolar ATPase and stimulated by low Cl-. VGLUT has relatively low affinity (K(m) = 1-3 mM) for glutamate and is pharmacologically and structurally distinct from the Na+-dependent, excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) found on the plasma membrane. Because glutamatergic neurotransmission begins with vesicular release, compounds that block the uptake of glutamate into the vesicle may reduce excitotoxic events. Several classes of competitive VGLUT inhibitors have emerged including amino acids and amino acid analogs, fatty acids, azo dyes, quinolines and alkaloids. The potency with which these agents inhibit VGLUT varies from millimolar (amino acids) to nanomolar (azo dyes) concentrations. These inhibitors represent highly diverse structures and have collectively begun to reveal key pharmacophore elements that may elucidate the key interactions important to binding VGLUT. Using known inhibitor structures and preliminary molecular modeling, a VGLUT pharmacophore is presented that will aid in the design of new, highly potent and selective agents.
During the past five years, several members of the KCNQ potassium channel gene family have been identified with a high degree of CNS specificity. Within the KCNQ family, the combination of the KCNQ2/KCNQ3 proteins, and the KCNQ5/KCNQ3 arrangement has been identified as the molecular correlates of the different M-currents. Several lines of evidence are emerging demonstrating the importance of these channels in regulating neuronal excitability; for example, determination of the excitability threshold, firing properties, and responsiveness of neurons to synaptic inputs. Recent studies have shown that KCNQ openers have potential for the treatment of several CNS disorders characterized by neuronal hyperexcitability, such as migraine, epilepsy and neuropathic pain. This article reviews the recent developments of KCNQ potassium channel openers.
Cognitive deficits, including impairments in working memory that have been linked to the prefrontal cortex, are among the most debilitating and difficult to treat features of schizophrenia. Consequently, the identification of potential targets informed by the pathophysiology of the illness is needed to develop novel pharmacological approaches for ameliorating these deficits. Postmortem studies of the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia subjects have revealed disturbances restricted to a subpopulation of inhibitory neurons that includes chandelier neurons, whose axon terminals synapse on the axon initial segment of pyramidal neurons. Chandelier neurons play an important role in synchronizing pyramidal neuron activity and appear to be a critical component of the prefrontal cortical circuitry that subserves working memory function. Therefore, in this paper we review evidence suggesting that drugs which selectively enhance chandelier neuron-mediated inhibition of prefrontal pyramidal neurons may improve working memory dysfunction in schizophrenia. Potential novel targets for such agents include GABA(A) receptors that contain the (2) subunit. In addition, we discuss potential complementary mechanisms for enhancing inhibitory input to pyramidal cell bodies, including drugs with activity at the CB1 receptor of the endocannabinoid system. The development of pathophysiologically-based treatments that selectively remediate disturbances in specific neural circuits underlying working memory may provide an effective approach to improving cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Constantly growing body of evidence suggests that hallmarks of oxidative stress are present in various central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Technological advantages in cell culturing made it possible to use neural cell/tissue cultures as experimental models for investigation of molecular mechanisms which underlie the development of oxidative stress condition, damage and adaptive responses to oxidative insults. This review is focused on the application of cell culture methodology for studies of oxidative stress condition in the brain. The review describes studies of biomarkers of oxidative stress-dependent cell damage and adaptive responses in various kinds of brain cell culture models. It discusses the use of cell/tissue culture models for elucidation of the role and pathogenesis of oxidative stress in neurodegenerative brain disorders, AIDS-associated brain pathology, drug abuse, and aging. The review underscores the importance of cell/tissue-based studies for testing of new antioxidants and development of therapeutic strategies for amelioration of oxidative damage in the CNS. The impact of new advances in gene and protein expression analysis on the cell/tissue culture-based research of oxidative stress in the CNS is also discussed.
The proteolytic enzyme gamma-secretase cleaves amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), following beta-secretase cleavage to generate the amyloid-beta peptides that are causally linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, gamma-secretase is also responsible for intramembranous cleavage of a growing list of additional transmembrane proteins, and therefore therapeutic inhibition of gamma-secretase might also affect these substrates. Such blockade over a chronic period may be deleterious, due to interference with potential cell signaling pathways activated by any of the products of these novel gamma-secretase substrates. In addition, inhibition of gamma-secretase leads to alterations in other beta-APP metabolites, with potential toxicity and signaling implications. The potential consequences of these off-target effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors are reviewed.


An effective, disease-modifying treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains one of the most significant unmet needs in modern medicine. As a result of the extensive research in the area, the mechanisms underlying the disease are now much better understood than at any time before. A significant amount of evidence points to the central role of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide-mediated toxicity in the disease etiology and strategies to remove this species from the central nervous system (CNS) have been actively pursued. The enzyme responsible for the final step in Abeta synthesis, gamma-secretase, has emerged as an attractive drug target and intensive research has transformed this enzyme from shadowy beginnings into a well characterised member of a new family of intramembrane-cleaving aspartyl proteases. Many inhibitors across diverse structural classes have been discovered and have demonstrated a lowering of central Abeta levels in preclinical models of AD. It has also become increasingly evident more recently that gamma-secretase also mediates a range of cleavages of alternative transmembrane peptides most notably the Notch receptor and the functional consequences of this activity have attracted much attention. The ultimate therapeutic benefit of gamma-secretase inhibitors and the effect of alternative, mechanism-based activities can only be judged when clinical data is forthcoming. In this review we describe the literature regarding the discovery of the nature of gamma-secretase, the development of small molecule inhibitors and their in vivo profiles.
There is extensive evidence that changes in immune system activation accompany the pathological changes of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but a mechanistic understanding of how the immune system actually participates in disease pathogenesis is still largely lacking. Because of the complexity of the immunological response, and the difficulty in identifying the key molecular players that underlie any given immunological response, expanding our understanding of the immunological response in AD beyond its descriptive stages has not been a straightforward exercise. The development of transgenic animals that form deposits of Abeta peptide in their brains has provided an unexpected dividend to those interested in the immunological response characterizing AD. Several of these transgenic models develop structures greatly resembling neuritic plaques, a hallmark feature of AD brain that is also a focal point of the immunological response occurring in AD. Genetic and pharmacological manipulation of these Abeta-depositing transgenic mice is providing some intriguing and unexpected insights into the role of innate and adaptive immune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of AD. This review will discuss immunological perspectives that have arisen from research using Abeta-depositing transgenic mice, and place these perspectives in the context of epidemiological and genetic studies that have previously suggested a role for the immune system in AD. The emerging story affirms the likely role of innate and adaptive immune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of AD, but provides a cautionary note as to the difficulties that are likely to face potential immunomodulatory therapies due to the dualistic beneficial and detrimental roles that immune mechanisms appear to play in AD.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness characterized by behavioral and cognitive symptoms. Several lines of evidence focus on a direct involvement of the glutamatergic system in the pathophysiology of psychosis. The hypofunction of the ionotropic glutamate N-methyl-D-Aspartate Receptor (NMDA-R) has been proposed as a model of schizophrenia in humans. Cortical and subcortical glutamate release seems to be modulated by dopaminergic and, to a lesser extent, serotoninergic circuitries, and tuned by intracellular pathways. Although dopamine D(2) receptor blockade is a crucial mechanism of antipsychotics pharmacodynamic profile, a putative glutamatergic impact of these compounds is suggested by animal pharmacological isomorphisms of psychosis as well as by clinical studies. According to this view, the balance between D(2) antagonism and NMDA-R modulation may be pivotal for the improvement of both positive and negative symptoms. Recently, many pharmacological strategies involving glutamate receptors have been suggested, and novel compounds and pharmacological strategies acting on glutamate transmission are currently under evaluation: i) augmentation strategies improving NMDA-R transmission (glycine, D-serine, D-cycloserine, glycine transporter inhibitors); ii) ampakines, positive modulators of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptor complex; iii) agonists of glutamate metabotropic receptors; iv) drugs involved in subcellular adaptation both at pre- and post-synaptic sites. Furthermore, molecular markers, suggesting modulation of glutamate circuitries after antipsychotics administration, are an attractive tool to shed more light on glutamate involvement in antipsychotics mechanism of action. In this review we provide a critical update of recent preclinical and clinical data on dopamine-glutamate interaction and its role in new pharmacological strategies for psychosis treatment.
Depression affects a large percentage of the general population and can produce devastating consequences to affected individuals, families and society. Although the treatment of depression has been advanced by traditional antidepressants, improvements are needed across several dimensions (e.g., overall treatment efficacy, therapeutic onset time, and side effect profile). The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor has an allosteric modulatory site(s) for which potent positive modulators (potentiators) have been designed. These compounds produce antidepressant-like effects in animal models, increase levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and engender neurogenesis in vivo. Although these effects are also produced by traditional antidepressants, AMPA receptor potentiators appear to produce their effects through a novel mechanism.
Spinal cord trauma activates the immune system and elicits leukocyte recruitment to the site of injury. This increase in immunological activity contributes to acute lesion expansion over a period of days to weeks following the initial trauma. At the same time, inflammatory cells and mediators facilitate endogenous repair processes such as axonal sprouting and remyelination. Thus, to be effective, therapies that target the immune system must limit the destructive effects of neutrophil, macrophage and lymphocyte activation, while simultaneously preserving their reparative functions.
The journey toward a cure for spinal cord injury (SCI) has taken many paths. In this article, we review these paths, and highlight the clinical applications of these experimental repair strategies. Initial strategies involved attempts at neuroprotection with steroids and other anti-inflammatory drugs. Other anti-ischemia treatments, agents to eliminate the damage from excitotoxicity, and anti-apoptotic agents were also tried. Another avenue involved enhancing the function of the remaining uninjured axons by measures to produce remyelination and medications to improve axonal conduction. In the last two decades there has been a major effort to enhance spinal cord axonal regeneration through a variety of techniques including neutralization of neurite inhibition, administration of neurotrophic factors, implantation of synthetic channels, and transplantation of a variety of cell types. Indeed, several of these strategies have been so promising in animals that clinicians have been stimulated to explore their potential human application. We also examine the different experimental models of SCI used to assess repair, and discuss how the injury model impacts on the assessment of axonal regeneration and functional recovery after SCI. The mechanisms of recovery that may be involved after SCI will be analyzed, and their relevance toward finding a cure for human SCI. Unfortunately, the goal of producing significant functional regeneration of the human spinal cord has not yet been achieved despite the many strategies that have been developed. It is our hope that improved understanding of the mechanisms underlying functional recovery will lead to successful therapeutic strategies in humans.
Spinal cord injuries (SCI) result in a devastating loss of function below the level of the lesion in which there are variable motor recoveries and, in the majority of cases, central neuropathic pain syndromes (CNP) develop several months to years following injury. Unfortunately, the study of chronic pain after SCI has been neglected in the past due in part to the lack of good animal models but largely due to the clinically held dogma that CNP is not a real phenomenon and is psychogenic in nature rather than based on described pathophysiological mechanisms. The purpose of this article is to offer standardized terminology of pain, insight into animal modeling issues of CNP, descriptions of current clinical therapies and to discuss the pathophysiological mechanisms that provide the substrate for CNP that will lead to innovative new therapies. It is hoped that this information will give insight for research strategies as well as better care not only of SCI individuals, but is generalizable to many other CNP syndromes.
The cytokine tumor necrosis factor(alpha) (TNF(alpha)) is associated with a constellation of physiological and behavioral characteristics that follow in response to infection such as fever, fatigue, listlessness, loss of appetite, malaise, and tactile hypersensitivity. These responses are examples of central nervous system (CNS) functions modified by the activated immune system. Our studies have focused on the involvement of TNF(alpha) in CNS control of gastrointestinal function and &quot;visceral malaise&quot;. We have demonstrated that TNF(alpha) can elicit gastric stasis in a dose-dependent fashion via its interaction with vago-vagal neurocircuitry in the brainstem. Sensory elements of the vago-vagal reflex circuit (i.e., neurons of the solitary tract [NST] and area postrema [AP]) are activated by exposure to TNF(alpha), while the efferent elements (i.e., dorsal motor neurons of the vagus [DMN]) cause gastroinhibition. Transient exposure to low doses of TNF(alpha) cause potentiated (exaggerated) NST responses to stimulation. Subsequent studies suggest that TNF(alpha) presynaptically modulates the release of glutamate from primary afferents to the NST. Using immunohistochemical studies, we have observed the constitutive expression of the TNFR1 receptor on central vagal afferents and spinal trigeminal afferents in the medulla, as well as on cells and afferent fibers within the dorsal root ganglia and within laminae I and II of the dorsal horn throughout the spinal cord. The constitutive presence of these receptors on these afferents may explain why inflammatory or infectious processes that generate TNF(alpha) can disrupt gastrointestinal functions and cause tactile hypersensitivity. These receptors may also play a critical role in the chronic allodynia and hyper-reflexia observed after spinal cord injury or peripheral nerve damage.
Immune responses represent a source of systemic stress which impacts the brain and modifies various neuroendocrine and behavioral functions. Therefore, the immune system has been conceived of as a potential contributor to stress-related behavioral abnormalities, such as depression. Much of this knowledge has been gained through research focused largely on the administration of cytokines and/or bacterial endotoxin (eg., LPS), which targets innate immune cells, such as macrophages. However, fewer studies have addressed the effects of T cell activation on central nervous system (CNS) function. The discovery and characterization of bacterial superantigens (SAgs) has introduced an important opportunity for studying how T cell activation influences CNS function. Superantigens target unique variable regions of the beta chain of the mouse and human T cell receptor. This is restricted by the class II molecule of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), and results in the production of a cytokine cascade that includes interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and many other cytokines, including IL-6. The best studied SAgs are the staphylococcal enterotoxins, of which staphylococcal enterotoxins A and B (SEA and SEB), have been shown to produce significant changes in behavior and activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Importantly, a T cell requirement was necessary to produce these changes. Furthermore, the anorexic or hypophagic effects of SAg challenge in mice appears to be related to anxiety-like processes, since challenge with both SEA or SEB reduces consumption of mainly novel food or food presented in a novel context. In the present paper, these studies are reviewed and related to known alterations in both anxiogenic and anxiolytic neuropeptides. It is suggested that immunologically-induced changes in the brain activate both categories of neuropeptides, thereby sustaining an adaptive state of arousal that promotes appropriate behavioral adjustments during infectious illness.
Cytokines whose primary function is that of acting as signaling molecules of the immune system, have been implicated in the provocation or exacerbation of mood disorders such as depression. This position has been supported by several lines of evidence; (1) proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha) and bacterial endotoxins elicit sickness behaviors (e.g., fatigue, soporific effects) and symptoms of anxiety/depression that may be attenuated by chronic antidepressant treatment. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) induces less profound sickness, but elicits anhedonia, a key symptom of depression; (2) neuroendocrine and central neurotransmitter changes, reminiscent of those implicated in depression, may be elicited by some of these cytokines, and these effects are exacerbated by stressors; (3) severe depressive illness is accompanied by elevations of cytokine production or levels, although these effects are not necessarily attenuated with antidepressant medication; and (4) immunotherapy, using IL-2 or IFN-alpha, promote depressive symptoms that are attenuated by antidepressant treatment. It is proposed that chronic cytokine elevations engender neuroendocrine and brain neurotransmitter changes that are interpreted by the brain as being stressors, and contribute to the development of depression. Further, the effects of the cytokine treatments may act synergistically with stressors, and cytokines may provoke a sensitization effect so that the effects of later stressor experiences are exacerbated.
Neuroinflammatory processes appear to play a fundamental role in the pathology associated with a number of neurodegenerative and psychiatric conditions. In this respect, the immunocompetent brain microglia and peripheral macrophages release a host of proinflammatory cytokines that not only modulate immunological processes but also influence neuronal functioning and even survival. For instance, alterations of the cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, as well as several of the interferons and interleukins have been associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) and clinical depression. Importantly, anti-inflammatory treatments that block these cytokines may impart protection against behavioural pathology and neuronal damage in animal models of PD and depression involving exposure to environmental toxins and stressors, respectively. The present review highlights the involvement of inflammatory cells and cytokines in depression and PD and explores some of the potential cellular and molecular mechanisms through which the immunotransmitters affect neuronal functioning. Attention is also devoted to the possibility that cytokines may sensitize neuroinflammatory pathways that, in turn, favour long-term pathology.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is a cyclic nonapeptide synthesized exclusively by neurosecretory cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Two functionally distinct vasopressinergic systems can be defined based on differences in the sites of action and release of AVP. The peripheral vasopressinergic system encompasses the sites of action for AVP released into peripheral circulation (e.g. vascular smooth muscle, liver, kidney) from nerve terminals in the posterior pituitary. Peripherally circulating AVP is responsible for the classic endocrine functions ascribed to this neurohormone (e.g. vasoconstriction, glycogen metabolism, antidiuresis). The central vasopressinergic system, on the other hand, includes the sites of AVP synthesis and release within the CNS, where AVP acts as a neuromodulator/neurotransmitter regulating an array of CNS-mediated functions (e.g. learning and memory, neuroendocrine reactivity, social behaviors, circadian rhythmicity, thermoregulation, and autonomic function). Historically, pharmaceutical interest has focused on drug development efforts that sought to exploit the peripheral effects of AVP. Evidence, however, from clinical studies and animal models of CNS disorders has directly implicated disturbances in vasopressinergic activity in the pathophysiology of a number of human psychiatric disorders (mood, anxiety, and cognitive disorders). This review will examine the available evidence of central vasopressinergic system involvement in psychiatric disorders, and the potential opportunities for development of novel psychopharmaceuticals around this system will be discussed. Specific lines of evidence will be presented which rationalize each AVP receptor subtype (V(1)R or V(1a), V(2)R, V(3)R or V(1b)) as a molecular target for particular psychiatric indications.
The birth of new neurons, or neurogenesis, in the hippocampal formation has been demonstrated throughout the lifetime of multiple species including humans. A major finding in the field of depression is that treatment with antidepressant drugs increases hippocampal neurogenesis. This review presents a current summary of this field of study and presents the hypothesis that increasing adult hippocampal neurogenesis may be a new drug target or mechanism for future antidepressant drugs. It has been demonstrated that multiple classes of antidepressant drugs increase hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis in a chronic and not acute time course, which corresponds to the therapeutic time course necessary for effects. Conversely, animal models of depression or stress paradigms decrease cell proliferation. Clinically, there is evidence of reduced hippocampal volume in patients with major depressive disorder or other affective disorders. Taken together, this data indicates that reduced hippocampal cell number may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and reversal of this may be one way the antidepressant drugs exert their effects. We hypothesize that the next generation of antidepressant drugs will, in addition to their effects on known transmitter or second messenger systems, involve either direct or indirect targeting of neurogenic factors. In addition, the ability of novel compounds to be tested for the neurogenic potential may become an additional way to evaluate a compound for putative antidepressant effects.
The telencephalon, at the rostral end of the developing central nervous system, starts off as a sheet of neuroepithelial cells. During development, this sheet of cells becomes patterned and morphologically partitioned into areas that give rise to the adult cerebral hemispheres. How does this happen? How are telencephalic precursor cells instructed to generate myriad neural cell types in different areas and at different times as well as to change their rates of cell proliferation, differentiation, and death? The molecular pathways required for patterning the telencephalic neuroepithelium and forming the cerebral hemispheres are beginning to be unraveled.
CXCR3, the receptor for CXCL9/MIG, CXCL10/IP-10, and CXCL11/I-TAC, is preferentially expressed on activated Th1 T cells and has been predicted to play an important role in their trafficking. However, this simplistic view of the function of CXCR3 and its ligands has not been borne out by studies of disease models, including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), using varied methods of receptor blockade, as well as knockout or transgenic mice. This review focuses on the current understanding of the enigmatic role of CXCR3 and its ligands in CNS inflammatory/autoimmune disorders. The conflicting results among varied models of CNS inflammation suggest complex and multiple roles for CXCR3 and its ligands in the pathogenesis of CNS inflammatory/autoimmune diseases. Thus, further study is needed to determine how CXCL10 neutralizing agents or CXCR3 receptor antagonists might be applied to treating human disease.
Over the last several years a great deal of interest has been focused on the metabotropic glutamate receptors as potential targets for the treatment of a variety of disorders of the central nervous system. Recently, selective agonist or allosteric potentiators of mGluR4, one of the group III mGluRs, have been proposed as potential novel therapeutics for the palliative treatment of Parkinson's disease and some forms of epilepsy. mGluR4 stands out amongst the group III mGluRs due to its relatively restricted localization and apparent role in several key neuronal circuits. Work from a number of laboratories has led to the development of more selective tools for the study of mGluR4, as well as refined models of the structure and function of this receptor. In addition, a growing body of literature suggests that mGluR4 plays a key neuroprotective role in broad spectrum of neurodegenerative disorders. It is hoped that this increased understanding of the role of mGluR4 combined with more detailed structural information will spur the development of better pharmacological tools, and ultimately to novel clinical therapy.
Adenosine (ADO) acts as an inhibitory neuromodulator throughout the central and peripheral nervous system and can regulate seizure and nociceptive activity. However, the positive actions of systemically administered ADO are usually accompanied by undesirable side effects such as hypomobility and cardio-suppression. Adenosine kinase (AK) is the primary metabolic enzyme regulating intra- and extracellular concentrations of ADO. We review the recent development of structurally novel nucleoside and nonnucleoside AK inhibitors that demonstrate high specificity for the AK enzyme. Several of these compounds have shown significant beneficial effects in animal models of epilepsy and pain with an improved preclinical therapeutic window over direct acting ADO receptor agonists.
Rabies virus (RABV) is a pathogen well-adapted to the nervous system, where it infects neurons. RABV is transmitted by the bite of an infected animal. It enters the nervous system via a motor neuron through the neuromuscular junction, or via a sensory nerve through nerve spindles. It then travels from one neuron to the next, along the spinal cord to the brain and the salivary glands. The virions are then excreted in the saliva of the animal and can be transmitted to another host by bite. Thus preservation of neuronal network integrity is crucial for the virus to be transmitted. Successful invasion of the nervous system by RABV seems to be the result of a subversive strategy based on the survival of infected neurons. This strategy includes protection against virus-mediated apoptosis and destruction of T cells that invade the CNS in response to infection.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is one of the most frequently reported neurologic manifestations associated with celiac disease (CD), a multigenetic, T-cell-mediated autoimmune disorder that results from a loss of tolerance to gluten. Sensory axonal and small fiber sensory polyneuropathies are the most frequently reported PN subtypes. Multifocal motor or sensorimotor neuropathies and a more fulminant neuropathy, associated with ataxia and other neurologic manifestations, also have been reported. The effect of a gluten-free diet on CD-associated PN has not been studied systematically or prospectively; nevertheless, a gluten-free diet currently is the cornerstone of therapy. Although idiopathic ataxia associated with anti-gliadin antibodies and other neurologic complications have been reported to respond to this diet; there is data that indicate that neurologic manifestations may develop or persist, independent of gluten exposure. There is evidence to suggest that inflammatory processes may be involved. Immunomodulatory agents (such as intravenous immunoglobulin or infliximab), described to be beneficial in the treatment of refractory CD or CD-associated ataxia, may have a role in the management of CD-associated PN.
Physicians in areas with active West Nile virus (WNV) transmission should be aware that WNV infection can present as a polio-like syndrome and that the spectrum of neuromuscular signs and symptoms may range from acute flaccid paralysis in the absence of fever or meningoencephalitis to subjective weakness and disabling fatigue. This awareness will help to avoid less tenable diagnoses and the morbidity associated with inappropriate treatment. Although anterior horns are the major site of spinal cord pathology, inflammatory changes also may involve spinal sympathetic neurons and ganglia, providing an explanation for the autonomic instability seen in some patients with WNV infection. However, the role that autonomic dysfunction plays in the morbidity and mortality of human WNV infection has to be elucidated. Another unresolved issue with important neuromuscular implications is whether WNV infection may lead to autoimmune disease. Support for this contention arises from reports of WNV patients presenting with various neuromuscular diseases that have a presumed autoimmune mechanism, including Guillain-Barre syndrome, other demyelinating neuropathies, myasthenia gravis, brachial plexopathies, and stiff-person syndrome. Although there is no specific treatment or vaccine currently approved for WNV infection in humans, and the standard is supportive care only, several drugs that can alter the cascade of immunobiochemical events leading to neuronal death may be potentially useful. Among these agents, minocycline (a semisynthetic derivative of tetracycline), interferon alpha, and high-dose corticosteroids are candidate therapies, although human experience is limited. In addition, passive immunization with intravenous immune globulin containing WNV-specific antibodies seems promising, based on anecdotal human reports.
We have recently reported that a polymorphism in the cell division cycle (CDC2) gene, designated Ex6 + 7I/D, is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The CDC2 gene is located on chromosome 10q21.1 close to the marker D10S1225 linked to AD. Active cdc2 accumulates in neurons containing neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), a process that can precede the formation of NFT. Therefore, CDC2 is a promising candidate susceptibility gene for AD. We investigated the possible effects of the CDC2 polymorphism on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in AD patients. CDC2 genotypes were evaluated in relation to CSF protein levels of total tau, phospho-tau and beta-amyloid(1-42) in AD patients and control individuals, and in relation to the amount of senile plaques and NFT in the frontal cortex and in the hippocampus in patients with autopsy-proven AD and controls. The CDC2 Ex6 + 7I allele was associated with a gene dose-dependent increase of CSF total tau levels (F(2, 626) = 7.0, p = 0.001) and the homozygous CDC2 Ex6 + 7II genotype was significantly more frequent among AD patients compared to controls (p = 0.006, OR = 1.57, 95% CI 1.13-2.17). Our results provide further evidence for an involvement of cdc2 in the pathogenesis of AD.
During the last years, several clinical studies have been published trying to elucidate the effect of statin treatment on amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and metabolism of brain cholesterol in Alzheimer's disease (AD) in humans. We present an open biochemical study where 19 patients with AD have been treated with simvastatin (20 mg/day) for 12 months. The aim was to further investigate the effect of simvastatin treatment on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of APP processing, AD biomarkers as total tau and tau phosphorylated at threonine 181, brain cholesterol metabolism as well as on cognitive decline in patients with AD. Despite biochemical data suggesting that treatment with 20 mg/day of simvastatin for 12 months does affect the brain cholesterol metabolism, we did not find any change in CSF or plasma levels of beta-amyloid (Abeta)(1-42). However, by analysis of APP isoforms, we found that statin treatment may favor the nonamyloidogenic pathway of APP processing. The relevance and mechanism between statin treatment and AD has to be further elucidated by using statins of different lipophility in different dosages over a longer period of time.
In this study, we quantitatively investigated the expression of beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) in the entorhinohippocampal and frontal cortex of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and old control subjects. The semiquantitative estimation indicated that the intensity of BACE overall immunoreactivity did not differ significantly between AD and controls, but that a significantly stronger staining was observed in the hippocampal regions CA3-4 compared to other regions in both AD patients and controls. The quantitative estimation confirmed that the number of BACE-positive neuronal profiles was not significantly decreased in AD. However, some degeneration of BACE-positive profiles was attested by the colocalization of neurons expressing BACE and exhibiting neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), as well as by a decrease in the surface area of BACE-positive profiles. In addition, BACE immunocytochemical expression was observed in and around senile plaques (SP), as well as in reactive astrocytes. BACE-immunoreactive astrocytes were localized in the vicinity or close to the plaques and their number was significantly increased in AD entorhinal cortex. The higher amount of beta-amyloid SP and NFT in AD was not correlated with an increase in BACE immunoreactivity. Taken together, these data accent that AD progression does not require an increased neuronal BACE protein level, but suggest an active role of BACE in immunoreactive astrocytes. Moreover, the strong expression in controls and regions less vulnerable to AD puts forward the probable existence of alternate BACE functions.
The presence and the nature of semantic memory dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been widely debated. This study aimed to determine the frequency of impaired semantic test performances in mild AD and to study whether incipient semantic impairments could be identified in predementia AD. Five short neuropsychological tests sensitive to semantic memory and easily applicable in routine practice were administered to 102 patients with mild AD (Mini-Mental State Examination score above 19), 22 predementia AD patients and 58 healthy subjects. 'Category fluency' and 'naming of famous faces' were the most frequently impaired tests in both patient groups. The study demonstrated that impairments on semantically related tests are common in mild AD and may exist prior to the clinical diagnosis. The results imply that assessment of semantic memory is relevant in the evaluation of patients with suspected AD.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects the cholinergic, glutamatergic and monoaminergic systems in the neocortex and hippocampus. Today, the major pharmacological treatment involves the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs). In this study, an in situ hybridisation technique (using digoxigenin-labelled cRNA probes) was used to elucidate changes in mRNA expression of the neuronal glutamate transporter, rat excitatory amino carrier 1 (rEAAC1), after treatment with the AChEI rivastigmine. Compared with saline-treated rats, the rats subchronically (3 days) and chronically (21 days), but not acutely, treated with rivastigmine showed a significant increase in rEAAC1 mRNA expression in the hippocampal areas cornu anterior 1 (CA1), CA2, CA3 and dentate gyrus (p &lt; 0.01), but not in the cortical areas. These results provide the first evidence that the glutamatergic system is modulated following acetylcholinesterase inhibition by rivastigmine, a finding, which is likely to be of importance for the clinical effects.
Recent research has hypothesized an association between traumatic events and nocturnal panic (NP). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the onset of nocturnal panic attacks is associated with a higher frequency of and/or greater severity of stressful or traumatic life events than that of patients with panic disorders (PDs) who experience daytime panic attacks (DPs) while awake. A secondary aim was to investigate whether NP is associated with specific life events at the onset of the disorder. Our sample comprised 129 subjects with PD (DSM-IV). We investigated the number and types of stressful life events that occurred in the year prior to PD onset using a semistructured interview. Of the sample, 28.7% had recurrent nocturnal panic attacks (NP group). Subjects with and without recurrent NP did not differ on any sociodemographic or clinical characteristic. Neither the number nor type of life event distinguished those with or without NP. The subgroup of patients with PD with recurrent NP appears to represent a variant of PD with a possible increased vulnerability to conditions of diminished arousal as a trigger of panic attacks. However, the hypothesis that this vulnerability might be determined by life events that occur in the period preceding PD onset was not supported by the findings of this study.
This article discusses several studies describing either the reevaluation and validation of existing scales for measuring anxiety (i.e., the Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory, the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale for adults and for children and adolescents, the Clinical Global Impression Scale, the Self-Rating Inventory for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, and the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale Symptom Checklist), or the development and validation of new scales (i.e., the Social Thoughts and Beliefs Scale, the Social Phobia Diagnostic Questionnaire, the Aberdeen Trauma Screening Index and the Health Anxiety Inventory). As an increasing number of rating scales have been developed over the past several years, a critical review of their usefulness and psychometric properties seems pertinent and prudent.
Caffeine intake is associated with an increase in heart rate (HR) variability. This study sought to examine the effects of caffeine on HR variability measures before and during progressive exercise in 11 healthy volunteers in a double-blind randomized and counterbalanced placebo-controlled paradigm. As expected, there were significant increases in HR and decreases in HR variability after exercise during both placebo and caffeine conditions; however, pre-exercise caffeine condition was associated with a significant increase of HR variability, especially in the high-frequency range (0.15-0.5 Hz), and also approximate entropy (APEN), which is usually attributed to cardiac vagal function. But during progressive exercise, caffeine intake resulted in a greater decrease of HF power as well as HR APEN. Caffeine also was associated with significantly higher LF power during exercise compared to the placebo condition. These results suggest that caffeine may have different effects on HR variability at rest, compared to exercise. These findings may have implications for patients with cardiac illness and anxiety, depression, and psychotic disorders who use beverages containing excessive caffeine.
The study of carbon dioxide (CO2) inhalation in psychiatry has a long and varied history, with recent interest in using inhaled CO2 as an experimental tool to explore the neurobiology and treatment of panic disorder. As a consequence, many studies have examined the panic-like response to the gas either using the single or double breath 35% CO2 inhalation or 5-7% CO2 inhaled for 15-20 min, or rebreathing 5% CO2 for a shorter time. However, this lower dose regime produces little physiological or psychological effects in normal volunteers. For this reason we have studied the effects of a higher concentration of CO2, 7.5%, given over 20 min. Twenty healthy volunteers were recruited to a double blind, placebo-controlled study where air and 7.5% CO2 were inhaled for 20 min. Cardiovascular measures and subjective ratings were obtained. When compared to air, inhaling 7.5% CO2 for 20 min increases systolic blood pressure and heart rate, indicating increased autonomic arousal. It also increases ratings of anxiety and fear and other subjective symptoms associated with an anxiety state. The inhalation of 7.5% CO2 for 20 min is safe for use in healthy volunteers and produces robust subjective and objective effects. It seems promising as an anxiety provocation test that could be beneficial in the study of the effects of anxiety on sustained performance, the discovery of novel anxiolytic agents, and the study of brain circuits and mechanisms of anxiety.
The JNK interacting protein, JSAP1, has been identified as a scaffold protein for mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways and as a linker protein for the cargo transport along the axons. To investigate the physiological function of JSAP1 in vivo, we generated mice lacking JSAP1. The JSAP1 null mutation produced various developmental deficits in the brain, including an axon guidance defect of the corpus callosum, in which phospho-FAK and phospho-JNK were distributed at reduced levels. The axon guidance defect of the corpus callosum in the jsap1-/- brain was correlated with the misplacement of glial sling cells, which reverted to their normal position after the transgenic expression of JNK interacting protein 1(JIP1). The transgenic JIP1 partially rescued the axon guidance defect of the corpus callosum and the anterior commissure of the jsap1-/- brain. The JSAP1 null mutation impaired the normal distribution of the Ca+2 regulating protein, calretinin, but not the synaptic vesicle marker, SNAP-25, along the axons of the thalamocortical tract. These results suggest that JSAP1 is required for the axon guidance of the telencephalic commissures and the distribution of cellular protein(s) along axons in vivo, and that the signaling network organized commonly by JIP1 and JSAP1 regulates the axon guidance in the developing brain.
To identify a novel type II classical cadherin, we searched the genome database and found rat cadherin19 (cad19) with high similarity to human cadherin19. We also found nucleotide sequences corresponding to rat cad19 in mouse and chicken genomes. In situ hybridization of rat cad19 revealed that rat cad19 mRNA was initially expressed in cephalic neural crest cells, and then in the cranial ganglia, migrating trunk neural crest cells, the nascent dorsal root ganglia, and the sympathetic ganglia. Expression of cad19 overlapped with that of neural crest markers, including Sox10 and AP-2, but cad19 expression was confined to subpopulations of the neural crest-derived cells, those typically observed in the satellite glia at the periphery of the ganglia and Schwann cell precursors along the peripheral nerves. cad19 mRNA was not detected in cells expressing Phox2b, an epibranchial placode-derived neurons, nor in those expressing neuronal markers such as Hu protein. These observations suggest that cad19 is expressed in neural crest-derived, non-neuronal cells. Although the expression of cad19 mRNA persisted in Schwann cell precursors at E14.5, it was no longer detected in maturing Schwann cells at later stages. These results suggest that cad19 is an evolutionarily conserved cadherin and may be involved in the early development of Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system.
Specification of spinal cord neurons is regulated by several different transcription factors. In this study, we analyze expression and regulation of the transcription factor iro3 in zebrafish spinal cord. In addition to its broad expression in the progenitor domain of intermediate spinal cord, iro3 is also expressed in postmitotic ventral neurons, starting at early somitogenesis stages. Initially, this expression is only in two primary motoneurons, CaP and VaP, but by 24 hr postfertilization, iro3 is expressed by all classes of zebrafish spinal motoneurons as well as by a ventral interneuron called VeLD. iro3 expression in the progenitor domain of intermediate spinal cord is regulated independently from its expression in ventral neurons. Hedgehog (Hh) signaling is unnecessary for iro3 expression in intermediate spinal cord, but it is required to repress iro3 expression in the progenitor domain of ventral spinal cord. We also show that the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Olig2 is required for repression of iro3 expression in the progenitor domain of ventral spinal cord. We discuss our findings in the context of previous studies, suggesting that iro3 represses formation of motoneurons and promotes formation of interneurons.
The aim of this study was to observe any changes in cardiac and respiratory function that occur during seizures. Thirty-seven children (20 males, 17 females; median age 7y 6mo, range 1y 6mo to 15y 6mo) were studied. We recorded electroencephalograms, respiratory rate, heart rate, electrocardiograms, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, heart rate variability (time domain analysis), and cardiac vagal tone. A respiratory pause was defined as an interruption in respiration lasting more than 3s but less than 15s. Apnoea was defined as absence of respiration for more than 15s. Tachypnoea was defined as a 10% increase in respiratory rate from the pre-ictal baseline. Bradypnoea was defined as a 10% decrease in respiratory rate from the pre-ictal baseline. Significant hypoxia was defined as a saturation of less than 85%. A significant change in heart rate was taken as a 10% increase or decrease below the baseline rate. Data were obtained from 101 seizures: 40 focal seizures, 21 generalized seizures, and 40 absences. Focal seizures were frequently associated with significant respiratory abnormalities, tachypnoea in 56%, apnoea in 30%, frequent respiratory pauses in 70%, and significant hypoxaemia in 40%. The changes seen in respiratory rate were statistically significant. Changes in cardiac parameters, an increase or decrease in heart rate, were observed in only 26% of focal seizures and 48% of generalized seizures. We conclude that seizure activity can disrupt normal physiological regulation and control of respiratory and cardiac activity.
Previous research has shown that children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) often demonstrate performance deficits on effortful, strategic memory tasks, whereas relatively rote tasks of memory reveal no such deficit. Thus far, research in this domain has focused primarily on explicit memory. This study examined performance on multiple measures of implicit and explicit memory in children aged 7 to 14 years with and without ADHD. Memory for words and pictures was assessed at 15-min and 24-hr intervals. ADHD and non-ADHD groups performed similarly on tests of explicit memory (category-cued recall and recognition) and on perceptual aspects of implicit memory (word stem completion and picture fragment identification) as a function of age, retention interval, and stimulus format (i.e., picture or word). However, there was no evidence of priming on a conceptual implicit memory test (category exemplar generation) for boys with ADHD. This type of conceptual task, which is likely mediated by frontal systems, may indicate a unique memory deficit associated with ADHD.
Menkes disease (MD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutation of the copper transporter ATP7A. While several enzymes expressed in mature neurons require copper, MD neurodegenerative changes cannot be explained by known requirements for ATP7A in neuronal development. To investigate additional roles for ATP7A during development, we characterized its pattern of expression using the olfactory system as a neurodevelopmental model. ATP7A expression in neurons was developmentally regulated rather than constitutively. Initially expressed in the cell bodies of developing neurons, ATP7A protein later shifted to extending axons, peaking prior to synaptogenesis. Similarly, after injury-stimulated neurogenesis, ATP7A expression increased in neurons and axons preceding synaptogenesis. Interestingly, copper-transport-deficient ATP7A still exhibits axonal localization. These results support a role for ATP7A in axon extension, which may contribute to the severe neurodegeneration characteristic of MD.
The present study investigates whether Schwann cells (SCs) could promote the survival and differentiation of neural stem cells in the injured spinal cord. Neural stem cells were dissociated and cloned from the hippocampal tissue of newborn rats. SCs were also dissociated and purified simultaneously from the sciatic nerves of 4-day-old rats. The results showed that the number of surviving neural stem cells and differentiated neuron-like cells was significantly increased in the co-grafted (SCs and neural stem cells) group compared with the control group (neural stem cells only). Neuron-like cells that developed axon-like processes were observed more commonly in the co-grafted group. These results demonstrate that SCs can promote the survival and differentiation of transplanted neural stem cells in the injured spinal cord.
Socioeconomic status (SES) is strongly associated with cognitive ability and achievement during childhood and beyond. Little is known about the developmental relationships between SES and specific brain systems or their associated cognitive functions. In this study we assessed neurocognitive functioning of kindergarteners from different socioeconomic backgrounds, using tasks drawn from the cognitive neuroscience literature in order to determine how childhood SES predicts the normal variance in performance across different neurocognitive systems. Five neurocognitive systems were examined: the occipitotemporal/visual cognition system, the parietal/spatial cognition system, the medial temporal/memory system, the left perisylvian/language system, and the prefrontal/executive system. SES was disproportionately associated with the last two, with low SES children performing worse than middle SES children on most measures of these systems. Relations among language, executive function, SES and specific aspects of early childhood experience were explored, revealing intercorrelations and a seemingly predominant role of individual differences in language ability involved in SES associations with executive function.
The neural crest is a migratory population of cells that produces many diverse structures within the embryo. Trunk neural crest cells give rise to such structures as the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and sympathetic ganglia (SG), which form in a metameric pattern along the anterior-posterior axis of the embryo. While static analyses have provided invaluable information concerning the development of these structures, time-lapse imaging of neural crest cells navigating through their normal environment could potentially reveal previously unidentified cellular and molecular interactions integral to DRG and SG development. In this study, we follow fluorescently labeled trunk neural crest cells using a novel sagittal explant and time-lapse confocal microscopy. We show that along their dorsoventral migratory route, trunk neural crest cells are highly motile and interact extensively with neighboring cells and the environment, with many cells migrating in chain-like formations. Surprisingly, the segregated pattern of crest cell streams through the rostral somite is not maintained once these cells arrive alongside the dorsal aorta. Instead, neural crest cells disperse along the ventral outer border of the somite, interacting extensively with each other and their environment via dynamic extension and retraction of filopodia. Discrete sympathetic ganglia arise as a consequence of intermixing and selective reorganization of neural crest cells at the target site. The diverse cell migratory behaviors and active reorganization at the target suggest that cell-cell and cell-environment interactions are coordinated with dynamic molecular processes.

Key parameters of the endocrine pancreas, such as islet number, islet mass, beta-cell mass, and alpha-cell mass, were studied in different strains of inbred mice to investigate the impact of genetic background on the size and structure of the endocrine pancreas. Six mice from each of seven different strains of inbred mice were included in the study. For all parameters investigated, there was a pronounced interstrain variation. ANCOVA showed that only mouse strain was statistically significant as an explanatory parameter for the number of islets. Mouse strain, body weight, and pancreas mass reached statistical significance as explanatory parameters for the islet mass, with mouse strain as the most significant predictor. These data show that genetic background is the most important predictor of both the number of islets and total islet volume. We also conclude that inbred mice could be a valuable resource to identify the genes responsible for the size and structure of the endocrine pancreas.

Studies aiming to identify susceptibility genes for schizophrenia and other complex psychiatric disorders are faced with the confounds of subjective clinical criteria, commonly occurring phenocopies, significant between-subject variability of candidate traits, and the likelihood of allelic and locus heterogeneity that has been shown to define the genetics of other complex human brain and somatic disorders. Additionally, research aimed at identification of the molecular origins of schizophrenia must also deal with the confounding nature of the human brain. Unlike organs with a few common cellular phenotypes, transcriptomes, and proteomes, individual neurons are often distinct from one another in all of these respects. In this review, we present recent work testing the assumption that studies of genetic susceptibility in complex polygenic disorders such as schizophrenia might be enhanced by the identification of intermediate phenotypes related to more fundamental aspects of brain development and function. Progress in the identification of meaningful intermediate phenotypes in schizophrenia has been made possible by the advent of newer methods in cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging, and the use of combined multimodal techniques.
Depression is both clinically and biologically a heterogeneous entity. Despite advances in psychopharmacology, a significant proportion of depressed patients either continue to have residual symptoms or do not respond to antidepressants. It has therefore become essential to determine parameters (or predictors) that would rationalize the therapeutic choice, taking into account not only the clinical features, but also the &quot;biological state,&quot; which is a major determinant in the antidepressant response. Such predictors can derive from bioclinical correlates and, in this context, the neuroendocrine strategy appears particularly suited. Numerous studies have investigated neuroendocrine parameters--derived mainly from dynamic challenge tests--in order to (i) determine the predictive profiles of good clinical responders to given antidepressants; (ii) monitor the progression of markers in parallel with the clinical outcome; and (iii) evaluate &quot;in vivo&quot; in humans the mechanisms of action of antidepressant compounds (before, during, and after treatment). This article does not attempt to be exhaustive, but rather uses selected examples to illustrate the usefulness of the investigation of the adrenal and thyroid axes and the assessment of central serotonergic, noradrenergic, and dopaminergic systems by means of neuroendocrine tests. Given methodological constraints, most of these investigations--except for baseline hormone values and the dexamethasone suppression test--cannot be used routinely in psychiatry. Despite these limitations, the neuroendocrine strategy still offers new insights in biology and the treatment of depression. Its possible expansion depends mainly on the development of specific agonists or antagonists for better investigation of the receptors supposedly involved in the pathophysiology of depression. These investigations will help define more homogeneous subgroups from a bioclinical and therapeutic viewpoint.
The insights of ethology-the science of animal behavior from a biological and psychological point of view-were incorporated in the 1950s by the British developmental psychiatrist, John Bowlby, into his attachment theory, which argued that a secure affective base in infancy was critical to the normal development of perception, cognition, learning, and emotion, in addition to that of physical parameters. The theory was illustrated by Harlow's pioneering experiments with baby monkeys: those raised with a wire-frame &quot;mother&quot; failed to thrive, compared with the more normal development of those deriving comfort contact from a terry-cloth surrogate. Modern neuroscience techniques have confirmed that the absence of sensory stimulation during periods of maximal synaptic expansion provides the substrate for a subsequent mood disorder. Ethology offers a novel &quot;nature plus nurture&quot; approach to the development of abnormal mood, as well as a target for treatment.
Although tobacco use and smoking were introduced long ago, it was only recently that the nicotine contained in the tobacco leaves was recognized as an addictive substance acting on the central nervous system (CNS). However, even prior to this recognition, several studies have reported an association between smoking and psychiatric disorders. One of the many observations was that smoking cessation is accompanied by a marked increase in the probability of major depression. In parallel with the discovery of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and their extensive expression in the CNS, this association sheds new light on the influence of cholinergic transmission in depression. In this article, we examine the various modes of action of nicotine in the CNS and discuss the mechanisms by which this alkaloid can prevent or precipitate mood disorders, and the possibility of discovering new therapeutic avenues for the treatment of depression.
Screening for preschizophrenia in the general population with the aim of preventing transition to full-blown illness is an epidemiological impossibility because a rare disease cannot be predicted. The lack of specificity resulting in abundance of false-positives can be remedied in part by using much more restrictive screening criteria that combine several indicators of risk for transition to schizophrenia. Raising the specificity (reducing the false-positives), however, can only be done at the expense of sensitivity (increasing the false-negatives). The most commonly used strategy to raise specificity is the sample enrichment strategy. This involves the creation of samples enriched with schizophrenia risk by selectively filtering at-risk people out over a range of consecutive referral processes starting in the general population, through to general practioners, mental health services, and the early detection clinic. However, improvements in specificity obtained by the sample enrichment strategy should not be attributed to the use of some predictive instrument that supposedly identifies high-risk individuals. The epidemiologically and ethically most viable way for screening and early detection is to selectively increase the permeability of the filters on the pathway to mental health care. This will occasion samples of help-seekers enriched with schizophrenia risk at the level of mental health services (thus reducing false-positives), while at the same time making an attempt to &quot;attract&quot; as many detectable schizophrenia prodromes as possible through the filters along the pathway to mental health care (thus reducing false-negatives). Early psychosis research has yielded some useful suggestions in that it is becoming increasingly clear that it is not just psychosis itself, but rather the clinical context of the psychotic experience that determines risk for transition to schizophrenia. Thus, risk for transition to full-blown psychotic disorder is to a large degree determined by size of psychosis &quot;load,&quot; comorbid distress and depression, cannabis use, cognitive ability, and subjective reports of impairment and coping. Making a diagnosis of psychotic disorder is not an exact science: it involves an arbitrary cutoff imposed on dimensional variation of psychopathology and need for care over time. Gaining insight into the cognitive and biological factors that drive the dimensional variation, including therapeutic interventions, is arguably more useful than sterile dichotomous prediction models.

Antibodies against myelin oligodendrocyte antigens have been found in the immunoreactive brain lesions of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients. Recently it has been proposed that these antibodies can be used as a prognostic marker in the course of disease. However, the serum levels of these autoantibodies during different phases of disease activity or after an immunomodulatory therapy have been poorly investigated. In this study the serum levels of anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) (directed against the epitopes 1-26 and 15-40) and anti-myelin basic protein (MBP) antibodies were sequentially measured in the same MS patient either in relapse or remission phases. We found that MS patients in the relapse phase had higher serum anti-MOG (peptides 1-26 and 15-40) and anti-MBP antibody levels than controls. In addition, the levels of anti-MOG 1-26 were also elevated during the relapse as compared with the remission phase but no significant changes were found in the levels of anti-MOG 15-40 of anti-MBP antibodies. We also evaluated the effect of interferon-beta (beta) therapy on anti-myelin antibodies. 1-year of interferon-beta treatment did not induce any changes in the levels of anti-MOG and anti-MBP antibodies. In conclusion, these data indicate that the use of peripheral levels of autoantibodies against MOG and MBP as marker of multiple sclerosis might be complicated by the phase of disease activity and by the epitope of the MOG protein used.

The aim of this review is to establish the relationship between treatment with hypnotics and the risk of postural instability and as a consequence, falls and hip fractures, in the elderly. A review of the literature was performed through a search of the MEDLINE, Ingenta and PASCAL databases from 1975 to 2005. We considered as hypnotics only those drugs approved for treating insomnia, i.e. some benzodiazepines and the more recently launched 'Z'-compounds, i.e. zopiclone, zolpidem and zaleplon. Large-scale surveys consistently report increases in the frequency of falls and hip fractures when hypnotics are used in the elderly (2-fold risk). Benzodiazepines are the major class of hypnotics involved in this context; falls and fractures in patients taking Z-compounds are less frequently reported, and in this respect, zolpidem is considered as at risk in only one study. It is important to note, however, that drug adverse effect relationships are difficult to establish with this type of epidemiological data-mining. On the other hand, data obtained in laboratory settings, where confounding factors can be eliminated, prove that benzodiazepines are the most deleterious hypnotics at least in terms of their effects on body sway. Z-compounds are considered safer, probably because of their pharmacokinetic properties as well as their selective pharmacological activities at benzodiazepine-1 (BZ(1)) receptors. The effects of hypnotics on balance, gait and equilibrium are the consequence of differential negative impacts on vigilance and cognitive functions, and are highly dose- and time-dependent. Z-compounds have short half-lives and have less cognitive and residual effects than older medications. Some practical rules need to be followed when prescribing hypnotics in order to prevent falls and hip fractures as much as possible in elderly insomniacs, whether institutionalised or not. These are: (i) establish a clear diagnosis of the sleep disorder; (ii) take into account chronic conditions leading to balance and gait difficulties (motor and cognitive status); (iii) search for concomitant prescription of psychotropics and sedatives; (iv) use half the recommended adult dosage; and (v) declare any adverse effect to pharmacovigilance centres. Comparative pharmacovigilance studies focused on the impact of hypnotics on postural stability are very much needed.


Hypothermia can result from exposure to a cold environment (e.g., accidental drowning) or it can be induced and used as a brain protection strategy (e.g., therapeutic hypothermia). One common ECG presentation with hypothermia is the J wave, which is related to the altered cellular activities during hypothermia. A case study is used in this article to illustrate the presentation of a J wave with a patient experiencing hypothermia.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether the palatoglossus (PG) muscle is involved in the regulation of function during the transition from the oral to the pharyngeal phase. Seven normal adults participated in the study. Smoothed electromyography (EMG) signals of the PG muscle and levator veli palatini (LVP) muscle were collected. Each subject swallowed water at five different volumes: 12.5%, 25%, 50%, 100%, and 150% (or 200%) of his/her optimum swallowing volume. PG muscle waveform showed two patterns of activity: one of a single peak and the other of two peaks. There was no significant difference (p &lt; 0.01) in the timing of emergence between the single peak and the second peak of the two-peak pattern. There were two patterns of PG muscle activity in response to a change in swallowing volume, i.e., one was a pattern in which the activity was correlated to the change in swallowing volume, the other was a pattern in which the activity was not changed but almost at the maximum activity level, irrespective of swallowing volume. We conclude that the PG muscle could be involved in the regulation of swallowing from the oral to the pharyngeal phase. The activity could be influenced by swallowing volume.
Although the functional deficits of neurological diseases vary, they are all pathologically marked by neuronal degeneration. The ability of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) to support both sensory and motor neuron regeneration has suggested its potential in treatment of neurological diseases. IGF-I is pleiotrophic, stimulating survival, neurite outgrowth and motility in neurons, as well as myelination of neurons by glia. Understanding the intracellular signaling pathways that mediate these pleiotrophic responses to IGF-I is important for tailoring IGF-I treatment to the appropriate neurological deficit. This review surveys the current understanding of IGF-I pleiotrophism, the underlying signaling conferring these effects, and the status of IGF-I in treatment of human neurological disorders.
This article discusses the potential mechanisms by which hypothalamic hamartomas (HHs) are formed and cause precocious puberty. The hypothesis is presented suggesting that HHs accelerate sexual development by producing bioactive substances that mimic - in an accelerated time-course - the cascade of events underlying the normal initiation of puberty. It is also proposed that because HHs contain key transcriptional and signaling networks required to initiate and sustain a pubertal mode of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release, they are able to trigger the pubertal process at an earlier age. The cellular components of this activating complex may include: (a) neurons able to produce GnRH within the HH: (b) controlling neurons synaptically connected to GnRH neurons in the HH itself and/or to neuronal networks (including GnRH neurons) in the patient's hypothalamus, and (c) signaling-competent astrocytic and ependymoglial cells. It is also possible that the developmental abnormalities leading to the formation of HHs result from sporadic defects affecting the same genes and hence the same morphogenic pathways involved in the embryonic development of the ventral hypothalamus and the floor of the third ventricle.
Over the last decade growing evidence has been documented on the relationship between intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and pubertal development indicating changes in timing and progression of puberty. These changes in pubertal development are part of a growing list of IUGR-related diseases, which includes type 2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, short stature and polycystic ovary syndrome. The influence of IUGR on the mechanisms behind the onset of puberty is still elusive. In the absence of prospective studies on gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse patterns in IUGR children, other markers of pubertal development such as age at menarche in girls and progression of puberty have been employed. We investigated pubertal development and DHEAS levels in children born small for gestational age (SGA) after third trimester growth retardation and children born appropriate for gestational age (AGA). A faster progression of puberty was found in girls but not in boys. DHEAS levels tended to be higher in SGA children than in AGA children. In animal studies using two rat models, growth and onset of puberty based on perinatal undernutrition were also investigated. In one model intrauterine growth retardation was induced by ligation of the uterine arteries (IUGR) at day 17 of gestation and in the other model postnatal food restriction (FR) was induced by increasing litter size after birth until weaning. In both models, the rats showed a persistent growth failure. Onset of puberty was defined by vaginal opening (VO) in female rats and by balanopreputial separation (BPS) in male rats. At onset of puberty IUGR and FR rats had a lower body weight compared to controls, indicating that no threshold for body weight is needed for the onset of puberty. In the IUGR female rats, the onset of puberty was delayed and in the FR female rats the onset of puberty was in time. In both IUGR and FR female rats VO and first cycle were uncoupled. In IUGR female rats, at VO, at first cycle and at the age of 6 months the ovaries showed a decline in number of follicles indicating that intrauterine malnutrition in the female rat has a permanent influence on the growth and development of follicles. In the FR female rats, at VO, the ovaries showed a normal number of follicles but an abnormal maturation pattern. At the time of first cycle and at the age of 6 months normalization in follicle growth pattern was observed. These findings suggest that postnatal undernutrition has a transient influence on follicle growth and development. In male rats, both models showed delayed onset of puberty and impaired testicular function, as shown by decreased testosterone levels. These data indicate that early malnutrition during different critical developmental time windows may result in different long-lasting effects on pubertal development in both humans and rats.
The importance of muscarinic receptors in proliferation of different cell types and in insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells has been extensively studied. However, the role of pancreatic muscarinic receptors during pancreatic regeneration has not yet been studied. For the first time, the functional status of the muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors in regeneration of the pancreas is investigated here. It is observed that the number and affinity of high-affinity muscarinic M3 receptors increased at the time of regeneration. The low-affinity M3 receptors also showed a similar trend. In the case of muscarinic M1 receptors, the receptor number increased with a decrease in affinity. We also observed an increase in the circulating insulin levels at the time of active regeneration. The in vitro studies confirmed that muscarinic receptors are stimulatory to insulin secretion. Our results suggest that the increased muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor subtypes stimulate insulin secretion and islet cell proliferation during the regeneration of pancreas.
C75, a synthetic inhibitor of fatty acid synthase (FAS), causes anorexia and profound weight loss in lean and genetically obese mice. C75 also acts as a stimulator of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 to induce fatty acid oxidation. To approximate human obesity, we used a 2-wk C75 treatment model for diet-induced obese (DIO) mice to investigate the central and peripheral effects of C75 on gene expression. C75 treatment decreased food intake, increased energy expenditure, and reduced body weight more effectively in DIO than in lean mice. Analysis of the gene expression changes in hypothalamus demonstrated that the reduced food intake in C75-treated DIO mice might be mediated by inhibition of orexigenic neuropeptide expression and induction of anorexigenic neuropeptide expression. Gene expression changes in peripheral tissues indicated that C75 increased energy expenditure by the induction of genes involved in fatty acid oxidation. C75 also inhibited the expression of genes in peripheral tissues responsible for fatty acid synthesis and accumulation. The patterns of the changes in central and peripheral gene expression that occur with C75 treatment provide mechanisms to explain the reduced food intake and increased energy expenditure observed with C75.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a proinflammatory cytokine produced by peripheral immune cells and also by endocrine cells in the anterior pituitary gland. MIF exerts its proinflammatory actions in the host-defense system by blocking the inhibitory effects of glucocorticoids on the release of other proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. IL-1, IL-6, TNFalpha). Reports that pituitary folliculo-stellate (FS) cells share many characteristics with immune cells led us to propose that these cells may serve as an additional source of MIF in the pituitary and that pituitary-derived MIF may act in an autocrine or paracrine manner to modulate endotoxin-induced cytokine release from FS cells. In the present study we addressed this hypothesis by using 1) immunohistochemistry to localize MIF in primary pituitary tissue and 2) well-characterized FS (TtT/GF), corticotroph (AtT20), and macrophage/monocyte (RAW 264.7) cell lines to explore the effects of CRH, endotoxin, and dexamethasone on MIF release and to examine the effects of MIF on IL-6 release. Our immunohistochemical study showed that MIF is expressed in abundance in S100-positive FS cells and also in other pituitary cell types. All three cell lines expressed MIF protein and responded to endotoxin (10-1000 ng/ml, 24 h) and dexamethasone (100 pM to 10 nM, 24 h) with concentration-dependent increases in MIF release. CRH (10-100 nM) also stimulated MIF release from AtT20 cells but, unlike endotoxin and dexamethasone, it had no effect on MIF release from TtT/GF or RAW cells. Recombinant MIF did not affect the basal release of IL-6 from TtT/GF cells; however, it effectively reversed the inhibitory effects of dexamethasone (1 nM) on the endotoxin-induced release of IL-6 from these cells. The results suggest that the FS cells are both a source of and a target for MIF and raise the possibility that MIF serves as a paracrine/autocrine factor in the pituitary gland that contributes to the protective neuroendocrine response to endotoxin.
Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is the most important direct epilepsy-related cause of death. However, SUDEP is rare in patients with new onset epilepsy and in patients in remission. Incidence is about 0.35 cases/1,000 person-years in population-based incidence cohort of epilepsy. Incidence is considerably higher in patients with chronic epilepsy, 1-2/1,000 person-years, and highest with severe, refractory seizures, 3-9/1,000. The highest rates occur from 20 to 40 years. Most SUDEP appears seizure-related. When witnessed, the fatal event generally occurred in association with generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Two recent case-control studies suggest that seizure frequency is the strongest risk factor for SUDEP: relative risk = 23 (95% CI = 3.2-170) for persons with &gt; or =1 seizure during the year of observation versus seizure-free patients. Onset of epilepsy at an early age and long duration of the disorder are other risk factors. Although SUDEP has not been associated with the use of any particular antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), some case-control studies have pointed to an association between SUDEP and polytherapy with AEDs and frequent dose changes independent of seizure frequency. Although recent epidemiological studies have been helpful in identifying patients at risk for SUDEP, providing clues to mechanisms behind SUDEP, no single risk factor is common to all SUDEP, suggesting multiple mechanisms or trigger factors. Seizure control seems of paramount importance to prevent SUDEP. Further large-scale case-control studies are needed to assess the role of AEDs in order to form a basis for treatment strategies aiming at seizure control and prevention of SUDEP.
Epilepsy is associated with a two- to three-fold increase in mortality. Studies of cause-specific mortality show that deaths may be classified into those that are directly or indirectly related to epilepsy, those that are related to the underlying pathology giving rise to epilepsy, and those that are unrelated to both epilepsy and its causes. Overall, direct epilepsy related deaths are infrequent. Pneumonia, especially in the elderly, central nervous system (CNS) and non-CNS neoplasias, and cerebrovascular disease are frequent causes of death. Suicides, accidental deaths, and ischemic heart disease do not appear to be significant contributors to mortality in community-based studies. In hospital/institution-based analyses, epilepsy-related deaths are common and sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) may account for up to 17% of all deaths in epilepsy. A small proportion of these deaths may be witnessed and most such witnessed deaths occur in relation to convulsive seizures. The exact pathogenetic mechanisms are unknown although it is very probable that lack of seizure control is an important risk factor. Patients who continue to suffer seizures appear to have an almost 40 times higher risk of mortality than those in remission.
Epilepsy may be seen as a feature of many of the neurocutaneous syndromes. The challenge lies within the diagnosis of the specific disorder and ultimately control of the epilepsy. Tuberous sclerosis is the most common of the disorders with a frequency of 4.9/100,000. An autosomal-dominant condition, diagnostic features may be unclear under 2 years of age. Population studies suggest a prevalence of epilepsy of 78%, the majority presenting under the age of 12 months, with a high association between the occurrence of seizures and the presence of learning disability. Although an apparent multifocal disease, surgery may have a role to play where seizures are demonstrated to probably arise from a single tuber. Other less common neurocutaneous syndromes also have a high prevalence of epilepsy in association with cerebral malformations; unilateral or lobar malformations should be referred early for surgical consideration. Neurofibromatosis is the second most common of the disorders but the prevalence of epilepsy in this population is relatively low; in addition, a greater proportion may be easier to treat with medication.


Epileptic seizures are more common in males than in females. One of the areas that has recently been implicated in the higher susceptibility of males to seizures is the substantia nigra reticulata (SNR). Several studies support the existence of phenotypic differences between male and female infantile SNR neurons, and particularly in several aspects of the GABAergic system, including its ability to control seizures. We have recently found that at postnatal day 14-17 (PN14-17) rats, which are equivalent to infants, activation of GABA(A) receptors has different physiological effects in male and female SNR neurons. This is likely due to the differences in the expression of the neuronal-specific potassium-chloride co-transporter KCC2, which regulates the intracellular chloride concentration. In male PN14-17 SNR neurons, GABA(A)-receptor activation with muscimol causes depolarization and increments in intracellular calcium concentration and the expression of calcium regulated genes, such as KCC2. Blockade of L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (L-VSCC) by nifedipine decreases KCC2 mRNA expression. However, in PN14-17 females, muscimol hyperpolarizes the SNR neurons, does not increase intracellular calcium, and decreases KCC2 mRNA expression. In PN15 females, nifedipine has no effect on KCC2 mRNA expression in the SNR. This sexually dimorphic function of GABA(A) receptors also creates divergent patterns of estradiol signaling. In male PN15 rats, estradiol decreases KCC2 mRNA expression in SNR neurons. Pretreatment with the GABA(A)-receptor antagonist bicuculline or with nifedipine, prevents the appearance of estradiol-mediated downregulation of KCC2 mRNA expression. In contrast, in PN15 females, estradiol does not influence KCC2 expression. These findings show that, in infantile rats, drugs or conditions that modulate the activity of GABA(A) receptors or L-VSCCs have different effects on the differentiation of the SNR. As a result, they have the potency of causing long-term changes in the function of the SNR in the control of seizures, movement, and the susceptibility to and course of epilepsy and movement disorders.



We review the literature on the influence of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) on mood and quality of life in patients with epilepsy. Although many anecdotal reports cover a spectrum of AEDs, most of the controlled data have come from studies of carbamazepine and lamotrigine. Both of these compounds appear to have positive effects on mood, and these data parallel the effects noted in nonepilepsy populations. AEDs that are gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic tend to have negative effects on mood, and an affective disorder is often noted as a treatment-emergent effect. It is speculated that the amygdala is an important anatomic structure in the cerebral circuits that regulate mood in affective disorders but also in epilepsy, and an effect of AEDs on such circuits aids mood stability in both populations of patients.

More than 28,000 neuroscientists and 3,000 epileptologists gathered at their respective 2001 meetings of the Society for Neuroscience and the American Epilepsy Society. Yet only six articles, one directly and five indirectly, discussed the corpus callosum (CC). Is not this in itself a remarkable finding? Are there no mysteries left? The reality is that considerable uncertainties exist regarding the rationale for callosal bisection (CCB) that causes contrasting effects (i.e., amelioration of generalized seizure, at times leading to freedom from seizure, and intensification of postoperatively fragmented seizure, at times leading to status epilepticus). Similarly, the clinical relevance of EEG mirror focus formation, an experimentally well-established transcallosal consequence of partial cortical epileptogenesis, continues to be debated. This presentation revisits these unresolved issues (a) to gain insight into the dynamic role played by the CC in medically refractory epilepsy, and (b) to promote the development of antiepileptogenic tools that are currently unavailable.



Since non-response may jeopardize the validity of studies, comprehensive assessment of non-response is a prerequisite for proper interpretation of study findings. Recently, the baseline assessment of the TRacking Adolescents' Individual Lives Survey (TRAILS), a prospective cohort study among Dutch pre-adolescents, was completed. The aim of this report is to examine non-response bias by comparing responders and non-responders regarding mental health determinants (e.g., demographics and cognitive performance) and outcomes, as well as associations between the two. Furthermore, we examine whether extended efforts to recruit participants contribute to the prevention or reduction of non-response bias. Thanks to various recruitment procedures, the initial response rate of 66% increased to a final rate of 76%. The extended efforts to recruit participants prevented non-response bias in the prevalence rates of psychopathology. Although non-responders differed from responders with respect to several individual characteristics, no significant differences were found regarding associations between these characteristics and psychopathology. We conclude that TRAILS provides a solid basis to improve our understanding of the development of mental health during adolescence.
This study examined the relative anti-Parkinson's disease (PD) tremor potencies of pergolide and pramipexole in people with PD, using a 3-month double-blind cross-over design. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either pergolide and then pramipexole (n=9) or vice versa (n=8). The dose of the respective dopamine agonist was increased according to a titration schedule up to a maximum 1.5 mg t.d.s., with cross-over at 10 weeks. Assessments were performed at baseline, 4, 8 and 12 weeks. The primary outcome measures were the differences in the clinical (rest and postural) tremor scores on pergolide versus pramipexole. Seventeen PD patients (11 females and six males) with a mean age 68.4 years (range: 55-84 years) and a mean disease duration of 3.9 years (range: 2 months to 13 years) participated in the study. Twelve of the patients were taking other anti-parkinsonian medications. Two patients dropped out of the study whilst on pergolide. Fifteen of 16 patients were able to cross-over from one dopamine agonist to the other, without major retitration. There were no significant differences between the effects of the two drugs on the primary outcome measures, suggesting that the anti-PD tremor efficacies of dopaminergic medications are not dependent on differential affinities for dopamine receptor types.
L1 is a cell adhesion molecule implicated in the formation of neural circuits and synaptic plasticity. We have examined the sequence and time-frame in which modifications in the synaptic expression of L1 occur in the piriform cortex and hippocampus in the course of rule learning of an olfactory discrimination task. Rats were trained to choose the correct odour in a pair to be rewarded with drinking water. Such training requires 6-8 days on average before rats reach maximal performance. We observed a learning-induced L1 up-regulation that occurred at an early training stage in the piriform cortex but only after rule-learning establishment in the hippocampus. We suggest that the dynamics of L1 up-regulation may reflect the functional role of these brain regions in olfactory rule learning.
Centre-surround interaction in the primary visual cortex (area V1) has been studied extensively using artificial, abstract stimulus patterns, such as bars, gratings and simple texture patterns. In this experiment, we extend the study of centre-surround interaction by using natural scene images. We systematically varied the contrast of natural image surrounds presented outside the classical receptive field (CRF), and recorded neuronal response to a natural image patch presented within the CRF in area V1 of awake, fixating macaques. For the majority of neurons (67 out of 111), the natural image surrounds profoundly modulated, mainly by suppressing, neuronal responses to CRF images. These modulatory effects started at the earliest stage of neuronal responses, and often depended on the contrast and higher-order structures of the surrounds. For 47 out of 67 neurons, randomising the phases of the Fourier spectrum of the natural image surround diminished the centre-surround interaction. Our results suggest that the centre-surround interaction in area V1 can be extended to natural vision, and is sensitive to the higher-order structures of natural scene images, such as image contours.
Activity plays important roles in the formation and maturation of synaptic connections. We examined these roles using solitary neocortical excitatory neurons, receiving only self-generated synaptic inputs, cultured in a microisland with and without spontaneous spike activity. The amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), evoked by applying brief depolarizing voltage pulses to the cell soma, continued to increase from 7 to 14 days in culture. Short-term depression of EPSCs in response to paired-pulse or 10-train-pulse stimulation decreased with time in culture. These developmental changes were prevented when neurons were cultured in a solution containing tetrodotoxin (TTX). The number of functional synapses estimated by recycled synaptic vesicles with FM4-64 was significantly smaller in TTX-treated than control neurons. However, the miniature EPSC amplitude remained unchanged during development, irrespective of activity. Transmitter release probability, assessed by use-dependent blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated EPSCs with MK-801, was higher in TTX-treated than control neurons. Therefore, the activity-dependent increase in EPSC amplitude was mainly ascribed to the increase in synapse number, while activity-dependent alleviation of short-term depression was mostly ascribed to the decrease in release probability. The effect of activity blockade on short-term depression, but not EPSC amplitude, was reversed after 4 days of TTX removal, indicating that synapse number and release probability are controlled by activity in very different ways. These results demonstrate that activity regulates the conversion of immature synapses transmitting low-frequency input signals preferentially to mature synapses transmitting both low- and high-frequency signals effectively, which may be necessary for information processing in mature cortex.
Glutamate is thought to be the excitatory neurotransmitter in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the cat, mediating visual transmission from the retina via ionotropic receptors of both D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-alpha-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate subtypes. Moreover, glutamate also exerts an important modulatory influence on LGN cells, where metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) seem to play a crucial role. Here we show in anesthetized adult cats that iontophoretic application of the specific mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) produced two, distinctly different, effects on LGN neurons. Visual responses to flashing spots and drifting gratings were attenuated (decreased by an average of 59%) in 13 of 23 of the cells but augmented (increased by an average of 60%) in 10 of 23 of the cells. Further, in each case when the specific mGluR5 agonist (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine was applied, the effects obtained were the opposite to those of MPEP. Data obtained in a second group of experiments to determine a possible interaction between mGluR5 blockade by MPEP and glutamate ionotropic receptors show that, in the majority of neurons (11 of 15, 73%), the MPEP-mediated effects seem to be independent of N-methyl-D-aspartate and D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-alpha-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor activity. Our results demonstrate a physiological role for mGluR5 in controlling retinal input and show, in vivo, a more intricate scenario than previously suggested, highlighting the complexity of metabotropic receptor interactions with excitatory and inhibitory elements in the thalamus.
Patterns of neural activity mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are known to play important roles in development of the central nervous system. However, the signalling pathways downstream from NMDA receptors that are critical for normal neuronal development are not yet clearly understood. NMDA receptors interact with various signalling proteins via scaffolding proteins, which are important in adult neuronal and behavioural plasticity. For example, the NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor interact with postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95), which in turn binds to synaptic ras GTPase-activating protein (SynGAP). Interestingly, the developmental phenotype of mice carrying null mutations in these genes differ. NR2B and SynGAP homozygote mice die within the first week of birth whereas PSD-95 homozygote mice survive to adulthood. We therefore examined the expression patterns of PSD-95 and SynGAP genes from embryonic stages to adult using lacZ (beta-galactosidase) marker gene knock-in mice. Dramatic changes of expression were observed throughout development in brain and other tissues. Although SynGAP binds PSD-95, both genes had distinct, as well as overlapping expression. SynGAP expression peaked at times of synaptogenesis and developmental plasticity in contrast to PSD-95, which was expressed throughout the brain from early embryonic stages. Furthermore, SynGAP showed a more spatially restricted pattern as illustrated by its restriction to forebrain in contrast to PSD-95, which was also found in mid- and hindbrain. These data support the model that synaptic signalling complexes are heterogeneous and individual components show temporal and spatial specificity during development.
Averaging techniques have demonstrated that movement preparatory cues and movement itself are associated with marked reductions in the oscillatory synchrony of local neuronal populations in the area of the human parkinsonian subthalamic nucleus (STN), as indexed by 8-30 Hz local field potential (LFP) activity. In order to examine the detailed nature and strength of the relationship between reductions in oscillatory activity and movement we examined single-trial LFP activity recorded from the STN area of parkinsonian subjects engaged in a choice reaction task. In this task an initial warning cue was either fully predictive or non-predictive of the hand required to make a later motor response. This motor response was elicited by a second go cue to which data were aligned. We observed a significant linear relationship between the onset time of oscillation reduction after go cues and subsequent motor response time across single trials within subjects. Consistent with this observation we also found a positive correlation of power with response time following go cues. In addition, we observed shorter durations of suppression in fully predictive trials where selection of the response could precede go cue presentation. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that reductions in 8-30 Hz population synchrony in the STN area are related to the processing required for motor preparation, particularly response selection.
Indirect evidence suggests that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have deficits not only in motor performance, but also in the processing of sensory information. We investigated the role of sensory information processing in PD patients with a broad range of disease severities and in a group of age-matched controls. Subjects were tested in two conditions: pointing to a remembered visual target in complete darkness (DARK) and in the presence of an illuminated frame with a light attached to the index finger (FRAME). Differences in pointing errors in these two conditions reflect the effect of visual feedback on pointing. PD patients showed significantly larger constant and variable errors than controls in the DARK and FRAME condition. The difference of the variable error in the FRAME and DARK condition decreased as a function of the severity of PD. This indicates that any deficits in the processing of proprioceptive information occur already at very mild symptoms of PD, and that deficits in the use of visual feedback develop progressively in later stages of the disease. These results provide a tool for early diagnosis of PD and shed new light on the functional role of the brain structures that are affected in PD.
We investigated the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in a mouse model of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH). Transcripts encoding nine of the 23 known mammalian MMPs were measured. MMP-12 levels were the most elevated. To evaluate the role of MMP-12 in ICH, haemorrhages were induced in wild-type (WT) and MMP-12 null mice. The results show that MMP-12 null mice exhibited significant functional recovery of forelimb reaching and reduced dependence on the ipsilateral forelimb compared to WT mice. There was also a trend for improved sensory function in the tape removal test. With respect to single pellet skilled reaching, MMP-12 null mice recovered to a level that was not significantly different from sham at 14 and 28 days post-ICH. In contrast, WT animals demonstrated a persistent impairment relative to sham controls throughout the survival period (P &lt; 0.05). The cylinder task revealed a lesion-induced reliance on the ipsilateral forelimb that was apparent at day 7 in both MMP-12 null and WT mice (P &lt; 0.05), but only persisted in WT mice at 14 days post-ICH (P &lt; 0.05). Differences in functional outcome could not be explained by tissue sparing. However, Iba1 immunostaining indicated that more cells bearing macrophage morphology were recruited to the lesion area in WT mice. This is the first study to profile the expression patterns of a number of the known MMPs following ICH in mice. The data indicate that MMP-12 expression following haemorrhagic stroke is deleterious and contributes to the development of secondary injury in this disease.
Dendritic arbor development of subventricular zone-derived interneurons is a critical step in their integration into functional circuits of the postnatal olfactory bulb. However, the mechanism and molecular control of this process remain unknown. In this study, we have developed a culture model where dendritic development of purified subventricular zone cells proceeds under serum-free conditions in the absence of added growth factors and non-neural cells. We demonstrate that the large majority of these cells in culture express GABA and elaborate dendritic arbors with spine-like protrusions but they do not possess axons. These neurons expressed receptors for neurotrophins including p75, TrkB and TrkC but not TrkA. Application of exogenous neurotrophins, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT3) and nerve growth factor (NGF), to cultures stimulated dendritic growth and led to more complex dendritic arbors during the initial 3 days in culture. Our results suggest that these effects are independent of Trk receptors and mediated by the p75/ceramide signaling pathway. We also show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is the only neurotrophin that is able to influence late-phase dendritic development via TrkB receptor activation. These results suggest that dendritic arbor development of subventricular zone-derived cells may be regulated by neurotrophins through the activation of p75 and the TrkB receptor signaling pathways in a sequentially defined temporal pattern.

Rash causing viral diseases may be transmitted during pregnancy, causing severe congenital disease. Although neurological and psychiatric disorders are common consequences of congenital rubella, children born to women who developed a viral rash during pregnancy do not appear to be at increased risk of these disorders if they were asymptomatic at birth. In a case-control study conducted to evaluate risk factors for ADHD, we found an increased risk of this disorder among children born to women experiencing a viral rash during pregnancy. The viral rash (i.e. measles, varicella, or rubella) was reported by 4 of 71 mothers of children with ADHD and none of the 118 controls' mothers (P&lt;0.01). The difference remained statistically significant after adjusting for potential confounders (i.e. other factors found associated with ADHD, such as gender and familiarity). Although, the viral disease reported by the mothers, in accordance with their physician's diagnosis, did not represent a homogeneous nosological group, the unexpectedly high rate found among ADHD cases' mothers suggest a role for viral diseases occurring during pregnancy in the development of ADHD.



The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the new optimised levodopa, Stalevo (levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone) in patients with Parkinson's disease experiencing end-of-dose wearing-off. Treatment with Stalevo was compared to treatment with traditional immediate-release levodopa and dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor (DDCI) formulations along with adjunct entacapone (Comtess/Comtan). A European, open, parallel-group, active treatment-controlled phase IIIb study evaluating 176 patients randomised to switch from their current regimen of levodopa/DDCI to either an equivalent dose of Stalevo or levodopa/DDCI plus entacapone. After 6 weeks, treatments were assessed using the Clinical Global Impression of Change, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and a Motor Fluctuations Questionnaire. Over 70% of patients in both the Stalevo and adjunct entacapone arms felt that they were clinically improved and over 80% experienced a reduction in fluctuations. Although there was no significant difference between Stalevo and levodopa/DDCI plus entacapone with regard to motor improvement and side effects, 81% of patients stated that they preferred treatment with Stalevo compared with taking two separate tablets (i.e. levodopa/DDCI and entacapone). Stalevo was well tolerated and safe when substituted for levodopa DDCI preparations.

According to previous data, the addition of risperidone in obsessive-compulsive patients refractory to serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) is shown to be a safe and effective treatment strategy. The aims of our study were to evaluate the efficacy of risperidone addition, in comparison to placebo, in fluvoxamine-refractory obsessive-compulsive patients and to investigate whether risperidone could boost the efficacy of fluvoxamine in fluvoxamine-responder patients. Subjects were 45 obsessive-compulsive inpatients, consecutively recruited at the Department of Neurosciences at the San Raffaele Hospital, Milan. Thirty-nine patients completed the study. All patients received 12 weeks of a standardized open-label fluvoxamine monotherapy and then continued for 6 weeks with placebo or risperidone in a double-blind design. Results showed a significant effect of risperidone addition, at the end of the double-blind phase (18th week), only for fluvoxamine-refractory patients. Five patients on risperidone (50%) and two (20%) on placebo became responders, with a Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) decrease &gt; or =35%. Risperidone was generally well tolerated, except for a mild transient sedation and a mild increase in appetite. This preliminary study suggests that even very low (0.5 mg) risperidone doses are effective in OC patients who were nonresponders to a standardized treatment with fluvoxamine.
The endogenous cannabinoid system is a relatively novel discovered system consisting of cannabinoid CB1 receptors, which are expressed both in the periphery and in the central nervous system, peripheral cannabinoid CB2 receptors and endogenous cannabinoids, which are anandamide and 2-arachidonyl glycerol. The cannabinoid CB1 receptors have recently been implicated in rewarding aspects of not only the cannabinoid drug Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC), but also of other drugs of abuse, including cocaine. The present study was designed to further investigate the role of CB1 receptors in reward-related effects of cocaine. Using the CB1 receptor selective antagonist SR141716A, the involvement of CB1 receptors in cocaine reinforcement was determined by intravenous cocaine self-administration. In addition, the effects of the CB1 receptor selective antagonist SR141716A upon the development of cocaine-induced behavioural sensitization were investigated. SR141716A did not affect cocaine reinforcement nor did it affect the development of behavioural sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. These findings suggest that CB1 receptors are not involved in acute cocaine reinforcement nor in cocaine-induced behavioural sensitization.
The purpose was to evaluate the blood flow redistribution in the neck vessels of patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis. Eighty-six patients with ICA stenosis underwent contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (CEMRA) and fast 2D phase contrast (2D-PC) sequence to measure the mean blood flow (MBF) of ICA, basilar artery (BA) and middle cerebral artery (MCA). CEMRA revealed 53 severe stenoses, 45 moderate stenoses and 3 occluded vessels. Patients with a unilateral severe ICA stenosis had a significantly reduced MBF of the ICA compared to the control group; the MBF reduction of the severely stenosed ICA was less conspicuous if associated with a controlateral severe stenosis. The MBF of the BA increased significantly in the presence of the bilateral severe ICA stenosis and in the ICA occlusion. The MBF of the MCA was unchanged in the presence of various degrees of ICA stenosis. Measurement of MBF with fast PC MRA permits cerebropethal blood flow assessment and gives additional information in grading ICA stenosis. The reduced MBF of a severe ICA stenosis has to be considered with caution since it depends also on the status of the controlateral ICA and may be considered a confident parameter only in case of unilateral carotid stenosis.
Rhythmic motor patterns are ubiquitous in the animal kingdom. Walking, cycling, and swimming are examples of rhythmic locomotor tasks that humans perform routinely. This paper outlines the common core hypothesis that rhythmic motor patterns in human locomotion share common central neural control mechanisms. This is subserved by presumed central pattern generators that regulate arm and leg movements during locomotion.
Ethanol withdrawal (EW) produces substantial neurotoxic effects, whereas estrogen is neuroprotective. Given observations that both human and nonhuman female subjects often show less impairment following EW, it is reasonable to hypothesize that estrogens may protect females from the neurotoxic effects of ethanol. This article is based on the assumption that the behavioral deficits seen following EW are produced in part by neuronal death triggered by oxidative insults produced by EW. The EW leads to activation of protein kinase C, especially PKCepsilon, which subsequently triggers apoptotic downstream events such as phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) complex. On phosphorylation, active NFkappaB translocates to the nucleus, binds to DNA, and activates caspases, which trigger DNA fragmentation and apoptosis. In contrast, estrogens are antioxidant, inhibit overexpression of PKCepsilon, and suppress expression of NFkappaB and caspases. Estrogen treatment reduces the behavioral deficits seen during EW and attenuates molecular signals of apoptosis. The effects of ethanol and estrogen on each step in the signaling cascade from ethanol exposure to apoptosis are reviewed, and potential mechanisms by which estrogen could produce neuronal protection against the neurotoxicity produced by EW are identified. These studies serve as a guide for continuing research into the mechanisms of the neuroprotective effects of estrogen during EW and for the development of potential estrogen-based treatments for male and female alcoholics.
When a visual target is presented to one hemifield, manual responses made to the target using the ipsilateral hand (uncrossed responses) are faster than responses using the contralateral hand (crossed response), because there is no need for visuomotor information to be transferred between the hemispheres. This difference in response times is termed the crossed-uncrossed difference (CUD) and is a valuable means of estimating interhemispheric transfer time. We aimed to investigate the CUD by applying repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left and right occipital cortex during a lateralized target-detection task. Eleven neurologically healthy subjects, all right-handed, participated in the study. Relative to sham TMS we increased the CUD, by inhibiting the crossed latencies, but only when rTMS was applied to the hemisphere receiving visual information. These results replicate and extend previous findings and suggest the inhibitory rTMS effect under the crossed condition might be because the weak visual output is unable to activate the crossed pathway.
Individual variability in behavioural responses to stressors such as novelty and drugs of abuse is a well-known phenomenon in both animals and man. These individual differences are largely associated with differences in dopamine transmission in mesolimbic areas such as the nucleus accumbens. Apomorphine-susceptible (APO-SUS) rats and apomorphine-unsusceptible (APO-UNSUS) rats serve as a valid animal model for individual differences and these two types of rat differ in a number of behavioural, physiological, endocrinological and pharmacological parameters. In order to study the differences in the catecholaminergic network in the nucleus accumbens, possibly underlying at least some of the differences between the two types of rat, we quantified the extent of the tyrosine-hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-IR) network and the number of TH-IR varicosities in subareas of the nucleus accumbens core and shell in naive rats. This study shows that the nucleus accumbens of APO-SUS rats has a more extensive fibre network and more varicosities than the nucleus accumbens of APO-UNSUS rats, and that the subarea of the shell contains more varicosities than the subarea of the core. These data provide a basis for further studying the structural and neurochemical properties of the nucleus accumbens contributing to individual differences in response to stressors such as novelty and drugs of abuse.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 20 normal participants while they completed a Go/NoGo response inhibition task. Previous ERP studies have implicated the N2 and P3 waveforms as the main indices of processing in this task, and functional brain imaging has shown parietal, prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices to be involved in response inhibition. 32-channel ERP analysis revealed amplitude differences in the N2/P3 components when stimuli that required a button-press (Go stimuli) were compared with stimuli for which the response had to be withheld (No-Go stimuli), and in N2 and P3 latencies when successful withholds to No-Go stimuli were compared with unsuccessful attempts to inhibit. Further differences in the N2/P3 complex emerged when participants were grouped in terms of a measure of absentmindedness (the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire, CFQ); larger and earlier components were found for high CFQ respondents. We conclude that the latencies of the N2 and P3 may be the critical indicators of active inhibitory processes for this task, suggesting that a pattern of sequential activation rather than altered activity level in key structures may mediate success on the task. In addition, highly absentminded participants exhibited larger components for errors than did less absentminded participants when performing at the same level, which implies that the absentminded may require greater activity in the neural substrates of response inhibition in order to accomplish this task at a comparable level of performance to less absentminded participants.
It is known that visual illusions lead to a distorted perception of the length and orientation of lines, but it is not clear how these illusions affect the appreciation of the shape of closed forms. In this study two experiments were performed to characterize distortions in the visual perception of the shape of quadrilaterals and the extent to which these distortions were similar to the distortions of haptically sensed shapes. In the first experiment human subjects were presented with two quadrilaterals side by side on a computer monitor. One was a reference shape; the other was rotated and distorted relative to the first. The subjects used the computer mouse to adjust the corners of the distorted quadrilateral to match the shape of the target quadrilateral. They made consistent errors on this task: the adjusted quadrilateral was about 2% wider and about 2% shorter than the veridical shape. Furthermore, subjects adjusted the inner angles of the quadrilateral to make them closer to 90 degrees . The first type of error was also present in a second experiment in which, in a two-alternative forced-choice paradigm, subjects viewed a reference shape and were asked to indicate which of two transiently presented quadrilaterals was closest to the target shape. The width/height errors and the inner angle errors were comparable to those described previously when subjects felt the outline of a quadrilateral and then drew its reproduction in the absence of vision, suggesting that the distortion occurs in the process of remembering the shape.
The directional control of smooth pursuit eye movements was studied by presenting human subjects with targets that moved in a straight line at a constant speed and then changed direction abruptly and unpredictably. To minimize the probability of saccadic responses in the interval following the target's change in direction, target position was offset so as to eliminate position error after the reaction time. Smooth pursuit speed declined at a latency of 90 ms, whereas the direction of smooth pursuit began to change later (130 ms). The amplitude of the offset in target position did not affect the subsequent smooth pursuit response. In other experiments, the target's speed or acceleration was changed abruptly at the time of the change in direction. Step changes in speed elicited short-latency responses in smooth pursuit tracking but step changes in acceleration did not. In all instances, the earliest component of the response did not depend on the parameters of the stimulus. The data were fit with a model in which smooth pursuit resulted from the vector addition of two components, one representing a response to the arrest of the initial target motion and the other the response to the onset of target motion in the new direction. This model gave an excellent fit but further analysis revealed nonlinear interactions between the two vector components. These interactions represented directional anisotropies both in terms of the initial tracking direction (which was either vertical or 45 degrees ) and in terms of the cardinal directions (vertical and horizontal).
After injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) a functional instability is frequently observed which has been attributed to a disturbed sensorimotor function. In light of the clinical importance of ACL injuries and the resulting functional instability, it is of enormous clinical interest to elucidate the role of sensorimotor pathways that involve the ACL. In animals and humans a direct reflex pathway between the ACL and the hamstrings has been shown. The onset latencies of responses reported after ventral tibia translation were around 40-50 ms (range 17.9-65) and were regarded as medium latency responses (MLR). However, ventral tibia translation should also induce a stretch of the hamstring muscles and evoke a short latency response (SLR). Before any muscle response after ventral tibia translation can be ascribed to anatomical structures, it is crucial to analyze the obtained muscle responses carefully. The aim of the present study was the development of an algorithm to differentiate SLR and MLR responses after ventral tibia translation. In ten healthy subjects reflex responses of the hamstrings after anterior tibia translation and after tendon taps on the biceps femoris tendon were evaluated. To investigate the influence of skin afferents, control experiments were performed after lidocain injection of the dorsal calf. The mean onset latency of the tendon jerk reflex was 21.9 +/- 3.1 ms (range 17.3 - 28.7 ms). Both SLR responses (mean onset latency: 20.3 +/- 3.5 ms; range 15.4 - 25.8) and MLR responses (mean onset latency: 38.9 +/- 4.2 ms; range 32.9 - 46.7) were obtained in all subjects. Skin afferents from the calf do not play a major role. The development of an evaluation algorithm is presented that allows a safe differentiation between these partly superimposed SLR and MLR components. It is demonstrated that by measuring the first part of the SLR from the onset to the first peak the end of the SLR can be predicted and that the onset latency of the MLR component can be assessed reliably. Possible reasons are discussed why previous studies only reported responses at MLR latencies. The fact that both SLR and MLR components can be observed after anterior tibia translation underlines the necessity to differentiate the responses before they can be ascribed to any anatomical structures. As a basis for future work the algorithm presented may become a useful tool to differentiate which afferent pathways play a role in initiating hamstring activity.
This study examines the effects of expectation on the timing of ocular pursuit termination. Human subjects pursued repeated, constant velocity (15 or 30 degrees/s) target motion stimuli (ramps), moving left or right. Ramps were of constant duration (RD = 240, 480, 720 or 960 ms), resulting in anticipatory slowing of eye velocity prior to ramp termination and target extinction. At unexpected intervals RD was increased or decreased, but velocity remained constant. When RD increased eye velocity continued to decline, even though the target remained visible and continued to move. It took approximately 180 ms before eye velocity started to recover towards the steady state velocity level for the continued target motion. When RD decreased, eye velocity continued as if for a longer ramp duration, again taking approximately 180 ms before eye velocity started to decrease. These results suggest that timing of the response to the expected ramp duration had been pre-programmed on the basis of prior experience of ramp duration. Moreover, adjustments to timing occurred rapidly, within the second presentation of the new RD. Responses were compared to control conditions with randomised ramp duration. Eye velocity declined later in the controls for RD &lt; or = 720 ms, as expected, but exhibited similar decline in predictable and randomised conditions for RD = 960 ms. Further controls established that eye velocity could only be reliably maintained until the end of the ramp when the target was expected to continue in motion after the end of the ramp. The results suggest that estimates of stimulus duration are made continuously in all conditions, based on expectancy of target termination.
On Earth, eye velocity of horizontal optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) orients to gravito-inertial acceleration (GIA), the sum of linear accelerations acting on the head and body. We determined whether adaptation to micro-gravity altered this orientation and whether ocular pursuit exhibited similar properties. Eye movements of four astronauts were recorded with three-dimensional video-oculography. Optokinetic stimuli were stripes moving horizontally, vertically, and obliquely at 30 degrees/s. Ocular pursuit was produced by a spot moving horizontally or vertically at 20 degrees/s. Subjects were either stationary or were centrifuged during OKN with 1 or 0.5 g of interaural or dorsoventral centripetal linear acceleration. Average eye position during OKN (the beating field) moved into the quick-phase direction by 10 degrees during lateral and upward field movement in all conditions. The beating field did not shift up during downward OKN on Earth, but there was a strong upward movement of the beating field (9 degrees) during downward OKN in the absence of gravity; this likely represents an adaptation to the lack of a vertical 1-g bias in-flight. The horizontal OKN velocity axis tilted 9 degrees in the roll plane toward the GIA during interaural centrifugation, both on Earth and in space. During oblique OKN, the velocity vector tilted towards the GIA in the roll plane when there was a disparity between the direction of stripe motion and the GIA, but not when the two were aligned. In contrast, dorsoventral acceleration tilted the horizontal OKN velocity vector 6 degrees in pitch away from the GIA. Roll tilts of the horizontal OKN velocity vector toward the GIA during interaural centrifugation are consistent with the orientation properties of velocity storage, but pitch tilts away from the GIA when centrifuged while supine are not. We speculate that visual suppression during OKN may have caused the velocity vector to tilt away from the GIA during dorsoventral centrifugation. Vertical OKN and ocular pursuit did not exhibit orientation toward the GIA in any condition. Static full-body roll tilts and centrifugation generating an equivalent interaural acceleration produced the same tilts in the horizontal OKN velocity before and after flight. Thus, the magnitude of tilt in OKN velocity was dependent on the magnitude of interaural linear acceleration, rather than the tilt of the GIA with regard to the head. These results favor a 'filter' model of spatial orientation in which orienting eye movements are proportional to the magnitude of low frequency interaural linear acceleration, rather than models that postulate an internal representation of gravity as the basis for spatial orientation.
The cochlear sensory epithelium and spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) in the adult mammalian inner ear do not regenerate following severe injury. To replace the degenerated SGNs, neural stem cell (NSC) is an attractive alternative for substitution cell therapy. In this study, adult mouse NSCs were transplanted into normal and deafened inner ears of guinea pigs. To more efficiently drive the implanted cells into a neuronal fate, NSCs were also transduced with neurogenin 2 (ngn2) before transplantation. In deafened inner ears and in animals transplanted with ngn2-transduced NSCs, surviving cells expressed the neuronal marker neural class III beta-tubulin. Transplanted cells were found close to the sensory epithelium and adjacent to the SGNs and their peripheral processes. The results illustrate that adult NSCs can survive and differentiate in the injured inner ear. It also demonstrates the feasibility of gene transfer to generate specific progeny for cell replacement therapy in the inner ear.

The source of cells participating in central nervous system (CNS) tissue repair and regeneration is poorly defined. One possible source is quiescent neural cells that can persist in CNS in the form of dormant progenitors or highly specialized cell types. Under appropriate conditions, these quiescent cells may be capable of re-entering the mitotic cell cycle and contributing to the stem cell pool. The aim of this study was to determine whether in vitro differentiated neural stem cells (NSC) can regain their multipotent-like stem cell characteristics in co-culture with NSC. To this end, we induced neural differentiation by plating NSC, derived from the periventricular subependymal zone (SEZ) of ROSA26 transgenic mice in Neurobasal A/B27 medium in the absence of bFGF. Under these conditions, NSC differentiated into neurons, glia, and oligodendrocytes. While the level of Nestin expression was downregulated, persistence of dormant progenitors could not be ruled out. However, further addition of bFGF or bFGF/EGF with conditioned medium derived from adult NSC did not induce any noticeable cell proliferation. In another experiment, differentiated neural cells were cultured with adult NSC, isolated from the hippocampus of Balb/c mice, in the presence bFGF. This resulted in proliferating colonies of ROSA26 derived cells that mimicked NSC in their morphology, growth kinetics, and expressed NSC marker proteins. The average nuclear area and DAPI fluorescence intensity of these cells were similar to that of NSC grown alone. We conclude that reactivation of quiescent neural cells can be initiated by NSC-associated short-range cues but not by cell fusion.
It is widely accepted that ectopic discharges originated from injured sites and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after peripheral nerve injury contribute to neuropathic pain. However, it has been recently shown that ectopic discharges were not always necessary for neuropathic pain. In the present study, we aim to further examine the role of ectopic discharges in neuropathic pain in a spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model. With teased fiber recordings in vivo, the characteristics of ectopic discharges were observed over 14 days after SNL, and the correlation between ectopic discharges and tactile allodynia was analyzed. It was observed that ectopic discharges have three firing patterns (tonic, bursting, and irregular) after SNL, and proportions of these three patterns changed dynamically over time. The tonic and bursting types were dominant in the first 24 h following SNL, while the irregular type became the only pattern in the late stage (day 14). The average frequencies of ectopic discharges and the percentage of active filaments also changed over time, reaching the peak 24 h after SNL and then declined gradually. Ectopic discharges were highly correlated with tactile allodynia in the first 24 h following SNL, but surprisingly, not in the late stage of days 1 to 14. These findings suggest that ectopic discharges may be crucial in the triggering of neuropathic pain in the early stage, but their importance become more limited over time.
Efforts to develop adjuvant therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) have led to interest in drugs that could mimic the therapeutic effects of lesion or deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Extracellular single unit recordings were conducted to determine whether noncompetitive NMDA receptor blockade, suggested to have potential as an adjuvant treatment in PD, attenuates rate increases and firing pattern changes observed in the STN in a rodent model of PD. Systemic administration of the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK801 to rats with unilateral dopamine cell lesions did not significantly alter burstiness or interspike interval coefficient of variation, although mean firing rate decreased by a modest 20% with 50% of neurons showing decreases in rate &gt;15% and spike train power in the 3-8-Hz (theta) range was reduced. MK801, combined with the D1 dopamine agonist SKF 38393 in intact rats or administered alone in lesioned rats, also significantly reduced incidence of multisecond (2-60 s) periodic oscillatory activity. Amantadine, a drug currently used as an adjuvant agent in PD whose beneficial effects are commonly attributed to its noncompetitive NMDA antagonist properties, had effects that contrasted with those of MK801. In both intact and lesioned animals, amantadine significantly increased STN firing rates and total spike train power in the 8-50-Hz range and did not alter spike power in the 3-8-Hz range or multisecond oscillatory activity. These observations show that an effective noncompetitive NMDA antagonist such as MK801 induces modest change in STN activity in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, with the most notable effect on multisecond periodicities in firing rate and theta frequency total spike power. Amantadine's effects differed from MK801's, raising questions about its primary mechanism of action and the role in PD pharmacotherapy of the STN rate increases induced by this drug.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in neuronal death in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Animal models of PD or HD, produced by administration of the mitochondrial toxins 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP), respectively, show increased free radical generation. Free radicals generated in biological systems can react with spin-trapping compounds, such as nitrones, to form stable adducts. In recent years, the utility of nitrones has moved beyond analytical applications and into the realm of neuroprotection as antioxidants in both brain ischemia and models of neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we administered a new nitrone antioxidant, stilbazulenyl nitrone (STAZN), with either MPTP or 3NP. STAZN attenuated MPTP-induced striatal dopamine depletion by 40% and showed a tendency to dose-dependent neuroprotection. STAZN dose-dependently protected against loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. STAZN reduced the striatal lesion volume caused by systemic 3NP administration from 44 +/- 9 to 20 +/- 6 mm(3). The lipid peroxidation marker, malondialdehyde(MDA), was significantly increased in the striatum, cortex, and cerebellum of rats after administration of 3NP. These increases were blocked by co-injection of STAZN. Our data provide further evidence that STAZN is a neuroprotective free radical spin trap, and suggest that the development of new antioxidants will broaden our therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.
This study investigated the morphological features of the soleus motoneuron pool in rats with chronic (4 months), midthoracic (T8) contusions of moderate severity. Motoneurons were retrogradely labeled using unconjugated cholera toxin B (CTB) subunit solution injected directly into the soleus muscle of 10 contused and 6 age- and sex-matched, normal controls. Morphometric studies compared somal area, perimeter, diameter, dendritic length, and size distribution of labeled cells in normal and postcontusion animals. In normal animals, motoneurons with a mean of 110.4 +/- 5.2 were labeled on the toxin-injected side of the cord (left). By comparison, labeled cells with a mean of 93.0 +/- 8.4 (a 16% decrease, P = 0.006) were observed in the chronic spinal-injured animals. A significantly smaller frequency of very small (area, approximately 100 microm2) and medium (area, 545-914 microm2) neurons, and a significantly higher frequency of larger (area, &gt;914 microm2) neurons was observed in the labeled soleus motoneuron pools of injured animals compared with the normal controls. Dendritic bundles in the contused animals were composed of thicker dendrites, were arranged in more closely aggregated bundles, and were organized in a longitudinal axis (rostrocaudal axis). Changes in soleus motoneuron dendritic morphology also included significant decrease of total number of dendrites, increased staining, hypertrophy of primary dendrites, and significant decreased primary, secondary, and tertiary branching. The changes in size distribution and dendritic morphology in the postcontusion animals possibly resulted from cell loss and transformation of medium cells to larger cells and/or injury-associated failure of medium cells to transport the immunolabel.
Inducible gene expression systems have typically encountered limitations, such as pleitropic effects of the inducer, basal leakiness, toxicity of inducing agents and low levels of expression. However, recently non-toxic, tightly regulated control of transgene expression has been reported for several systems, the most frequently cited being the tetracycline gene control system. We have found that the individual components of the Tet system [the Tet transactivators and tetracycline responsive element (TRE)] function optimally to control gene expression when they are incorporated into separate adenoviral vectors. Furthermore, incorporation of the Woodchuck hepatitis virus post-transcriptional enhancer (WPRE) allows a dual vector Tet-regulatable Ad system to be used at very low titres (2 x 10(4)) that elicit a minimal inflammatory response, with no loss of transgene expression or ability to regulate transgene expression. This and similar regulatable systems will benefit studies investigating neuronal gene function and those seeking to develop effective neuronal gene therapy strategies.
The 2004 European Society of Gene Therapy (ESGT) meeting took place at Tampere Hall in Finland and highlighted advances in a variety of topics, including cancer, zinc-fingers, stem cells, small interfering RNA (siRNA), microRNA, and recent developments of non-viral and viral vectors. This meeting was attended by 513 participants from 32 countries, and included 106 oral and 224 poster presentations. One of the aims of this meeting was to take a critical look at gene therapy and the prospects for the future. Se-veral presentations reported on RNA-based technologies, such as siRNA, as potential new classes of therapeutics against a wide range of diseases and for use in expression libraries to identify functional genes involved in biological phenotypes. Critical assessments were made of other aspects of gene therapy, such as genome editing and the use of protein transduction domains (PTDs) in gene- and protein-based therapies, where many researchers have failed to reproduce initial findings reported in the literature. Safety issues related to viral vectors were also important areas of discussion, especially following details released by the UK Gene Therapy Advisory Committee of perhaps the first known case of lentiviral vector-associated oncogenesis. Finally, updates were presented on the clinical development of viral vectors in anticancer therapies with evidence of significant improvements in the mean survival of patients.
There is a high prevalence of suicidal behavior in individuals suffering from schizophrenia and recent investigations substantially elucidate this problem and provide useful insights about clinical risk factors, neurobiologic underpinnings and the impact of various treatments on reducing such behavior. The risk of suicide is greatest early in the course of schizophrenic illness but continues throughout life; risk factors for suicidal behavior include psychosis, depression and substance abuse. Effectively treating positive symptoms and depression, reducing substance abuse, avoiding akathisia, addressing demoralization and instilling hope are important elements in this treatment approach. The newer generation of atypical antipsychotics (particularly clozapine) and new psychologic approaches (particularly cognitive behavioral therapy) appear to be useful in reducing suicidality in schizophrenia. The significant advances in defining the neurobiologic basis of suicidality may enable the development of more effective treatments. The renewed emphasis on resilience and recovery as desired outcomes in schizophrenia and the accompanying sense of hope encourage optimism about effectively reducing suicidality in schizophrenia. Over the past 10 years, much has been learnt and hopefully this momentum will be translated into increasingly better outcomes.
Functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) may result in part from axon outgrowth and related plasticity through coordinated changes at the molecular level. We employed microarray analysis to identify a subset of genes the expression patterns of which were temporally coregulated and correlated to functional recovery after SCI. Steady-state mRNA levels of this synchronously regulated gene cluster were depressed in both ventral and dorsal horn neurons within 24 h after injury, followed by strong re-induction during the following 2 wk, which paralleled functional recovery. The identified cluster includes neuritin, attractin, microtubule-associated protein 1a, and myelin oligodendrocyte protein genes. Transcriptional and protein regulation of this novel gene cluster was also evaluated in spinal cord tissue and in single neurons and was shown to play a role in axonal plasticity. Finally, in vitro transfection experiments in primary dorsal root ganglion cells showed that cluster members act synergistically to drive neurite outgrowth.
Self-injurious behavior (SIB) is a serious behavioral condition that afflicts millions of individuals in the United States alone. The underlying factors contributing to the development of self-injury in people are poorly understood, and existing treatment strategies for this condition are limited. A low but persistent percentage of socially reared individually housed rhesus monkeys also spontaneously develop SIB. Data obtained from colony records suggest that the risk of developing SIB in socially reared rhesus monkeys is heightened by adverse early experience and subsequent stress exposure. The present review summarizes the physiological and neurochemical findings obtained in this nonhuman primate model of SIB, focusing on monoamine neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and neuroendocrine systems. The results indicate that monkeys with SIB exhibit long-lasting disturbances in central and peripheral opioid and stress response systems, which lead to increased levels of anxiety. Based on these findings, we propose an integrated developmental-neurochemical hypothesis in which SIB arises from adverse life events in a subset of vulnerable monkeys, is maintained by a persisting dysregulation of several neurochemical and physiological systems, and functions to periodically reduce anxiety when the levels of anxiety become excessive. Implications of this hypothesis for understanding self-injury in patients with borderline personality disorder and members of the general population are discussed.
Spinal injections (intrathecal) of norepinephrine and/or opiod agonists are antinociceptive and when administered together may act in synergy. Spinal implants of adrenal chromaffin cells are an effective method for sustained delivery of the analgesic substances norepinephrine and enkephalin to the central nervous system (CNS). One method of packaging and implanting cell-loaded devices into the intrathecal space of recipients is by encapsulating the cell suspensions in a polymer membrane prior to implantation. Cells/tissue packaged within an encapsulating membrane obviate the need for immunosuppressive therapies in transplant recipients. In addition, device output can be quantified prior to implantation, and following the removal of the spinal implant. The ability to retrieve the devices with the present tubular configuration also confers an additional margin of safety over unencapsulated chromaffin cell implants. This paper reviews the research and clinical observations of cellular transplants containing adrenal chromaffin cells for relieving chronic pain. Encapsulated cell technology is discussed with an emphasis on our experiences developing pain-modulating clinical devices. The human-sized prototype devices were loaded with enzymatically isolated bovine chromaffin cells and maintained in vitro for 7 - 8 days in serum-free media. Two days prior to implantation, each device was assayed by static incubation to measure catecholamine and met-enkephalin output, and qualified devices (n = 6) were implanted into the sheep subarachnoid space for 6 weeks. Following a 6 week in life period, the retrieval forces of prototype devices were measured during removal from the subarachnoid space. Static incubation of the devices immediately following retrieval and after a 24 hour re-incubation period were used to quantify norepinephrine and met-enkephalin secretion profiles. This study demonstrated the safety, retrievability and maintenance of pharmacologically active encapsulated chromaffin cell-loaded devices with human implant dimensions.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) are serine/threonine kinases that regulate a number of cellular processes including the cell cycle and neuronal differentiation. Accumulating evidence indicates that two distinct Cdk pathways may have a role in the neuronal loss that is responsible for Alzheimer's disease. One pathway involves the aberrant reactivation of the cell cycle, a process believed to be incompatible with neuronal function. A second involves dysregulation of Cdk5, a member of this kinase family with no known cell cycle functions, but prominently expressed in postmitotic neurons. Reports supporting the involvement of both pathways are plentiful, but the story is not yet complete. In particular, difficulties incorporating the extended latency of AD into model approaches persist. Despite this, the theory that Cdks are involved in the pathogenesis of AD has generated considerable interest.
In biological experiments, especially in neuroscience research, it is important to manipulate the extracellular environment efficiently. We have developed a micro-puffing system for local drug delivery to single cells in electrophysiological experiments, and validated the kinetic properties of this instrument. Based on our results, the kinetics of the delivery of solutions and the territory controlled by this system are influenced by several factors: (1) inner diameter (I.D.) of the guide tubing; (2) I.D. of the puffing tip; (3) angle of the puffing tip; and (4) gravity or external pressure applied to the solution. The system can fully control a territory of 200 x 600 micrometer2. The minimum delay in response to drug delivery is 10-20 ms. Switching between different solutions takes less than 100 ms. The minimum volume of solution required by the system is 0.2 ml. Taken together, our results provide useful data for designing and using an efficient drug/solution delivery system in electrophysiological experiments.

Clostridial neurotoxins have assumed increasing importance in clinical application. The toxin's light chain component (LC) inhibits synaptic transmission by digesting vesicle-docking proteins without directly altering neuronal health. To study the properties of LC gene expression in the nervous system, an adenoviral vector containing the LC of tetanus toxin (AdLC) was constructed. LC expressed in differentiated neuronal PC12 cells was shown to induce time- and concentration-dependent digestion of mouse brain synaptobrevin in vitro as compared to control transgene products. LC gene expression in the rat lumbar spinal cord disrupted hindlimb sensorimotor function in comparison to control vectors as measured by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) scale (P&lt;0.001) and rotarod assay (P&lt;0.003). Evoked electromyography (EMG) showed increased stimulus threshold and decreased response current amplitude in LC gene-transferred rats. At the peak of functional impairment, neither neuronal TUNEL staining nor reduced motor neuron density could be detected. Spontaneous functional recovery was observed to parallel the cessation of LC gene expression. These results suggest that light chain gene delivery within the nervous system may provide a nondestructive means for focused neural inhibition to treat a variety of disorders related to excessive synaptic activity, and prove useful for the study of neural circuitry.
The importance of modeling and simulation of biological process is growing for further understanding of living systems at all scales from molecular to cellular, organic, and individuals. In the field of neuroscience, there are so called platform simulators, the de-facto standard neural simulators. More than a hundred neural models are registered on the model database. These models are executable in corresponding simulation environments. But usability of the registered models is not sufficient. In order to make use of the model, the users have to identify the input, output and internal state variables and parameters of the models. The roles and units of each variable and parameter are not explicitly defined in the model files. These are suggested implicitly in the papers where the simulation results are demonstrated. In this study, we propose a novel method of reassembly and interfacing models registered on biological model database. The method was applied to the neural models registered on one of the typical biological model database, ModelDB. The results are described in detail with the hippocampal pyramidal neuron model. The model is executable in NEURON simulator environment, which demonstrates that somatic EPSP amplitude is independent of synapse location. Input and output parameters and variables were identified successfully, and the results of the simulation were recorded in the organized form with annotations.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) involves the loss of neurons and glia due to initial mechanical and secondary biochemical mechanisms. Treatment with the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) reduces acute white matter pathology and increases both axon density and hindlimb function chronically at 6 weeks after injury. We investigated the cellular composition of residual white matter chronically to determine whether TTX also has a significant effect on the numbers and types of cells present. Rats received an incomplete thoracic contusion injury, in the presence or absence of TTX (0.15 nmole) injected focally, beginning at 15 min prior to injury. Six weeks later, cell density was significantly increased in the residual white matter of the dorsal, lateral, and ventral funiculi, both rostral and caudal to the injury site in both TTX-treated and injury control groups. Oligodendrocyte and astrocyte density was similar to normal but large numbers of cells expressing microglia/macrophage markers were present. Labeling with the progenitor markers nestin and NG2 showed that precursor cell density had also doubled or tripled as compared with uninjured controls. Some of these cells were also labeled for antigens that indicate their possible progression along an oligodendrocyte or astrocyte lineage. Our results support the hypothesis that the beneficial effect of TTX in SCI is related to its preservation of axons per se; no effect on chronic white matter cell composition was detected. They highlight the profound changes in cellular composition in preserved white matter chronically at 6 weeks after injury, including the accumulation of endogenous progenitor cells and the persistence of activated macrophages/microglia. The manipulation of these endogenous cells may be used in the future to enhance recovery after SCI.
The cannabinoid receptor family currently includes two types: CB1, characterized in neuronal cells and brain, and CB2, characterized in immune cells and tissues. CB1 and CB2 receptors are members of the superfamily of seven-transmembrane-spanning (7-TM) receptors, having a protein structure defined by an array of seven membrane-spanning helices with intervening intracellular loops and a C-terminal domain that can associate with G proteins. Cannabinoid receptors are associated with G proteins of the Gi/o family (Gi1, 2 and 3, and Go1 and 2). Signal transduction via Gi inhibits adenylyl cyclase in most tissues and cells, although signaling via Gs stimulates adenylyl cyclase in some experimental models. Evidence exists for cannabinoid receptor-mediated Ca2+ fluxes and stimulation of phospholipases A and C. Stimulation of CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors leads to phosphorylation and activation of p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), p38 MAPK and Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) as signaling pathways to regulate nuclear transcription factors. The CB1 receptor regulates K+ and Ca2+ ion channels, probably via Go. Ion channel regulation serves as an important component of neurotransmission modulation by endogenous cannabinoid compounds released in response to neuronal depolarization. Cannabinoid receptor signaling via G proteins results from interactions with the second, third and fourth intracellular loops of the receptor. Desensitization of signal transduction pathways that couple through the G proteins probably entails phosphorylation of critical amino acid residues on these intracellular surfaces.
The amount of evidence for a role of aberrant serotoninergic neurotransmission in the aetiology of anxiety disorders, such as generalised anxiety and panic disorder, has been increasing steadily during the past several years. Although the picture is far from complete yet--partly due to the large number of serotonin (5-HT) receptors and the often-disparate effects of receptor agonists and antagonists in animal models of anxiety--SSRIs and the 5-HT1A agonist buspirone have now earned their place in the treatment of anxiety disorders. However, these drugs show--as they do in depressed patients--a delayed onset of improvement. Therefore, new therapeutical strategies are being explored. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), which plays a key role in the autonomic, neuroendocrine and behavioural responses to stress, is a strong anxiogenic neuropeptide and a promising candidate for therapeutical intervention in anxiety disorders. The neuroanatomical localisation of CRH, its congeners (the urocortins) and their receptors within the serotoninergic raph nuclei suggests that interactions between the CRH system and 5-HT may play a role in fear and anxiety. In this chapter, I will discuss studies from my own and other laboratories showing that CRH and the urocortins influence several aspects of serotoninergic neurotransmission, including the firing rate of 5-HT neurones and the release and synthesis of this monoamine. Moreover, the interactions between CRH and 5-HT during psychologically stressful challenges will be discussed. Finally, I will review data showing that long-term alterations in the CRH system lead to aberrant functioning of serotoninergic neurotransmission under basal and/or stressful conditions. From this growing set of data the picture is emerging that the CRH system exerts a vast modulatory influence on 5-HT neurotransmission. An aberrant cross-talk between CRH and 5-HT may be of crucial importance in the neurobiology of anxiety disorders and represents, therefore, a promising goal for therapeutical intervention in these psychiatric diseases.
Although it is well established that the hippocampus is critical for episodic memory, little is known about how the hippocampus interacts with cortical regions during successful memory formation. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify areas that exhibited differential functional connectivity with the hippocampus during processing of novel objects that were subsequently remembered or forgotten on a postscan test. Functional connectivity with the hippocampus was enhanced during successful, as compared with unsuccessful, memory formation, in a distributed network of limbic cortical areas-including perirhinal, orbitofrontal, and retrosplenial/posterior cingulate cortex-that are anatomically connected with the hippocampal formation. Increased connectivity was also observed in lateral temporal, medial parietal, and medial occipital cortex. These findings demonstrate that successful memory formation is associated with transient increases in cortico-hippocampal interaction.
DNA repair plays a critical, but imprecisely defined role in excitotoxic injury and neuronal survival throughout adulthood. We utilized an excitotoxic injury model to compare the location and phenotype of degenerating neurons in mice (strain 129-C57BL) deficient in the catalytic subunit of the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs), an enzyme required for nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). Brains from untreated adult heterozygous and DNA-PKcs null mice displayed comparable cytoarchitecture and undetectable levels of cell death. By day 1, and extending through 4 days following kainic acid-induced seizures, brains from DNA-PKcs null mice showed widespread neurodegeneration that encompassed the entire hippocampal CA1-CA3 pyramidal cell layer, entorhinal cortex, and lateral septum, with relative sparing of the dentate gyrus granule cell layer and hilus, as judged by toluidine blue, Fluoro-Jade B, and terminal dUTP nick end labeling staining. In contrast, seizure-related neurodegeneration in heterozygous littermates was limited to the CA3 region of the hippocampus. NeuN and calbindin staining revealed a selective decrease in the number and density of NeuN-positive neurons in the pyramidal layers of degenerating regions in both heterozygous and DNA-PKcs null mice. To elucidate the mechanisms leading to cell death, we examined an involvement of the p53 pathway, known to be induced by DNA damage. Addition of pifithrin-alpha, a p53 inhibitor, or expression of a dominant-negative p53 rescued neurons from kainate-induced excitotoxic cell death in primary cortical cultures derived from wildtype, DNA-PKcs heterozygous, or DNA-PKcs null neonatal mice. Moreover, pifithrin-alpha prevented kainate-induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, dendrite degeneration, and cell death. Results suggest that NHEJ plays a neuroprotective role in excitotoxicity, within the perforant, Schaffer collateral, hippocampal-septal, and temperoammonic pathways, in part by repairing DNA damage that would otherwise result in activation of a p53-dependent apoptotic cascade.
Late fetal and early postnatal iron deficiency (ID) is a common condition that causes learning and memory impairments in humans while they are iron deficient and following iron repletion. Rodent models of fetal ID demonstrate significant short- and long-term hippocampal structural and biochemical abnormalities that may predispose hippocampal area CA1 to abnormal electrophysiology. Rat pups made iron deficient during the fetal and early postnatal period were assessed for basal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), and long-term potentiation (LTP) in CA1 at postnatal days (P)15 and P30 while iron deficient and at P65 following iron repletion. Our results showed no differences in basal synaptic transmission between iron sufficient and iron deficient pups at P15 or P30, but the ID group did fail to demonstrate the expected developmental increase in synaptic strength by P65 (P &lt; 0.05). Similarly, PPF ratios from iron deficient slices also failed to demonstrate the characteristic developmental changes seen in the iron sufficient group (P &lt; 0.001). Iron deficient slices retained a developmentally immature P15 pattern of LTP expression at P30 and after iron repletion, and LTP expression was lower (P &lt; 0.05) in the iron deficient group at P65. Thus, ID in the fetal and early postnatal period delays or abolishes the developmental maturation of electrophysiological components of synaptic efficacy and plasticity, resulting in abnormalities beyond the period of deficiency. These findings provide a functional corroboration to previous structural and biochemical abnormalities found in the iron deficient rat hippocampus and provide a potential model for learning and memory deficits seen in humans exposed to fetal and early postnatal ID.
We show that a model of the hippocampus introduced recently by Scarpetta et al. (2002, Neural Computation 14(10):2371-2396) explains the theta phase precession phenomena. In our model, the theta phase precession comes out as a consequence of the associative-memory-like network dynamics, i.e., the network's ability to imprint and recall oscillatory patterns, coded both by phases and amplitudes of oscillation. The learning rule used to imprint the oscillatory states is a natural generalization of that used for static patterns in the Hopfield model, and is based on the spike-time-dependent synaptic plasticity, experimentally observed.In agreement with experimental findings, the place cells' activity appears at consistently earlier phases of subsequent cycles of the ongoing theta rhythm during a pass through the place field, while the oscillation amplitude of the place cells' firing rate increases as the animal approaches the center of the place field and decreases as the animal leaves the center. The total phase precession of the place cell is lower than 360 degrees , in agreement with experiments. As the animal enters a receptive field, the place cells' activity comes slightly less than 180 degrees after the phase of maximal pyramidal cell population activity, in agreement with the findings of Skaggs et al. (1996, Hippocampus 6:149-172). Our model predicts that the theta phase is much better correlated with location than with time spent in the receptive field. Finally, in agreement with the recent experimental findings of Zugaro et al. (2005, Nature Neuroscience 9(1):67-71), our model predicts that theta phase precession persists after transient intrahippocampal perturbation.
Visuospatial short-term memory relies on a widely distributed neocortical network: some areas support the encoding process of the visually acquired spatial information, whereas other ares are more involved in the active maintenance of the encoded information. Recently, in a pointing to remembered targets task, it has been shown in healthy subjects that, for memory delays of 5 s, spatial errors are affected also by cognitive allocentric information, i.e., covert spatial information derived from a pure mental representation. We tested the effect of a lesion of the hippocampus on the accuracy of pointing movements toward remembered targets, with memory delays falling in the 0.5-30 s range. The spatial distributions of the two target sets we used (line and left-right) allowed the exploitation of cognitive allocentric spatial information: both sets were in the frontal plane, the line one being composed by eleven points distributed uniformly along a virtual line tilted 45 degrees away from the vertical, whereas the left-right set was composed by two workspaces symmetrically distributed at the extremes of a horizontal virtual line. We have found a significant difference between the performance of three hippocampal amnesic subjects and a group of normal controls for delays equal to or longer than 15 s, the difference being along the allocentric axis, i.e., the direction of the virtual line defined by the target set. On this basis we suggest that the hippocampal formation may enhance the spatial information processed within short-term memory with cognitive allocentric information. The association that may be operated through the neocortical-hippocampal loop of the newly acquired spatial information with well established spatial cognitive items could affect the precision of the short-term memory storage for memory delays exceeding about 15 s and might be the result of a modulation of the span of the spatial memory buffer along context-specific directions.
The extensive physiological data on hippocampal theta rhythm provide an opportunity to evaluate hypotheses about the role of theta rhythm for hippocampal network function. Computational models based on these hypotheses help to link behavioral data with physiological measurements of different variables during theta rhythm. This paper reviews work on network models in which theta rhythm contributes to the following functions: (1) separating the dynamics of encoding and retrieval, (2) enhancing the context-dependent retrieval of sequences, (3) buffering of novel information in entorhinal cortex (EC) for episodic encoding, and (4) timing interactions between prefrontal cortex and hippocampus for memory-guided action selection. Modeling shows how these functional mechanisms are related to physiological data from the hippocampal formation, including (1) the phase relationships of synaptic currents during theta rhythm measured by current source density analysis of electroencephalographic data from region CA1 and dentate gyrus, (2) the timing of action potentials, including the theta phase precession of single place cells during running on a linear track, the context-dependent changes in theta phase precession across trials on each day, and the context-dependent firing properties of hippocampal neurons in spatial alternation (e.g., &quot;splitter cells&quot;), (3) the cholinergic regulation of sustained activity in entorhinal cortical neurons, and (4) the phasic timing of prefrontal cortical neurons relative to hippocampal theta rhythm.
Theta phase-locking and phase precession are two related phenomena reflecting coordination of hippocampal place cell firing with the local, ongoing theta rhythm. The mechanisms and functions of both the phenomena remain unclear, though the robust correlation between firing phase and location of the animal has lead to the suggestion that this phase relationship constitutes a temporal code for spatial information. Recent work has described theta phase-locking in the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a structure with direct anatomical and functional links to the hippocampus. Here, we describe an initial characterization of phase precession in the mPFC relative to the CA1 theta rhythm. mPFC phase precession was most robust during behavioral epochs known to be associated with enhanced theta-frequency coordination of CA1 and mPFC activities. Precession was coherent across the mPFC population, with multiple neurons precessing in parallel as a function of location of the animal. The existence of phase precession beyond the hippocampus implies a more global role for this phenomenon during theta rhythm-mediated coordination of neural activity.
Five key topics have been reverberating in hippocampal-entorhinal cortex (EC) research over the past five decades: episodic and semantic memory, path integration (&quot;dead reckoning&quot;) and landmark (&quot;map&quot;) navigation, and theta oscillation. We suggest that the systematic relations between single cell discharge and the activity of neuronal ensembles reflected in local field theta oscillations provide a useful insight into the relationship among these terms. In rats trained to run in direction-guided (1-dimensional) tasks, hippocampal cell assemblies discharge sequentially, with different assemblies active on opposite runs, i.e., place cells are unidirectional. Such tasks do not require map representation and are formally identical with learning sequentially occurring items in an episode. Hebbian plasticity, acting within the temporal window of the theta cycle, converts the travel distances into synaptic strengths between the sequentially activated and unidirectionally connected assemblies. In contrast, place representations by hippocampal neurons in 2-dimensional environments are typically omnidirectional, characteristic of a map. Generation of a map requires exploration, essentially a dead reckoning behavior. We suggest that omnidirectional navigation through the same places (junctions) during exploration gives rise to omnidirectional place cells and, consequently, maps free of temporal context. Analogously, multiple crossings of common junction(s) of episodes convert the common junction(s) into context-free or semantic memory. Theta oscillation can hence be conceived as the navigation rhythm through both physical and mnemonic space, facilitating the formation of maps and episodic/semantic memories.

In the three decades since Marr put forward his computational theory of hippocampal coding, many computational models have been built on the same key principles proposed by Marr: sparse representations, rapid Hebbian storage, associative recall and consolidation. Most of these models have focused on either the CA3 or CA1 fields, using &quot;off-the-shelf&quot; learning algorithms such as competitive learning or Hebbian pattern association. Here, we propose a novel coding principle that is common to all hippocampal regions, and from this one principal, we derive learning rules for each of the major pathways within the hippocampus. The learning rules turn out to have much in common with several models of CA3 and CA1 in the literature, and provide a unifying framework in which to view these models. Simulations of the complete circuit confirm that both recognition memory and recall are superior relative to a hippocampally lesioned model, consistent with human data. Further, we propose a functional role for neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG), namely, to create distinct memory traces for highly similar items. Our simulation results support our prediction that memory capacity increases with the number of dentate granule cells, while neuronal turnover with a fixed dentate layer size improves recall, by minimizing interference between highly similar items.
Calcium entering the cell via different routes, e.g.,N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors or voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs), plays a pivotal role in hippocampal synaptic potentiation. Since corticosteroid hormones have been reported to enhance calcium influx through VDCCs, one may predict that these hormones facilitate hippocampal synaptic efficacy. Surprisingly, though, stress and corticosteroids have so far been found to reduce synaptic potentiation. Here, we addressed this apparent paradox and examined synaptic potentiation in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices from mice with low basal corticosterone levels 1--4 h after a brief in vitro administration of corticosterone. Nifedipine and APV were used to isolate NMDA receptor-mediated and VDCC-mediated long-term potentiations (LTPs), respectively. We report that corticosterone facilitates synaptic potentiation that depends on activation of VDCCs while impairing synaptic plasticity that is mediated by NMDA receptor activation. The glucocorticoid-receptor (GR) antagonist RU 38486 blocked both the effects of corticosterone. These results indicate that the net effect of corticosteroid hormones on synaptic plasticity is determined by the balance between different types of potentiation, a balance that may be region specific and depends on the experimental conditions. We speculate that these opposite effects on synaptic efficacy are involved in the bidirectional modulation of cognitive performance by corticosteroid hormones.
Hippocampal rhythmic slow wave activity (theta) has been implicated in the processing of stimuli associated with movement. This study determined whether the theta rhythm showed phase relationships or changes in amplitude and frequency with the onset of stimuli and behavioral sequences in a skilled locomotor approach task. Rats with bipolar electrodes spanning CA1 approached a stall, turned to enter it, approached and depressed a treadle, waited 1.35 s, and approached a milk reward located forward either to the right or to the left. Auditory cues indicated the location of the reward during the waiting period and at the reward onset. A video capture system (20-ms sampling) was synchronized to the hippocampal recording system (10-ms sampling). Behavioral events identified by motion analysis were used to generate averages of hippocampal slow wave activity, theta peak amplitudes, and intervals between peaks. Theta activity at 8-10 Hz was almost continuous during the behavioral sequences. Phase relations with stimuli or movement onsets occurred infrequently and were not consistent across the four subjects. Theta peak amplitude and frequency decreased as the rat slowed locomotion in the stall and reached the treadle. Onset of locomotion directed to a reward location occurred on a positive peak of averaged theta activity. When locomotion had short latencies, increases in theta frequency appeared after the onset but, when it had longer latencies, frequency increases appeared 200 ms before onset. The results indicate that the execution of instrumental movement modulates both theta amplitude and frequency, and that the preparation for locomotion modulates theta frequency.
Sensorimotor systems in altricial animals mature incrementally during early postnatal development, with complex cognitive abilities developing late. Of prominence are cognitive processes that depend on an intact hippocampus, such as contextual-configural learning, allocentric and idiocentric navigation, and certain forms of trace conditioning. The mechanisms that regulate the delayed maturation of the hippocampus are not well understood. However, there is support for the idea that these behaviors come &quot;on line&quot; with the final maturation of excitatory synaptic transmission. First, by providing a timeline for the first behavioral expression of various forms of learning and memory, this study illustrates the late maturation of hippocampal-dependent cognitive abilities. Then, functional development of the hippocampus is reviewed to establish the temporal relationship between maturation of excitatory synaptic transmission and the behavioral evidence of adult-like hippocampal processing. These data suggest that, in rats, mechanisms necessary for the expression of adult-like synaptic plasticity become available at around 2 postnatal weeks of age. However, presynaptic plasticity mechanisms, likely necessary for refinement of the hippocampal network, predominate and impede information processing until the third postnatal week.
Molecular transport in brain extracellular space (ECS) is hindered by the structure of the tissue. Diffusion analysis of small extracellular markers quantifies tissue hindrance, expressed as tortuosity lambda = (D/D*)(1/2), where D is the free diffusion coefficient and D* is the effective diffusion coefficient in tissue. In healthy brain, lambda is approximately 1.6, but the nature of this parameter is poorly understood. We report that the stratum radiatum of the hippocampal CA1 region in vitro, previously shown to be anisotropic (i.e., different along the x-, y-, and z-axes) in in vivo study, is isotropic like somatosensory neocortex but has a reduced lambda. Diffusion of fluorophore-labeled dextran (f-dex, M(r) 3,000) and tetramethylammonium (TMA(+), M(r) 74) was measured in rat brain slices (400 mum) using integrative optical imaging (IOI) and real-time iontophoresis (RTI), respectively. In the stratum radiatum, diffusion of f-dex was similar along the x-, y-, and z-axes (lambda(x), lambda(y); lambda(z) were 1.55, 1.53, and 1.55), but the tortuosity was significantly lower than in the neocortex, where lambda = 1.81. This finding was confirmed by the RTI method, which measured lambda with TMA(+), a much smaller molecule, and determined volume fraction alpha, the proportion of tissue occupied by the ECS. In stratum radiatum, lambda(x), lambda(y), and lambda(z) were 1.47, 1.44, and 1.46, while in neocortex, lambda was 1.65. The ECS volume fraction was similar (0.24) in both regions. It is proposed that in the hippocampus, low lambda reflects a reduced occurrence of concave extracellular microdomains, referred to as dead spaces, which increase tortuosity by transient trapping of markers. Functionally, a low lambda may permit structural plasticity and facilitate extrasynaptic communication. It may also enhance the spread of neuroactive substances and thus contribute to the sensitivity of the hippocampal CA1 region to ischemia and epilepsy.
Hippocampal theta rhythm (HPCtheta) may be important for various phenomena, including attention and acquisition of sensory information. Two types of HPCtheta (types I and II) exist based on pharmacological, behavioral, and electrophysiological characteristics. Both types occur during locomotion, whereas only type II (atropine-sensitive) is present under urethane anesthesia. The circuit of HPCtheta synchronization includes the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca (MSDB), with cholinergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons comprising the two main projections from MSDB to HPC. The primary aim of the present study was to assess the effects of GABAergic MSDB lesions on urethane- and locomotion-related HPCtheta, and compare these effects to those of cholinergic MSDB lesions. Saline, kainic acid (KA), or 192 IgG-saporin (SAP) was injected into MSDB before recording. KA preferentially destroys GABAergic MSDB neurons, whereas SAP selectively eliminates cholinergic MSDB neurons. A fixed recording electrode was placed in the dentate mid-molecular layer, and stimulating electrodes were placed in the posterior hypothalamus (PH), and medial perforant path (PP). Under urethane anesthesia, HPCtheta was induced by tail pinch, PH stimulation, and systemic physostigmine; none of the rats with KA or SAP showed HPCtheta in any of these conditions. During locomotion, HPCtheta was attenuated, but not eliminated, in rats with KA or SAP lesions. Intraseptal KA in combination with either intraseptal SAP or PP lesions reduced locomotion-related HPCtheta beyond that observed with each lesion alone, virtually eliminating HPCtheta. In contrast, intraseptal SAP combined with PP lesions did not reduce HPCtheta beyond the effect of each lesion alone. We conclude that both GABAergic and cholinergic MSDB neurons are necessary for HPCtheta under urethane, and that each of these septohippocampal projections contributes to HPCtheta during locomotion.
The notion that long-term synaptic plasticity is generated by activity-induced molecular modifications is widely accepted. It is well established that neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is one of the prominent modulators of synaptic plasticity. NCAM can be polysialylated (PSA-NCAM), a reaction that provides it with anti-adhesion properties. In this study we have focused on NCAM and on its polysialylated state, and their relation to learning of an olfactory discrimination task, which depends on both the piriform (olfactory) cortex and hippocampus. We trained rats to distinguish between pairs of odors until rule learning was achieved, a process that normally lasts 6-8 days. At four time points, during training and after training completion, synaptic NCAM and PSA-NCAM expression were assessed in the piriform cortex and hippocampus. We report that NCAM modulation is specific to PSA-NCAM, which is upregulated in the hippocampus one day after training completion. We also report a correlation between the performance of individual rats in an early training stage and their NCAM expression, both in the piriform cortex and hippocampus. Since individual early performance in our odor discrimination task is correlated with the performance throughout the training period, we conclude that early NCAM expression is associated with odor learning capability. We therefore suggest that early synaptic NCAM expression may be one of the factors determining the capability of rats to learn.
Morphological reconstructions have become a routine and valuable tool for neuroscientists. The accuracy of reconstructions is a matter of considerable interest given that they are widely used in computational studies of neural function. Despite their wide usage, comparisons of reconstructions obtained using various methodologies are lacking. We reviewed reconstructions of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells from five published studies and found marked differences in some of the most basic measurements. For four of the five studies means of total cell length clustered in the 11,479-13,417-microm range. The remaining study had a significantly larger value for this index at 16,992+/-5,788 microm. Surface area means varied more than 4-fold from 16,074 to 67,102 microm2. Volume means varied more than 8-fold from 3,828 to 30,384 microm3. Simulated passive input resistance means varied from 38.0 to 172.1 MOmega, reflecting the variability in cell dimensions. Estimates of the electrotonic length varied from 1.26 to 1.56. In two reconstructions used in previously published studies, simulated somatic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) varied 2-4-fold in amplitude, time to peak and half-width, for synaptic inputs at similar locations. Substantial jitter on the z-axis was identified as one likely source of the discrepancy in total cell length, while substantial differences in diameter measurements across studies, and sometimes within the same study, accounted for the variability in surface area and volume. While some part of the observed variability is surely due to the diversity of CA1 pyramidal cells, our analysis suggests that a substantial portion stemmed from methodological inconsistencies and from technological limitations. Suggestions are made for improving the quality and usefulness of morphological reconstructions. We conclude that reconstructions across studies have substantial variability in measures that are very relevant to neuronal function. Consequently, modelers are advised to use more than just one reconstructed cell in their simulations of neural function.
The extent of external and internal factors contributing to location-specific firing of hippocampal place cells is currently unclear. We investigated the role of active movement in location-specific firing by comparing spatial firing patterns of hippocampal neurons, while rats either ran freely or rode a motorized cart on the same circular track. Most neurons changed their spatial firing patterns across the two navigation conditions (&quot;remapping&quot;), and they were stably maintained across repeated active or passive navigation sessions. These results show that active movement is a critical factor in determining place-specific firing of hippocampal neurons. This could explain why passive displacement is not an effective way of acquiring spatial knowledge for subsequent active navigation in an unfamiliar environment.
Studies of memory-impaired patients will be most useful when quantitative neuroanatomical information is available about the patients being studied. Toward that end, in the case of medial temporal lobe amnesia, protocols have been developed from histological material that identify the boundaries of relevant structures on magnetic resonance images. Because the size of these structures varies considerably in the normal population, some correction for overall brain size is usually employed when calculating volume measurements. Although different correction procedures have been used to normalize for brain size, there has been little study of how well different methods reduce variability and which methods might be most useful. We measured the volume of the hippocampal region (hippocampus proper, dentate gyrus, and subicular complex) and the volumes of the temporopolar, entorhinal, perirhinal, and parahippocampal cortices in five memory-impaired patients and 30 controls. We then compared three different methods for normalizing the volume measurements: normalization by intracranial volume, normalization by aligning the brain to a standard atlas, and normalization by brain area at the level of the anterior commissure. Normalization by intracranial volume reduced variability in the volume measurements of nearly all brain regions to a greater extent than did normalization by other methods. When normalized by intracranial volume, the patients exhibited a mean reduction in hippocampal volume of about 40% and negligible reductions in the volumes of other medial temporal lobe structures. On the basis of earlier histological analysis of two other patients (L.M. and W.H.), who also had reductions in hippocampal size of about 40%, we suggest that a volume reduction in this range likely indicates a nearly complete loss of hippocampal neurons.
Head direction cells change their firing rates as a function of the orientation of an animal within an environment. Typically, these cells display a unimodal tuning curve with maximal firing at the cell's preferred direction. As different cells have different preferred directions, the population of cells has been hypothesized to represent the orientation of the animal within the environment. Previous research has shown that pairs of simultaneously recorded head direction cells respond similarly to cue manipulations, suggesting that a population of head direction cells acts in concert to represent the animal's orientation within its environment. Ensembles of head direction cells were recorded from the postsubiculum from rats foraging in an open field. Directional responses of each cell were quantified by the nonparametric Watson's U2 statistic, a measure which makes no explicit assumptions of tuning curve shape. Directionally responsive cells were then used to reconstruct each animal's orientation within the open field using population vector, optimal-linear estimator, and Bayesian methods. The results indicated that postsubiculum contained a complete representation of the animal's orientation. The internal consistency of a neural ensemble can be assessed by comparing the ensemble activity to the expected activity given the reconstructed orientation. This has been termed the &quot;coherency&quot; of the neural ensemble. Reconstruction error decreased as the coherency of the orientation representation increased, indicating that coherency could be used to measure a level of confidence in the representation quality. Because coherency is a linear measure dependent only on internal variables, coherency may be a behaviorally relevant measure used to ascertain the animal's confidence in its representation of orientation.
Spike-timing-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) were investigated in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices using optical imaging. A pair of electrical pulses were used to stimulate the Schaffer-commissural collateral and the stratum oriens with various sets of relative timing (tau) between the two stimuli. These sets of paired pulses gave rise to LTP/LTD, whose induction was closely related to tau, and their profiles were classified into two types depending on their layer specific location along the dendrite. One was characterized by a symmetric time window observed in the proximal region of the stratum radiatum (SR) and the other by an asymmetric time window in the distal region of the SR. Bath application of bicuculline (gamma-aminobutyric acid [GABA] receptor antagonist) to hippocampal slices revealed that GABAergic interneuron projections were responsible for the symmetry of a time window.
Findings from both in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogen exerts pronounced effects on hippocampal morphology and physiology. The degree to which these molecular findings influence hippocampal processing in freely behaving animals is unclear. The present study assessed the effect of the estrous cycle on hippocampal place cells in naturally cycling rats during two behavioral states. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to alternate on a U-shaped runway for food reinforcement. Single-unit recordings of hippocampal CA1 cells were conducted under two conditions: (1) at rest on a holder, and (2) running on the maze. Spatial firing characteristics of the cells were examined at different stages of the estrous cycle (i.e., diestrus, proestrus, and estrus). Specifically, information was collected on (1) mean firing rates; (2) basic place field parameters; and (3) changes in the firing dynamics of these cells (e.g., burst properties). The findings showed a decrease in mean firing rate on the maze during proestrus. However, other basic measures of spatial tuning and burst properties were unchanged. The current study suggests that there is relative stability of hippocampal place cells across the estrous cycle during a well-trained task.
The role of the right medial temporal-lobe structures in memory for object location was investigated in three studies. In the first two studies, 118 patients with selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy or with anterior temporal lobectomy (either invading or largely sparing the hippocampal region) and 33 healthy participants were tested on array learning. Groups with extensive right hippocampal lesions were impaired on immediate and delayed recall and on learning to criterion. In the third study, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used in 75 of these patients to measure the extent of tissue remaining in the various medial temporal-lobe structures. The extent of right hippocampus remaining was found to be the best predictor of array-learning performance, underlining its critical role in building a representation of objects in space.
Rat pups repeatedly subjected to brief periods of isolation during the stress hyporesponsive period (SHRP) exhibit varied neuroendocrine and behavioral changes as neonates and as adults. For example, neonatal rats exhibit increased circulating corticosterone after 1-h isolation on postnatal day 9 (P9) only if they were isolated daily from P2 to P8 [McCormick, C.M., Kehoe, P., Kovacs, S., 1998. Corticosterone release in response to repeated, short episodes of neonatal isolation: evidence of sensitization. Int. J. Dev. Neurosci. 16, 175-185]. It is not known if the increase in adrenocortical response on P9 following repeated isolation is mediated by increased pituitary ACTH secretion. The present study examined the responsivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis during the SHRP following brief, repeated isolation or acute pharmacological manipulation. Removal from the nest for 1 h daily on P4-8 increased circulating corticosterone after 1-h isolation on P9 by approximately twofold. Neither unhandled nor handled controls showed a corticosterone response to 1-h isolation on P9. The increased corticosterone was sexually dimorphic, with only females showing the sensitization response. Other findings suggest that the hormonal response is centrally mediated; chronically isolated pups of both sexes exhibit increased plasma ACTH following 1-h isolation on P9. While we could not detect an increase in Fos immunoreactivity (IR) on P9 in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of chronically isolated pups, acute pharmacological activation of serotonin 2A/2C receptors produced robust activation of ACTH and corticosterone secretion as well as expression of Fos in the PVN on P9. We conclude that chronic isolation stress limited to the SHRP stimulates the neonatal HPA axis, and that the adrenal response is sexually dimorphic. In addition, PVN neurons can express Fos IR on P9 in response to a very potent activation of the HPA axis.
Adult rat lumbar motoneurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) respond to androgens with an increase in soma size. This response is mediated by the androgen receptor (AR) in these motoneurons. Interestingly, other lumbar motoneurons in the rat possess the AR, yet do not respond to androgens in this fashion. This paradox suggests the existence and participation of nuclear receptor coregulators in conferring direct androgen-responsiveness to select motoneurons in the adult rat spinal cord. Nuclear receptor coregulators have received much attention recently for their proposed role in enhancing or repressing the transcriptional activity of steroid hormone receptors. The present study used immunocytochemistry to identify a number of nuclear receptor coactivators that are expressed by adult lumbar motoneurons: SRC-1, SRC-2, CBP, p300, and cJUN. Results of this study indicate that all five of these coactivators are abundantly expressed in the androgen-responsive SNB, and in two adjacent motor pools, the androgen-responsive dorsolateral nucleus (DLN), and the androgen-unresponsive retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN). While we detected significant regional differences for only SRC-1 and cJUN, the SNB consistently contained the highest percentage of immunoreactive motoneurons for all five cofactors examined. Our results indicate five different putative cofactors have the potential to participate in motoneuronal responses to androgens, since their distribution overlaps well with the distribution of ARs in these motoneurons.

Mutations in the caveolin-3 gene (CAV3) cause limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) type 1C (LGMD1C) and other muscle phenotypes. We screened 663 patients with various phenotypes of unknown etiology, for caveolin-3 protein deficiency, and we identified eight unreported caveolin-deficient patients (from seven families) in whom four CAV3 mutations had been detected (two are unreported). Following our wide screening, we estimated that caveolinopathies are 1% of both unclassified LGMD and other phenotypes, and demonstrated that caveolin-3 protein deficiency is a highly sensitive and specific marker of primary caveolinopathy. This is the largest series of caveolinopathy families in whom the effect of gene mutations has been analyzed for protein level and phenotype. We showed that the same mutation could lead to heterogeneous clinical phenotypes and muscle histopathological changes. To study the role of the Golgi complex in the pathological pathway of misfolded caveolin-3 oligomers, we performed a histopathological study on muscle biopsies from caveolinopathy patients. We documented normal caveolin-3 immunolabeling at the plasmalemma in some regenerating fibers showing a proliferation of the Golgi complex. It is likely that caveolin-3 overexpression occurring in regenerating fibers (compared with caveolin-deficient adult fibers) may lead to an accumulation of misfolded oligomers in the Golgi and to its consequent proliferation.

The isolated spleens from male and female mice lacking P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors (P2X(2)/P2X(3) knockout (KO) mice) and those from wild-type (WT) mice were investigated by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry and functionally by organ-bath pharmacology. The spleens from the P2X(2)/P2X(3) KO mice weighed significantly more than the corresponding WT mice. Flow cytometry was used to isolate the mononuclear cells, which were then phenotyped. T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes and macrophages were identified and counted. It was found that the increase in size of the spleens from the KO animals corresponded to an increase in the numbers of mononuclear cells present and that all three cell types (T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes and macrophages) increased in much the same proportion as those from the WT animals. Immunohistochemical localisation of P2Y(1), P2Y(2) and P2X(1) receptors revealed their presence on the spleen capsule and trabeculae. P2X(1) receptors were also present on blood vessels. There was no difference in the expression of these receptors between the WT and P2X(2)/P2X(3) KO spleens. Functional studies revealed the presence of multiple P2 receptors inducing the contraction of the spleen capsule, from both WT and KO mice. There was no difference in the contractions induced by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), alpha,beta-methylene ATP, 2-methylthio ADP or uridine triphosphate from WT and KO mice. It is concluded that mice lacking both P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors have enlarged spleens and that this is correlated with an increase in the number of immune cells, perhaps as a consequence of a compromised immune system and chronic infection.
Information fusion has, in the form of multiple classifier systems, long been a successful tool in pattern recognition applications. It is also becoming increasingly popular in biomedical image analysis, for example in computer-aided diagnosis and in image segmentation. In this paper, we extend the principles of multiple classifier systems by considering information fusion of classifier inputs rather than on their outputs, as is usually done. We introduce the distinction between combination of data (i.e., classifier inputs) vs. combination of interpretations (i.e., classifier outputs). We illustrate the two levels of information fusion using four different biomedical image analysis applications that can be implemented using fusion of either data or interpretations: atlas-based image segmentation, &quot;average image&quot; tissue classification, multi-spectral classification, and deformation-based group morphometry.
Modeling the variability of brain structures is a fundamental problem in the neurosciences. In this paper, we start from a dataset of precisely delineated anatomical structures in the cerebral cortex: a set of 72 sulcal lines in each of 98 healthy human subjects. We propose an original method to compute the average sulcal curves, which constitute the mean anatomy in this context. The second order moment of the sulcal distribution is modeled as a sparse field of covariance tensors (symmetric, positive definite matrices). To extrapolate this information to the full brain, one has to overcome the limitations of the standard Euclidean matrix calculus. We propose an affine-invariant Riemannian framework to perform computations with tensors. In particular, we generalize radial basis function (RBF) interpolation and harmonic diffusion PDEs to tensor fields. As a result, we obtain a dense 3D variability map which proves to be in accordance with previously published results on smaller samples subjects. Moreover, leave one (sulcus) out tests show that our model is globally able to recover the missing information when there is a consistent neighboring variability. Last but not least, we propose innovative methods to analyze the asymmetry of brain variability. As expected, the greatest asymmetries are found in regions that includes the primary language areas. Interestingly, such an asymmetry in anatomical variance could explain why there may be greater power to detect group activation in one hemisphere than the other in fMRI studies.

Sensible physical exercise is shown to prevent certain neurovascular problems. However, in recent times, non-traumatic sudden death in young athletes has been observed and the incidence level is always very disturbing, because of the spontaneous nature of the occurrence. It most commonly occurs fivefold more in male than female athletes. Although it is believed that congenital cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of non-traumatic sudden athletic death, however, sudden physical alteration in the biochemical composition of the body system may, at least in part, play an important role. The role of antioxidants in the general maintenance of homeostasis has already been established. In this study, total antioxidant function in athletes subjected to controlled physical exercise was evaluated to determine the extent to which intensive physical exercise could alter the health conditions if adequate actions are not taken to adjust the biochemistry of the body system. Ten male field-track athletes were exercised using a fixed workload treadmill test. Blood samples were drawn before and after the exercise. The subjects exercised almost to their maximum running distance at a higher &quot;fatigue&quot; workload for a maximum of 20 min each day for five days. The lymphocytes' total antioxidant function was measured by addition of a peroxide (oxidative stress) to complete the medium. Lymphocyte growth response with peroxide was reported as a percentile of growth responses from a reference range of apparently healthy individuals. Values below the 25th percentile indicate a deficient antioxidant function. The results showed that although vitamin B3, B6, and B12 requirements were normal, there was a consistent low value in the total percentile of vitamins B1 (&lt;79%), B2 (&lt;54%), folate (&lt;33%, and biotin (&lt;70%). There was a dramatic decrease in the mean values of antioxidant function (38.1%) in all the subjects as opposed to the reference range of &lt;75%. Overall reduction antioxidant function indicates decreased ability to resist oxidative stress, or an increased oxidant load, suggesting increased antioxidant utilization and/or cellular &quot;tear and wear&quot; scenario. It is therefore suggested that after intensive physical exercise, antioxidant functions should be monitored and supplemented whenever necessary to maintain the integrity of the cellular function.
The establishment of neuronal connections during embryonic development requires the precise guidance and targeting of the neuronal growth cone, an expanded cellular structure at the leading tip of a growing axon. The growth cone contains sophisticated signaling systems that allow the rapid communication between guidance receptors and the actin cytoskeleton in generating directed motility. Previous studies demonstrated a specific role for the Nck/Dock SH2/SH3 adapter protein in photoreceptor (R cell) axon guidance and target recognition in the Drosophila visual system, suggesting strongly that Nck/Dock is one of the long-sought missing links between cell surface receptors and the actin cytoskeleton. In this review, I discuss the recent progress on dissecting the Nck/Dock signaling pathways in R-cell growth cones. These studies have identified additional key components of the Nck/Dock signaling pathways for linking the receptor signaling to the remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton in controlling growth-cone motility.
The heterotrimeric G-protein alpha subunit has long been considered a bimodal, GTP-hydrolyzing switch controlling the duration of signal transduction by seven-transmembrane domain (7TM) cell-surface receptors. In 1996, we and others identified a superfamily of &quot;regulator of G-protein signaling&quot; (RGS) proteins that accelerate the rate of GTP hydrolysis by Galpha subunits (dubbed GTPase-accelerating protein or &quot;GAP&quot; activity). This discovery resolved the paradox between the rapid physiological timing seen for 7TM receptor signal transduction in vivo and the slow rates of GTP hydrolysis exhibited by purified Galpha subunits in vitro. Here, we review more recent discoveries that have highlighted newly-appreciated roles for RGS proteins beyond mere negative regulators of 7TM signaling. These new roles include the RGS-box-containing, RhoA-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors (RGS-RhoGEFs) that serve as Galpha effectors to couple 7TM and semaphorin receptor signaling to RhoA activation, the potential for RGS12 to serve as a nexus for signaling from tyrosine kinases and G-proteins of both the Galpha and Ras-superfamilies, the potential for R7-subfamily RGS proteins to couple Galpha subunits to 7TM receptors in the absence of conventional Gbetagamma dimers, and the potential for the conjoint 7TM/RGS-box Arabidopsis protein AtRGS1 to serve as a ligand-operated GAP for the plant Galpha AtGPA1. Moreover, we review the discovery of novel biochemical activities that also impinge on the guanine nucleotide binding and hydrolysis cycle of Galpha subunits: namely, the guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI) activity of the GoLoco motif-containing proteins and the 7TM receptor-independent guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity of Ric8/synembryn. Discovery of these novel GAP, GDI, and GEF activities have helped to illuminate a new role for Galpha subunit GDP/GTP cycling required for microtubule force generation and mitotic spindle function in chromosomal segregation.
Three papers of special interest to researchers and clinicians alike have recently appeared in the general scientific and medical literatures. Two of these papers are original research studies that employ brain-imaging technologies, one using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), the other position emission tomography (PET). A third paper is a comprehensive review of the empirical findings on the clinical use of hypnosis in pediatric oncology. The research study using MRI technology is extraordinary, because it is the first to document differences in brain morphology between high hypnotizable and low hypnotizable individuals. Arguably, if its findings replicate, the study could be one of the most important developments in scientific hypnosis since the genesis of the Stanford scales 45 years ago. The PET study notes differences in brain activation during intentionally simulated and hypnotically experienced paralysis. The review article examines empirical work addressing the efficacy of hypnosis for procedural pain in pediatric oncology.
Dysregulation of Fragile X mental retardation-1 (Fmr1) gene expression results in an inherited form of mental retardation known as the Fragile X syndrome (FXS). Fmr1 is a highly conserved gene with a broad yet distinctive expression pattern during vertebrate development. Here, we examined the expression pattern of Fmr1 during Xenopus embryonic development. Zygotic expression of Fmr1 began just prior to gastrulation and gradually increased during subsequent embryonic stages. By in situ hybridization, Fmr1 transcripts were detected by early tailbud stage and showed robust expression in the central nervous system (CNS), eye and pharyngeal arches. By late tailbud stage, Fmr1 expression became stronger in the CNS and craniofacial regions including the ear vesicle and eye. In addition, the notochord expressed high levels of Fmr1 transcripts in the late tailbud stage embryos. In the tadpole brain, the olfactory bulb and cerebellum exhibited strong Fmr1 expression. The developmental expression pattern of Fmr1 is consistent with the wide range of abnormalities observed in FXS. Further, our findings indicate that Xenopus will serve as an excellent model to study the developmental basis of this disease.
Amphibian bombesin and its related peptides consist a family of neuropeptides in many vertebrate species. Bombesin and two major bombesin-like peptide in mammals, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) and neuromedin B (NMB), have been shown to elicit various physiological effects. These include inhibition of feeding, smooth muscle contraction, exocrine and endocrine secretions, thermoregulation, blood pressure and sucrose regulations and cell growth. Receptors for GRP and NMB (GRP-R and NMB-R), as well as third subtype of bombesin-like peptide receptor (BRS-3) have been cloned. These receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors and are expressed in various brain regions and in the digestive tract. In this paper, we will summarize studies on these peptides and their receptors, with special reference to research using gene-knockout mice. These studies clearly demonstrated the role of three receptors in vivo and in vitro. We will also discuss the phylogeny of these receptors.
Working together at Nogent, Marie-Aimee Teillet, Nicole Le Douarin and the author successfully developed an extension of the quail-chick transplant technique for relating species brain cell differences to behavioral differences. This article reviews the application of the technique to species differences in motor behavior (crowing) and auditory perceptual preferences. Interspecies brain transplants provide a unique means for elucidating general cellular mechanisms which integrate evolutionary and individual experience during the development of complex brain circuitry.
In spite of much being written on the treatment of anorexia nervosa (AN), and the well-documented long-term morbidity of this illness, treatment effects have been little investigated. The current article considers the prospects for treatment research, taking note of the formidable challenges that lie ahead for the design, implementation, and interpretation of controlled clinical trials, and highlighting opportunities for effectiveness studies. In the light of increasing evidence of the role played by biologic susceptibility factors in AN, the potential future contribution to treatment research of advances in pharmacogenetics and molecular neuroscience also receives comment.
We provided a selective review of the relationship between anorexia nervosa (AN) and personality. They reviewed the existing empirical literature examining the relationship between AN and personality. In spite of continued methodologic challenges related to personality assessment, there appears to be a relatively common phenotype in restricting-type AN characterized by high degrees of obsessionality, restraint, and perfectionism. However, there is also evidence of variability within the AN diagnostic category that is related to personality variables. Importantly, personality variables may significantly predict the course and outcome of AN. Personality variables may be risk factors for AN, consequences of AN, share a common cause with AN, or affect the course and outcome of AN. This literature would be enhanced by the articulation of conceptual models of these relationships that can be empirically tested.
Translational research has fostered significant gains in neuroscience and psychiatry and has been identified by the NIMH as a &quot;priority area&quot; for further funding. As applied to anorexia nervosa (AN), &quot;translational research&quot; describes the application of principles and methodologies employed in related fields to advance the understanding, and ultimately treatment and prevention, of this disorder. Several promising areas of translational research in AN are identified. Such research, particularly when linked to a conceptual framework, offers the potential of lending much-needed novel insight into this challenging and enigmatic disorder.
The Event-Related Potential (ERP) is a time-locked measure of electrical activity of the cerebral surface representing a distinct phase of cortical processing. Two components of the ERP which bear special importance to stimulus evaluation, selective attention, and conscious discrimination in humans are the P300 positivity and N200 negativity, appearing 300 ms and 200 ms post-stimulus, respectively. With the rapid proliferation of high-density EEG methods, and interdisciplinary interest in its application as a prognostic, diagnostic, and investigative tool, an understanding of the underpinnings of P300 and N200 physiology may support its application to both the basic neuroscience and clinical medical settings. The authors present a synthesis of current understanding of these two deflections in both normal and pathological states.
In recent years attention has been focused on perforated synapses considering their possible involvement in synaptic plasticity in the nervous system. It has been hypothesized that an increase in the number of synapses may represent a structural basis for the enduring expression of synaptic plasticity during some events that involve memory and learning; also it has been suggested that perforated synapses increase in number after some experimental situations. The aim of this study was to analyze whether the dopamine depletion produces changes in the synaptology of the corpus striatum of rats after the unilateral injection of 6-OHDA. The findings suggest that after the lesion, both contralateral and ipsilateral striata present a significant increment in the number of perforated synapses, suggesting brain plasticity that might be an intent to recuperate the contact surface lost after endogenous or exogenous aggressions.
The acute use of alcohol and several other licit and illicit drugs can affect mental state and cognitive function. The chronic use of certain drugs may also increase the risk of cognitive impairment and perhaps dementia in later life. This paper focuses on the long-term cognitive consequences of using alcohol, benzodiazepines, tobacco and cannabis. Currently available evidence indicates that mild to moderate alcohol consumption is not associated with increased risk of cognitive decline and may in fact have a protective effect against dementia, although heavy, long-term consumption is likely to have a negative impact on cognitive function. The degree that alcohol-related cognitive impairment must reach to be classified as dementia is currently obscure. Longer-term smoking is associated with increased risk of cognitive impairment and possibly dementia. The chronic use of benzodiazepines has been associated with increased risk of cognitive impairment but information relating to dementia remains inconclusive. The chronic use of cannabis may impair intellectual abilities but data on this topic remain sparse and difficult to interpret. In conclusion, there is evidence that some drugs contribute to the causal pathway that leads to the development of cognitive impairment but currently available data do not support the introduction of a separate diagnostic category of drug-induced dementia (such as alcohol-related dementia). Health promotion programs designed to decrease tobacco smoking and &quot;harmful&quot; alcohol use (and possibly other drug use) may decrease the burden of cognitive impairment and perhaps dementia in later life.
Early retrospective studies suggested that individuals with a history of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) had a higher risk for dementia than those without a history of TBI. Two meta-analyses demonstrated that the risk for dementia is higher among men, but not women, with a history of TBI. More recent prospective studies, however, are providing discrepant findings, probably due to important methodological differences. TBI is usually associated with significant neuropsychological deficits, primarily in the domains of attention, executive functioning and memory. These deficits may not improve with time. TBI may also lower the threshold for the clinical expression of dementia among predisposed individuals, and the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like neuropathological and biochemical changes immediately after severe TBI may play an important role in this mechanism.
At the turn of the last century, infectious diseases represented an important cause of health morbidity and behavioral changes. Neurosyphilis, for example, was relatively common at the time and often led to the development of cognitive impairment and dementia. With the advent of effective antibiotic treatment, the association between infectious diseases and dementia became increasingly less frequent, although a resurgence of interest in this area has taken place during the past 15 years with the emergence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD). This paper reviews the most frequent infectious causes of dementia, including prion diseases, as well as infections caused by herpes virus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), toxoplasmosis, cryptococcus, cytomegalovirus, syphilis, borrelia and cysticercosis.

When patients present with a dementia syndrome at a young age, the experienced clinician will automatically include uncommon dementias in the diagnostic considerations, as familial uncommon dementias due to genetic mutations frequently present as early-onset dementias. This paper highlights why uncommon dementias due to genetic mutations, although marginal in terms of prevalence numbers in the total population, are of significance in the quest to unravel the underlying cause of common dementias such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), frontotemporal dementias (FTD) and vascular dementia (VaD).
The dynamic remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton plays a critical role in cellular morphogenesis and cell motility. Actin-associated scaffolds are key to this process, as they recruit cohorts of actin-binding proteins and associated signaling complexes to subcellular sites where remodeling is required. This review is focused on a recently discovered family of three proteins, myotilin, palladin, and myopalladin, all of which function as scaffolds that regulate actin organization. While myotilin and myopalladin are most abundant in skeletal and cardiac muscle, palladin is ubiquitously expressed in the organs of developing vertebrates. Palladin's function has been investigated primarily in the central nervous system and in tissue culture, where it appears to play a key role in cellular morphogenesis. The three family members each interact with specific molecular partners: all three bind to alpha-actinin; in addition, palladin also binds to vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) and ezrin, myotilin binds to filamin and actin, and myopalladin also binds to nebulin and cardiac ankyrin repeat protein (CARP). Since mutations in myotilin result in two forms of muscle disease, an essential role for this family member in organizing the skeletal muscle sarcomere is implied.
In general, growth and differentiation are mutually exclusive, but they are cooperatively regulated during the course of development. Thus, the process of a cell's transition from growth to differentiation is of general importance not only for the development of organisms but also for the initiation of malignant transformation, in which this process is reversed. The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium, a wonderful model organism, grows and multiplies as long as nutrients are supplied, and its differentiation is triggered by starvation. A strict checkpoint (growth/differentiation transition or GDT point), from which cells start differentiating in response to starvation, has been specified in the cell cycle of D. discoideum Ax-2 cells. Accordingly, integration of GDT point-specific events with starvation-induced events is needed to understand the mechanism regulating GDTs. A variety of intercellular and intracellular signals are involved positively or negatively in the initiation of differentiation, making a series of cross-talks. As was expected from the presence of GDT points, the cell's positioning in cell masses and subsequent cell-type choices occur depending on the cell's phase in the cell cycle at the onset of starvation. Since novel and somewhat unexpected multiple functions of mitochondria in cell movement, differentiation, and pattern formation have been well realized in Dictyostelium cells, they are reviewed in this article.



















Physical cage enrichment--exercise devices for rodents in the laboratory--often includes running wheels. This study compared responses of mice in enriched physical and social conditions and in standard social conditions to wheel running, individual housing, and open-field test. The study divided into 6 groups, 48 female BALB/c mice group housed in enriched and standard conditions. On alternate days, the study exposed 2 groups to individual running wheel cages. It intermittently separated from their cage mates and housed individually 2 groups with no running wheels; 2 control groups remained in enriched or standard condition cages. There were no significant differences between enriched and standard group housed mice in alternate days' wheel running. Over time, enriched, group housed mice ran less. Both groups responded similarly to individual housing. In open-field test, mice exposed to individual housing without running wheel moved more and faster than wheel running and home cage control mice. They have lower body weights than group housed and wheel running mice. Intermittent withdrawal of individual housing affects the animals more than other commodities. Wheel running normalizes some effects of intermittent separation from the enriched, social home cage.
The capacity to represent the world in terms of numerically distinct objects (i.e., object individuation) is a milestone in early cognitive development and forms the foundation for more complex thought and behavior. Over the past 10 to 15 yr, infant researchers have expended a great deal of effort to identify the origins and development of this capacity. In contrast, relatively little is known about the neural mechanisms that underlie the ability to individuate objects, in large part because there are a limited number of noninvasive techniques available to measure brain functioning in human infants. Recent research suggests that near-IR spectroscopy (NIRS), an optical imaging technique that uses relative changes in total hemoglobin concentration and oxygenation as an indicator of neural activation, may be a viable procedure for assessing the relation between object processing and brain function in human infants. We examine the extent to which increased neural activation, as measured by NIRS, could be observed in two neural areas known to be involved in object processing, the primary visual cortex and the inferior temporal cortex, during an object processing task. Infants aged 6.5 months are presented with a visual event in which two featurally distinct objects emerge successively to opposite sides of an occluder and neuroimaging data are collected. As predicted, increased neural activation is observed in both the primary visual and inferior cortex during the visual event, suggesting that these neural areas support object processing in the young infant. The outcome has important implications for research in cognitive development, developmental neuroscience, and optical imaging.
A recent workshop brought together a mix of researchers with expertise in optical physics, cerebral hemodynamics, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology to review the potential utility of near-IR spectroscopy (NIRS) for studies of brain activity underlying cognitive processing in human infants. We summarize the key findings that emerged from this workshop and outline the pros and cons of NIRS for studying the brain correlates of perceptual, cognitive, and language development in human infants.
High densities of the mRNA of three rhythm-related genes, rPeriod1 (rPer1), rPer2, and rClock, which share high homology in Drosophila and mammals, are found in the rat hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The SCN, however, is not the only brain region that expresses these genes. To understand the possible physiological roles of these rhythm-related genes, we examined expression of these genes in different brain regions at various time points in male Sprague--Dawley rats. Using semi quantitativein situ hybridization with 35S-riboprobes to evaluate mRNA levels, the diurnal rhythmicity of rPer1, and rPer2 mRNA levels was found in the SCN, arcuate nucleus, and median eminence/pars tuberalis. Expression patterns of mRNA for rPer1 and rPer2, however, were not similar in these brain regions. The rhythmicity in these brain regions was specific, because it was not observed in the cerebellum or hippocampus. Moreover, diurnal changes in rClock mRNA expression were not detected in any of the brain regions examined. These findings suggest that the different expression patterns observed for rPer1, rPer2, and rClock mRNAs may be attributed to their different physiological roles in these brain regions, and support previous work indicating that circadian rhythms in the brain are widespread.
We previously demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of Na(+)-K(+)-Cl- cotransporter isoform 1 (NKCC1) is neuroprotective in in vivo and in vitro ischemic models. In this study, we investigated whether genetic ablation of NKCC1 provides neuroprotection after ischemia. Focal ischemia was induced by 2 hours occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCAO) followed by 10 or 24 hours reperfusion. Two hours MCAO and ten or twenty-four hours reperfusion caused infarction (approximately 85 mm3) in NKCC1 wild-type (NKCC1(+/+)) mice. Infarction volume in NKCC1(-/-) mice was reduced by approximately 30% to 46%. Heterozygous mutant (NKCC1(+/-)) mice showed approximately 28% reduction in infarction (P&gt;0.05). Two hours MCAO and twenty-four hours reperfusion led to a significant increase in brain edema in NKCC1(+/+) mice. In contrast, NKCC1(+/-) and NKCC1(-/-) mice exhibited approximately 50% less edema (P&lt;0.05). Moreover, white matter damage was assessed by immunostaining of amyloid precursor protein (APP). An increase in APP was detected in NKCC1(+/+) mice after 2 hours MCAO and 10 hours reperfusion. However, NKCC1(-/-) mice exhibited significantly less APP accumulation (P&lt;0.05). Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) induced approximately 67% cell death and a fourfold increase in Na+ accumulation in cultured NKCC1(+/+) cortical neurons. OGD-mediated cell death and Na+ influx were significantly reduced in NKCC1(-/-) neurons (P&lt;0.05). In addition, inhibition of NKCC1 by bumetanide resulted in similar protection in NKCC1(+/+) neurons and astrocytes (P&lt;0.05). These results imply that stimulation of NKCC1 activity is important in ischemic neuronal damage.
The influence of diet and age on the effects of intracerebral injection of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta1-40) in vehicle phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and on the effects of vehicle alone on cholinergic fibres of the cerebral cortex was studied in rats. The experiments were carried in two groups of animals: one group of young adult rats and a second group of aged rats. Each group of animals, depending on the diet received, was divided into high-cholesterol, high-fat, and a control diet group. In order to evaluate the interaction of Abeta/PBS-cholesterol and of Abeta/PBS-fat, animals without dietary manipulation receiving Abeta and PBS injection were used as controls. High-cholesterol fed animals showed a statistically significant reduction of 49.62% in the number of cholinergic fibres at the Abeta injection site as compared with that at PBS injection site, while the high-fat and control animals showed a significant reduction of 28.13 and 26.81%, respectively. In all diet groups, the loss of cholinergic fibres caused by Abeta as compared to that caused by PBS injection was significantly greater in aged rats in comparison with that observed in the young animals. Furthermore, the results of a multivariate linear regression model revealed that the greatest reduction in cholinergic fibres was in the high-cholesterol fed animals (35 fibres/mm) as compared with that seen in the high-fat and control animals. A significantly greater reduction was also observed at Abeta injection site (28 fibres/mm) as compared with that caused by PBS injection, and a reduction of 16 cholinergic fibres per mm was found in aged animals as compared to that seen in young adult rats. These results show that high-cholesterol diet enhances the toxicity of Abeta peptide and that this is also age-dependent. Therefore, this study increases the evidences of the role of cholesterol in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Although the cause of autism is undetermined, a general consensus has been that some type of early aberrant neural development underlies the disorder. Given the increased prevalence of macrocephaly in autism, one theory of abnormal neural development implicates early brain growth resulting in larger brain and head size in autism. Surface area measurements of the midsagittal section of the corpus callosum can be used as an index of neural development and white-matter integrity because the corpus callosum is the major white-matter structure that interconnects the two cerebral hemispheres. The purpose of this study was to obtain corpus callosum surface area, shape, and contour in a sample of non-mentally retarded autistic subjects with macrocephaly (n = 12) and compare them with those of matched (n = 8), typically developing control subjects with benign macrocephaly. No significant differences were found in surface area, shape, or contour between groups, nor did corpus callosum surface area relate to measures of IQ or picture vocabulary. These findings suggest no unique difference in overall regional corpus callosum surface area in autism with macrocephaly.

Annexin 1 (ANXA1), a Ca(2+) and phospholipid binding protein, is an important mediator of the antiinflammatory actions of glucocorticoids. However, although inflammatory responses in man are sensitive to alterations in adrenocortical function, the relationship between endogenous cortisol and ANXA1 expression has not been explored. Accordingly, we measured serum cortisol levels and ANXA1 expression in peripheral blood leukocytes from subjects with normal and dysregulated cortisol secretion before and 30 min after a standard corticotrophin (ACTH) test. Our data demonstrate a highly significant correlation between the serum cortisol concentration and the expression of ANXA1 in neutrophils, both before and after ACTH treatment, and thus suggest that ANXA1 may serve as a marker of glucocorticoid sensitivity. They also reveal a correlation between ANXA1 and the serum gonadotrophins, LH and FSH, and an age-related reduction in ANXA1 expression in lymphocytes.
There have been considerable giants in recent years in understanding cognitive and neural correlated for retrieval of various types of knowledge, such as the meanings and lexical forms for categories such as a familiar faces, animals and tools, and actions. An important category that has been largely neglected so far is landmarks, and one likely reason for this is a lack of suitable stimulus materials. Here, we report a study in which we designed a Landmark Recognition and Naming Test. The test contains 65 natural (e.g., &quot;Old Faithful&quot;) and artifactual (e.g., &quot;U.S Capitol&quot;) landmarks from around the world. Preliminary recognition and naming data about the participants (e.g., educational level, participants, experience traveling to national parks), the stimuli (e.g., visual complexity, image agreement), and participant-stimulus interactions (e.g., familiarity, age of acquisition), and analyzed how such factors influenced landmark recognition and naming. There was a pronounced sex-related difference in landmark recognition favoring men; however, men and women performed similarly in landmark naming. We provide here extensive data regarding the stimuli, and we encourage other investigators to make use of our stimuli and data in future investigations of landmark recognition and naming.

The fragile X premutation tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a recently described adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder, in which ataxia, tremor, cognitive decline, parkinsonism, neuropathy and autonomic dysfunction occur in various combinations. It is reported to display a characteristic MRI appearance, with increased T2 signal in the middle cerebellar peduncles and around the dentate nuclei. Diagnostic criteria have been proposed on the basis of these clinical and radiological features, presupposing that a CGG expansion has been demonstrated. We present three cases in which MRI and clinical findings suggested the possibility of FXTAS, although only one was confirmed on genetic testing. The phenotypic overlap with multiple system atrophy of cerebellar type (MSA-C) and the importance of genetic confirmation are emphasised.
Xenobiotic enzymes normally protect against toxins but on occasion can convert protoxins into toxins. N-methylated pyridines (such as the N-methyl-4 phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)) are well-established dopaminergic toxins. The enzyme nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT) can covert otherwise harmless pyridines such as 4-phenylpyridine into MPP+ like compounds. This enzyme has recently been shown to be present in the human brain, which is a necessity for neurotoxicity, as charged compounds such as MPP+ cannot cross the blood brain barrier. Moreover, it is present in increased concentration in the brain of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). This would increase MPP+ like compounds at the same time as decreasing intraneuronal nicotinamide, a neuroprotectant at several levels, thus creating a &quot;multiple hit&quot;, as additionally complex 1 of the mitochondrial complex would also be poisoned and starved of its major substrate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). Thus, PD may be a disease of autointoxication. Xenobiotic enzyme inhibitors of NNMT, with or without dietary modification, would be a novel way to attempt primary prevention of PD.
Significant progress has been made in the search for underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms in autism over the past 50 years. The cause of the disorder, however, remains largely unknown. This article reviews neurochemical contributions to the pathophysiology of autism with a focus on monoamines, glutamate/gamma-aminobutyric acid systems, and neuropeptides. As these efforts move forward, it will be important to begin to integrate genetic studies with those involving neuroimaging and postmortem research in each of these 3 areas, as well as with pharmacologic treatment approaches.
Although pharmacotherapy is the mainstay of the comprehensive program of medical care for the management of patients with bipolar disorder, the additional benefits of psychosocial interventions for the patient, family, and caregivers are now being recognized and increasingly adopted. Several facets of bipolar disorder can be addressed more effectively by instituting adjunctive psychosocial interventions. Recent clinical evidence indicates that combining pharmacotherapy with psychosocial interventions, which are tailored to patients' individual needs, may decrease the risk of relapse, improve patient adherence, and decrease the number and length of hospitalizations. A multidisciplinary approach may also enhance long-term patient outcomes such as mood stability, enhanced occupational and/or social functioning, and overall quality of life. Psychoeducation helps individuals become active and informed participants in the management of their illness, promoting a collaborative relationship between patients and their caregivers. However, psychosocial interventions are not useful for all patients with bipolar illness and may be more useful in addressing some problems than others. Evidence would suggest that psychosocial interventions, with continuing pharmacotherapy, are best used as prophylaxis and during periods of remission to prevent further episodes. Further randomized, clinical trials will help to define which components of psychosocial intervention are most effective in patients with bipolar disorder.


From its inception, psychology has been characterized by conceptual fragmentation and slow scientific progress (Henriques, 2004; Meehl, 1978). In contrast, the natural sciences have achieved in recent decades a remarkable degree of consilience--the linking of fact, theory, and method across disciplines (and subdisciplines) and across nested levels of informational complexity (Wilson, 1998). Although such consilience serves as a potent catalyst of scientific discovery, there exists several barriers to the emergence of a consilient science of psychology (e.g., the persistent influence of dualism, longstanding internecine discord, resistance to perceived reductionism, etc.). We discuss the manner in which the development of metatheoretical frameworks (including Henriques' Tree of Knowledge model) may play an important role in addressing such barriers. Likewise, we describe the hybrid interdisciplinary domain of cognitive neuroscience, which provides an empirically testable metatheory and a promising consilient bridge between psychology and the natural sciences.
Dopamine (DA) depletion in the basal ganglia (BG) of Parkinson's patients gives rise to both frontal-like and implicit learning impairments. Dopaminergic medication alleviates some cognitive deficits but impairs those that depend on intact areas of the BG, apparently due to DA ''overdose.'' These findings are difficult to accommodate with verbal theories of BG/DA function, owing to complexity of system dynamics: DA dynamically modulates function in the BG, which is itself a modulatory system. This article presents a neural network model that instantiates key biological properties and provides insight into the underlying role of DA in the BG during learning and execution of cognitive tasks. Specifically, the BG modulates the execution of ''actions'' (e.g., motor different parts of the frontal cortex. Phasic changes in DA, which occur during error feedback, dynamically modulate the BG threshold for facilitating/suppressing a cortical command in response to particular stimuli. Reduced dynamic range of DA explains Parkinson and DA overdose deficits with a single underlying dysfunction, despite overall differences in raw DA levels. Simulated Parkinsonism and medication effects provide a theoretical basis for behavioral data in probabilistic classification and reversal tasks. The model also provides novel testable predictions for neuropsychological and pharmacological studies, and motivates further investigation of BG/DA interactions with the prefrontal cortex in working memory.
The partial androgen deficiency of aging males (PADAM) is responsible for a variety of behavioral symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, decreased libido, depressive mood, lack of motivation and energy, lower psychological vitality, anxiety, irritability, insomnia, decreased work and sport performances, difficulty in concentrating, memory impairment and low dominance. Psychological and behavioral aspects of PADAM overlap with signs and symptoms of major depression. The evidence of the association between testosterone (T) level and male depression comes from studies that have assessed: 1) depression in hypogonadal subjects; 2) the relationship between T level and male depressive illness, and 3) the antidepressant action of androgen replacement. In humans, the role of androgens has been described, albeit inconsistently, in the regulation of sexuality, aggression, emotion and personality. These direct effects appear to be greatly influenced by social factors as well. Sex hormones are important for the development and maintenance of acquired cognitive abilities. Hormonal changes in androgen levels in older men modulate, at least in part, the cognitive changes of aging. Treatment with androgen hormones in hypogonadal men has shown an improvement in cognitive, verbal and visual memory, mental status, visuomotor scanning and attention, verbal knowledge/language, spatial abilities and memory for both verbal and visual information. The etiology of the behavioral symptoms of PADAM is multifactorial, being the result of the interaction of biological and social changes, and of the personal ability to adapt to the numerous individual and social changes that take place during mid-life transition.
The history of GH started with the pioneer clinical and anatomical observations of Pierre Marie, who described the symptoms of acromegaly in 1886. Progressively, histochemical and histophysiological methods made it possible to characterize most cell types responsible for normal or pathological pituitary hormone secretion. Although the methods applied were indirect, and hormonal function assigned to each cell type could only be inferred from correlations, the quality of the corresponding studies was such that most of their results proved correct. In the second half of the XXth century, biochemical methods and bioassays led, between 1943 and 1956, to the production from pituitary extracts of highly purified fractions containing somatotropin activity. The subsequent demonstration that hypothalamo-hypophyseal interactions are of a neurohumoral nature permitted isolation of neuropeptides, a new class of neurotransmitters, many of which turned into major therapeutic agents. Subsequent purification of hundreds of neuropeptides, many with hypophysiotropic activity, and mapping of neurons producing them permitted to shift from relatively simple theories, postulating that stimulatory and inhibitory peptides are sufficient to account for the physiological control of pituitary secretion to more complex models. These permitted to understand how complex neuronal networks can produce a fine tuning of multiple combinations of neuropeptides and neurotransmitters, which interact with each other to adapt hormonal secretion to discrete physiological and pathological conditions.
Silica is a causative factor of acute cell injury in pulmonary fibrosis. Inducible cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was suggested to play a role in the process of inflammation and fibrosis. We report that silica induces COX-2 expression in WI-38 fibroblasts. Further analysis showed that silica activated the transcription of COX-2 gene primarily via a nuclear factor (NF)-kB binding site in the promoter. NF-kB-inducing kinase (NIK) and TGF-k activated kinase 1 (TAK1), the upstream signaling molecules of NF-kB, are involved in the silica-mediated COX-2 expression. The Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay (EMSA) showed that silica induced the direct binding of NF-kB on the putative binding site in COX-2 promoter. These results suggest that silica activates the human COX-2 gene transcription through the induction of NF-kB activity.
In the spiny lobster Panulirus argus the antennules carrying olfactory sensilla called aesthetascs and several types of other non-olfactory sensilla accompanying them are frequently groomed by the third maxillipeds in a stereotyped behavioral pattern. This behavior can be elicited by chemical stimulation with l-glutamate. Using selective sensillar ablations, we tested whether this behavior is driven by the numerous aesthetascs, which have been implicated as mediating this chemically elicited antennular grooming behavior in a previous investigation, or other, less numerous sensilla called asymmetric setae, which are tightly associated with aesthetascs. The selective sensilla ablations showed that the asymmetric setae are necessary and sufficient for driving chemically elicited antennular grooming. Bilateral elimination of the ca. 160 asymmetric setae almost completely abolished the behavior, whereas bilateral elimination of the ca. 2600 aesthetascs or of another type of sensilla associated with them (guard setae) did not cause a reduction in chemically elicited antennular grooming. Microscopical analysis of the morphological properties of the asymmetric setae revealed the presence of a terminal pore at the tip of the seta and a phalloidin-positive scolopale below its base. Since these structures have been identified in decapod crustaceans as modality-specific structures of bimodal chemo- and mechanosensory sensilla, we conclude that the asymmetric setae belong to this type of sensilla and thus have the appropriate features to function as chemoreceptors in the elicitation of antennular grooming. The identification of asymmetric setae and not aesthetascs as the drivers of chemically elicited antennular grooming suggests that it is not the olfactory pathway in the brain but a parallel pathway, constituted mainly by the lateral antennular neuropils, that is the neuronal substrate of this behavior. The lateral antennular neuropils receive non-olfactory sensory input from the antennule and contain the major arborizations of antennular motoneurons, allowing that direct sensory-motor coupling is involved in mediating the chemical elicitation of antennular grooming behavior.

Spike timing-dependent plasticity that follows anti-Hebbian rules has been demonstrated at synapses between parallel fibers and inhibitory interneurons known as medium ganglionic layer (MG) neurons in the cerebellum-like electrosensory lobe of mormyrid fish. This plasticity is expressed when presynaptic activation is associated with a characteristically broad, postsynaptic action potential, lasting 7-15 ms, occurring within a window of up to 60-80 ms following synaptic activation. Since the site of plastic change is presumably in the apical dendrites, it is important to know where, when and how this broad spike is generated and the manner in which such events propagate within the intrinsic network of the electrosensory lobe. The electrosensory lobe has a strict layered organization that makes the preparation suitable for one dimension current source density analysis. Using this technique in an 'in vitro' interface slice preparation, we found that following either parallel fiber stimulation or an orthogonal field stimulus, a sink appeared in the ganglionic layer and propagated into the molecular layer. Intracellular records from MG somata showed these stimuli evoked broad action potentials whose timing corresponds to this sink. TTX application in the deep fiber layer blocked the synaptically evoked ganglionic layer field potential and the 'N3' wave of the outer molecular layer field potential simultaneously, while the molecular layer 'N1' and 'N2' waves corresponding to synaptic activation of the apical dendrites remained intact. These results confirm the hypothesis that the broad spikes of MG cells originate in the soma and propagate through the molecular layer in the apical dendritic tree, and suggest the possibility that this backpropagation may contribute to 'boosting' of the synaptic response in distal apical dendrites in certain circumstances.

The aim of this study was to determine whether physical and psychological functioning can predict 6-year cognitive decline in older adults. A group of 669 participants aged 60 to 81 years was recruited from a longitudinal study (the Maastricht Aging Study). Physical functioning was measured in terms of perceived health and instrumental activities of daily living. Psychological functioning or mood was evaluated by the Depression and Anxiety subscales of the Symptom Check List-90. Although physical functioning and psychological functioning were related to several measures of cognitive functioning at baseline, psychological functioning was specifically related to memory functioning 6 years later. Poor psychological functioning (i.e., depressive and anxiety symptomatology), rather than poor physical health, may have the strongest implications for long-term cognitive functioning in older men and women.
The aim of this article is to highlight advances achieved over the past 2 decades in understanding mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI). The first section provides a historical background, which establishes that research during the 1980s was focused on more severe TBI. During the 1990s MTBI received substantially more recognition. The second section explains why the diagnostic frameworks have evolved. The third section examines why 80% to 90% of all MTBI patients have favorable outcomes whereas 10% to 20% do not. This latter subgroup, also known as the Miserable Minority, presents with a plethora of persistent physical, emotional, and cognitive symptoms. A dichotomy has emerged in the literature interpreting these postconcussional symptoms as being psychogenic or neurogenic. This article offers an alternate and more patient-based framework. Instead of the various disciplines focusing on select symptoms, the patient-based approach is aimed at phenomenologically understanding how the MTBI patient's life has changed. The fourth section provides practical steps for treatments. This historical review offers the conclusion that we have focused for too long on diagnostic challenges, without similarly focusing on treatment. It is time that we advance efficacious treatments for the Miserable Minority.
Present study reports cytological and biochemical changes associated with stress induced neurodegeneration in hippocampal subregion of the brain in animals subjected to physical stressors such as immobilization or swimming stress for specific period of time. Studies also demonstrate neuroprotective activity of herbal extract in brain.
The effects of chloroquine on glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), proliferation cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Cyclin D1 in hippocampus and cerebral cortex of rats with seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) were observed in the present study. Forty-eight male adult Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into control group, chloroquine intervening group, and PTZ group. The behavior and electroencephalogram (EEG) were observed and recorded. GFAP and PCNA were examined with immunohistochemistry. The content of Cyclin D1 in hippocampus and cerebral cortex was inspected with Western blot. The results showed no seizure activity in the control group, severe seizure activity in the PTZ group (IV - V degree), and slight seizure activity (I - IIl degree) in the chloroquine intervening group (P &lt; 0.05). EEG recordings showed no epileptic spikes in the control group, high amplitude with fast frequency in the PTZ group, low-amplitude and slow frequency in the chloroquine intervening group. The expression of GFAP and the positive index of PCNA in the PTZ group were higher than those of control group (P &lt; 0.05 and P &lt; 0.01, respectively). No differences in GFAP expression and PCNA index were observed between chloroquine intervening and control groups (P &gt; 0.05). The content of Cyclin D1 in hippocampus and cerebral cortex was significantly higher in the PTZ group than in control and chloroquine intervening groups (P &lt; 0.05). Therefore, it is considered that chloroquine, by inhibiting the functions and proliferation of glial cells in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, can alleviate the seizure activities. These results suggest that chloroquine may be an ideal anticonvulsant in preventing and treating epilepsy.
Dendritic cells (DCs) generated by a single-step exposure of human monocytes to type I IFN and GM-CSF (IFN-DCs) are endowed with potent immunostimulatory activities and a distinctive migratory response to specific chemokines. In this study, we evaluated the effects of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (1,25(OH)(2)D(3)), the biologically active metabolite of vitamin D(3), on the DC differentiation/activation induced by type I IFN. We found that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) prevented the generation of IFN-DCs when added to freshly isolated monocytes, and was capable of redirecting already differentiated IFN-DCs toward a more immature stage, as revealed by their immunophenotype, reduced allostimulatory activity, and impaired LPS-induced production of Th1-polarizing cytokines. Control and 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated IFN-DCs exhibited a similar expression of vitamin D receptor, as well as comparable cell death rates. Furthermore, the chemotactic response of IFN-DCs to CCL4 and CCL19 was markedly reduced or completely abrogated by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3). Despite these changes in the IFN-DC migratory behavior, the expression of CCR5 and CCR7 and the calcium fluxes triggered by CCL4 and CCL19 were not affected. These findings indicate that, in this innovative single-step DC generation model from monocytes, the suppressive effect of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) is associated with a potent impairment of DC migration in response to inflammatory and lymph node-homing chemokines, thus unraveling a novel mechanism involved in 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-mediated immunomodulation.
We investigated the interactions between human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) and Ag-activated circulating TCR-gammadelta-expressing lymphocytes (Vdelta2). Coculture of immature DCs (iDCs) with peripheral blood Vdelta2 T cells activated with either pyrophosphomonoesters (isopentenyl pyrophosphate; IPP) or aminobiphosphonates (pamidronate; PAM) led to a significant up-modulation of CD86 and MHC class I molecules and to the acquisition of functional features typical of activated DCs. DC activation induced by both IPP- and PAM-stimulated gammadelta T cells was mostly mediated by TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma secreted by activated lymphocytes. However, the effect of PAM-activated gammadelta T cells, but not that of IPP-activated cells, required cell-to-cell contact. Reciprocally, activation of Vdelta2 T cells by PAM, but not by IPP, was dependent on cell contact with iDCs. In fact, when PAM-stimulated DC-gammadelta T cell cocultures were separated by a semipermeable membrane or treated with blocking anti-CD86 Abs, induction of CD25 and CD69 as well as IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha secretion by Vdelta2 cells were strongly reduced. These results demonstrate for the first time a bidirectional activating interaction between iDCs and PAM-stimulated gammadelta T lymphocytes, thus suggesting a potential adjuvant role of this early cross-talk in the therapeutic activity of aminobiphosphonate drugs.
Falciparum malaria can affect the central nervous system (CNS), causing neurological dysfunction and sequelae. The pathophysiology of these complications is currently very poorly understood. Production of autoantibodies has frequently been reported as a consequence of infection with Plasmodium falciparum. However, at present, the presence of antibodies to components of the CNS during malaria infection has not been reported. We have sought to identify such antibodies, define their specificity, and determine whether they are involved in the development of neurological complications of falciparum malaria. Here, we show that, in a cohort of Kenyan children, levels of antibodies to the voltage-gated calcium channels, but not to other ion channels, increased with the severity of malaria infection.
Clinical decision making about an athlete's return to competition after concussion is hampered by a lack of systematic methods to measure recovery. We applied standard regression-based methods to statistically measure individual rates of impairment at several time points after concussion in college football players. Postconcussive symptoms, cognitive functioning, and balance were assessed in 94 players with concussion (based on American Academy of Neurology Criteria) and 56 noninjured controls during preseason baseline testing, and immediately, 3 hr, and 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7 days postinjury. Ninety-five percent of injured players exhibited acute concussion symptoms and impairment on cognitive or balance testing immediately after injury, which diminished to 4% who reported elevated symptoms on postinjury day 7. In addition, a small but clinically significant percentage of players who reported being symptom free by day 2 continued to be classified as impaired on the basis of objective balance and cognitive testing. These data suggest that neuropsychological testing may be of incremental utility to subjective symptom checklists in identifying the residual effects of sport-related concussion. The implementation of neuropsychological testing to detect subtle cognitive impairment is most useful once postconcussive symptoms have resolved. This management model is also supported by practical and other methodological considerations.
The authors performed a multicenter prospective observational study to evaluate the feasibility and safety of intravenous antihypertensive protocol for acute hypertension in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Twenty-seven patients with ICH and acute hypertension (mean age 61.37 +/- 14.27; 10 were men) were treated to maintain the systolic blood pressure (BP) below 160 mm Hg and diastolic BP below 90 mm Hg within 24 hours of symptom onset. Neurological deterioration (defined as a decrease in initial Glasgow Coma Scale score &gt; or = 2) was observed in 2 (7.4%) of 27 patients during treatment. Among patients who underwent follow-up computed tomography, hematoma expansion (more than 33% increase in hematoma size at 24 hours) was observed in 2 (9.1%) of 22 patients. Patients treated within 6 hours of symptom onset were more likely to be functionally independent (modified Rankin scale &lt; or = 2) at 1 month compared with patients who were treated between 6 and 24 hours (8 of 18 versus 0 of 9,P = .03). Aggressive pharmacological treatment of acute hypertension in patients with ICH can be initiated early with a low rate of neurological deterioration and hematoma expansion.
The application of microarray technology to basic and applied fields of science has been progressing rapidly and broadly since its initial description. The field of neuroscience stands to benefit particularly, as nervous tissue is the most transcriptionally active system within most biological organisms. Moreover, large numbers of cell and animal models have been created that mimic many biochemical and behavioral features of neurological states and diseases. In the present study, data on study designs, tissue sources, technology platforms, bioinformatic tools, and results obtained from 448 published microarray studies were collected. The data were then summarized to determine overall usage statistics of microarrays. Future directions and applications for microarrays in the neurosciences were then inferred from the data analyzed.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that can regulate both excitatory and inhibitory fast synaptic transmission. The overlapping dopaminergic, glutamatergic, and GABAergic systems provide a basis for the interaction between these three neurotransmitters. Although there is considerable evidence for the involvement of second-messenger systems to mediate receptor cross-talk between these receptor systems, there is emerging evidence that receptors can interact through direct protein-protein interactions. The functional implications and overall significance of the dopamine/glutamate/GABA interactions will be examined.
It is now well accepted that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can be directly associated, as either homo- or hetero-oligomers, to alter their functions. G protein-coupled purinergic receptors, classified as adenosine receptors, and P2Y receptors (ATP receptors) are also found to oligomerize each other to alter their pharmacology. Specifically, adenosine receptor of A1 subtype (A1R) is able to form a heteromeric complex with P2Y receptor of P2Y1 type (P2Y1R) either in heterologously transfected cells or in rat brain tissues, as demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation or bioluminescence resonance energy transfer methods in addition to double immunocytochemistry. It is shown that the heteromerization between A1R and P2Y1R generates an adenosine receptor with P2Y-like agonistic pharmacology, i.e., a potent P2Y1R agonist, adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), binds the A1R binding pocket of the A1R/P2Y1R complex and inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity via Gi/o protein. This hetero-oligomerization between adenosine receptor and P2Y receptor might be one of the mechanisms for the adenine nucleotide-mediated inhibition of neurotransmitter release. The oligomerization of purinergic receptors is thus considered as an important regulation system in the central nervous system.
The existence of A2A-D2 heteromeric complexes is based on coimmunoprecipitation studies and on fluorescence resonance energy transfer and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer analyses. It has now become possible to show that A2A and D2 receptors also coimmunoprecipitate in striatal tissue, giving evidence for the existence of A2A-D2 heteromeric receptor complexes also in rat striatal tissue. The analysis gives evidence that these heteromers are constitutive, as they are observed in the absence of A2A and D2 agonists. The A2A-D2 heteromers could either be A2A-D2 heterodimers and/or higher-order A2A -D2 hetero-oligomers. In striatal neurons there are probably A2A-D2 heteromeric complexes, together with A2A-D2 homomeric complexes in the neuronal surface membrane. Their stoichiometry in various microdomains will have a major role in determining A2A and D2 signaling in the striatopallidal GABA neurons. Through the use of D2/D1 chimeras, evidence has been obtained that the fifth transmembrane (TM) domain and/or the I3 of the D2 receptor are part of the A2A-D2 receptor interface, where electrostatic epitope-epitope interactions involving the N-terminal part of I3 of the D2 receptor (arginine-rich epitope) play a major role, interacting with the carboxyl terminus of the A2A receptor. Computerized modeling of A2A-D2 heteromers are in line with these findings. It seems likely that A2A receptor-induced reduction of D2 receptor recognition, G protein coupling, and signaling, as well as the existence of A2A-D2 co-trafficking, are the consequence of the existence of an A2A-D2 receptor heteromer. The relevance of A2A-D2 heteromeric receptor complexes for Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia is emphasized as well as for the treatment of these diseases. Finally, recent evidence for the existence of antagonistic A2A-D3 heteromeric receptor complexes in cotransfected cell lines has been summarized.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) is a neurotransmitter synthesized in the raphe nuclei of the brain stem in the central nervous system (CNS) and also in the periphery. Dysfunction of the serotonergic system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis. For more than a decade, only one gene encoding TPH was identified in vertebrates. Recently, a second TPH gene, designated TPH2, was detected, located on human chromosome 12, a susceptibility region for affective disorders. TPH2 is predominantly expressed in the brain, whereas the classical TPH gene, TPH1, is expressed in peripheral tissues. The discovery of the brain-abundant TPH2 gene justifies a new concept of the CNS serotonergic system. TPH2, rather than TPH1, has now become a candidate gene for 5-HT-related affective disorders. We compared TPH2 mRNA levels in postmortem parietal cortex of unipolar-depressed, bipolar, and schizophrenic patients vs control subjects, using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. No significant difference in TPH2 mRNA levels was found among the four diagnostic groups. The lack of difference might suggest that this gene is not involved in the etiology of of these psychiatric disorders. Alternatively, it is possible that the parietal cortex is not the relevant brain area involved in the pathophysiology of these disorders or that posttranscriptional modifications of TPH2 mRNA occur in these patients, causing changes in protein levels and/or enzymatic activity.
Recent research points to the connection between behavioral and gut disorders. Early adverse events are associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In animal models, maternal deprivation and social isolation predispose to gastric erosion and brain pathology. This study examined (1) brain effects of chronic gastrointestinal inflammation in a rat model of acquired IBD and (2) whether such changes are resolved by individual secretin (S) or oxytocin (OT) peptide treatment. Neurological manifestations of IBD were mapped by c-fos gene expression in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10) with trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced IBD vs controls (n = 11). IBD was characterized by moderate/severe infiltration of inflammatory cells 10 d after TNBS infusion. Age-matched pairs were processed for immunocytochemical detection of Fos, expressed when neurons are stimulated. S or OT (100 mg/250 mL saline) or equivolume saline was administered iv by Alzet pump for 20 d after disease onset. Degree of resolution of colitis-induced brain activation was assessed by c-fos expression, and mean numbers of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei for each group were compared using Independent Samples T-test. Chronic IBD activated periventricular gray, hypothalamic/visceral thalamic stress axes and cortical domains, and septal/preoptic/amygdala, brain areas abnormal in autism. Single peptide treatment with S or OT did not alter the effects of inflammation on the brain. Brain areas concomitantly activated by visceral inflammation are those often abnormal in autism, suggesting that IBD could be a model for testing treatments of autism. Other single and combined peptide treatments of IBD should be tested. The clinical implications for treating autism, IBD, and concomitant sickness behaviors with peptide therapy, with or without maternal nurturing as a natural equivalent, are presented.
An interaction between adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors has been demonstrated previously. It is generally found that agonist treatment internalizes receptors, including A2A and D2, whereas less is known of the long-term effects involved in the agonist-mediated trafficking of A2A and D2 receptors. Furthermore, the possible influence of the antagonists on receptor trafficking is still undefined. The present studies focus on the long-term effects of A2A and D2 agonist and D2 antagonist treatments on both A2A and D2 receptor trafficking studied at three different time intervals--3, 15, and 24 h. In addition, with the fluorescence resonance energy transfer technique, formation of heteromeric A2A and D2 receptor complexes was shown in the cotransfected CHO cell line. Confocal microscopy analysis showed that a 3-h treatment with the D2 agonist induced coaggregation of A2A/D2 receptors. These A2A/D2 receptor coaggregates internalized after 15 h with a recruitment of the receptors back to the cell membrane after 24 h. In contrast to the effects of the agonist treatment, a 3-h treatment with the D2-like antagonist raclopride increased both A2A and D2 immunoreactivity, indicating that the D2 antagonist stabilizes the D2 receptor and thereby reduces the internalization of both of the A2A and D2 receptors. Taken together, an activation of either A2A and D2 receptor or blockade of D2 receptors will cause long-lasting changes in A2A and D2 receptor trafficking.
Dr. Zhongcong Xie started his research career in 1989 with graduate studies in behavioral pharmacology at Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan.He moved to Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts in 1994 as a postdoctoral research fellow in both human and animal behavioral research. After years of research training, he returned to the clinical arena in 1997 as an Anesthesiology resident at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School. After completing anesthesia residency training, he decided to become a physician-scientist and continue his research in neuroscience. He joined the Genetics and Aging Research Unit at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School supervised by Dr. Rudolph Tanzi in the year 2000 to study Alzheimer's disease. His research on the neuropathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease has focused primarily on the molecular mechanisms underlying beta-amyloid precursor protein processing and beta-amyloid protein production, especially regarding regulation of the gamma-secretase complex.Additionally, his work has addressed the role of presenilin-related apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease.
In the Syrian hamster a serotonergic (5-HTergic) stimulation during daytime acts on the circadian timing system by inducing behavioral phase advances and by decreasing Per1 and Per2 (Period) mRNA levels in the suprachiasmatic nuclei, containing the main circadian clock in mammals. The present study was conducted in Syrian hamsters, housed in constant darkness, to investigate the interactions between light or melatonin with serotonergic stimulation in terms of phase resetting and clock gene expression. Both light exposure and systemic administration of melatonin prior to the injection of a 5-HT(1A/7) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, in the middle of the day blocked behavioral phase advances. In contrast, neither light nor melatonin treatment during daytime prevented serotonergic-induced down-regulation of Per1 and/or Per2 mRNA levels in the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Taken together, the results show that interactions between afferent cues to the suprachiasmatic nuclei differentially modulate phase adjustment and clock gene expression during daytime.
In a previous study, we showed that the psychoactive drug caffeine alters the expression of the dopamine 2 receptor (D2R) gene in vitro and in vivo. Here, we report that acute administration of antipsychotic and anti-parkinsonian drugs also regulate D2R gene expression in PC12 cells and in the mouse striatum. Treatment of PC12 cells with the atypical antipsychotic and specific 5-HT antagonist clozapine (60 microM) reduced D2R/luciferase reporter expression by 46% after 24 h. However, male and female mice treated with a clinical dose of clozapine (10 mg/kg) showed no changes in striatal D2R mRNA expression when assayed by quantitative RT-PCR. Treatment of PC12 cells with the specific D2R agonist anti-parkinsonian drug, bromocriptine mesylate (BCM; 5 microM) also resulted in decreased D2R/luciferase reporter activity (27%). In contrast to clozapine, a clinical dose of BCM (16 mg/kg) led to a 21% decrease and a 45% increase in striatal D2R mRNA expression in male and female mice, respectively, after 24 h. Coadministration of clozapine and BCM in PC12 cells resulted in a synergistic decrease in D2R/luciferase reporter expression (68%), and coadministration of these drugs in vivo led to decreases in striatal D2R mRNA expression in both male and female mice (45% and 22%, respectively). Collectively, these results indicate that clozapine, BCM, or a combination of these drugs have differential effects on dopamine receptor gene expression and might also affect striatal physiology in a sexually dimorphic manner.
Orphanin FQ (OFQ), an endogenous peptide ligand of opioid receptor-like receptors (ORLs), has properties similar to traditional opioids. This peptide inhibits adenylyl cyclase and voltage-gated calcium channels but stimulates inwardly rectifying potassium channels. Among other actions, however, OFQ also has pharmacological functions that are different from, or even opposite to, those of opioids. For example, OFQ antagonizes the behavioral analgesic effects mediated by kappa- and mu-opioid receptors. In a previous paper, we reported that OFQ antagonizes inhibition of calcium channels mediated by kappa-opioid receptors. We report here that OFQ also antagonizes the inhibition of calcium channels mediated by mu-opioid receptor. Further, single-cell RT-PCR reveals that the antagonistic effect of OFQ is correlated with the presence of ORL1 mRNA in individual cells.
The overall structure of the biogenic amine subclass of the G-protein-coupled receptors, and of their ligand binding sites, is discussed with the aim of highlighting the major structural features of these receptors that are responsible for ligand recognition. A comparison is made between biogenic amine receptors, peptide receptors of the rhodopsin class, and the secretin receptors which all have peptide ligands. The question of where the peptide ligands bind, whether at extracellular sites or within the transmembrane helix bundle, is discussed. The suitability of the rhodopsin crystal structure as a template for construction of homology models is discussed and it is concluded that there are many reasons why a caution should be issued against using it uncritically.
Extrasynaptic communication between neurons or neurons and glia is mediated by the diffusion of neuroactive substances through the extracellular space (ECS). Structural changes and amino acid release occurring under physiological and pathological conditions result in cellular (particularly glial) swelling, leading to dynamic changes in the ECS volume and geometry that in turn affect ECS diffusion. Significant changes in ECS volume and in diffusion barriers occur during development and aging. They are often the result of cell death, astrogliosis, the rearrangement of astrocytic processes and changes in extracellular matrix molecules. Plastic changes in ECS volume, geometry and anisotropy significantly affect the spatial relation of glial processes towards synapses, glutamate or GABA 'spillover', synaptic cross-talk and neuron-glia communication/interaction. In addition, changes occurring during pathological states can be important for diagnosis, drug delivery and treatment.
Astrocytes were long referred to as passive cells in the central nervous system (CNS). However, the application of fluorescent Ca2+ indicators revealed their &quot;Ca2+ excitability&quot; in response to a variety of stimuli. Since then, evidence showing that astrocytes release chemical transmitters and can modulate synapses has led to a new integrative view of the astrocyte. While it is inarguable that astrocytes play essential roles in nervous system function, and that gliotransmission modulates synapses, a significant challenge lies in developing the appropriate experimental strategy to allow unequivocal identification of roles for gliotransmission in nervous system function.
This review focuses on transmitter-receptor mismatches in the brain, which is one of the hallmarks of the Volume Transmission (VT) concept, and how this phenomenon may be related to local temperature gradients created by brain uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2), which uncouples oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis, hereby generating heat. Recent studies on transmitter-receptor mismatches have revealed dopamine and opioid peptide receptor mismatches in the intercalated islands of the amygdala, which are GABAergic cell clusters regulating amygdaloid output. Such mismatches have also been found in regions belonging to the extended amygdala and the nucleus accumbens shell. Now substantial UCP2 immunoreactivity has been found within the above transmitter-receptor mismatch regions, suggesting that UCP2 may enhance diffusion and convection of DA and opioid peptides in such regions by generation of local temperature gradients, thereby contributing to a dynamic regulation of VT.
Volume transmission involving the migration of chemical signals through brain extracellular space is primarily mediated by diffusion. This review summarizes the biophysical basis of diffusion in the brain and describes how tortuosity and volume fraction of the extracellular space modify the process. Recent work using both Monte Carlo simulation and experimental measurements suggests that the extracellular space may consist of both well-connected regions and dead-space microdomains. The review concludes with a brief overview of previous work on diffusion in the aging rat brain.
During postembryonic development of insects, sensorimotor pathways, which generate specific behaviors, undergo maturational changes. It is less clear whether such pathways are typically stable, or undergo further maturation, during the adult stage. In the present study, we have examined this issue by multilevel analysis of a simple model system, the escape behavior of the cockroach, from identified synapses to behavior. We show that the escape system is highly responsive immediately after the molt to adulthood, but that the latency of escape responses was not at its typical value immediately after the molt to adult. The latency of escape behavior increased over the first 30 days of adult life, perhaps indicating maturational adjustments of the escape sensorimotor pathway. The first station in the escape circuitry is the synaptic connections between the cercal wind receptors and the giant interneurons. We measured unitary excitatory synaptic potentials between single sensory neurons and an identified giant interneuron (GI(2)). We found a decrease in the synaptic strength between identified cercal hairs from a single column and GI(2) over the first month after the adult molt. Consequently, the latency and the number of action potentials of GI(2) in response to natural stimuli increased and decreased respectively during this time. Thus, we show that both behavioral performance and the wind sensitivity of GI(2) decreased over the first month after molt. We conclude that the cockroach escape system undergoes further sensorimotor maturation over a period of 1 month, and that cellular changes correlate with, or predict, some changes in behavioral performance.
Our previous studies have suggested that dopamine and noradrenaline may be coreleased from noradrenergic nerve terminals in the cerebral cortex. To further clarify this issue, the effect of electrical stimulation of the locus coeruleus on extracellular noradrenaline, dopamine and DOPAC in the medial prefrontal cortex, parietal cortex and caudate nucleus was analysed by microdialysis in freely moving rats. Stimulation of the locus coeruleus for 20 min with evenly spaced pulses at 1 Hz failed to modify cortical catecholamines and DOPAC levels. Stimulation with bursts of pulses at 12 and 24 Hz increased, in a frequency-related manner, not only noradrenaline but also dopamine and DOPAC in the two cortices. In both cortices noradrenaline returned to baseline within 20 min of stimulation, irrespective of the stimulation frequency, whereas dopamine returned to normal within 20 and 60 min in the medial prefrontal cortex and within 60 and 80 min in the parietal cortex after 12 and 24 Hz stimulation, respectively. DOPAC remained elevated throughout the experimental period. Phasic stimulation of the locus coeruleus at 12 Hz increased noradrenaline in the caudate nucleus as in the cerebral cortices but was totally ineffective on dopamine and DOPAC. Tetrodotoxin perfusion into the medial prefrontal cortex dramatically reduced noradrenaline and dopamine levels and suppressed the effect of electrical stimulation. These results indicate that electrical stimulation-induced increase of dopamine is a nerve impulse exocytotic process and suggest that cortical dopamine and noradrenaline may be coreleased from noradrenergic terminals.
Susceptibility to audiogenic seizures, which are reflex seizures provoked by loud noise, can be induced in rodents by acoustic priming (exposing animals to strong auditory stimuli at an early developmental stage). Some strains of mice and rats are susceptible to audiogenic seizures without priming and these have been used as good experimental models with which to study epilepsies. Here we identified Vlgr1d and Vlgr1e, novel alternatively-spliced variants of Vlgr1b/MGR1, which, upon sequence analysis, were shown to be transcripts from a locus previously characterized as mass1. Vlgr1 (Vlgr1b, Vlgr1d and Vlgr1e) mRNA is expressed predominantly in the neuroepithelium of the developing mouse brain. Our protein-tagged experiment suggested that Vlgr1d and Vlgr1e are secretory molecules, while Vlgr1b is a receptor. Knockout mice lacking exons 2-4 of Vlgr1 were susceptible to audiogenic seizures without priming, although there were no apparent histological abnormalities in their brains. Ninety-five percent of these knockout mice exhibited wild running, a feature typical of the preconvulsive phase of audiogenic seizures triggered by loud noise (11 kHz, 105 dB), and 68% exhibited tonic convulsions at 3 weeks after birth. Our monogenic mice, which have a unique genetic background, serve as a useful tool for further studies on seizures.
The formation of neurotoxic beta-amyloid fibrils in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is suggested to involve membrane rafts and to be promoted, in vitro, by enriched concentrations of gangliosides, particularly GM1, and the cholesterol therein. In our study, the presence of rafts and their content of the major membrane lipids and gangliosides in the temporal cortex, reflecting late stages of AD pathology, and the frontal cortex, presenting earlier stages, has been investigated. Whole tissue and isolated detergent-resistant membrane fractions (DRMs) were analysed from 10 AD and 10 age-matched control autopsy brains. DRMs from the frontal cortex of AD brains contained a significantly higher concentration (micromol/micromol glycerophospholipids), of ganglioside GM1 (22.3 +/- 4.6 compared to 10.3 +/- 6.4, p &lt;0.001) and GM2 (2.5 +/- 1.0 compared to 0.55 +/- 0.3, p &lt;0.001). Similar increases of these gangliosides were also seen in DRMs from the temporal cortex of AD brains, which, in addition, comprised significantly lower proportions of DRMs. Moreover, these remaining rafts were depleted in cholesterol (from 1.5 +/- 0.2 to 0.6 +/- 0.3 micromol/micromol glycerophospholipids, p &lt;0.001). In summary, we found an increased proportion of GM1 and GM2 in DRMs, and accelerating plaque formation at an early stage, which may gradually lead to membrane raft disruptions and thereby affect cellular functions associated with the presence of such membrane domains.
Activation of the brain noradrenergic system during stress plays an important integrative function in coping and stress adaptation by facilitating transmission in many brain regions involved in regulating behavioural and physiological components of the stress response. The medial amygdala (MeA) has been implicated in modulation of stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and MeA is a target of innervation from brainstem noradrenergic neurones. However, it is not known whether, and to what extent, activation of the ascending noradrenergic innervation of MeA might modulate stress-induced adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion. In the first experiment in this study, we measured extracellular norepinephrine (NE) levels in MeA using in vivo microdialysis. The concentration of NE in dialysate samples collected in MeA was elevated by more than three-fold over baseline in response to acute immobilisation stress, providing evidence of a possible modulatory role for NE in the MeA during stress. This potential role was then assessed in the second experiment by measuring changes in the elevation of plasma ACTH concentration induced by acute immobilisation stress immediately following bilateral microinjections of alpha1- or beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists directly into MeA. Compared to vehicle-injected controls, the alpha1-receptor antagonist benoxathian dose-dependently and significantly attenuated the ACTH response to acute stress, whereas combined beta1/beta2-receptor blockade in MeA had only a modest effect. These results indicate that MeA does play a role in the stress response, and support the hypothesis that stress-induced activation of NE release in MeA, acting primarily through alpha1 receptors, facilitates activation of the HPA axis in response to acute stress.
Bilateral symmetrical basal ganglia lesions may be caused by hypoxic/ischemic injury. However, similar lesions have not been described in the cerebellar cortex. To report a case of bilateral basal ganglia and cerebellar lesions in an alcoholic patient with hyperglycemia and hypotension. A 47-year-old alcoholic man with hypotension of unknown duration and hyperosmolarity had mild weakness of the left upper extremity. Neuroimaging revealed abnormality of bilateral symmetric globus pallidus and inferior cerebellum. Prolonged hypotension with hyperosmolarity may give rise to bilateral basal ganglia and cerebellar lesions.

There have been significant advances in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) in recent years, but further improvement in therapy is required as not all patients have responded optimally. An approach to enhancing MS treatment is to combine drugs that impact on different aspects of the disease process. We have described that the tetracycline derivative, minocycline, attenuates the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of MS. Here, we have evaluated the combination of minocycline and glatiramer acetate (GA), a current therapy in MS, on the course of EAE in mice. This combination resulted in a significant reduction of disease severity and disease burden with attenuation of the inflammation, axonal loss and demyelination.
A single injection of morphine significantly increased interferon (IFN)-beta and IFN-alpha mRNA in spleens from herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1 infected male Balb/cByJ mice. However, significant suppression of IFN-gamma and interleukin (IL)-12 production was observed in spleens from morphine-treated mice. Pretreatment with RU486 blocked morphine-induced increases in IFN-beta, and reversed the suppression of IFN-gamma. However, RU486 did not restore IFN-alpha or IL-12. The results suggest that a single exposure to morphine 4 h prior to infection can significantly alter innate immune responses to a viral pathogen, and that these effects are partially mediated by glucocorticoids.
Generalized seizures during Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) therapy have been repeatedly described in about 1%-4% of patients. However, the mechanisms underlying IFN-alpha induced seizures are not known. We describe a patient who developed partial and secondary generalized seizures during IFN-alpha therapy while displaying a focal disruption of her blood-brain barrier (BBB) corresponding with pathological electroencephalography (EEG). To test our hypothesis that IFN-alpha induces seizure activity, we exposed rat somatosensory cortices to clinically relevant concentrations of IFN-alpha in the acute in-vitro slice preparation or in-vivo. While acute exposure did not induce epileptic activity, recordings from slices exposed to IFN-alpha in-vivo one week prior to recordings revealed pronounced epileptiform activity in &gt; 80% of the slices. We propose that cortical exposure to IFN-alpha leads to the generation of an epileptic cortex, which explains the weeks of latency in patients from initial treatment to seizures, and stressing the importance of identifying possible BBB disruption among high-risk patients administered peripherally acting drugs.



We report a patient with a history of prostate cancer and multiple myeloma, with a solitary indolent intracerebral mass lesion without any constitutional symptoms and minimal neurologic symptoms. The radiographic appearance of the lesion was that of a tumor but resection revealed a mycetoma, consistent with Aspergillus. A brief review of the literature discusses the rarity, presentation, diagnosis, and management of primary intracerebral mycetomas.
Neuropathic and inflammatory pain can be modulated by the sympathetic nervous system. In some pain models, sympathetic postganglionic efferents are involved in the modulation of nociceptive transmission in the periphery. The purpose of this study is to examine the sensitization of Adelta- and C-primary afferent nociceptors induced by intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP) to see whether the presence of sympathetic efferents is essential for the sensitization. Single primary afferent discharges were recorded from the tibial nerve after the fiber types were identified by conduction velocity in anesthetized rats. An enhanced response of some Adelta- and most C-primary afferent fibers to mechanical stimuli was seen in sham-sympathectomized rats after CAP (1%, 15 mul) injection, but the enhanced responses of both Adelta- and C-fibers were reduced after sympathetic postganglionic efferents were removed. Peripheral pretreatment with norepinephrine by intraarterial injection could restore and prolong the CAP-induced enhancement of responses under sympathectomized conditions. In sympathetically intact rats, pretreatment with an alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonist (terazosin) blocked completely the enhanced responses of C-fibers after CAP injection in sympathetically intact rats without significantly affecting the enhanced responses of Adelta-fibers. In contrast, a blockade of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors by yohimbine only slightly reduced the CAP-evoked enhancement of responses. We conclude that the presence of sympathetic efferents is essential for the CAP-induced sensitization of Adelta- and C-primary afferent fibers to mechanical stimuli and that alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors play a major role in the sympathetic modulation of C-nociceptor sensitivity in the periphery.
Effects of adenosine on the excitability of supraoptic nucleus neurons were investigated in whole cell patch-clamp experiments conducted in horizontal slices of rat hypothalamus. Adenosine (10-100 muM) inhibited all neurons tested by reducing or abolishing spontaneous or evoked discharge. Large hyperpolarizations were seen, averaging -6.08 +/- 0.83 mV below resting membrane potential, and action potential durations were significantly reduced by 134 +/- 41 mus in the presence of 100 muM adenosine. The A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 1 muM) blocked these effects, whereas the A(1) agonists N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) mimicked the actions of adenosine. A(2) receptor contributions to excitability were assessed by application of an A(2) agonist, carboxamidoadenosine (CPCA). This resulted in membrane depolarizations (3.56 +/- 0.65 mV) and maintenance of firing. The presence of endogenous adenosine in the slice was revealed by both the application of the adenosine uptake inhibitor dilazep (1-100 muM), which resulted in a strong inhibition of firing activity, and the application of DPCPX, which induced firing in cells silenced by negative current injection. We tested for postsynaptic actions of adenosine by blocking G protein activation via GDP-beta-S infusion into recorded neurons. Under these conditions, the adenosinergic inhibition of firing and reduction of spike duration were blocked, suggesting the effects were mediated by postsynaptic adenosine receptors. That the effects on excitability could be due to direct activation of adenosine A(1) receptors on supraoptic neurons was further explored immunocytochemically via the co-labeling of magnocellular neurons with polyclonal antibodies raised against the A(1) receptors. It is concluded that adenosine, acting at postsynaptic A(1) receptors, exhibits a powerful inhibitory influence on supraoptic magnocellular activity and is an important endogenous regulator of magnocellular neuroendocrine function.
Subjects held an instrumented object in a tripod grasp and moved it in the horizontal plane in various directions. The contact forces at the digits were measured and the grip force was decomposed into 2 components: a manipulating force responsible for accelerating the object and a grasping force responsible for holding the object steady. The grasping forces increased during the movement, reaching a peak near the time of peak velocity. The grasping forces also exhibited directional tuning, but this tuning was idiosyncratic for each subject. Although the overall grip forces should be modulated with acceleration, the load force did not vary during the task. Therefore the increase in the grasping force is not required to prevent slip. Rather, it is suggested that grasping force increases during translational motion to stabilize the orientation of grasped objects.
Plasticity of the auditory cortex can be induced by conditioning or focal cortical stimulation. The latter was used here to measure how stimulation in the tonotopy of the mouse primary auditory cortex influences frequency tuning in the midbrain central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC). Shapes of collicular frequency tuning curves (FTCs) were quantified before and after cortical activation by measuring best frequencies, FTC bandwidths at various sound levels, level tolerance, Q-values, steepness of low- and high-frequency slopes, and asymmetries. We show here that all of these measures were significantly changed by focal cortical activation. The changes were dependent not only on the relationship of physiological properties between the stimulated cortical neurons and recorded collicular neurons but also on the tuning curve class of the collicular neuron. Cortical activation assimilated collicular FTC shapes; sharp and broad FTCs were changed to the shapes comparable to those of auditory nerve fibers. Plasticity in the ICC was organized in a center (excitatory)-surround (inhibitory) way with regard to the stimulated location (i.e., the frequency) of cortical tonotopy. This ensures, together with the spatial gradients of distribution of collicular FTC shapes, a sharp spectral filtering at the core of collicular frequency-band laminae and an increase in frequency selectivity at the periphery of the laminae. Mechanisms of FTC plasticity were suggested to comprise both corticofugal and local ICC components of excitatory and inhibitory modulation leading to a temporary change of the balance between excitation and inhibition in the ICC.
It was shown some time ago that cutaneous reflexes were phase-reversed when comparing forward and backward treadmill walking. Activity of central-pattern-generating networks (CPG) regulating neural activity for locomotion was suggested as a mechanism involved in this &quot;program reversal.&quot; We have been investigating the neural control of arm movements and the role for CPG mechanisms in regulating rhythmic arm cycling. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the pattern of muscle activity and reflex modulation when comparing forward and backward arm cycling. During rhythmic arm cycling (forward and backward), cutaneous reflexes were evoked with trains (5 x 1.0 ms pulses at 300 Hz) of electrical stimulation delivered to the superficial radial (SR) nerve at the wrist. Electromyographic (EMG) recordings were made bilaterally from muscles acting at the shoulder, elbow, and wrist. Analysis was conducted on specific sections of the movement cycle after phase-averaging contingent on the timing of stimulation in the movement cycle. EMG patterns for rhythmic arm cycling are similar during both forward and backward motion. Cutaneous reflex amplitudes were similarly modulated at both early and middle latency irrespective of arm cycling direction. That is, at similar phases in the movement cycle, responses of corresponding sign and amplitude were seen regardless of movement direction. The results are generally parallel to the observations seen in leg muscles after stimulation of cutaneous nerves in the foot during forward and backward walking and provide further evidence for CPG activity contributing to neural activation and reflex modulation during rhythmic arm movement.
The existence of electrical synapses between GABAergic inhibitory interneurons in neocortex is well established, but their functional properties have not been described in detail. We made whole cell recordings from pairs of electrically coupled fast-spiking (FS) or low threshold-spiking (LTS) neurons, and filled some cells with biocytin for morphological reconstruction. Data were used to create compartmental cable models and to guide mathematical analysis. We analyzed the time course and amplitude of electrical postsynaptic potentials (ePSPs), the subthreshold events generated by presynaptic action potentials, in both FS and LTS neurons. The results imply that the generation of ePSPs is predominantly a linear process in both cell types for presynaptic firing of both single and repetitive spikes. Nonlinearities shape ePSPs near spike threshold, but our data suggest that the underlying synaptic current is still a linear process. Cell-to-cell electrical signaling on longer timescales also appears to be linear. Cable models of electrically coupled FS and LTS neurons imply that the analyzed electrical synapses are, on average, within 50 mum of the soma. Finally, we show that electrical coupling between 2 inhibitory cells promotes synchrony at all spiking frequencies. This contrasts with the effect of reciprocal inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) evoked by the same cells, which promote antisynchronous firing at frequencies less than about 100 Hz. Electrical coupling counteracts the antisynchronous behavior induced by IPSPs and facilitates spiking synchrony. Our results suggest that electrical synapses among inhibitory interneurons are most readily described as low-pass linear filters that promote firing synchrony.
Functional neuroimaging studies have revealed human brain regions, notably in the fusiform gyrus, that respond selectively to images of faces as opposed to other kinds of objects. Here we use fMRI to show that the mid-fusiform gyrus responds with nearly the same level of selectivity to images of human bodies without faces, relative to tools and scenes. In a group-average analysis (n = 22), the fusiform activations identified by contrasting faces versus tools and bodies versus tools are very similar. Analyses of within-subjects regions of interest, however, show that the peaks of the two activations occupy close but distinct locations. In a second experiment, we find that the body-selective fusiform region, but not the face-selective region, responds more to stick figure depictions of bodies than to scrambled controls. This result further distinguishes the two foci and confirms that the body-selective response generalizes to abstract image formats. These results challenge accounts of the mid-fusiform gyrus that focus solely on faces and suggest that this region contains multiple distinct category-selective neural representations.
Patients with damage to the frontal lobes frequently exhibit impaired social behavior, but it is not clear which specific processes are disrupted. The authors investigated the ability to interpret nonverbal emotional expression in patients with lesions involving ventromedial (N=20) or dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (N=9) and in healthy volunteers (N=23). As hypothesized, only patients with ventromedial prefrontal lesions showed impaired task performance relative to normal comparison subjects. These results suggest that deficits in social knowledge, namely difficulty interpreting nonverbal emotional expression, contribute to the aberrant social behavior observed following ventromedial prefrontal cortex lesions.
Region-selective accumulation of brain lactate occurs in TD; however, the mechanisms responsible have not been elucidated fully. (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy were therefore used to investigate de novo lactate synthesis from [1-(13)C]glucose in vulnerable (medial thalamus) and nonvulnerable (frontal cortex) brain regions of rats made thiamine deficient by administration of the central thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine. De novo synthesis of lactate was increased in the medial thalamus to 148% and 226% of pair-fed control values at presymptomatic and symptomatic stages of thiamine deficiency, respectively, whereas no such changes were observed in the frontal cortex. Administration of a glucose load selectively worsened the changes in medial thalamus. Pyruvate recycling and peripherally derived lactate did not contribute significantly to the lactate increase within the thiamine-deficient brain. Increases in immunolabeling of the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes (LDH1 and LDH5) were observed in the medial thalamus of thiamine-deficient animals. Metabolic impairment due to thiamine deficiency thus results in increased glycolysis, increased LDH immunolabeling of neurons and astrocytes and increased de novo synthesis of lactate in brain regions vulnerable to thiamine deficiency. These results are consistent with the notion that focal lactate accumulation participates in the worsening of neurologic symptoms in thiamine-deficient patients.
Cortical and cerebellar astrocytes were cultured in medium containing pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor antagonist, for 3 weeks (up to 6 mM) or 2 hr (10 mM). Cells were incubated in medium containing [U-(13)C]glutamate (0.5 mM) and unlabeled glucose (3 mM) for 2 hr and cell extracts and media were analyzed by (13)C magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). When cerebellar astrocytes were incubated with PTZ for 2 hr, the amount of glucose removed from the medium and glucose and [U-(13)C]glutamate oxidation were decreased. Metabolism in cortical astrocytes was affected only slightly; amounts of glutathione and aspartate were decreased. When cerebellar and cortical cells were cultured in the presence of PTZ for 3 weeks, the amount of glucose removed from the medium and lactate formed were increased, indicating increased glycolytic activity. Despite the increased intracellular [U-(13)C]glutamate concentration in both types of astrocytes cultured with PTZ, labeled glutamine and glutathione were unchanged, indicating intracellular compartmentation. The amount of cellular protein was decreased at 6 mM PTZ for cerebellar astrocytes and 1 mM for cortical astrocytes, indicating a differential sensitivity to the effects of PTZ. In conclusion, mitochondrial metabolism and glycolysis were decreased by short-term incubation with PTZ in cerebellar astrocytes, whereas long-term incubation affected both types of astrocytes, leading to increased glycolysis.
The 14-3-3 proteins exist predominantly in the brain and may play regulatory roles in cellular processes of growth, differentiation, survival, and apoptosis. The biological functions, however, of the various 14-3-3 isoforms (beta, epsilon, eta, gamma, and zeta) in the brain remain unclear. We have reported previously upregulation of 14-3-3gamma in ischemic astrocytes. In the present study, we report selective regulation of 14-3-3eta in cultured cerebral cortical neurons and astrocytes during in vitro development. In cultured neurons, gene expression levels of 14-3-3eta increase with culture age (0-10 days). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 upregulate 14-3-3eta gene expression. In cultured astrocytes, 14-3-3eta is downregulated with culture age (1-5 weeks). The gene expression level of 14-3-3eta is not affected by scratch injury in astrocytes or by ischemia in neurons. These data suggest a possible role of 14-3-3eta in growth and differentiation of neurons and astrocytes, indicating an intricate mechanism governing coordinated and well-controlled developmental events in the brain to ensure normal neural functions.




The Wada test is still considered the gold standard for determining the language-dominant hemisphere prior to brain surgery. The authors report on a 34-year-old right-handed woman whose Wada test results indicated that the right hemisphere was dominant for language. In contrast, functional magnetic resonance (fMR) imaging was indicative of bilaterally represented language functions. Activation in the left hemisphere demonstrated on fMR imaging was most pronounced in the Broca area. Importantly, fMR imaging results in this area were confirmed on electrocortical stimulation mapping. These contradictory findings indicated that a right hemispherre dominance for language according to the Wada test should be questioned and verified using electrocortical stimulation. Nonetheless, the question remains whether involvement of these areas in the left frontal hemisphere is critical for language, as these were spared during surgery.
The trigemino-cardiac reflex (TCR) is a well-recognized phenomenon consisting of bradycardia, arterial hypotension, apnea, and gastric hypermotility during ocular surgery or other manipulations in and around the orbit. Thus far, it could bee shown that central stimulation of the trigeminal nerve during transsphenoidal surgery and surgery for tumors in the cerebellopontine angle can lead to TCR. In cases of microvascular trigeminal decompression for trigeminal neuralgia, no data of the possible occurrence of TCR are available. TCR was defined as a drop in mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) and the heart rate (HR) of more than 20% to the baseline values before the stimulus and coinciding with the manipulation of the trigeminal nerve. Electronic anesthetic recorded perioperative HR and MABP values were reviewed retrospectively in 28 patients who received microvascular trigeminal decompression in cases of trigeminal neuralgia and were divided into two subgroups on the basis of occurrence of TCR during surgery. Of the 28 patients, 5 (18%) showed evidence of TCR during manipulation at the trigeminal radix by separation from microvascular structures. Their HR fell 46% and their MABP 57% during operative procedures near the trigeminal nerve as compared with levels immediately before the stimulus. After cessation of manipulation, HR and MABP returned (spontaneously) to levels before the stimulus. Risk factors of TCR were compared with results from the literature. In conclusion, the present results give evidence of TCR during manipulation of the central part of the trigeminal nerve during microvascular trigeminal decompression in cases of trigeminal neuralgia under a standardized anesthetic protocol.
Oxygen free radicals and nitric oxide (NO) participate in the pathogenesis of acute central nervous system (CNS) injury by forming peroxynitrite, which promotes oxidative damage and tyrosine nitration. Neuronal nitration is associated with cell death, but little is known of the characteristics and cell fate of nitrated astrocytes. In this study, we have used a postnatal excitotoxic lesion model (intracortical NMDA injection) and our aims were (i) to evaluate the temporal and spatial pattern of astroglial nitration in correlation with the neuropathological process and the sources of NO; and (ii) to establish, if any, the correlation among astrocyte nitration and other events such as expression of cytoskeletal proteins, antioxidant enzymes, and cell death markers to cope with nitration and/or undergo cell death. Our results show that after postnatal excitotoxic damage two distinct waves of nitration were observed in relation to astrocytes. At 24 h post-lesion, early-nitrated astrocytes were found within the neurodegenerating area, coinciding with the time of maximal cell death. These early-nitrated astrocytes are highly ramified protoplasmic cells, showing diffuse glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content and expressing inducible NOS. At later time-points, when astrogliosis is morphologically evident, nitrated hypertrophied reactive astrocytes are observed in the penumbra and the neurodegenerated area, displaying increased expression of GFAP and vimentin cytoskeletal proteins and of metallothionein I-II and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase antioxidant proteins. Moreover, despite revealing activated caspase-3, they do not show TUNEL labeling. In summary, we show that nitrated astrocytes in vivo constitute a subpopulation of highly reactive astrocytes which display high resistance towards oxidative stress induced cell death.
Whiplash-associated disorders (WAD) are a major problem in the Western world, which put a formidable financial burden on modern society and which evoke an emerging debate on the true nature of their origin. To date there is no generally accepted test that allows us to diagnose WAD objectively. Because whiplash injury causes dysfunction of proprioception in the neck, we investigated the characteristics of the cervico-ocular reflex (COR) of presumptive WAD patients. These patients and age-matched healthy controls were rotated at different stimulus peak velocities in the dark while their head was fixed in space. The gain values of the COR were significantly increased in the patient population at a wide range of stimulus peak velocities with maximum difference at the lower frequencies (p = 0.037, ANOVA). Hence, although larger numbers of patients should be measured, the COR gain appears to be a parameter that may permit an objective diagnosis of WAD.
Plasmodium falciparum and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infections are common in children living in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Both of these pathogens affect the central nervous system (CNS). Most HIV-1 infection of children in this region is acquired from infected mothers, particularly during breast-feeding and at the time of delivery. Over a third of children infected by birth will have died before their first birthday, before overt CNS manifestations have developed. The most common manifestations of primary CNS infection include neurodevelopmental delay, impaired brain growth, motor deficits, and behavioral problems. These deficits may also result from infections, neoplasm, or stroke. Cognitive impairments become more evident if the child survives for longer, but in Africa, children rarely survive past their fifth birthday. In malaria endemic areas, severe falciparum malaria usually develops after 6 months of age, and most of the CNS manifestations are more common in children over 1 year old. About 11% of children develop neurological deficits following cerebral malaria, most of which improve within 2 years of the insult. However, up to 24% of children may have neurocognitive impairments following severe malaria. The effect of milder malaria and coincidental parasitization on cognitive function is unknown. Other comorbidities that are common in SSA, such as malnutrition or micronutrient deficiencies, may influence children's neurodevelopment. The coinfection of malaria and HIV-1 may aggravate the neurodevelopmental impairments documented in these children. However, to date there are little published data, although it may have a profound effect of children living in SSA.
Cancers arise as a consequence of the accumulation of multiple genetic mutations in a susceptible cell, resulting in perturbation of regulatory networks that control proliferation, survival, and cellular function. Here, the sources of cellular stress that can cause oncogenic mutations and the responses of cells to DNA damage are reviewed. The role of different repair pathways and the potential for cell- and tissue-specific reliance on individual repair mechanisms are discussed. Evidence for cell- and tissue-specific activation of p53-mediated growth arrest and apoptosis after exposure to an individual genotoxin is assessed and some of the potential mediators of these different responses are provided. These cell- and tissue-specific responses to particular forms of DNA damage are likely to be key determinants of tissue-specific tumour susceptibility, and there is good evidence for genetic variations in these responses. The role that genotoxic agents play in altering the microenvironment to produce indirect effects on tumourigenesis through altered production of free radicals and cytokines that are characteristic of inflammatory-type processes is also evaluated. Changes to the microenvironment as direct or indirect effects of genotoxic stress can be involved in both tumour initiation and progression and may even be a prerequisite for tumourigenesis. Therefore, tumour susceptibility after endogenous or exogenous genotoxic stress represents a balance between cell-intrinsic responses of target cells and changes to the microenvironment. A fuller understanding of cell- and tissue-specific responses, alterations to the microenvironment, and genetic modifiers of these responses could lead to novel prevention and therapeutic strategies for common forms of human malignancy.
The experimentally induced TS/A murine mammary carcinoma is poorly immunogenic and mainly infiltrated by antigen-presenting cells (APCs), namely macrophages and immature dendritic cells (DCs). Human (h) and mouse (m) lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3 or CD233) is a physiological MHC class II ligand and powerful APC activator. A gene transfer approach has revealed its anti-tumour activity in this model: hLAG-3 was more effective than mLAG-3. To obtain a clearer picture of the immunoregulatory mechanisms associated with the rejection dynamics of h- and m-LAG-3 transfectants, immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy analyses of TS/A-hLAG-3, TS/A-mLAG-3, and control TS/A-pc tumours were performed. The immune events elicited by mLAG-3 and m-interleukin (IL)-12 were also compared, since their rejection kinetics were quite similar, and LAG-3 enables IL-12 production by macrophages and DCs. Both the TS/A-h- and, to a lesser extent, the m-LAG-3 rejection areas were characterized by an impressive recruitment of APCs, granulocytes, NK cells, CD4+ T lymphocytes and CD8+ IFNgamma-expressing cells. In both cases, infiltration by APCs was accompanied by strong CD80 and CD86 expression and macrophage nitric oxide (NO) synthase up-regulation. Distinct expression of IL-12 and CXCL9 was also found, especially in the draining lymph nodes. T lymphocytes and CD86-expressing APCs were significantly prevalent in both the TS/A-h- and the m-LAG-3 compared with the TS/A-mIL-12 rejection area. Production of IFNgamma, TNFalpha and IL1beta, and chemokines, namely CXCL5, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, CCL5, and CCL2, by infiltrating leukocytes and signs of defective neovascularization were detected in tumours expressing h-LAG-3-, m-LAG-3-, and m-IL-12. However, IFNgamma, CCL2, and CCL5 production prevailed in the TS/A-hLAG-3 rejection area. Taken together, these results indicate that LAG-3 expression by engineered tumour cells efficiently promotes intra-tumoural recruitment, activation, and Th1 commitment of APCs, and leads to a wide intra-tumoural influx of non-specific and specific reactive cells, and the release of immunoregulatory and cytotoxic mediators. Many of LAG-3's anti-tumour activities are shared with IL-12.
There is an emerging body of data purporting a role of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. However, the role of metabotropic GABA(B) receptors in depression is not well defined. The modified forced swim test has recently emerged as an excellent tool to assess behaviorally the role of monoamines in antidepressant action. To assess the role of GABA(B) receptors in antidepressant-related behavior, we examined a number of selective GABA(B) receptor ligands (novel positive modulators and antagonists) on behavior in the modified forced swim test. We demonstrate that the selective GABA(B) receptor antagonists CGP56433A [[3-{1-(S)-[{3-cyclohexylmethyl)hydroxy phosphinyl}-2-(S) hydroxy propyl]amino}ethyl]benzoic acid; 1-10 mg/kg] and [3-[[1-(S)-3-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino]-2-(S)-hydroxy-propyl]phenylmethyl-phosphinic acid hydrochloride; 3-10 mg/kg] had a similar profile to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine; they decreased immobility and increased swimming behavior. The tricyclic antidepressant desipramine decreased immobility but increased climbing behavior. In contrast, the novel GABA(B) receptor-positive modulator GS39783 (10-40 mg/kg) did not display antidepressant-like activity in the modified forced swim test. To further assess the possible interaction between GABA(B) receptor antagonism and serotonin, rats were pretreated with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor para-chlorophenylalanine. 5-Hydroxytryptamine depletion (&gt;90%) abolished the antidepressant-like behavior of CGP56433A (10 mg/kg) by attenuating the increase in swimming. Together, these data demonstrate that GABA(B) receptor antagonists via an interaction with the serotonergic system display antidepressant-like properties and therefore represent a novel approach for the treatment of depression.
Tetanic stimulation of axons terminating in the CA1 region of the hippocampus induces oscillations in the gamma-to-beta frequency band (13-100 Hz) and can induce long-term potentiation (LTP). The rapid pyramidal cell discharge is driven by a mainly GABA(A)-receptor-mediated slow depolarization and entrained mainly through ephaptic interactions. This study tests whether cellular compartmentalization can explain how cells, despite severely reduced input resistance, can still fire briskly and have IPSPs superimposed on the slow GABAergic depolarization, and whether this behaviour occurs in vivo. Oscillations induced in CA1 in vitro by tetanic stimulation of the stratum radiatum or oriens were analysed using intracellular and multichannel field potentials along the cell axis. Layer-specific effects of focal application of bicuculline indicate that the GABAergic depolarization is concentrated on tetanized dendrites. Current-source density analysis and characteristics of partial spikes indicate that early action potentials are initiated in the proximal nontetanized dendrite but cannot invade the tetanized dendrite, where recurrent EPSPs and evoked IPSPs were largely suppressed. As the oscillation progresses, IPSPs recover and slow the neuronal firing to beta frequencies, with a small subpopulation of neurons continuing to fire at gamma frequency. Carbonic anhydrase dependence, threshold intensity, frequency, field strength and spike initiation/propagation of tetanus-evoked oscillations in urethane-anaesthetized rats, validate our observations in vitro, and show that these mechanisms operate in healthy tissue. However, the disrupted electrophysiology of the tetanized dendrites will disable normal information processing, has implications for LTP induction and is likely to play a role in pathological synchronization as found during epileptic discharges.
Septo-hippocampal cholinergic fibres ramify extensively throughout the hippocampal formation to release acetylcholine upon a diverse range of muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that are differentially expressed by distinct populations of neurones. The resultant modulation of cellular excitability and synaptic transmission within hippocampal circuits underlies the ability of acetylcholine to influence the dynamic properties of the hippocampal network and results in the emergence of a range of stable oscillatory network states. Recent findings suggest a multitude of actions contribute to the oscillogenic properties of acetylcholine which are principally induced by activation of muscarinic receptors but also regulated through activation of nicotinic receptor subtypes.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can produce effects not only at the site of stimulation but also at distant sites to which it projects. Here we examined the connection between supplementary motor area (SMA) and the hand area of the primary motor cortex (M1(Hand)) by testing whether prolonged repetitive TMS (rTMS) over the SMA can produce changes in excitability of the M1(Hand) after the end of the stimulus train. We evaluated motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) and the cortical silent period (CSP) evoked by a single-pulse TMS, short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) produced by a paired-pulse TMS, and forearm flexor H reflexes before and after 750 pulses of 5 Hz rTMS over SMA at an intensity of 110% active motor threshold (AMT) for the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle. The amplitude of MEPs recorded from the right FDI muscle at rest as well as during voluntary contraction increased for at least 10 min after the end of rTMS, although the duration of the CSP, SICI and ICF did not change. There was no effect on H reflexes in the flexor carpi radialis muscle, even though the amplitude of the MEP obtained from the same muscle increased after rTMS. The effects on MEPs depended on the intensity of rTMS and were spatially specific to the SMA proper. We suggest that 5 Hz rTMS over SMA can induce a short-lasting facilitation in excitability of the M1(Hand) compatible with the anatomical connections between SMA and the M1(Hand).
Rhythmic electrical activity is ubiquitous in neuronal networks of the brain and is implicated in a multitude of different processes. A prominent example in the healthy brain is electrical oscillations in the gamma-frequency band (20-80 Hz) in hippocampal and neocortical networks, which play an important role in learning, memory and cognition. An example in the pathological brain is electrographic seizures observed in certain types of epilepsy. Interestingly the activation of kainate receptors (KARs) plays an important role in synaptic physiology and plasticity, and can generate both gamma oscillations and electrographic seizures. Electrophysiological recordings of extracellular gamma oscillations and intracellular currents in a hippocampal slice combined with computer modelling can shed light on the expression loci of KAR subunits on single neurones and the distinct roles subunits play in rhythmic activity in the healthy and the pathological brain. Using this approach in wild-type (WT) and KAR knockout mice it has been shown that KAR subunits GluR5 and GluR6 have similar functions during gamma oscillations and epileptiform bursts and that small changes in the overall activity in the hippocampal area CA3 can tilt the balance between excitation and inhibition and cause the neuronal network to switch from gamma oscillations to epileptiform bursts.
The striatum regulates motor output, and it is thought that changes in the synaptic efficacy of inputs to the striatum contribute to motor learning and habit formation. Previously, several laboratories have observed that brief high frequency stimulation (HFS) of cortical afferents innervating the dorsolateral striatum induces a long-term decrease in synaptic efficacy called long-term depression (LTD). We recently showed that HFS-induced striatal LTD requires retrograde signalling involving postsynaptic release of endocannabinoids and activation of presynaptic CB1 cannabinoid receptors. In the present study we have employed whole-cell recording in brain slices to examine a new form of LTD at corticostriatal synapses that can be induced by a 10 Hz, 5 min train. The decrease in synaptic efficacy is associated with a decrease in presynaptic release probability, as demonstrated by a decrease in frequency but not amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and an increase in the paired pulse ratio (PPR). This form of LTD is blocked by antagonists for CB1 and D2 dopamine receptors and impaired by blockers of L-type calcium channels. However, 10 Hz-induced LTD does not depend on postsynaptic depolarization, unlike HFS-induced LTD. Furthermore, this new form of LTD is not prevented by treatments known to block HFS-induced LTD, including antagonism of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), chelation of postsynaptic calcium, or intracellular application of an anandamide membrane transport inhibitor (VDM11). From these findings it is not clear that the endocannabinoid responsible for this form of LTD acts in a retrograde fashion, and the cellular source of endocannabinoid necessary for 10 Hz-induced LTD is as yet unknown. Our results demonstrate that a prolonged moderate frequency train induces cannabinoid-dependent LTD, further supporting the idea that endocannabinoids play a prominent role in the regulation of long-lasting changes in striatal output.
There is a growing literature describing a subgroup of &quot;high-functioning&quot; people with schizophrenia who show preserved intellectual ability (IQ). A detailed characterisation of the cognitive abilities of this group may be important in targeting appropriate treatment, management and services for patients with schizophrenia. It is a widely held belief that variation in cognitive processing speed is the basis of individual differences in intelligence. The main objective of this study was to identify subgroups of schizophrenia patients with preserved (N=45), deteriorated (N=47) and compromised (N=17) intellect in order to study whether these subgroups differ in specific cognitive abilities (e.g. executive functions) or in general cognitive processing speed, as measured with an inspection time (IT) task. The patients who displayed an average estimated premorbid IQ, with no evidence of IQ decline (premorbid-current IQ difference &lt;10 points), were found to show better performance on measures of executive function (continuous performance task, verbal fluency) compared with patients in the deteriorated and compromised subgroups. Nevertheless, this represented significantly impaired performance relative to healthy controls. In contrast, the average inspection times of patients with preserved IQ were as slow as those obtained in the deteriorated or compromised groups, indicating that high functioning patients are impaired in terms of cognitive processing speed. Furthermore, the average IT for all schizophrenia groups was significantly slower than that of healthy controls. These findings suggest that high functioning patients with schizophrenia exhibit enduring cognitive difficulties that may impact on their ability to benefit from rehabilitation interventions.

Acute dietary tyrosine depletion has previously been shown to reduce dopamine neurotransmission in both animals and humans. In this study, we investigated the effects of brain dopamine depletion, through acute tyrosine and phenylalanine depletion, on plasma prolactin, mood and neuropsychological function in 12 normal subjects. In a randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, subjects received two amino-acid drinks separated by a week, a nutritionally balanced mixture (Bal) and on the other occasion a tyrosine and phenylalanine deficient mixture (TP-). The plasma ratio of tyrosine and phenylalanine to the other large neutral amino acids decreased significantly on the TP- occasion (-78.7%, p &lt; 0.0001) and there was an increase in plasma prolactin concentration relative to the balanced drink in the seven subjects for whom results were available for both occasions (p &lt; 0.02). Acute tyrosine depletion did not alter mood as measured by visual analogue scale ratings, and measures of memory, attention and behavioural inhibition were also unaffected. Our results are consistent with acute dietary tyrosine depletion causing a reduction in brain dopamine neurotransmission but raise questions about how robust or consistent the effects are on psychological function.
Dopamine agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding to membrane G proteins was studied in select brain regions under experimental conditions that permit the activation of receptor coupling to the G proteins Gi, Gs, or Gq. Agents studied were agonists known to be effective at various dopamine receptor/effector systems and included quinelorane (D2-like/Gi), SKF38393 (D1-like/Gq, D1-like/Gs), SKF85174 (D1-like/Gs), and SKF83959 (D1-like/Gq). Dopamine and SKF38393 significantly stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding to normal striatal membranes by 161% and 67% above controls. Deoxycholate, which enhances agonist-induced phospholipase C (PLC) stimulation, markedly enhanced the agonistic effects of dopamine and SKF38393 to 530% and 637% above controls, respectively. The enhancing effects of deoxycholate were reversed if it was washed off the membranes before agonist addition. The thiol-reducing agent, dithiothreitol, completely abolished the effects of SKF38393 and SKF83959, whereas SKF85174 effects were augmented. Agonist responses were concentration-related, and highest efficacies were obtained in the hippocampus, thus paralleling both the brain regional distribution and agonist efficacies previously observed in phosphoinositide hydrolysis assays. These findings suggest that D1-like receptor conformations that mediate agonist stimulation of Gs/adenylylcyclase may be structurally different from those that mediate Gq/PLC activation. Although the exact mechanism of deoxycholate's effect awaits elucidation, the results are consistent with the emerging concept of functional selectivity whereby deoxycholate could create a membrane environment that facilitates the transformation of the receptor from a conformation that activates Gs/adenylylcyclase to one that favors Gq/PLC signaling.
Voltage-gated Ca2+ (Ca(v)) channels are found in all excitable cells and many nonexcitable cells, in which they govern Ca2+ influx, thereby contributing to determine a host of important physiological processes including gene transcription, muscle contraction, hormone secretion, and neurotransmitter release. The past years have seen some significant advances in our understanding of the functional, pharmacological, and molecular properties of Ca(v) channels. Molecular studies have revealed that several of these channels are oligomeric complexes consisting of an ion-conducting alpha1 subunit and auxiliary alpha2delta, beta, and gamma subunits. In addition, cloning of multiple Ca(v) channel alpha1 subunits has offered the opportunity to investigate the regulation of these proteins at the molecular level. The regulation of Ca(v) channels by intracellular second messengers constitutes a key mechanism for controlling Ca2+ influx. This review summarizes recent advances that have provided important clues to the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of Ca(v) channels by protein phosphorylation, G-protein activation, and interactions with Ca(2+)-binding and SNARE proteins.
The goal of this study was to determine the contribution of the distal nerve sheath to sensory protection. Following tibial nerve transection, rats were assigned to one of the following groups: (1) saphenous-to-tibial nerve neurorrhaphy; (2) saphenous-to-gastrocnemius neurotization; (3) unprotected controls (tibial nerve transection); or (4) immediate common peroneal-to-tibial nerve neurorrhaphy. After a 6-month denervation period and motor reinnervation, ultrastructural, histologic, and morphometric analyses were performed on the distal tibial nerve and gastrocnemius muscle cross-sections. Sensory axons neurotized to muscle maintain existing muscle integrity, as demonstrated by less fibrosis, collagenization, and fat deposition, more than unprotected muscle, and preserve the distribution pattern of fast twitch fibers. However, neurorrhaphy of the sensory nerve to the distal tibial nerve (involving the distal nerve sheath) improves existing endoneurial sheath structure, demonstrated by reduced collagen, and enhances regeneration, shown by improved axon-to-Schwann cell coupling and increased axon area. The authors conclude that sensory protection of muscle does not require the distal nerve sheath, but that preservation of the distal sheath may contribute to enhanced nerve regeneration.


Rotation axes were calculated during active head movements using a motion analysis system. The mean rotation axis for 1 Hz head pitch when seated was posterior (6 mm) and inferior (21 mm) to the interaural axis, shifting 16 mm downwards when standing. During seated 2 Hz head pitch the rotation axis was close to the interaural axis, shifting downwards 15 mm when standing. This downward shift suggests that cervical vertebrae were recruited during head pitch with the trunk unsupported. The proximity of the pitch axis to the otoliths implies minimal otolith activation during small-amplitude, high-frequency pitch rotations, such as those encountered during locomotion. The mean rotation axis for 1 Hz yaw rotation was located slightly posterior (10 mm) to the interaural axis at the midpoint between the vestibular labyrinths when both seated and standing. In addition, the orientation of the plane of yaw rotation relative to the stereotaxic horizontal plane (pitched 5 degrees nose-down) was essentially fixed in head coordinates, regardless of the pitch orientation of the head, suggesting that yaw movements occur about an axis restricted by the mechanical structure of the atlanto-axial joint. The results demonstrate that the instantaneous rotation axes technique overcomes the inherent instability of the helical-axis representation for small head movements.
The mean number of synaptic ribbons in type II hair cells of the rat utricular macula increased significantly in weightlessness. In contrast, ribbon synapses of saccular type I hair cells displayed a significant decline early inflight and postflight, and a late numerical overshoot. Further study indicated that the saccular macula had less ultrastructural complexly than the utricular. Additionally, synaptic ribbons were statistically larger in type II hair cells of both maculae, apparently a locus-related scaling effect. A major new finding is that mitochondria in calyces and collateral terminals were linked to vesicles, tubules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and cell membranes by filaments, forming mitochondrial complexes (MCs). MCs predominated basally in the calyx where calyceal/type I hair cell borders were bound by filaments; at calyceal invaginations of type I hair cells; in calyces and collaterals near synaptic ribbon sites; and in collaterals near reciprocal synapses. MCs may participate in feedback mechanisms at these locations to help regulate synaptic ribbon activity and plasticity in altered gravitational environments.
The hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 2a subgenomic replicon can replicate in two human non-hepatocyte-derived cell lines, HeLa and 293, with in vitro-transcribed replicon RNA. Sequencing analysis revealed that mutations in HCV-derived regions were not essential for replication in these cells, as some clones displayed no mutations.

The circadian rhythm is originally generated by a transcription-translation based oscillatory loop where Per1 and Per2 genes locate in its central. In the rat brain, rhythmic expressions of Per1 and Per2 were observed not only in neurons of the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) but also in those of non-SCN regions including the cerebral cortex. The E-box enhancer elements possible to regulate transcription of Per1 and Per2 genes were highly conserved in rats and mice. When E-box-activating transcription factors, CLOCK and BMAL1, were coexpressed, each of both proteins showed two molecular forms. The presence of these higher molecular weight forms seems to be correlated with the E-box mediated transcription activation. This mechanism might not be involved in the PER2 mediated suppression of E-box, since adding PER2 did not change the content of the higher molecular forms of CLOCK and BMAL1.

This study uses the Poffenberger (1912) paradigm, which compares the difference between &quot;crossed&quot; (stimuli and motor response areas are contralateral) and &quot;uncrossed&quot; (stimuli and motor response areas are ipsilateral) conditions to estimate interhemispheric transfer time. Simple reaction time (RT) was recorded to stimuli presented to the left visual field (LVF), right visual field (RVF), or bilaterally (BVF) in individuals with schizophrenia (n = 10) and controls (n = 14), who responded using either the left or right hand. While the results provide no evidence for differences between the groups in information transfer between the hemispheres, the schizophrenia group were significantly slower to respond to LVF stimuli, suggesting right hemisphere dysfunction.
Phosphorylation of the transcription factor CREB on Ser133 is implicated in the establishment of long-term memory for hippocampus-dependent tasks, including spatial learning and contextual fear conditioning. We reported previously that training on a hippocampus-dependent social transmission of food preference (STFP) task increases CREB phosphorylation in the hippocampus of trained rats in comparisons with controls. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that CREB function is necessary for long-term memory for STFP using herpes simplex viral (HSV) vector-mediated gene transfer. Rats received intrahippocampal infusions of HSV-mCREB (a mutant form of CREB, in which Ser133 has been replaced with Ala), HSV-LacZ, or saline, and were trained 3 d later. Rats were tested for food preference (demonstrated vs. novel foods) immediately (short-term test) and 11 d (long-term test) after training. Rats in all treatment groups showed a significant preference for the demonstrated food at the short-term memory test. At the long-term memory test, however, the percentage of demonstrated food eaten by mCREB-treated rats was significantly less than that eaten by the LacZ- or saline-treated rats. Quantitative Western blotting confirmed that mCREB-infused rats had significantly more hippocampal CREB protein than controls during training. The present results show that hippocampal CREB function is necessary for long-term, but not short-term memory for STFP.
Regional perfusion imaging (RPI) has recently been introduced as a potentially powerful technique to map the perfusion territories of patients with vascular diseases in a fully noninvasive manner. However, this technique suffers from the problems of the transfer insensitive labeling technique upon which it is based. In particular, RPI is very sensitive to magnetic field inhomogeneities, and therefore the definition of the labeled bolus can deteriorate at field strength higher than 1.5 T. Furthermore, the slab-selective triple-pulse postsaturation sequence used originally will also be impaired due to the same problem, rendering RPI unusable at higher field. In this work, an adiabatic-based signal targeting with alternating radiofrequency pulses sequence is proposed as a labeling scheme to solve the problems related to variations in local magnetic field, together with an improved four-pulse water suppression enhanced through T(1) effects technique as a presaturation scheme.
Nuclear translocation, driven by the motility apparatus consisting of the cytoplasmic dynein motor and microtubules, is essential for cell migration during embryonic development. Bicaudal-D (Bic-D), an evolutionarily conserved dynein-interacting protein, is required for developmental control of nuclear migration in Drosophila. Nothing is known about the signaling events that coordinate the function of Bic-D and dynein during development. Here, we show that Misshapen (Msn), the fly homolog of the vertebrate Nck-interacting kinase is a component of a novel signaling pathway that regulates photoreceptor (R-cell) nuclear migration in the developing Drosophila compound eye. Msn, like Bic-D, is required for the apical migration of differentiating R-cell precursor nuclei. msn displays strong genetic interaction with Bic-D. Biochemical studies demonstrate that Msn increases the phosphorylation of Bic-D, which appears to be necessary for the apical accumulation of both Bic-D and dynein in developing R-cell precursor cells. We propose that Msn functions together with Bic-D to regulate the apical localization of dynein in generating directed nuclear migration within differentiating R-cell precursor cells.
Alcohol use and abuse substantially influence suicide rates. Suicide is a cause of death for a substantial percentage of individuals with alcoholism. However, the results of epidemiological studies of the relation between alcohol use and suicide have been inconsistent. Studies conducted in one nation are not always applicable to other nations. Many different factors including prevalence of various psychiatric and medical disorders, quality of psychiatric and medical care, unemployment and divorce rates and other psychosocial and demographic factors determine suicide rates in a certain region or a country. There may be a broad-based social characteristic related to social stress which is associated with high rates of a variety of stress-related behaviors, including heavy alcohol use and suicide.
The fundamental revelations to the founders of the three monotheistic religions, among many other revelation experiences, had occurred on a mountain. These three revelation experiences share many phenomenological components like feeling and hearing a presence, seeing a figure, seeing lights, and feeling of fear. In addition, similar experiences have been reported by non-mystic contemporary mountaineers. The similarities between these revelations on mountains and their appearance in contemporary mountaineers suggest that exposure to altitude might affect functional and neural mechanisms, thus facilitating the experience of a revelation. Different functions relying on brain areas such as the temporo-parietal junction and the prefrontal cortex have been suggested to be altered in altitude. Moreover, acute and chronic hypoxia significantly affect the temporo-parietal junction and the prefrontal cortex and both areas have also been linked to altered own body perceptions and mystical experiences. Prolonged stay at high altitudes, especially in social deprivation, may also lead to prefrontal lobe dysfunctions such as low resistance to stress and loss of inhibition. Based on these phenomenological, functional, and neural findings we suggest that exposure to altitudes might contribute to the induction of revelation experiences and might further our understanding of the mountain metaphor in religion. Mystical and religious experiences are important not only to the mystic himself, but also to many followers, as it was indeed with respect to the leaders of the three monotheistic religions. Yet, concerning its subjective character, mystical experiences are almost never accessible to the scholars interested in examining them. The tools of cognitive neuroscience make it possible to approach religious and mystical experiences not only by the semantical analysis of texts, but also by approaching similar experiences in healthy subjects during prolonged stays at high altitude and/or in cognitive paradigms. Cognitive neurosciences, in turn, might profit from the research of mysticism in their endeavor to further our understanding of mechanisms of corporeal awareness and self consciousness.
Given the progressive and constant increase of average life expectancy, an increasing number of elderly patients undergo surgery. After surgery, elderly patients often exhibit a transient reversible state of cerebral cognitive alterations. Among these cognitive dysfunctions, a state of delirium may develop. Delirium is an aetiologically non-specific syndrome characterised by concurrent disturbances of consciousness and attention, perception, thinking, memory, psychomotor behaviour and the sleep-wake cycle. Delirium appears to occur in 10-26% of general medical patients over 65, and is frequently associated with a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. During hospitalization, mortality rates have been estimated to be 10-26% of patients who developed post-operative delirium, and 22-76% during the following months. Over the last few decades, post-operative delirium has been associated with several pre-operative predictor factors, as well as age (50 years and older), alcohol abuse, poor cognitive and functional status, electrolyses or glucose abnormalities, and type of surgery. The uncertain pathogenesis of post-operative cognitive dysfunctions and delirium has not permitted a causal approach to developing an effective treatment. General anesthesia affects brain function at all levels, including neuronal membranes, receptors, ion channels, neurotransmitters, cerebral blood flow and metabolism. The functional equivalents of these impairments involve mood, memory, and motor function behavioural changes. These dysfunctions are much more evident in the occurrence of stress-regulating transmission and in the alteration of intra-cellular signal transduction systems. In addition, more essential cellular processes, that play an important role in neurotransmitter synthesis and release, such as intra-neuronal signal transduction and second messenger system, may be altered. Keeping in mind the functions of the central muscarinic cholinergic system and its multiple interactions with drugs of anesthesia, it seems possible to hypothesize that the inhibition of muscarinic cholinergic receptors could have a pivotal role in the pathogenesis not only of post-operative delirium but also the more complex phenomena of post-operative cognitive dysfunction.
This study analyzes diverse psychic phenomena which, although always occurring with very characteristic clinical features, are sometimes diagnosed as epilepsy and sometimes as symptoms of different psychiatric disorders depending on the availability of an electroencephalogram. It is posited that these phenomena, whenever they are accompanied by the features characteristic of an epileptic consciousness (suddenness, automatic nature, great intensity and a strong sensation of strangeness) should be diagnosed as partial seizures with a psychic content, regardless of the availability of an EEG. The co-occurrence of these four clinical signs, which are relatively simple to objectivize, is a more reliable clinical criterion for diagnosis than a transcraneal electroencephalogram, which, as is known, is of little value in measuring the electrical activity of partial seizures. Moreover, an interpretation of this type makes it possible to reconcile scientific data from various neurosciences which thus far have seemed contradictory.
In 1895 Freud tried to explain mental disorders using the neurophysiological knowledge of his time. He soon abandoned this attempt realizing it was immature considering the neuroscientific knowledge available to him. For the rest of his career he limited himself to psychological formulations. Along the same lines, lacking etiology for mental disorders, the diagnostic system of psychiatry is exclusively descriptive. The need for a brain related diagnosis of mental disorders is important for developing better treatments and more reliable diagnosis. Today with the development of neuroscience it is time to go back to Freud's initial attempts and explain mental disorders as altered neuronal organizations in the brain. The neural network level is chosen as the relevant description level for mental functions. Plasticity is chosen as a general concept for neuronal dynamics explaining neuropathology of psychiatric disorders. Plasticity is divided according to timescales into &quot;fast plasticity,&quot; &quot;slow plasticity&quot; and &quot;stable plasticity&quot;. It is proposed that normal mental functions require optimal balance among all the plasticity timescales. Mental disorders arise when such balance is disturbed, thus mental disorders could be reformulated as deficiencies of the different plasticity processes. Changes in coherence synchrony and phase-locking membrane potentials in cortically spread neuronal ensembles are all expressions of fast plasticity. Synaptogenic and neurogenic processes, such as brain derived neurotrophic factor-dependent processes, are defined as slow plasticity. Finally those synaptic and neuronal pathways that consolidated into long lasting circuits are referred to as stable plasticity. With the aid of a neural network model simulating the plasticity imbalance, a mathematical formulation could be realized for mental disorders. Once achieved this mathematical formulation could form a guiding framework for interpreting brain-imaging data collected from psychiatric patients. Such a model is realized using interconnected &quot;modules&quot; each simulating the relevant plasticity dynamics relevant for the model. Diagnosing plasticity imbalance has some advantages over current descriptive psychiatric diagnosis. It is brain-related thus less stigmatising in the sense that mental disorders are brain disorders and not &quot;person&quot; disorders. The diagnostic system is much more flexible allowing for a high degree of variations and combinations in the description of the disorders thus naturally accounting for comorbidities. Most importantly, this diagnostic model is brain-related offering research targets for intervention and a theoretical framework guiding such interventions.
Impulsivity and loss of self-control in drug-dependent patients have been associated with the manner in which they discount delayed rewards. Although drugs of abuse have been shown to modify perceived time-duration, little is known regarding the relationship between impulsive decision-making in intertemporal choice and estimation of time-duration. In classical economic theory, it has been hypothesized that people discount future reward value exponentially. In exponential discounting, a temporal discounting rate is constant over time, which has been referred to as dynamic consistency. However, accumulating empirical evidence in biology, psychopharmacology, behavioral neuroscience, and neuroeconomics does not support the hypothesis. Rather, dynamically inconsistent manners of discounting delayed rewards, e.g., hyperbolic discounting, have been repeatedly observed in humans and non-human animals. In spite of recent advances in neuroimaging and neuropsychopharmacological study, the reason why humans and animals discount delayed rewards hyperbolically is unknown. In this study, we hypothesized that empirically-observed dynamical inconsistency in intertemporal choice may result from errors in the perception of time-duration. It is proposed that perception of temporal duration following Weber's law might explain the dynamical inconsistency. Possible future study directions for elucidating neural mechanisms underlying inconsistent intertemporal choice are discussed.
Monkeys and man are very closely related genetically. Yet intellectually there are big differences and they suffer from a broad range of different diseases. For example, monkeys do not get Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease. The former is surprising given that both get parkinsonism from MPTP poisoning and the latter initially less surprising as the cortex predominantly affected in Alzheimer's never developed as fully in the monkey. Man is an omnivore whilst other primates are predominantly herbivores. The one primate who was almost wholly carnivorous was Neanderthal man who became extinct. Red meat has a high content of Nicotinamide, Choline, and methyl donors. The enzyme NNMT converts nicotinamide to N-methyl-nicotinamide using SAM as the methyl donor. It is not present to any degree in herbivores. It has recently been shown to be present in human brain and up regulated in Parkinson's disease. Omnivores presumably need it for nicotinamide homeostasis but the production of N-methyl-nicotinamide will also be beneficial as it will reduce the export of Choline from neurones. Both will aid brain growth and development. However, as N-methyl-nicotinamide resembles MPTP it could cause parkinsonism later in life for man but not monkeys as they would be predicted not to have as much NNMT. Humans with a diet low in Nicotinamide,Choline or methyl donors early in life and low enzyme activity may be prone to Alzheimer's as their brain and therefore its reserves may never have developed as fully. The possession of NNMT plus a diet rich in Nicotinamide, Choline and methyl providers may explain many of the advantages but also the disadvantages of the human condition. One prediction is that a diet rich in these micronutrients whilst young will improve brain development and reduce the risk of Alzheimer's but that a lower dose later in life will reduce the risk of Parkinsonism. A second prediction is that it will become clear that dietary factors including vitamins are signalers and at the head of vital biochemical pathways. A time point will be reached when errors emerge that could not be deleted by evolutionary pressures. Finding and rectifying them will be the key to preventing many common diseases.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is frequently comorbid with depression. A number of studies have been conducted to compare individuals suffering from comorbid PTSD and depression with individuals suffering from PTSD alone or depression alone. Comorbidity of PTSD and depression is associated with more severe symptoms as well as higher levels of disability compared to individuals with PTSD alone. A severity of overall symptoms is three to fivefold greater in subjects with comorbid PTSD and depression compared to those with PTSD alone. The comorbid group is five times more likely to manifest functional impairment compared to those diagnosed with PTSD alone. Patients with comorbid PTSD and depression have higher depression, impulsivity, and hostility scores and are significantly more likely to make a suicide attempt compared to subjects with depression alone. Depressed subjects with comorbid PTSD tend towards earlier age of first hospitalization and a higher number of hospitalizations compared to depressed individuals without comorbid PTSD. Lower affinity of alpha-2 adrenoreceptors and higher plasma tyrosine availability to the brain are associated with comorbid PTSD and depression, but not with PTSD alone. Individuals with comorbid PTSD and depression do not exhibit the classic rapid eye movement sleep architectural modifications associated with depression, despite the fact that several other psychophysiological indices of dysphoria are detectable in their sleep. In fenfluramine challenge studies, depressed patients with comorbid PTSD have lower plasma cortisol compared to depressed patients without comorbid PTSD. Cortisol levels increase with age and the number of previous major depressive episodes is a predictor of the cortisol response to fenfluramine administration in depressed patients without PTSD, but not in depressed patients with comorbid PTSD. Depressed subjects with comorbid PTSD have higher cerebrospinal fluid homovanillic acid levels compared with depressed subjects without comorbid PTSD. Thus, studies suggest that patients suffering from comorbid PTSD and depression differ clinically and biologically from individuals with PTSD alone or depression alone. It is possible that some or all individuals diagnosed with comorbid PTSD and depression have a separate psychobiological condition that can be termed &quot;post-traumatic mood disorder&quot;. Future clinical and neurobiological studies may not only advance our understanding of the role of environmental and genetic factors in the etiology and pathogenesis of stress-related disorders, but also be useful in refining conceptions of stress-related disorders themselves and possible approaches to the treatment of these conditions.
We recently demonstrated that amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is catabolized primarily by a neutral endopeptidase, neprilysin, in the brain and that a neuropeptide, somatostatin (SST), regulates brain Abeta level via modulation of neprilysin activity. Because SST expression in the brain declines upon aging in various mammals including rodents, apes and humans, we hypothesize that the aging-dependent reduction of SST triggers accumulation of Abeta in the brain by suppressing neprilysin action. This hypothesis accounts for the fact that aging is the predominant risk factor for Sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is latent in the nervous system of most humans. Ball [Can J Neurol Sci 9 (1982) 303] first suggested the hypothesis that HSV-1 could be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) by noting that regions of the brain particularly and earliest affected in AD were the same as those most damaged during HSV encephalitis. Data from Itzhaki's research suggests that HSV-1 in the brain and the carriage of an apolipoprotein E allele 4 (ApoE e4) together confer risk for AD [J Pathol 97 (2002) 395], [Mol Chem Neuropathol 28 (1996) 135], [Alzheimer's Rep 1 (1998) 173], [Biochem Soc Trans 26 (1998) 273]. Of the two other studies based on Itzhaki's findings, one showed similar results [Lancet 349 (1997) 1102], and the other showed a similar trend [Lancet 351 (1998) 1330], [Lancet 352 (1998) 1312]. To further examine the role of HSV-1 in the etiology of AD, we have formulated a Neuroinvasive Score that quantifies the presence and viral load of HSV-1 in eight brain regions. These regions are: entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, pons, cerebellum, and neocortex (temporal, parietal, occipital, and frontal). We hypothesize that the Neuroinvasive Score that encompasses the presence, amount, and extent of HSV-1 spreading (neuroinvasiveness), will correlate with the genetic risk factor, ApoE e4, in the assessment of autopsy samples from AD patients. If the neuroinvasive score can be directly correlated to the different stages of AD (mild, moderate, severe), this will strengthen the hypothesis that HSV-1 is involved in AD and that ApoE e4 also confers risk for the development and progression of AD.
Combination of multiple segmentations has recently been introduced as an effective method to obtain segmentations that are more accurate than any of the individual input segmentations. This paper introduces a new way to combine multiple segmentations using a novel shape-based averaging method. Individual segmentations are combined based on the signed Euclidean distance maps of the labels in each input segmentation. Compared to label voting, the new combination method produces smoother, more regular output segmentations and avoids fragmentation of contiguous structures. Using publicly available segmented human brain MR images (IBSR database), we perform a quantitative comparison between shape-based averaging and label voting by combining random segmentations with controlled error magnitudes and known ground truth. Shape-based averaging generated combined segmentations that were closer to the ground truth than combinations from label voting for all numbers of input segmentations (up to ten). The relative advantage of shape-based averaging over voting was larger for fewer input segmentations, and larger for greater deviations of the input segmentations from the ground truth. We conclude that shape-based averaging improves the accuracy of combined segmentations, in particular when only a few input segmentations are available and when the quality of the input segmentations is low.
The authors present results of neurophysiologicstudies of peripheral part of motor analyser in miners exposed to complex of occupational hazards. Some mechanisms of vegetative regulation in disordered neuro-muscular transmission are revealed.


Transcranial magnetic stimulation allows a non-invasive and painless stimulation of the human brain and cranial nerves. The method is in use since 1985. Transcranial magnetic stimulation can use single stimuli, pairs of stimuli separated by different intervals (to the same or to several brain areas), or trains of repetitive stimuli at various frequencies. Single stimuli give rise to motor evoked potentials that have clinical use and serve diagnostic and prognostic purposes. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation can modify excitability of cerebral cortex. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has opened a new field of investigation of the neural circuitry, and is developing into a therapeutic tool. This general review considers basic principles of transcranial magnetic stimulation, discusses methodological aspects and techniques, and analyses their utility in clinical practice.
The strength of an illusion of curvature created by an equilateral triangle, square or pentagon inscribed in a circle has been measured in the psychophysical experiments. The arcs of the circle looked as if they were bowed outwards in the stimuli of various sizes, but, at a fixed diameter of the circumscribed circle, the triangles produced the strongest, and the pentagons, the weakest illusion. The strength of the illusion augmented with the stimulus diameter. Concave and convex sides of the inscribed figures caused less illusory effect than the straight ones. Similar distortions of the stimuli have been observed in the output of a neurophysiological model of spatial frequency filtering of images, and the computed curves resembled those of the experimental data, in respect to their shape and quantitative values.
We investigated false recognition across languages using the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm. A group of English-French bilinguals studied lists of converging associates, some lists in English and some in French, and then performed a recognition test containing studied list items and nonstudied critical lures whose language matched or mismatched the language at study. Participants were instructed to answer old only if the test cue was in the same language as the studied word. The results yielded a robust false memory rate both within-language and across-languages. The effect of the study-test language shift was much larger for list items than for critical lures. This finding suggests that memory representations for critical lures contain primarily semantic gist traces and little surface information, and hence is more consistent with the fuzzy trace view than with the implicit associative response view. In sum, the study demonstrates the existence of false memory across languages, and provides information about the memory traces underlying veridical and illusory recognition.
Studies on human patients and animal models of disease have shown that disruptions in prenatal and early postnatal brain development are a root cause of mental retardation. Since proper brain development is achieved by a strict spatiotemporal control of neurogenesis, cell migration, and patterning of synapses, abnormalities in one or more of these events during prenatal development can lead to cognitive dysfunction after birth. Many of underlying causes of mental retardation must therefore be studied in developing brains. To aid in this research, live imaging using laser scanning microscopy (LSM) has recently allowed neuroscientists to delve deeply into the complex three-dimensional environment of the living brain to record dynamic cellular events over time. This review will highlight recent examples of how LSM is being applied to elucidate both normal and abnormal cortical development.
Dynamin functions in the fission of endocytic pits in the process of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Dynamin GTPase activity is essential for its fission activity, and it is stimulated by self-assembly as well as by interacting with its binding partners, such as microtubules, SH3 domain containing proteins, or inositol phospholipids. Amphiphysin 1, SH3 domain-containing binding partner of dynamin 1, is proposed to cooperatively function in endocytosis. Amphiphysin 1 is essential for dynamin-dependent synaptic vesicle recycling in the synapse, and it enhances dynamin-dependent vesicle formation in vitro. In order to elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the amphiphysin's effect, we measured dynamin GTPase activity in the presence of both amphiphysin 1 and lipid membranes. We describe here in detail the procedure of the dynamin GTPase assay and the results demonstrating stimulatory effect of amphiphysin on dynamin GTPase activity, which is highly dependent on the liposome size.
Arfaptin 1 and 2 were identified as targets for GTP bound ADP-ribosylation factors (Arfs). Arfaptin 1 had no significant effects on guanine nucleotide binding to Arfs, nor enzymatic activities of guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and GTPase activating protein (GAP) acting on Arfs. However, arfaptin 1 inhibited Arf activation of cholera toxin and phospholipase D (PLD) in a dose-dependent manner. Only GTP-bound forms of Arf1, 5, and 6 interacted with arfaptin 1 and 2, but GTP-Arf1 showed the strongest binding to the arfaptins. In contrast to the binding of Arfs to arfaptins, GDP-Rac1 or dominant negative Rac1-N17N bound to arfaptin 2, whereas GTP-Rac1 or dominant active Rac1-Q61L did not bind to arfaptin 2. Neither GTP-Rac1 nor GDP-Rac1 bound to arfaptin 1. Based on our observation, we propose that arfaptin 2 is a target for GDP-Rac1 and for GTP-Arf1, and is involved in interactions between the Rac1 and Arfs signaling pathways. This chapter describes methods for investigating the interactions of arfaptins 1 and 2 with GTP- or GDP-liganded Arfs and Rac1.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by impairment in motor function. PD is mostly sporadic, but rare familial cases are also found. The exact pathogenic mechanism is not fully understood, but both genetic and environmental factors are known to be important contributors. In particular, oxidative stress mediated through nitric oxide (NO) is believed to be a prime suspect in the development of PD. NO can exert its effect by modifying different biological molecules, and one of these modifications is through S-nitrosylation. Because of the liable nature of S-nitrosylation, a number of methods are often used to study this modification. We have successfully employed some of these methods and showed that a familial related protein, parkin, can be S-nitrosylated and provide a common pathogenic mechanism for sporadic and familial PD.
In 2000, Drosophila melanogaster joined the ranks of vertebrates and invertebrates with a defined behavioral sleep state. The characterization of this sleep state revealed striking similarities to sleep in humans: sleep in flies has both circadian and homeostatic components, it is influenced by sex and age, and it is affected by pharmacological agents such as caffeine and antihistamines. As in mammals, arousal thresholds in flies increase with sleep deprivation. Furthermore, changes in brain electrical activity accompany the change from wake to sleep states. Not only do flies and vertebrates share these behavioral and physiological traits of sleep, but they are likely to share at least some genetic mechanisms underlying the regulation of sleep as well. This article reviews the methods currently used to identify and characterize the Drosophila sleep state. As these methods become more refined and our understanding of Drosophila sleep more detailed, the powerful techniques afforded by this organism are likely to unveil deep insights into the function(s) and regulatory mechanisms of sleep.
The power of Drosophila genetics can be used to facilitate the molecular dissection of sleep regulatory mechanisms. While evaluating total sleep time and homeostatic processes provides valuable information, other variables, such as sleep latency, sleep bout duration, sleep cycle length, and the time of day when the longest sleep bout is initiated, should also be used to explore the nature of a genetic lesion on sleep regulatory processes. Each of these variables requires that the recording interval used to identify periods of sleep and waking be determined accurately and empirically. This article describes the procedures for recording sleep in Drosophila and associated methodological constraints. In addition, it provides results from a normative data set of 1037 Canton-S female flies and 639 male flies to illustrate the nature and variability of sleep variables that one can extract from 24 h of data collection in Drosophila.
Research on circadian biology over the past decade has paid increasing attention to the photoreceptor mechanisms that align the molecular clock to the 24-h light/dark cycle, and some of the results to emerge are surprising. For example, the rods and cones within the mammalian eye are not required for entrainment. A population of directly light-sensitive ganglion cells exists within the retina and acts as brightness detectors. This article provides a brief history of the discovery of these novel ocular photoreceptors and then describes the methods that have been used to study the photopigments mediating these responses to light. Photopigment characterization has traditionally been based on a number of complementary approaches, but one of the most useful techniques has been action spectroscopy. A photopigment has a discrete absorbance spectrum, which describes the probability of photons being absorbed as a function of wavelength, and the magnitude of any light-dependent response depends on the number of photons absorbed by the photopigment. Thus, a description of the spectral sensitivity profile (action spectrum) of any light-dependent response must, by necessity, match absorbance spectra of the photopigment mediating the response. We provide a step-by-step approach to conducting action spectra, including the construction of irradiance response curves, the calculation of relative spectral sensitivities, and photopigment template fitting, and discuss the underlying assumptions behind this approach. We then illustrate action spectrum methodologies by an in-depth analysis of action spectra obtained from rodless/coneless (rd/rd cl) mice and discuss, for the first time, the full implications of these findings.
Explicit biochemical models have been elaborated for the circadian oscillators of cyanobacterial, fungal, insect, and mammalian species. In contrast, much remains to be learned about how such circadian oscillators regulate rhythmic physiological processes. This article summarizes contemporary genetic and biochemical strategies that are useful for identifying gene products that have a role in circadian control.
The recent identification of specific genes responsible for the generation of endogenous circadian rhythmicity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus presents a new level of investigation into endogenous rhythmicity and mechanisms of synchronization of this circadian clock with the environmental light?dark cycle. This article describes techniques that employ antisense and decoy oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) to determine the roles of specific molecular substrates both in endogenous rhythmicity and in regulating the effects of light on the mammalian circadian clock. Application of antisense ODN technology has revealed a role for timeless (Tim) in the core clock mechanism and established that induction of period1 (Per1) is required for light responsiveness. Likewise, a decoy ODN designed to sequester activated CREB protein definitively demonstrated a requirement for CRE-mediated transcription in light signaling. Experiments designed with these molecular tools offer new insights on the interaction of cellular processes and signaling with the molecular clockworks.
Time-of-day specific changes in the levels of key clock proteins are critical for the normal progression of circadian pacemakers. Evidence indicates a major role for the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP) in the temporal control of clock protein stability. A conserved feature of animal clocks is that PERIOD (PER) proteins undergo daily rhythms in abundance. The stability of PER proteins is regulated by differential phosphorylation, whereby hyperphosphorylated isoforms are selectively degraded by the UPP. The use of transformed stable cell lines has been instrumental in advancing our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the intersection of the UPP and clock protein metabolism. This article describes several standard methodologies used to analyze the UPP-mediated degradation of Drosophila PER (dPER) expressed in cultured Drosophila cells (Ko et al., 2002). Although this article focuses on dPER as a case study, general issues are discussed that should have broad application to other cell culture-based systems and clock proteins. For example, we discuss (i) advantages?disadvantages of cultured cells, (ii) types of expression vectors and &quot;peptide tags&quot; for recombinant protein production and surveillance, and (iii) standard approaches to determine whether a protein of interest is modified by ubiquitin and degraded by the proteasome. Prior to the discussion on methodologies, the article provides a brief overview of diverse strategies by which clock proteins in a variety of systems are regulated by the UPP.
The use of RNA interference (RNAi) in mammalian cells has become a powerful tool for the analysis of gene function. Here we discuss the use of DNA vectors to produce short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) and inhibit gene expression in mammalian neural progenitors and neurons. Protocols are presented for introducing shRNA vectors into mouse P19 cells differentiated as neurons in vitro and for electroporation of shRNA vectors into primary neural progenitors from the embryonic mouse dorsal telencephalon (prospective cerebral cortex). Transfected primary cortical progenitors can be differentiated in vitro either in dissociated culture or organotypic slice culture. The use of shRNA vectors for RNAi provides a versatile approach to understand gene function during mammalian neural development.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is thought to be an autoimmune disease in which an unknown trigger initiates an immune response against brain proteins. This autoaggressive response causes the breakdown of the myelin sheaths that protect nerve axons, leading to impaired nerve conduction and subsequent neurodegeneration that are characteristic of MS. Many studies have attempted to determine the exact target within the brain. However, there appear to be multiple targets, which may change over time. No single study has examined all targets nor looked at how they can change over the course of the disease and whether these changes are related to the course of disease. We have approached this by using the single-cell resolution capability of the enzyme-linked immunospot assay to examine cytokine reactivity in MS patients in response to a very large set of overlapping peptides that span the two major proteins of myelin: myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein. Our goal was to use the enzyme-linked immunospot assay to perform comprehensive epitope mapping in relapsing-remitting MS patients in a longitudinal study to help define the role of myelin responses in disease progression.

Recent studies have revealed that type I interferons (IFNs) are powerful inducers of the differentiation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). These findings emphasize the importance of these cytokines in linking innate and adaptive immunity, suggesting that effects of type I IFN on DCs can play a role in the antitumor and antiviral activity observed in some IFN-treated patients. Thus, the evaluation of the effects of IFN on the differentiation/activation of DCs has become an important approach for testing novel biologically important IFN activities, and the description of some reference methods are urgently needed. In this chapter, we describe some methods for testing the effects of IFNs on the differentiation and activation of human DCs from the peripheral blood monocytes and for the characterization of the DCs generated after IFN treatment.

Considerable evidence suggests genetic factors are important in the pathogenesis of multifactorial stroke. However, studies identifying the underlying genes have been largely disappointing. This chapter reviews the different approaches and their relative merits. It is likely stroke is a polygenic disorder and that underlying genes may interact within environmental risk factors. Stroke itself is a syndrome caused by a number of different pathologies, which may result from different genetic predispositions. Therefore accurate stroke subtyping is likely to be important in identifying genetic associations. Previous studies have suffered from small sample size, lack of adequate phenotyping, and poor case-control matching. The most popular approach to identifying genes in human polygenic ischemic stroke has been the candidate gene approach. The relative merits of this approach are discussed. More recently this has been extended to family-based association studies. Linkage-based approaches have been used less although current studies are implementing the affected-sibling-pair method. In the future genome-wide association studies are likely to become more widely used.
The recent completion of the Human Genome Project provides the potential to advance our knowledge of pathogenesis and identify the gene(s) associated with particular diseases. However, using human DNA to correlate individual genomic variations with particular disorders such as stroke will be extremely challenging because of the large number of variables within an individual, and across different populations. Mutant animal models of stroke such as the stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHRSP) provide the scientist with genetic homogeneity, not possible within a human population, to aid our search for causative genes. This chapter describes the methods our group have employed to study the genetic heritability of stroke sensitivity in the SHRSP. Sections are included on quantitative trait loci, mapping, and congenic strain construction for the identification of genetic determinants of stroke sensitivity in the SHRSP.

Neurons express adaptor (AP)-3 complexes assembled with either ubiquitous (beta3A) or neuronal-specific (beta3B) beta3 isoforms. However, it is unknown whether these complexes indeed perform distinct functions in neuronal tissue. Here, we explore this hypothesis by using genetically engineered mouse models lacking either beta3A- or beta3B-containing AP-3 complexes. Somatic and neurological phenotypes were specifically associated with the ubiquitous and neuronal adaptor deficiencies, respectively. At the cellular level, AP-3 isoforms were localized to distinct neuronal domains. beta3B-containing AP-3 complexes were preferentially targeted to neuronal processes. Consistently, beta3B deficiency compromised synaptic zinc stores assessed by Timm's staining and the synaptic vesicle targeting of membrane proteins involved in zinc uptake (ZnT3 and ClC-3). Surprisingly, despite the lack of neurological symptoms, beta3A-deficient mouse brain possessed significantly increased synaptic zinc stores and synaptic vesicle content of ZnT3 and ClC-3. These observations indicate that the functions of beta3A- and beta3B-containing complexes are distinct and divergent. Our results suggest that concerted nonredundant functions of neuronal and ubiquitous AP-3 provide a mechanism to control the levels of selected membrane proteins in synaptic vesicles.
In the cochlea, the mammalian auditory organ, fibrocytes of the mesenchymal nonsensory regions play important roles in cochlear physiology, including the maintenance of ionic and hydric components in the endolymph. Occurrence of human deafness in fibrocyte alterations underlines their critical roles in auditory function. We recently described a novel gene, Otos, which encodes otospiralin, a small protein of unknown function that is produced by the fibrocytes of the cochlea and vestibule. We now have generated mice with deletion of Otos and found that they show moderate deafness, with no frequency predominance. Histopathology revealed a degeneration of type II and IV fibrocytes, while hair cells and stria vascularis appeared normal. Together, these findings suggest that impairment of fibrocytes caused by the loss in otospiralin leads to abnormal cochlear physiology and auditory function. This moderate dysfunction may predispose to age-related hearing loss.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) regulate neural development via both homophilic and heterophilic binding interactions. Various members of the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP) subfamily of CAMs mediate neurite outgrowth, yet in many cases, their ligands remain unknown. However, the PTP mu subfamily members are homophilic binding proteins. PTP mu is a growth-permissive substrate for nasal retinal ganglion cell (RGC) neurites and a growth inhibitory substrate for temporal RGC neurites. Whether PTP mu regulates these distinct behaviors via homophilic or heterophilic binding interactions is not currently known. In this manuscript, we demonstrate that PTP mu influences RGC axon guidance behaviors only in the E8 retina and not earlier in development. In addition, we demonstrate that PTP mu is permissive only for neurites from ventral-nasal retina and is repulsive to neurites from all other retinal quadrants. Furthermore, we show that PTP mu-mediated nasal neurite outgrowth and temporal repulsion require PTP mu expression and catalytic activity. These results are consistent with PTP mu homophilic binding generating a tyrosine phosphatase-dependent signal that ultimately leads to axon outgrowth or repulsion and that PTP mu's role in regulating axon guidance may be tightly regulated developmentally. In summary, these data demonstrate that PTP mu expression and catalytic activity are important in vertebrate axon guidance.
In vertebrates and insects, the homeobox transcription factors of the engrailed family have a dual function. They take part in regionalization during early embryogenesis and later in neuronal specification. In mammals, two engrailed homologues exist, engrailed-1 and engrailed-2, which are expressed in a broad band around the isthmus at an age when the serotonergic and noradrenergic neurons in mid/hindbrain are generated. The analysis of engrailed-1 and -2 double mutant mice revealed a specific, redundant, and gene dose-dependent requirement of the two transcription factors for the development of the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus and the noradrenergic locus caeruleus. Both nuclei are lost in engrailed double mutant mice; however, directly adjacent nuclei of the same neurotransmitter phenotype are not affected. An almost identical phenotype is found in mutant mice null for Wnt1, indicating that the engrailed genes provide essential positional information for the development of the two nuclei during early embryogenesis.
Hippocalcin is a neuronal calcium binding protein, but its physiological function in brain is unknown. We show here that hippocampal neurons from hippocalcin-deficient mice are more vulnerable to degeneration, particularly using thapsigargin, elevating intracellular calcium. Caspase-12 was activated in neurons lacking hippocalcin, while calpain was unchanged. Neuronal viability was accompanied by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and a change in the relative induction of the ER chaperone, BiP/GRP78. Neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein (NAIP), known to interact with hippocalcin, was not altered, but hippocampal neurons from gene-deleted mice were more sensitive to excitotoxicity caused by kainic acid. In addition, an age-dependent increase in neurodegeneration occurred in the gene-deleted mice, showing that hippocalcin contributes to neuronal viability during aging.
After injury to the central nervous system, a glial/collagen scar forms at the lesion site, which is thought to act as a physicochemical barrier to regenerating axons. We have shown that scar formation in the transected optic nerve (ON) is attenuated when robust growth of axons is stimulated. Matrix metalloproteases (MMP), modulated by tissue inhibitors of MMP (TIMP), degrade a wide variety of extracellular matrix components (ECM) and may be activated by growing axons to remodel the ECM to allow regeneration through the inhibitory environment of the glial or collagen scar. Here, we investigate whether MMP levels are modulated in a nonregenerating (scarring) versus a regenerating (nonscarring) model of ON injury in vivo. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry revealed that MMP-1, -2, and -9 levels were higher and TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 levels were lower in regenerating compared to nonregenerating ON and retinae. In situ zymography demonstrated significantly greater MMP-related gelatinase activity in the regenerating model, mainly colocalized to astrocytes in the proximal ON stump and around the lesion site. These results suggest that activation of MMP and coincident down-regulation of TIMP may act to attenuate the inhibitory scarring in the regenerating ON, thus transforming the ON into a noninhibitory pathway for axon regrowth.
In the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) peripheral sensory axons fail to regenerate past the peripheral nervous system/central nervous system (PNS/CNS) interface. Additionally, in the spinal cord, central fibers that regenerate into Schwann cell (SC) bridges can enter but do not exit at the distal Schwann cell/astrocyte (AC) boundary. At both interfaces where limited mixing of the two cell types occurs, one can observe an up-regulation of inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). We treated confrontation Schwann cell/astrocyte cultures with the following: (1) a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) enzyme against the glycosaminoglycan (GAG)-chain-initiating enzyme, xylosyltransferase-1 (XT-1), (2) a control DNA enzyme, and (3) chondroitinase ABC (Ch'ase ABC) to degrade the GAG chains. Both techniques for reducing CSPGs allowed Schwann cells to penetrate deeply into the territory of the astrocytes. After adding sensory neurons to the assay, the axons showed different growth behaviors depending upon the glial cell type that they first encountered during regeneration. Our results help to explain why regeneration fails at PNS/CNS glial boundaries.
Increasing evidence suggests that fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are neurotrophic in GnRH neurons. However, the extent to which FGFs are involved in establishing a functional GnRH system in the whole organism has not been investigated. In this study, transgenic mice with the expression of a dominant-negative FGF receptor mutant (FGFRm) targeted to GnRH neurons were generated to examine the consequence of disrupted FGF signaling on the formation of the GnRH system. To first test the effectiveness of this strategy, GT1 cells, a GnRH neuronal cell line, were stably transfected with FGFRm. The transfected cells showed attenuated neurite outgrowth, diminished FGF-2 responsiveness in a cell survival assay, and blunted activation of the signaling pathway in response to FGF-2. Transgenic mice expressing FGFRm in a GnRH neuron-specific manner exhibited a 30% reduction in GnRH neuron number, but the anatomical distribution of GnRH neurons was unaltered. Although these mice were initially fertile, they displayed several reproductive defects, including delayed puberty, reduced litter size, and early reproductive senescence. Overall, our results are the first to show, at the level of the organism, that FGFs are one of the important components involved in the formation and maintenance of the GnRH system.
We reported previously that, in addition to direct effects, somatostatin (SST) affects tumor growth inhibiting the tumoral neoangiogenesis, via an interference with NO synthesis. Here, we analyzed the effects of SST on nitric oxide (NO) production induced by different agonists [basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin, cholecystokinin (CCK)] and the intracellular signaling involved, using Chinese hamster ovary-k1 cells stably transfected with individual SSTR1-SSTR4. bFGF and insulin induced endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity via the generation of ceramide or the Akt-dependent phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, respectively. CCK regulates neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity in a Ca++-dependent manner. SST inhibited NO production stimulated by bFGF through SST receptor 1 (SSTR1), SSTR2, and SSTR3 and by CCK through SSTR2 and SSTR3. In all the cell lines, SST treatment did not modify NO synthesis induced by insulin. SSTR4 activation was not effective on any of the stimuli tested. The effects on bFGF-induced NO production were downstream from receptor phosphorylation and ceramide synthesis. SSTR2 and -3 on CCK activity were related to the inhibition of intracellular Ca++ mobilization, whereas the lack of effects on insulin was paralleled by the absence of SST activity on Akt phosphorylation. These data, identifying for the first time a selective receptor subtype-inhibitory role of SST on NO generation, may open new perspectives in the use of SST agonists to control tumoral angiogenesis.
In recent years, environmental influences have been thought to play an important role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence from epidemiological investigations suggests that environmental factors might take part in the disease process. Intriguingly, most of environmental toxins share the common mechanism of causing mitochondria dysfunction by inhibiting complex I and promoting alpha-synuclein aggregation, a key factor in PD. Therefore, understanding the mechanism of interactions between alpha-synuclein and environmental factors could lead to new therapeutic approaches to PD.
Synaptic activity promotes the regulated formation of lipid messengers through phospholipase-mediated cleavage of specific phospholipid reservoirs from membranes. Multiple effectors trigger the formation of lipid messengers, including neurotransmitters, membrane depolarization, ion channels, cytokines, and neurotrophic factors. Lipid messengers in turn modulate and interact with other signaling cascades, contributing to the development, differentiation, function (e.g., long-term potentiation [LTP] and memory), protection, and repair of cells in the nervous system. These relationships with other signaling cascades remain largely to be investigated. Oxidative stress disrupts lipid signaling, enhances lipid peroxidation, and initiates and propagates neurodegeneration. There is growing evidence that lipid messengers participate in the extensive interactions among neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, cells of the microvasculature, and other cells. This article provides an example of how signaling by lipids regulates critical events essential for neuronal survival and reviews the recent identification of a novel endogenous neuroprotective signaling pathway involving a docosahexaenoic acid-derived mediator.
In the mammalian nervous system, P2 nucleotide receptors mediate neurotransmission, release of proinflammatory cytokines, and reactive astrogliosis. Extracellular nucleotides activate multiple P2 receptors in neurons and glial cells, including G protein-coupled P2Y receptors and P2X receptors, which are ligand-gated ion channels. In glial cells, the P2Y2 receptor subtype, distinguished by its ability to be equipotently activated by ATP and UTP, is coupled to pro-inflammatory signaling pathways. In situ hybridization studies with rodent brain slices indicate that P2Y2 receptors are expressed primarily in the hippocampus and cerebellum. Astrocytes express several P2 receptor subtypes, including P2Y2 receptors whose activation stimulates cell proliferation and migration. P2Y2 receptors, via an RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) motif in their first extracellular loop, bind to alphavbeta3/beta5 integrins, whereupon P2Y2 receptor activation stimulates integrin signaling pathways that regulate cytoskeletal reorganization and cell motility. The C-terminus of the P2Y2 receptor contains two Src-homology-3 (SH3)-binding domains that upon receptor activation, promote association with Src and transactivation of growth factor receptors. Together, our results indicate that P2Y2 receptors complex with both integrins and growth factor receptors to activate multiple signaling pathways. Thus, P2Y2 receptors present novel targets to control reactive astrogliosis in neurodegenerative diseases.
Damage from oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction occur together in many common neurodegenerative diseases. The enzymes that form the mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate- dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), a key and arguably rate-limiting enzyme system of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, might mediate the interaction of these processes. KGDHC activity is reduced in numerous age-related neurodegenerative diseases and is diminished by oxidative stress. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the reduction correlates highly to diminished mental performance. Thus, research has focused on the mechanisms by which select oxidants reduce KGDHC and the consequences of such a reduction. Diminished KGDHC in cells is associated with apoptosis without changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential. Studies of isolated mitochondria and of animal models suggest that a reduction in KGDHC can predispose to damage by other toxins that promote neurodegeneration. Diminished oxidative metabolism can be plausibly linked to pathological features of neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., reduced mental function, the plaques and tangles in AD). Thus, reductions in KGDHC might be central to the pathophysiology of these diseases. Studies of proteins, cells, animal models, and humans suggest that treatments to diminish, or bypass, the reduction in KGDHC might be beneficial in age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
Thiamine deficiency results in Wernicke's encephalopathy and is commonly encountered in chronic alcoholism, gastrointestinal diseases, and HIV AIDS. The earliest metabolic consequence of thiamine deficiency is a selective loss in activity of the thiamine diphosphate-dependent enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha-KGDH), a rate-limiting tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme. Thiamine deficiency is characterized neuropathologically by selective neuronal cell death in the thalamus, pons, and cerebellum. The cause of this region-selective neuronal loss is unknown, but mechanisms involving cellular energy failure, focal lactic acidosis, and NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity have classically been implicated. More recently, evidence supports a role for oxidative stress. Evidence includes increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine deposition, microglial activation, and lipid peroxidation. Reactive oxygen species production results in decreased expression of astrocytic glutamate transporters and decreased activities of alpha-KGDH, resulting in an amplification of cell death mechanisms in thiamine deficiency.
This special issue of Molecular Neurobiology presents a series of mini-reviews resulting from an ISN satellite symposium entitled Oxidative Mechanisms in Neurodegenerative Disorders Held at the Guilin Park Hotel, Guilin, China on February 7-11, 2004. The timely topics in this symposium were contributed by more than 20 internationally acclaimed scientists and attended by more than 100 participants interested in this subject matter. This satellite symposium was also part of the 6th Biennial Asian-Pacific Society for Neurochemistry (APSN) meeting held in Hong Kong, China. Organizers included Dr. Piu Chan (Capital University of Medical Sciences and Beijing Institute of Geriatrics) Dr. Albert Y. Sun and Dr. Grace Y. Sun (University of Missouri, Columbia, MO). The satellite meeting was hosted by Xuanwu Hospital of Capital University of Medical Sciences and Guilin Medical College, and was generously supported by the following: the International Society of Neurochemistry (ISN), National Institutes of Health (USA) (1 R13 NS047414), the Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center (GRECC) VA Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA, The Chinese Society of Neuroscience, Chinese Medical Association, Chinese Journal of Neurology, Shanghai Roche Pharmaceuticals Ltd., and Beijing QuiXave United Technology Ltd. Corporation.
The human B(1) bradykinin receptor is an inducible and constitutively active G protein-coupled receptor that is involved in the inflammatory and pain responses to injury. Here, we investigated the role of B(1) receptor homo-oligomerization in cell surface receptor expression. B(1) receptors tagged with either the FLAG or hemagglutinin epitope were monitored immunologically and by radio-ligand binding, biotinylation, and phosphoinositide hydrolysis in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Selective immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, and immunoelectron microscopy with epitope-specific antibodies together provided evidence for constitutively formed cell surface receptor homo-oligomers. Truncation of the receptor from the N- and C-terminal ends indicated that the epitope for oligomerization seems to be located between Leu(26) on top of transmembrane helix 1 and Val(71) at the bottom of helix 2. A receptor construct terminating at Asp(134) at the bottom of helix 3, B1stop135, was expressed in the cell. It is interesting that this construct behaved as a dominant-negative mutant by competitively preventing formation of intact B(1) receptor homo-oligomers, and redistributing B(1) receptors from the cell surface to a common intracellular compartment. In contrast, expression of a construct containing the residues downstream of Asp(134), B1del(2-134), was inactive in this regard. Together, these results are consistent with a mechanism where constitutive B(1) receptor homooligomerization is required for expression of receptors on the cell surface and subsequent constitutive receptor signaling. This may be a novel mechanism by which the cell regulates the presentation of this constitutively highly active receptor at various stages of injury.
H(3) autoreceptors provide feedback control of neurotransmitter synthesis in histaminergic neurons, but the transduction pathways involved are poorly understood. In rat brain cortical slices, histamine synthesis can be stimulated by depolarization and inhibited by H(3) agonists. We show that histamine synthesis stimulation by depolarization with 30 mM K(+) requires extracellular calcium entry, mostly through N-type channels, and subsequent activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II. In vitro, this kinase phosphorylated and activated histidine decarboxylase, the histamine-synthesizing enzyme. Inhibition of depolarization-stimulated histamine synthesis by the histamine H(3) receptor agonist imetit was impaired by preincubation with pertussis toxin and by the presence of a myristoylated peptide (myristoyl-N-QEHAQEPERQYMHIGTMVE-FAYALVGK) blocking the actions of G-protein betagamma subunits. The stimulation of another G(i/o)-coupled receptor, adenosine A(1), also decreased depolarization-stimulated histamine synthesis. In contrast, protein kinase A activation, which is also repressed by H(3) receptors, elicited a depolarization- and calcium/calmodulin-independent stimulation of histamine synthesis. Protein kinase A was able also to phosphorylate and activate histidine decarboxylase in vitro. These results show how depolarization activates histamine synthesis in nerve endings and demonstrate that both pathways modulating neurotransmitter synthesis are controlled by H(3) autoreceptors.
A continuously growing body of evidence suggests that dysregulation of noradrenergic (NA) neurons is implicated in the etiology and pathophysiology of various human diseases such as depression, drug addiction, and autonomic dysfunction. An efficient NA neuron-specific promoter is potentially valuable to investigate the precise role of NA neurons in normal as well as in diseased brain and to treat the associated disorders by gene therapy. In this study, we tested a novel strategy to modify genetically the promoter of the human dopamine beta-hydroxylase (hDBH) gene to overcome its inherent weakness while maintaining its cell-type specificity. We optimized the nucleotide sequence motifs of PHOX2-binding sites (PRS2 and PRS3) residing within the hDBH promoter. Optimization of both PRS2 and PRS3 motifs significantly increased their binding affinities to PHOX2A, leading to a dramatic increase in the promoter strength (&gt;20-fold). More importantly, these modifications do not alter the level of transgene expression in non-NA cells either in vitro or in vivo, demonstrating tight cell-type specificity. This work shows that a cellular gene promoter can be genetically modified to strengthen its promoter activity without losing cell-type specificity by optimizing critical cis-regulatory elements. Our genetically engineered promoter may be useful for cell-type-specific gene targeting as well as for generating in vivo animal models with altered gene expression in a specific cell type.
According to one of the doctrines of neuroscience, protein synthesis in neuronal cells takes place only in the perikaryon and dendrites. The first indirect evidence on the possibility of protein synthesis in the axon appeared a long time ago, but convincing proof of protein synthesis in that compartment of the neuron was obtained only recently. Axoplasm contains numerous cytoskeletal and cytosolic proteins which are carried by slow axonal transport. Axonal length may vary from several micrometers to one meter or more. Thus, the transport of protein molecules along the axon may take days, weeks and even months. In urgent response of the neuron to the changes in the conditions of its functioning, the local protein synthesis may save the time and energy required for transportation of newly synthesized proteins. Moreover, intraaxonal protein synthesis is essential in order to maintain the protein contents of the axoplasm, since all the proteins possess limited half-life and undergo biological degradation during their slow transport in the axon. This paper reviews these problems and examines the significance of the local protein synthesis in the axon for realization of specific functions of the neuron.
Visuomotor adaptive processes were examined by testing transfer of adaptation between similar conditions. Participants made manual aiming movements with a joystick to hit targets on a computer screen, with real-time feedback display of their movement. They adapted to three different rotations of the display in a sequential fashion, with a return to baseline display conditions between rotations. Adaptation was better when participants had prior adaptive experiences. When performance was assessed using direction error (calculated at the time of peak velocity) and initial endpoint error (error before any overt corrective actions), transfer was greater when the final rotation reflected an addition of previously experienced rotations (adaptation order 30 degrees rotation, 15 degrees, 45 degrees) than when it was a subtraction of previously experienced conditions (adaptation order 45 degrees rotation, 15 degrees, 30 degrees). Transfer was equal regardless of adaptation order when performance was assessed with final endpoint error (error following any discrete, corrective actions). These results imply the existence of multiple independent processes in visuomotor adaptation.
Neuroferritinopathy is a recently recognized, dominantly inherited movement disorder caused by a mutation of the ferritin light chain gene. We present video case reports of 4 individuals with neuroferritinopathy chosen to illustrate how this disorder can present and subsequently progress clinically. The clinical phenotype of this disorder is highly variable with symptoms beginning in the third to sixth decades. Chorea, dystonia, or an akinetic-rigid syndrome can predominate in different individuals. Neuroferritinopathy is not restricted to the UK and it has been described in apparently sporadic cases. The diagnosis should therefore be considered in patients with a wide variety of different movement disorders. Characteristic neuroimaging assists in identifying affected individuals.

Destruction of the brain's primary visual areas leads to blindness of cortical origin. Here we report on a subject who, after bilateral destruction of his visual cortices and ensuing cortical blindness, could nevertheless correctly guess the type of emotional facial expression being displayed, but could not guess other types of emotional or non-emotional stimuli. Functional magnetic resonance imaging showed activation of the right amygdala during the unconscious processing of emotionally expressive faces.
Oscillatory spike timing in the hippocampus is regarded as a temporal coding mechanism for space, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. To contrast the predictions of the different models of phase precession, we transiently turned off neuronal discharges for up to 250 ms and reset the phase of theta oscillations by stimulating the commissural pathway in rats. After recovery from silence, phase precession continued. The phase of spikes for the first theta cycle after the perturbation was more advanced than the phase of spikes for the last theta cycle just before the perturbation. These findings indicate that phase advancement that emerges within hippocampal circuitry may be updated at the beginning of each theta cycle by extrahippocampal inputs.
How the brain represents different aspects of faces remains controversial. Here we presented subjects with stimuli drawn from morph continua between pairs of famous faces. In the paired presentations, a second face could be identical to the first, could share perceived identity but differ physically (30% along the morph continuum), or could differ physically by the same distance along the continuum (30%) but in the other direction. We show that, behaviorally, subjects are more likely to classify face pairs in the third paired presentation as different and that this effect is more pronounced for subjects who are more familiar with the faces. In functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), inferior occipital gyrus (IOG) shows sensitivity to physical rather than to identity changes, whereas right fusiform gyrus (FFG) shows sensitivity to identity rather than to physical changes. Bilateral anterior temporal regions show sensitivity to identity change that varies with the subjects' pre-experimental familiarity with the faces. These findings provide neurobiological support for a hierarchical model of face perception.
In the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the master circadian pacemaker, neurons show circadian variations in firing frequency. There is also considerable synchrony of spiking across SCN neurons on a scale of milliseconds, but the mechanisms are poorly understood. Using paired whole-cell recordings, we have found that many neurons in the rat SCN communicate via electrical synapses. Spontaneous spiking was often synchronized in pairs of electrically coupled neurons, and the degree of this synchrony could be predicted from the magnitude of coupling. In wild-type mice, as in rats, the SCN contained electrical synapses, but electrical synapses were absent in connexin36-knockout mice. The knockout mice also showed dampened circadian activity rhythms and a delayed onset of activity during transition to constant darkness. We suggest that electrical synapses in the SCN help to synchronize its spiking activity, and that such synchrony is necessary for normal circadian behavior.
Phages infecting the polysialic acid (polySia)-encapsulated human pathogen Escherichia coli K1 are equipped with capsule-degrading tailspikes known as endosialidases, which are the only identified enzymes that specifically degrade polySia. As polySia also promotes cellular plasticity and tumor metastasis in vertebrates, endosialidases are widely applied in polySia-related neurosciences and cancer research. Here we report the crystal structures of endosialidase NF and its complex with oligomeric sialic acid. The structure NF, which reveals three distinct domains, indicates that the unique polySia specificity evolved from a combination of structural elements characteristic of exosialidases and bacteriophage tailspike proteins. The endosialidase assembles into a catalytic trimer stabilized by a triple beta-helix. Its active site differs markedly from that of exosialidases, indicating an endosialidase-specific substrate-binding mode and catalytic mechanism. Residues essential for endosialidase activity were identified by structure-based mutational analysis.
Present neurobiological concepts of the mind-brain relationship often tend towards a reductionist view of subjectivity. In contrast to this, an ecological or systemic view of the brain is outlined which regards cognition and consciousness as components in a circular causality of organism and environment. In these cyclic processes, the brain functions as an organ of transformation which mutually translates elementary and complex system states into each other, thus allowing the organism to develop integral options of perception and action in its environment. Since these interactions, on their part, continuously change the microstructure of the brain, it has to be regarded as an organ that is formed biologically, socially as well as historically. The consequences of this ecological conception for our view of mental illness, for therapeutic approaches and for the role of subjectivity in psychiatry are pointed out.
An iterative reweighted least squares (IRWLS) procedure recently proposed is shown to converge to the support vector machine solution. The convergence to a stationary point is ensured by modifying the original IRWLS procedure.
This paper introduces a probably stable learning adaptive control framework with statistical learning. The proposed algorithm employs nonlinear function approximation with automatic growth of the learning network according to the nonlinearities and the working domain of the control system. The unknown function in the dynamical system is approximated by piecewise linear models using a nonparametric regression technique. Local models are allocated as necessary and their parameters are optimized on-line. Inspired by composite adaptive control methods, the proposed learning adaptive control algorithm uses both the tracking error and the estimation error to update the parameters. We first discuss statistical learning of nonlinear functions, and motivate our choice of the locally weighted learning framework. Second, we begin with a class of first order SISO systems for theoretical development of our learning adaptive control framework, and present a stability proof including a parameter projection method that is needed to avoid potential singularities during adaptation. Then, we generalize our adaptive controller to higher order SISO systems, and discuss further extension to MIMO problems. Finally, we evaluate our theoretical control framework in numerical simulations to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed learning adaptive controller for rapid convergence and high accuracy of control.
Systemically administered human recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) may have the potential to reduce the cognitive and behavioral symptoms of mechanical brain injury. In a series of studies, we address this possibility. We previously found that EPO given to fimbria-fornix transected rats at the moment of injury could substantially improve the posttraumatic acquisition of an allocentric place learning task when such a task is administered in a water maze. Due to the clinical importance of such results, it is important to scrutinize whether the therapeutic effect of EPO is specific to the experimental setup of our original experiments or generalizes across test situations. Consequently, here we studied the effects of similarly administered EPO in fimbria-fornix transected and control operated rats, respectively, evaluating the posttraumatic behavioral/cognitive abilities in an allocentric place learning task administered in an 8-arm radial maze. The administration of EPO to the hippocampally injured rats was associated with a virtually complete elimination of the otherwise severe behavioral impairment caused by fimbria-fornix transection. In contrast, EPO had no detectable effect on the task acquisition of non-lesioned animals. The results of the present study confirm our previous demonstration of EPO's ability to reduce or eliminate the behavioral/cognitive consequences of mechanical injury to the hippocampus, while adding the important observation that such a therapeutic effect is not restricted to the specific experimental setup previously studied.
Chronic alcohol consumption (CAC) can lead to the Korsakoff syndrome (KS), a memory deficiency attributed to diencephalic damage and/or to medial temporal or cortical related dysfunction. The etiology of KS remains unclear. Most animal models of KS involve thiamine-deficient diets associated with pyrithiamine treatment. Here we present a mouse model of CAC-induced KS. We demonstrate that CAC-generated retrieval memory deficits in working/ episodic memory tasks, together with a reduction of fear reactivity, result from damage to the mammillary bodies (MB). Experimental lesions of MB in non-alcoholic mice produced the same memory and emotional impairments. Drugs having anxiogenic-like properties counteract such impairments produced by CAC or by MB lesions. We suggest (a) that MB are the essential components of a brain network underlying emotional processes, which would be critically important in the retrieval processes involved in working/ episodic memory tasks, and (b) that failure to maintain emotional arousal due to MB damage can be a main factor of CAC-induced memory deficits. Overall, our animal model fits well with general neuropsychological and anatomic impairments observed in KS.
Ependymomas are glial cell-derived tumors characterized by varying degrees of chromosomal abnormalities and variability in clinical behavior. Cytogenetic analysis of pediatric ependymoma has failed to identify consistent patterns of abnormalities, with the exception of monosomy of 22 or structural abnormalities of 22q. In this study, a total of 19 pediatric ependymoma samples were used in a series of expression profiling, quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR), and loss of heterozygosity experiments to identify candidate genes involved in the development of this type of pediatric malignancy. Of the 12,627 genes analyzed, a subset of 112 genes emerged as being abnormally expressed when compared to three normal brain controls. Genes with increased expression included the oncogene WNT5A; the p53 homologue p63; and several cell cycle, cell adhesion, and proliferation genes. Underexpressed genes comprised the NF2 interacting gene SCHIP-1 and the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)-associated gene EB1 among others. We validated the abnormal expression of six of these genes by Q-PCR. The subset of differentially expressed genes also included four underexpressed transcripts mapping to 22q12.313.3. By Q-PCR we show that one of these genes, 7 CBX7(22q13.1), was deleted in 55% of cases. Other genes mapping to cytogenetic hot spots included two overexpressed and three underexpressed genes mapping to 1q31-41 and 6q21-q24.3, respectively. These genes represent candidate genes involved in ependymoma tumorigenesis. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time microarray analysis and Q-PCR have been linked to identify heterozygous/homozygous deletions.
Single neuron recording studies have demonstrated the existence of hippocampal spatial view neurons which encode information about the spatial location at which a primate is looking in the environment. These neurons are able to maintain their firing even in the absence of visual input. The standard neuronal network approach to model networks with memory that represent continuous spaces is that of continuous attractor networks. It has recently been shown how idiothetic (self-motion) inputs could update the activity packet of neuronal firing for a one-dimensional case (head direction cells), and for a two-dimensional case (place cells which represent the place where a rat is located). In this paper, we describe three models of primate hippocampal spatial view cells, which not only maintain their spatial firing in the absence of visual input, but can also be updated in the dark by idiothetic input. The three models presented in this paper represent different ways in which a continuous attractor network could integrate a number of different kinds of velocity signal (e.g., head rotation and eye movement) simultaneously. The first two models use velocity information from head angular velocity and from eye velocity cells, and make use of a continuous attractor network to integrate this information. A fundamental feature of the first two models is their use of a 'memory trace' learning rule which incorporates a form of temporal average of recent cell activity. Rules of this type are able to build associations between different patterns of neural activities that tend to occur in temporal proximity, and are incorporated in the model to enable the recent change in the continuous attractor to be associated with the contemporaneous idiothetic input. The third model uses positional information from head direction cells and eye position cells to update the representation of where the agent is looking in the dark. In this case the integration of idiothetic velocity signals is performed in the earlier layer of head direction cells.
In the present study, the effects of different allosteric modulators on the functional activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B receptors in membranes of post-mortem human frontal cortex were examined. Western blot analysis indicated that the tissue preparations expressed both GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits of the GABA(B) receptor heterodimer. In [35S]-GTPgammaS binding assays, Ca2+ ion (1 mM) enhanced the potency of the agonists GABA and 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid (3-APA) and that of the antagonist CGP55845, but not that of the GABA(B) receptor agonist (-)-baclofen. CGP7930 (2,6-di-t-Bu-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol), a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(B) receptors, potentiated both GABA(B) receptor-mediated stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding and inhibition of forskolin (FSK)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. Chelation of Ca2+ ion by EGTA reduced the CGP7930 enhancement of GABA potency in stimulating [35S]-GTPgammaS binding by two-fold. Fendiline, also reported to act as a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(B) receptors, failed to enhance GABA stimulation of [35S]-GTPgammaS binding but inhibited the potentiating effect of CGP7930. The inhibitory effect was mimicked by the phenothiazine antipsychotic trifluoperazine (TFP), but not by other compounds, such as verapamil or diphenydramine (DPN). These data demonstrate that the function of GABA(B) receptors of human frontal cortex is positively modulated by Ca2+ ion and CGP7930, which interact synergistically. Conversely, fendiline and trifluoperazine negatively affect the allosteric regulation by CGP7930.
A synapse simulating model comprising of the nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells releasing neurotransmitter (NT) and sensor 92.1.7.human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells has been used for simulating the connection between neurons and target cells. A Ca(2+) elevation was observed in both cell types when the PC12 cells were challenged with nicotine. The response patterns of individual cell were subsequently analyzed mathematically. The Ca(2+) signals of the PC12 cells were described by an equation representing a simple bi-exponential function. The NT-noradrenaline discharged by the PC12 cells in response to nicotine caused heterogeneous secondary Ca(2+) elevations in the HEL cells after a certain delay. Model fitting of this response disclosed slow &quot;hidden&quot; oscillations and heterogeneous secondary Ca(2+) signals could be grouped on the basis of the oscillation frequency. As determined in control experiments with noradrenaline (NA), the value of oscillation frequency also revealed a good correlation with the NT concentration.
Positive modulators of AMPA receptors (AMPAr), also known as ampakines, are allosteric effectors of the receptors and have been extensively studied in past years due to their potential use as treatment for various diseases and ailments of the central nervous system such as mild cognitive impairment, schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease. Ampakines have been shown to improve performance on memory tasks in animals and in human subjects, an effect linked to their ability to increase agonist-mediated ion influx through AMPAr, thus leading to enhanced synaptic responses and facilitation of long-term potentiation (LTP) induction at glutamatergic synapses. As LTP is associated with calpain activation and spectrin degradation, we determined the effects of ampakine treatment of cultured hippocampal slices on spectrin degradation. Calpain activation was evaluated by determining the levels of the 145-150kDa degradation products of spectrin. Our data indicated that incubation of hippocampal slices with some, but not all positive modulators of AMPA receptors resulted in enhanced spectrin degradation, an effect that was blocked by a calpain inhibitor. In addition, an antagonist of AMPAr but not of NMDAr blocked ampakine-induced spectrin degradation. These results indicate that prolonged treatment with selected ampakines leads to spectrin degradation mediated by activation of the calcium-dependent protease calpain.
The present study was to investigate the role of central 5-HT and 5-HT(1A) receptor binding and gene expression in a rat model of pancreatic regeneration using 60% pancreatectomy. The pancreatic regeneration was evaluated by 5-HT content and 5-HT(1A) receptor gene expression in the cerebral cortex (CC) and brain stem (BS) of sham operated, 72 h and 7 days pancreatectomised rats. 5-HT content significantly increased in the CC (P &lt; 0.01) and BS (P &lt; 0.05) of 72 h pancreatectomised rats. Sympathetic activity was decreased as indicated by the significantly decreased norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (EPI) level (P &lt; 0.001 and P &lt; 0.05) in the plasma of 72 h pancreatectomised rats. 5-HT(1A) receptor density and affinity was decreased in the CC (P &lt; 0.01) and BS (P &lt; 0.01). These changes correlated with a diminished 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA expression in the brain regions studied. Our results suggest that the brain 5-HT through 5-HT(1A) receptor has a functional role in the pancreatic regeneration through the sympathetic regulation.


Traumatic brain injury is a cause of high mortality and morbidity and is an area of intense research. Apoptosis plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of head injury, and the inhibition of apoptosis can potentially reverse the deleterious effects and lead to better functional outcome. Elucidation of the apoptotic pathway and its role in traumatic brain injury will provide potential targets for therapeutic intervention. This article aims to review the current wealth of literature on apoptosis and traumatic head injury and explores the current status of therapeutic strategies available.

The pathogenetic processes underlying the selective motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are complex and still not completely understood even in the cases of inherited disease caused by mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase-dependent (SOD1) gene. Recent evidence supports the view that ALS is not a cell-autonomous disease and that glial-neuron cross-talk, throughout cytokines and other toxic factors like the nitric oxide and superoxide, is a crucial determinant for the induction of motor neuron death. This cell-cell interaction may determine the progression of the disease through processes that are likely independent of the initial trigger and that may converge on the activation of intracellular death pathways in the motor neurons. In this review we provide support to the hypothesis that aberrant expression and activity of p38 mitogen protein-activated kinases cascade (p38MAPK) in motor neurons and glial cells may play a role in the development and progression of ALS. Increased activation of p38MAPK may phosphorylate neuron-specific substrates altering their physiological properties and it may turn on responsive genes leading to neurotoxicity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the major neurodegenerative disorders. The etiology of this disease is likely due to combinations of environmental and genetic factors. Symptomatic hallmarks of PD are tremor, bradykinesia, rigidity and postural instability. On the morphological and anatomical level, PD is characterized by massive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, leading to a severe loss of striatal dopaminergic fibers and to a massive reduction of dopamine levels in the striatum. In addition, PD is characterized by the appearance of Lewy bodies within the surviving dopaminergic neurons. Animal models of PD allow getting insight into the mechanisms of several symptoms of PD thereby providing indispensable tools for basic and applied research. The biochemical and cellular changes that occur following administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in rodents or monkeys are remarkably similar to those seen in idiopathic PD. In this review, the main characteristics of experimental models of PD induced by the neurotoxic compound MPTP are reviewed.
There is substantial evidence that both inflammation and oxidative damage contribute to the pathogenesis of motor neuron degeneration in the G93A SOD1 transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Celastrol is a natural product from Southern China, which exerts potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects. It also acts potently to increase expression of heat shock proteins including HSP70. We administered it in the diet to G93A SOD1 mice starting at 30 days of age. Celastrol treatment significantly improved weight loss, motor performance and delayed the onset of ALS. Survival of celastrol-treated G93A mice increased by 9.4% and 13% for 2 mg/kg/day and 8 mg/kg/day doses, respectively. Cell counts of lumbar spinal cord neurons confirmed a protective effect, i.e. 30% increase in neuronal number in the lumbar spinal cords of celastrol-treated animals. Celastrol treatment reduced TNF-alpha, iNOS, CD40, and GFAP immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord sections of celastrol-treated G93A mice compared to untreated G93A mice. TNF-alpha immunoreactivity co-localized with SMI-32 (neuronal marker) and GFAP (astrocyte marker). HSP70 immunoreactivity was increased in lumbar spinal cord neurons of celastrol-treated G93A mice. Celastrol has been widely used in treating inflammatory diseases in man, and is well tolerated; therefore, it may be a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of human ALS.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a triad of symptoms (tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia). Aside from this, emotional deficits are known to be associated with PD. A key structure of emotional processing is the amygdala. Emotional deficits seen in PD might be due to alterations in the catecholaminergic innervation of this limbic structure. We therefore examined whether 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) applied to C57/BL6 mice (an animal model of PD) affects the density of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive fibers in the amygdala as it does in the striatum. MPTP treatment caused a prominent reduction in dopamine levels (about -70%) in the striatum (determined by high-performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection), accompanied by massive losses of TH-positive fibers in the striatum (-48.3%). Moreover, MPTP treatment caused prominent reductions of TH-positive fiber densities in the basolateral, lateral and central nucleus of the amygdala (about -20%). These results may provide the morphological basis for behavioral studies analyzing altered emotional responses in animal models of PD.

Mutations in presenilins (PS) 1 and 2 are the major cause of familial Alzheimer's disease. Conditional inactivation of PS1 in the mouse postnatal forebrain leads to mild deficits in spatial learning and memory, whereas inactivation of both PS1 and PS2 results in severe memory and synaptic plasticity impairments, followed by progressive and substantial neurodegeneration. Here we investigate the effect of a familial Alzheimer's disease-linked PS1 missense mutation using knock-in (KI) mice, in which the wild-type PS1 allele is replaced with the M146V mutant allele. In the Morris water maze task, PS1 KI mice at 3 months of age exhibit reduced quadrant occupancy and platform crossing in the probe trial after 6 days of training, though their performance was normal in the probe trial after 12 days of training. By the age of 9 months, even after 12 days of training, PS1 homozygous KI mice still exhibit reduced platform crossing in the post-training probe trial. ELISA analysis revealed a selective increase in cortical levels of beta-amyloid 42 in PS1 KI mice, whereas production of beta-amyloid 40 was normal. Histological and quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses showed normal gross hippocampal morphology and unaltered expression of three genes involved in inflammatory responses in PS1 KI mice. These results show hippocampal spatial memory impairments caused by the PS1 M146V mutation and age-related deterioration of the memory impairment, suggesting that PS1 KI mice are a valuable model system for the study of memory loss in AD.
Serine protease inhibitors form a diverse family of proteins of which most members inhibit target serine proteases. Neuroserpin is a member of this family. Here, we have characterized neuroserpin in the nonmammalian species Xenopus laevis and found a high degree of aminoacid sequence conservation, especially of the reactive center loop, of the Xenopus protein compared to mammalian and chicken neuroserpin sequences, suggesting a conserved target specificity. Neuroserpin mRNA and protein were expressed throughout Xenopus development, while in the adult frog high mRNA expression was found in neuronal and neuroendocrine tissues, and the reproductive organs, and the neuroserpin protein was detected mainly in brain and pituitary. More specifically, in Xenopus pituitary neuroserpin mRNA was expressed higher in the neurointermediate lobe than in the pars distalis. At the protein level, we detected a 55-kDa neuroserpin protein in the pars nervosa, two neuroserpin proteins of 44- and 50-kDa in the melanotrope cells of the pars intermedia, and a 46-kDa product in the pars distalis. On the basis of its relatively high degree of sequence conservation and its expression pattern, we conclude that Xenopus neuroserpin may play an important physiological role, e.g. as a serine protease inhibitor during development, and for proper neuronal and neuroendocrine cell functioning.
The present study was designed to investigate the relations between plasma ghrelin concentrations, eating patterns, and circulating concentrations of cortisol and thyroid hormones in women with anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder. The patterns of disordered eating behavior were assessed using the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26) and the Bulimia Test-Revised (BULIT-R). In women with eating disorders, but not in healthy control women, plasma ghrelin concentrations were negatively correlated with body mass index (BMI) and plasma concentrations of thyreotropin (TSH), free T3 and free T4, and positively correlated with plasma concentrations of cortisol. The ghrelin concentrations of women with binge-eating and purging behavior were significantly lower than those of women with anorexia nervosa, restricting type, and there was a negative relation between the frequency and severity of binge-eating and purging behavior, as measured by the BULIT-R total score, and ghrelin concentrations. In a multivariate regression model controlling for the confounding effects of body mass index (BMI) and age, higher ghrelin concentrations were correlated with lower BULIT-R total scores. The results of this study did not confirm the hypothesis advanced in previous studies that ghrelin concentrations are higher in patients with binge-eating/purging forms of eating disorders. Based on these data, we suggest that, in women with eating disorders, ghrelin concentrations best reflect nutritional status rather than specific patterns of disordered eating behavior.
Previous work has indicated that acute and repeated stress can alter thyroid hormone secretion. Corticosterone, the end product of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation and strongly regulated by stress, has been suggested to play a role in hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis regulation. In the current study, we sought to further characterize HPT axis activity after repeated exposure to inescapable foot-shock stress (FS), and to examine changes in proposed regulators of the HPT axis, including plasma corticosterone and hypothalamic arcuate nucleus agouti-related protein (AGRP) mRNA levels. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to one daily session of inescapable FS for 14 days. Plasma corticosterone levels were determined during and after the stress on days 1 and 14. Animals were killed on day 15, and trunk blood and brains were collected for measurement of hormone and mRNA levels. Repeated exposure to FS led to a significant decrease in serum levels of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) and 3,5,3',5'-tetraiodothyronine (T4). Stress-induced plasma corticosterone levels were not altered by repeated exposure to the stress. Despite the decrease in peripheral hormone levels, thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) mRNA levels within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus were not altered by the stress paradigm. Arcuate nucleus AGRP mRNA levels were significantly increased in the animals exposed to repeated FS. Additionally, we noted significant correlations between stress-induced plasma corticosterone levels and components of the HPT axis, including TRH mRNA levels and free T4 levels. Additionally, there was a significant correlation between AGRP mRNA levels and total T3 levels. Changes in body weight were also correlated with peripheral corticosterone and TRH mRNA levels. These results suggest that repeated exposure to mild-electric foot-shock causes a decrease in peripheral thyroid hormone levels, and that components of the HPA axis and hypothalamic AGRP may be involved in stress regulation of the HPT.
In 1995, a surveillance system for prion diseases was set up in the Basque Country, an autonomous region in northern Spain (2.1 million inhabitants). In the period from January 1993 to December 2003, we diagnosed 21 patients with familial prion diseases prospectively and another 4 patients retrospectively. They represent 35% of all the cases referred to the epidemiological registry. Two main possible explanations for this unusual high incidence of familial prion diseases are proposed: first, comprehensive case ascertainment by public health neurologists; second, a probable cluster of the D178N mutation within families of Basque origin related to a still unconfirmed common ancestor. Further genetic and genealogical studies should resolve this issue.
In the present study, we found no association between multiple sclerosis (MS; definite and probable, n = 211) and birth order (p = 0.1411). The observed number of first-born patients did not differ significantly from the expected number (p = 0.0871). While there was a significantly high birth order (n = 258, p = 0.0381) and a marginally significant low number of first-borns (p = 0.0475) when possible MS cases were included, an artefact due to the population structure may have accentuated this result. In comparison with the control birth cohort, there was no significant association with birth order (p = 0.0742) or the proportion of first-borns (p = 0.220) in a subgroup from the MS incidence cohort born between 1915 and 1929 (n = 158). Birth order had no major impact on the risk of subsequent MS in this study.
This note concerns mixed-effect (MFX) analyses in multisession functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. It clarifies the relationship between mixed-effect analyses and the two-stage &quot;summary statistics&quot; procedure (Holmes, A.P., Friston, K.J., 1998. Generalisability, random effects and population inference. NeuroImage 7, S754) that has been adopted widely for analyses of fMRI data at the group level. We describe a simple procedure, based on restricted maximum likelihood (ReML) estimates of covariance components, that enables full mixed-effects analyses in the context of statistical parametric mapping. Using this procedure, we compare the results of a full mixed-effects analysis with those obtained from the simpler two-stage procedure and comment on the situations when the two approaches may give different results.
We measured, with whole-scalp magnetoencephalography, evoked fields from 10 healthy subjects to 1-ms thulium-laser stimuli that selectively activated nociceptive nerve fibers. The stimuli were delivered to the dorsum of the subject's left hand. The earliest cortical responses peaked at 165 +/- 7 ms, agreeing with the conduction velocity of Adelta-fibers. To stimulate unmyelinated C-fibers, we modified the method of Bragard et al. [Bragard, D., Chen, A.C., Plaghki, L., 1996. Direct isolation of ultra-late (C-fibre) evoked brain potentials by CO2 laser stimulation of tiny cutaneous surface areas in man. Neurosci. Lett. 209, 81-84], by decreasing the total energy of the laser beam and by restricting the size of the stimulated skin area to 0.2-0.3 mm2. The earliest cortical responses to these stimuli peaked at 811 +/- 14 ms. Bilateral activation of the SII cortices was detected in all 10 subjects to Adelta and in 8 subjects to C stimuli, emphasizing the importance of the SII cortex in processing of pain. Additional activation was observed in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC), probably related to sensorimotor coordination targeted to produce precise motor acts that reduce or prevent the pain; the PPC activation may have been accentuated by the required continuous evaluation of the perceived pain. In contrast to some earlier studies, we did not observe activation of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Additional activations to both types of stimuli were detected in the cingulate cortex (three subjects) and in the bilateral insular cortex (two subjects). These results implicate that the nociceptive inputs mediated by the Adelta- and C-fibers are processed in a common cortical network in different time windows. Reliable temporospatial characterization of cortical responses to first and second pain offers a unique tool for basic and clinical neuroscience to study the two distinctive pain fiber systems at cortical level.
A placebo is a sham treatment, such as a pill, liquid, or injection without biological activity, used in pharmacology to control for the activity of a drug. However, in many cases this placebo induces biological or psychological effects in the human. Two theories have been proposed to explain the placebo effect: the conditioning theory, which states that the placebo effect is a conditioned response, and the mentalistic theory, which sees the patient's expectation as the primary cause of the placebo effect. The mechanisms involved in these processes are beginning to be understood through new techniques of investigation in neuroscience. Dopamine and the endorphins have been clearly shown to be mediators of placebo effects. Brain imaging has demonstrated that placebos can mimic the effect of the active drugs and activate the same brain areas. This is the case for placebo-dopamine in Parkinson's disease, for placebo-analgesics or antidepressants, and for placebo-caffeine in the healthy subject. It remains to be understood how conditioning and expectation are able to activate memory loops in the brain that reproduce the expected biological responses.


We describe Darwin X, a physical device that interacts with a real environment, whose behavior is guided by a simulated nervous system incorporating aspects of the detailed anatomy and physiology of the hippocampus and its surrounding regions. This brain-based device integrates cues from its environment and solves a spatial memory task. The responses of simulated neuronal units in the hippocampal areas during its exploratory behavior are comparable to place cells in the rodent hippocampus and emerged by associating sensory cues during exploration. To identify different functional hippocampal pathways and their influence on behavior, we employed a time series analysis that distinguishes causal interactions within and between simulated hippocampal and neocortical regions while the device is engaged in a spatial memory task. Our analysis identified different functional pathways within the neural simulation and prompts novel predictions about the influence of the perforant path, the trisynaptic loop and hippocampal-cortical interactions on place cell activity and behavior during navigation. Moreover, this causal time series analysis may be useful in analyzing networks in general.
This article presents a project that aims at understanding the neural circuitry controlling salamander locomotion, and developing an amphibious salamander-like robot capable of replicating its bimodal locomotion, namely swimming and terrestrial walking. The controllers of the robot are central pattern generator models inspired by the salamander's locomotion control network. The goal of the project is twofold: (1) to use robots as tools for gaining a better understanding of locomotion control in vertebrates and (2) to develop new robot and control technologies for developing agile and adaptive outdoor robots. The article has four parts. We first describe the motivations behind the project. We then present neuromechanical simulation studies of locomotion control in salamanders. This is followed by a description of the current stage of the robotic developments. We conclude the article with a discussion on the usefulness of robots in neuroscience research with a special focus on locomotion control.


The node of Ranvier is a complex structure found along myelinated nerves of vertebrate animals. Specific membrane, cytoskeletal, junctional, extracellular matrix proteins and organelles interact to maintain and regulate associated ion movements between spaces in the nodal complex, potentially influencing response variation during repetitive activations or metabolic stress. Understanding and building high resolution three dimensional (3D) structures of the node of Ranvier, including localization of specific macromolecules, is crucial to a better understanding of the relationship between its structure and function and the macromolecular basis for impaired conduction in disease. Using serial section electron tomographic methods, we have constructed accurate 3D models of the nodal complex from mouse spinal roots with resolution better than 7.5 nm. These reconstructed volumes contain 75-80% of the thickness of the nodal region. We also directly imaged the glial axonal junctions that serve to anchor the terminal loops of the myelin lamellae to the axolemma. We created a model of an intact node of Ranvier by truncating the volume at its midpoint in Z, duplicating the remaining volume and then merging the new half volume with mirror symmetry about the Z-axis. We added to this model the distribution and number of Na+ channels on this reconstruction using tools associated with the MCell simulation program environment. The model created provides accurate structural descriptions of the membrane compartments, external spaces, and formed structures enabling more realistic simulations of the role of the node in modulation of impulse propagation than have been conducted on myelinated nerve previously.
Generating informational thesauri that classify, cross-reference, and retrieve diverse and highly detailed neuroscientific information requires identifying related neuroanatomical terms and acronyms within and between species (Gorin et al., 2001) Manual construction of such informational thesauri is laborious, and we describe implementing and evaluating a neuroanatomical term and acronym reconciliation (NTAR) system to assist domain experts with this task. NTAR is composed of two modules. The neuroanatomical term extraction (NTE) module employs a hidden Markov model (HMM) in conjunction with lexical rules to extract neuroanatomical terms (NT) and acronyms (NA) from textual material. The output of the NTE is formatted into collections of term- or acronym-indexed documents composed of sentences and word phrases extracted from textual material. The second information retrieval (IR) module utilizes a vector space model (VSM) and includes a novel, automated relevance feedback algorithm. The IR module retrieves statistically related neuroanatomical terms and acronyms in response to queried neuroanatomical terms and acronyms. Neuroanatomical terms and acronyms retrieval obtained from term-based inquiries were compared with (1) term retrieval obtained by including automated relevance feedback and with (2) term retrieval using &quot;document-to-document&quot; comparisons (context-based VSM). The retrieval of synonymous and similar primate and macaque thalamic terms and acronyms in response to a query list of human thalamic terminology by these three IR approaches was compared against a previously published, manually constructed concordance table of homologous cross-species terms and acronyms. Term-based VSM with automated relevance feedback retrieved 70% and 80% of these primate and macaque terms and acronyms, respectively, listed in the concordance table. Automated feedback algorithm correctly identified 87% of the macaque terms and acronyms that were independently selected by a domain expert as being appropriate for manual relevance feedback. Context-based VSM correctly retrieved 97% and 98% of the primate and macaque terms and acronyms listed in the term homology table. These results indicate that the NTAR system could assist neuroscientists with thesauri creation for closely related, highly detailed neuroanatomical domains.

Human brain mapping is an experimental discipline that establishes structure-function correspondences in the brain through the combined application of experimental psychology, human neuroscience, and noninvasive neuroimaging. A deep and diverse literature on the functional organization of the human brain is emerging, which has pushed neuroimaging squarely into the scientific mainstream. Because of this rapid growth, there is a great need to effectively collect and synthesize the body of literature in this field. The BrainMap database was created in response to this need as an electronic environment for modeling the human brain through quantitative meta-analysis of the brain mapping literature. BrainMap was originally conceived in 1987 and has received continuous funding from 1988 to 2004. During this time, BrainMap has consistently evolved to meet the challenges of an ever-changing field and continues to strive toward higher levels of applicability. In this article, we discuss BrainMap's structure and utility, and relate its progress and development as a neuroinformatics tool.
The nervous system can be viewed as a biological computer whose genetically determined macrocircuitry has two basic classes of parts: gray matter regions interconnected by fiber pathways. We describe here the basic features of an online knowledge management system for storing and inferring relationships between data about the structural organization of nervous system circuitry. It is called the Brain architecture management system (BAMS; http://brancusi.usc.edu/bkms) and it stores and analyzes data specifically concerned with nomenclature and its hierarchical taxonomy, with axonal connections between regions, and with the neuronal cell types that form regions and fiber pathways.
A 56-year-old man developed subdural effusion after mild head trauma, which remained unchanged in volume and density on computed tomography during a follow-up period of 7 months. However, typical chronic subdural hematoma (CSDH) had developed by 9 months after the head trauma. The CSDH was successfully treated by irrigation and drainage. This unusually delayed onset of CSDH suggests that we should be aware of the possibility of very late onset of CSDH in patients with persistent asymptomatic subdural effusion.
Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is a common and devastating form of stroke. A large number of patients with aSAH develop angiographic or clinical vasospasm responsible for high morbidity and mortality. Rapid advances in the field of interventional neurology and the development of minimally invasive techniques have resulted in expansion of potential therapeutic applications. Treatment of aSAH has benefited from this rapid advance in the field of endovascular therapies. In the first section of the review, we discuss the therapeutic options and techniques for embolizations of intracranial aneurysms. In the second section, we discuss evolving endovascular treatment methods employed to intervene in delayed complications of cerebral vasospasm in patients with aSAH.

Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability. Recently, there have been advances in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke aimed at re-establishing blood flow to the affected area in an effort to save the ischemic penumbra surrounding the area of infarction. This is achieved by the use of thrombolytics intravenously or intra-arterially. The use of mechanical devices facilitates the function of pharmacological agents used in addition to minimizing the associated risks. In this review, we first discuss the therapeutic potentials and strategies employed in using different thrombolytics in management of acute ischemic stroke. Subsequently, we discuss the recent advances and therapeutic applications of mechanical devices in this field.

Introduction. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and of the pars interna of Globus Pallidus (GPi) is used to improve parkinsonian symptoms and attenuate levodopa-induced motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD) (DBS for PD study group, 2001). It is still not clear what the best anatomic structures to stimulate are or what the physiologic effects of DBS are. Most of the studies regarding DBS for parkinsonian symptoms have been conducted in patients with STN implantation, and these studies reported significant improvement in motor function with a relatively low rate of complication. The large experience of ablative surgery associated with the DBS experience of some groups worldwide indicate that GPi is a possible and very promising target for the management of parkinsonian symptoms. Surgical procedures have become safer and it is now possible, in selected cases, to target both structures in the same patient by means of the stereotactic system, &quot;3P Maranello&quot; (CLS-SRL, Italy). Using this system we were able to evaluate the clinical effects of simultaneous stimulation of both STN and GPi as well as evaluate the effects of isolated stimulation of each target. As it is known that there is a high intersubject variability of DBS, it seems relevant to test all different combinations of DBS in the same patient. Methods. We assessed the effects of DBS in 13 cases of PD, immediately after (30min) stimulation and during chronic stimulation (weeks or months). Patients fell into two groups. The first (n=7) responded to both GPi and STN stimulation equally. The second group (n=6) was preferentially stimulated with only one target (STN=5, GPi=1). Results. There was a good reduction in levodopa treatment following surgery. Most patients remained were chronically treated with bilateral stimulation of both targets. Conclusion. We conclude that DBS of STN and GPi was effective, with most patients treated chronically with both targets stimulated.
Copper toxicity associated with Wilson's disease is known to cause neuronal damage and death in the basal ganglia and frontal cortex leading to Parkinson-like symptoms and cognitive deficits. Our previous work in cultured human NTERA-2-N neurons showed that copper-induced neuronal apoptosis is dependent on the induction and nuclear translocation of the tumor suppressor protein, p53. Because p53 acts as a DNA-binding transcription factor, this work used an oligonucleotide array to identify p53 target genes that are differentially regulated in copper-loaded neurons. Arrays representing 145 human genes expressed downstream of p53 were hybridized with labeled mRNA from control and copper-treated neurons. Differentially regulated mRNAs included those involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, cytoprotective mechanisms, and apoptotic mechanisms. Transfection of cells with a dominant-negative p53 construct enabled us to determine which molecular events were dependent on p53 expression. Copper treatment resulted in the upregulation of p21, reprimo, stathmin, and Tp53INP1, all known to participate in cell cycle arrest. Protective mechanisms included the upregulation of stat-3, and the heat-shock proteins, heat-shock protein (Hsp) 70 and Hsp 27. Both p53-dependent and -independent mechanisms leading to apoptosis were identified including insulin-like growth factor binding protein-6, glutathione peroxidase, bcl-2, RB-1, PUMA, and several members of the redox active PIG family of proteins. Thus it appears that following copper-mediated neuronal DNA damage, the regulation of a variety of pro- and antiapoptotic genes are responsible for determining neuronal fate.
The microvasculature of the brain region affected by a stroke assumes an inflammatory phenotype that is characterized by endothelial cell activation and barrier dysfunction and the recruitment of adherent leukocytes. Although most attention has been devoted to the possible role of neutrophils in the tissue responses to ischemic stroke there is evidence that T-lymphocytes also accumulate in the postischemic brain. Although comparable detailed analyses of lymphocyte involvement in ischemic brain injury have not been performed, emerging findings suggest a role for T-cells in the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke. The recruitment of T-cells to the site of brain injury is critically dependent on the coordinated expression of adhesion molecules on the activated capillary endothelium. Whether the recruited lymphocytes are acting directly on brain tissue or indirectly through activation of other circulating blood cells and/or extravascular cells remain unclear. Cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells may induce brain injury through molecules released from their cytotoxic granules. CD4+ T-helper 1 (TH1) cells, which secrete proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-12, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, may play a key role in the pathogenesis of stroke, whereas CD4+TH2 cells may play a protective role through anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13. T-cells should be considered as therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke. However, because infection is a leading cause of mortality in the postacute phase of ischemic stroke, and considering anti-inflammatory role of CD4+TH2, treatment targeting T-cells should be carefully designed to reduce deleterious and enhance protective actions of T-cells.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) play pivotal roles in regulating the function and plasticity of neuronal circuits in the nervous system. Among the myriad of GPCRs expressed in neural cells, class II GPCRs which couples predominantly to the Gs-adenylate cyclase-cAMP signaling pathway, have recently received considerable attention for their involvement in regulating neuronal survival. Neuropeptides that activate class II GPCRs include secretin, glucagon-like peptides (GLP-1 and GLP-2), growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP), corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), parathyroid hormone (PTH), and calcitonin-related peptides. Studies of patients and animal and cell culture models, have revealed possible roles for class II GPCRs signaling in the pathogenesis of several prominent neurodegenerative conditions including stroke, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases. Many of the peptides that activate class II GPCRs promote neuron survival by increasing the resistance of the cells to oxidative, metabolic, and excitotoxic injury. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which class II GPCRs signaling modulates neuronal survival and plasticity will likely lead to novel therapeutic interventions for neurodegenerative disorders.
LY341495 and LY354740 are potent and selective antagonist and agonist, respectively, for Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu2/3) receptors. Here we demonstrate that LY341495 (3 mg/kg) significantly increased c-Fos expression in almost all brain regions analyzed (44 out of 52 regions) in animals that were prehandled and kept in home-cage environment to minimize stress. Robust c-Fos induction was observed in all cortical regions, hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subregions, amygdala and several other subcortical nuclei. In contrast to LY341495, changes in c-Fos expression following LY354740 were more modest and not generally widespread (decreased in 1 region, dentate gyrus; and increased in 13 out of 52 regions). Interestingly, although LY354740 is anxiolytic in animals, LY341495 did not increase c-Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus which is usually activated by stress/fear and several anxiogenic compounds. To further investigate the behavioral consequences of mGlu2/3 receptor antagonism, LY341495 was administered to prehandled animals that were placed in the elevated plus maze test under low light (low stress) conditions. Here LY341495 increased mouse elevated plus maze (EPM)-anxiety in a dose-dependent manner, significantly decreasing the time spent in open arms, but not affecting total ambulations. The behavioral consequences and associated widespread pattern of brain neuronal activations following blockade of mGlu2/3 receptors suggest that there is considerable endogenous glutamate tone throughout the brain at negative feedback peri-synaptic mGlu2/3 receptors, even under low stress conditions where synaptic glutamate release spillover would be expected to be minimized.
The aim of the present study was to investigate if different levels of circulating corticosterone (CORT) modulate the effect of nicotine on prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating that is disrupted in schizophrenia and other mental illnesses. Four groups of mice were investigated: sham-operated, adrenalectomized (ADX) and implanted with a cholesterol pellet, ADX and implanted with a 10 mg CORT pellet, or ADX and 50 mg of CORT. Different CORT levels or doses of nicotine did not significantly affect startle responses. Baseline PPI was significantly reduced in mice implanted with the highest dose of CORT. In ADX mice implanted with cholesterol, nicotine treatment influenced PPI depending on the prepulse intensity. In ADX mice implanted with 50 mg of CORT, treatment with 10 mg/kg of nicotine caused a significant increase in PPI at all prepulse intensities. Binding studies showed that corticosterone treatment had significantly affected nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) density in the mouse brain. Treatment with 50 mg CORT decreased 125I-epibatidine binding in the globus pallidus and 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin binding in the claustrum. These results suggest a possible interaction of corticosterone and nicotine at the level of the alpha4- and alpha7-type nAChR in the regulation of PPI. In situations of high circulating levels of corticosterone, nicotine may be beneficial to restore disruption of PPI.
Substantial pharmacological evidence is consistent with an inhibitory effect of D3 receptor activation on dopamine (DA) release. Although receptor selectivity of the ligands employed in initial studies has been questioned, studies employing new, more selective, compounds continue to support an involvement of this receptor subtype in regulating extracellular dopamine levels in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Consistent with this hypothesis, microdialysis studies have shown that the dose-effect curve for (+)-PD 128907, a moderately selective D3 agonist, is shifted to the right in D3 knock out mice. The present microdialysis studies sought to further examine the role of D2 vs. D3 receptors in mediating (+)-PD 128907-evoked alterations in basal and depolarization-evoked DA levels. Dialysate DA levels were determined in D2 knock out mice and wild type littermate controls following both systemic and local administration of (+)-PD 128907. In view of regional differences in D3 receptor localization, studies were conducted in the nucleus accumbens, a D3 receptor rich area, and in the dorsal striatum, a region with low D3 receptor abundance. Systemic or reverse dialysis of (+)-PD 128907 into the nucleus accumbens significantly decreased basal and depolarization-evoked DA levels in wild type mice. A similar effect was observed in the dorsal striatum. Regardless of the route of administration, (+)-PD 128907 was ineffective in modulating DA levels in either brain region of D2 knock out mice. These data contrast with previous results in D3 knock out mice and indicate that the D2 receptor is necessary for the inhibition of presynaptic DA neurotransmission produced by a preferential D3 agonist. Based on the documented physical interaction of D2 and D3 receptors in heterologous expression systems, we put forth a hypothesis that reconciles the seemingly paradoxical results of this and previous microdialysis studies.
Acetylcholine is crucial for the regulation of paradoxical sleep (PS) and EEG theta activity. To determine the contribution of individual muscarinic receptors to these events, we analyzed the sleep-waking cycle and EEG activities of mice lacking functional M(3) or M(2)/M(4 )receptors. Daily PS amounts were significantly decreased in M3-/- (-22%) but not in M2/M4-/- mice. Further, the theta peak frequency for PS was significantly increased in both M2/M4-/- and M3-/- mice. This study supports the potential role of M(3) rather than M(2) and M(4) muscarinic receptors in the modulation of PS in mice and strengthens the idea that multiple muscarinic receptors contribute to the regulation of the EEG theta activity during PS.
The chronic mild stress (CMS) model of depression has high validity but has in the past been criticized for being difficult to replicate. However, a large number of recent publications have confirmed that CMS causes behavioural changes in rodents that parallel symptoms of depression. This review summarizes studies from over sixty independent research groups that have reported decreases in reactivity to rewards, and a variety of other depression-like behaviours, in rats or mice, following exposure to CMS. Together, these changes are referred to as a 'depressive' behavioural profile. Almost every study that has examined the effects of chronic antidepressant treatment in these procedures has reported that antidepressants were effective in reversing or preventing these 'depressive' behavioural changes. (The single exception is a study in which the duration of treatment was too brief to constitute an adequate trial.) There are also a handful of reports of CMS causing significant effects in the opposite direction, termed here an 'anomalous' behavioural profile. There are six neurobiological parameters that have been studied in both 'anhedonic' and 'anomalous' animals: psychostimulant and place-conditioning effects of dopamine agonists; dopamine D2 receptor number and message; inhibition of dopamine turnover by quinpirole, and beta-adrenergic receptor binding. On all six measures, CMS caused opposite effects in animals displaying 'depressive' and 'anomalous' profiles. Thus, there is overwhelming evidence that under appropriate experimental conditions, CMS can cause antidepressant-reversible depressive-like effects in rodents; however, the 'anomalous' profile that is occasionally reported appears to be a genuine phenomenon, and these two sets of behavioural effects appear to be associated with opposite patterns of neurobiological changes.
Developmental prosopagnosia is a lifelong impairment in face recognition despite normal low-level visual processing. Here we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to examine the M170 response, a component occurring approximately 170 ms after stimulus onset, in a group of five developmental prosopagnosics. In normal subjects, the M170 is &quot;face-selective&quot;, with a consistently higher amplitude to faces than to a wide variety of other visual stimulus categories; the N170, a component recorded using event-related potentials (ERP) and thought to be analogous to the M170, also shows this &quot;face selectivity&quot;. Two previous ERP studies with developmental prosopagnosics have found attenuation or absence of face selectivity in the N170 response of these subjects [Bentin, S., Deouell, L. Y., and Soroker, N. (1999). Selective visual streaming in face recognition: Evidence from developmental prosopagnosia. Neuroreport, 10, 823-827; Kress, T., and Daum, I. (2003). Event-related potentials reflect impaired face recognition in patients with congenital prosopagnosia. Neuroscience Letters, 352, 133-136]. Three of our developmental prosopagnosic group showed this non-selective pattern at the M170 while the remaining two prosopagnosics were indistinguishable from normal controls. Thus, impaired face recognition is not necessarily correlated with an absence of the &quot;face-selective&quot; M170. Furthermore, ERP recordings collected simultaneously in the two developmental prosopagnosics with seemingly selective M170s also showed N170s within the same normal selective range, demonstrating that the face-selective signals found with MEG are not due to differences between MEG and ERP. While the presence of face selectivity at these neurophysiological markers is insufficient for predicting normal behavioral performance with faces, it could help to distinguish different classes of face recognition deficits.
A group of people with Parkinson's disease and a group of matched controls were tested on a task involving a switch between perceptual dimensions. Patients were tested both 'on' and 'off' their normal medication cycles. Stimuli appeared in pairs for each trial, with each stimulus consisting of a color and a shape. One dimension of color and one of shape were mapped to each of two response keys. A cue was presented concurrently with each stimulus to indicate whether to respond on the basis of color or shape, following procedures developed by Hayes et al. [Hayes, A.E., Davidson, M.C., Keele, S.W., and Rafal, R.D. (1998). Toward a functional analysis of the basal ganglia. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 178-198]. Replicating previous literature, abnormally large switch costs were observed in patients who were off their normal medication cycles. A novel finding was that patients in the 'on' state demonstrated a slight reversal of switch costs. Also novel, reaction time (RT) costs associated with switching between response keys, and interactions between response switching and task switching were influenced predominantly by on-off dopamine manipulations. It is concluded that abnormal task switching costs and response repetition effects likely reflect impairments of activation and inhibition, and both effects are dopamine-dependent.
